
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



\i\KtW/T 



.?7 





^^.^zty^/'/^^^^ 



^yij^^^x^c^ ^-- ^.t^l^^ti^yy V /=". ^^- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ENQUIEE WITHIN 



UPON 

\^^' EYEEYTHINO 

ENLARGED AND THOROUGHLY REVISED 



" WHETEBB TOU wish to MODBL a FLOWBR in wax ; TO STUDY THE BULBS OF 
BTIQUITTE; to SXBYB ▲ BXLISH fob BBXAKFAST OB SUPPKB; TO PLAN A DINNBB 
FOB A LABQB PABTT OB A SMALL ONB; TO CUBB A HBADACKB; TO MABB A WILL; 
TO OBT MABBIBD ; TO BUBT A BBLATIYB; WHATBVBB TOU MAT WISH TO DO, MABB, 
OR TO BNJOT, PBOVIDBD YOUB DBSIBB HAS BBLATION TO TUB NBCBSSITIBS OF 
DOMESTIC UFB, I HOPS YOU WILL NOT FAIL TO 'EnQUIBB Vf^ITRlS,* "—Editor, 



ALL ENQUIRERS SHOULD REFER TO THE INDEX AT THE END 



THIB 

ONE HUNDREDTH EDITION 1 1 

MAKINQ THE TOTAL I8SUB TO DATS 

ONE MILLION THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY THOUSAND COPIES 



LO'NDON 

nOULSTON AND SONS 

PATERNOSTER SQUARE 
1908 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



COMPANION WORKS TO ENQUIRE WITHIN 



DAILY WANTS, DIOTIONART OF. 7*. 6i. 

USEFUL KNOWLKDGB, DICTIONARY OF. 10#. 

MEDICAL AND SURGICAL KNOWLEDGE, DICTIONARY OF. 6s. 

REASON WHY. CHRISTIAN DENOMINATIONS. 3*. 6d. 

REASON WHY. PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY. 3s. 6d. 

REASON WHY. GENERAL SCIENCE. 2«. 6d. 

REASON WHY. NATURAL HISTORY. 2*. W. 

HISTORICAL REASON WHY. ENGLISH HISTORY. 2». 6d. 

REASON WHY. GARDENER'S AND FARMER'S. 25. 6d. 

REASON WHY. DOMESTIC SCIENCE FOR HOUSEWIVES. 2s, 6d. 

BIBLICAL REASON WHY. SACRED HISTORY. 2s. 6d. 

FAMILY SAVE-ALL; ob, SECONDARY COOKERY, etc, 2s. 6d. 

JOURNEY OF DISCOVERY; oe, THE INTERVIEW. 25. dd. 

PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFE AND FAMILY MEDICAL GUIDE. 25. W. 

NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS. 25. Qd. 

CORNER CUPBOARD. A FAMILY REPOSITORY. 25. 6d. 

HOW A PENNY BECAME A THOUSAND POUNDS. \ ^s ed 
LTFB DOUBLED BY THE ECONOMY OF TIME. J 

Either qf thete two Work* separately, U. 6d. cloth. 

WONDERFUL THINGS OF ALL NATIONS. Two Series, each 2s. U. 
THE HISTORICAL FIXGER-POST. 25. Qd. 



BT THB BAMB EDITOR. 

HISTORY OF PROGRESS IN GREAT BRITAIN. Tm Series, each hs. 

THAT'S IT; OR, PLAIN TEACHING. Cloihy gilt edges, Zs. 6d. 

WALKS ABROAD AND EVENINGS AT HOME. Cloth, gilt edges, Zs. 6i. 

ELEGANT WORK FOR DELICATE FINGERS. Is. 

PHILOSOPHY AND MIRTH UNITED BY PEN AND PENCIL. l5. 

HANDY BOOK OF SHOPKEEPING ; or, SHOPKEEPER'S GUIDE. I5. 

THE SHILLING KITCHENER; or, ORACLE OF COOKERY FOR 

THE MILUON. Is, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 






EDITOR'S PEEFACE 



Ip there be any among my Readers who, having turned over the 
pages of " Enquire Within," have hastily pronounced them to 
be confused and ill-arranged, let them at once refer to The Index, 
at page 423, and for ever hold their peace. 

The Index is, to the vast congregation of useful hints and 
recipes that fill the pages of this volume, what the Dirbotory 
is to the great aggregation of houses and people in London. 

No one, being a stranger to London, would run about asking 
for " Mr, Smith." But, remembering the Christian name and 
the profession of the individual wanted, he would turn to the 
Directory, and trace him out. 

Like a house, every paragraph in " Enquire Within " has its 
number — and the Index is the Directory which will explain 
what Facts, Hints, and Instructions inhabit that number. 

For, if it be not a misnomer, we are prompted to say that 
" Enquire Within " is peopled with hundreds of ladies and 
gentlemen, who have contributed something to its store of useful 
information. There they are, waiting to be questioned, and 
ready to reply, just as certainly as where, in the window of a 
dwelling, you see a paper directing you to " Enquire Within," 
some one is there to answer you. 

Housekeepers of experience live at Nos. 1, 32, 360, 1087 ; 
old Dr. Kitchiner lives at 46 ; Captain Crawley is to be found 
at 79 and 2183; the well-known Mrs. Warren lives at 2032; 
Miss Acton at 1154; Dr. Franklin at 796 and 1577; Mrs. 
Hitching at 185; Dr. Galen at 1382; Mr. Banting at 1384; 
Dr. Wilson Philip at 1377 ; Mr. Withering at 1970 ; Mrs. Fry 
at 1530; Dr. Erasmus Wilson at 1342; Dr. Blair at 1529; 
Dr. Samuel Johnson at 856 ; Dean Swift at 874 ; M. Soyer at 
863; and Dr. Clark at 512. In addition to these and many 
more, a Doctor lives at 482 ; a Gardener at. 205 ; a. School- 
master at 184 ; House Agents at 236 and 1787 ; a Fireman at 
791 ; a Butcher at 29 ; a Dancing-Master at 141 ; a Naturalist 
at 1962; a Dyer at 1282; a Modeller at 1980; a Professed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



EPITOB*8 PREFACK. 



Cook at 846 ; a Philanthropist at 788 ; a Lawyer at 1759 ; a 
Surgeon at 687 ; a Chess Pla'yer at 75 ; a Chemist at 508 ; 
a Brewer at 1713 ; a Lawn Tennis Player at 2204 ; a Homceo- 
PATHic Practitioner at 654; a Wood-Stainer at 1273; Con- 
fectioners at 1155 and other numbers; a Poultry Keeper at 
1953 ; a Meteorologist at 797 ; Philosophers at 805 and 1404 ; 
a Practical Economist at 1578 ; a Baker at 825 ; Masters op 
the Ceremonies at 1455 and 1605; a Bird Fancier at 1935 ; 
a Washerwoman at 1305 ; an Analytical Chemist at 1584 ; an 
Accountant at 2224 ; and so on. 

Well ! there they live — always at home. Knock at their doors 
— Enquire Within. No Fees to Pay ! ! 

Much care has been taken in selecting the information that is 
given, and, as is amply shown by the above list, so many kind 
and competent friends have lent a hand in the production of this 
volume that it is impossible to turn to any page without at once 
being reminded of the generous friend who abides there. 

To some extent, though in a far less degree, assistance has been 
rendered by the authors of many useful and popular works, for 
which due acknowledgment must be made. Chief among these 
works are Dr. Kitchiner's " Cooks' Oracle," " The Shopkeeper's 
Guide," " The Wife's Own Cookery," " The Practical House- 
wipe," "The Family Save-all," and many of the volumes of the 
" Reason Why " series. 

Lastly, as in everyday life it is found necessary at times to 
make a thorough inspection of house and home, and to carry out 
requisite repairs, alterations, and additions, this has been done 
in the recent issues, and more particularly in the pi^esent 
enlarged edition of "Enquire Within," to which some 
hundreds of paragraphs have been added, while others have been 
remodelled and revised in accordance with the progress of the 
times in which we live. Care, however, has been taken to alter 
nothing that needed no alteration, so that, practically, this Popular 
Favourite is still the old " Enquire Within " ; improved, it is 
true, but in no way so changed as to place it beyond the recog- 
nition of those to whom it has been a Book op Constant 
Beference since its first appearance. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PUBLISHEES' PREFACE 

TO THE NINETY-SIXTH EDITION 



The unparalleled success achieved by " Enquire Within upon 
Everything" demands special menticm from its Publishers at 
the present moment. Its Intrinsic Worthy Varied Usefulness, 
and Cheapness have won for it universal esteem. There is 
scarcely a spot reached by English civilization, to which this book 
has not found its way, receiving everywhere the most cordial 
welcome and winning the warmest praise. Proof of this world- 
wide popularity is clearly shown by the record of the number of 
copies sold, now amounting to the wonderful total of 

1,279,000 COPIES ! ! ! 

— a sale which the Publishers believe to be absolutely without 
precedent among similar books of reference. This result has been 
mainly brought about by the kindly interest shown in the book 
by many friends, to whom the Publishers* most hearty thanks 
are tendered for their generous support and recommendations. 

Although the work of revision has been carefully carried on 
from year to year, the Present Edition has been entirely re- 
modelled and brought down to date ; much new important matter 
has been inserted, and many of the articles have been rewritten 
by thoroughly qualified authorities ; thus rendering the instruc- 
tions given as reliable and complete as is practicable in so handy 
a volume. Enquirers on the Laws of Landlord and Tenant, 
Husband and Wife, Debtor and Creditor, are supplied with the 
latest information. Diseases and then* Remedies, and Medicines, 
their Uses and Doses, have received special attention. With the 
ai<J of the very full Index, and the Summary of Contents, it is 
hoped that every Enquirer will receive complete and satisfactory 
replies. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PTTBLISHERS' PREFACE. 



"ENQUIRE WITHIN" AND "REASON WHY" 
SERIES. 

The attention of all parties interested in the dissemination of 
sound Theoretical Instruction and Practical Knowledge, is par- 
ticularly directed to the Twenty-seven Volumes in this Senes of 
Popular and Valuable Books. They contain upwards of 10,000 
pages of closely printed matter with numerous illustrations, are 
entirely original in plan and executed with the most conscientious 
care. A vast fund of valuable information is thus attainable 
at a merely nominal cost. 

1 — 3. " Daily Wants, The Dictionary of," containing nearly 
1200 pages of Information upon all matters of Practical and 
Domestic Utility. Above 118,000 copies have been sold. 

4 — 7. "Useful Knowledge, The Dictionary of," a Book 
of Reference upon History, Oeography, Science, Statistics, &c 
A Companion Work to the " Dictionary of Daily Wants." 

8 & 9. " Medical and Surgical Knowledge, The Diction- 
ary OF," a Complete Practical Guide on Health and Disease, for 
Families, Emigrants, and Colohists. 

10. "Enquire Within upon Everything." 

11. "The Reason Why, Christian Denominations," giving 
the Origin, History, and Tenets of the Christian Sects, with the 
Reasons assigned by themselves for their Specialities of Faith and 
Forms of Worship. 

12. " The Reason Why, Physical Geography and Geology," 
containing upwards of 1200 Reasons, explanatory of the Physical 
Phenomena of Earth and Sea, their Geological History, and the 
Geographical distribution of Plants, Animals, and the Human 
Race. 

13. "The Reason Why, Biblical and Sacred History,'' a 
Family Guide to Scripture Readings, and a Handbook for 
Biblical Students. 

14. "The Reason Why, General Science," giving Hundreds 
of Reasons for things which, though generally received, are 
imperfectly understood. 

15. "The Reason Why, Historical," designed to simplify 
the study of English History. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PUBLISHERS PREPACE. Vll 



16. " The Rbason Why, Natural History," giving Reasons 
for very numerous interesting Facts in connection with the 
Habits and Instincts of the various Orders of the Animal 
Kingdom. 

17. **Thb Reason Why, Gardeihng and Farming," giving 
soilie Thousands of Reasons for various Facts and Phenomena 
connected with the Cultivation and Tillage of the Soil. 

18. "The Reason Why, Housewife's Science," affording to 
the Manager of Domestic Affairs, intelligible Reasons for the 
various duties she has to superintend or to perform. 

19. "Journey of Discovery all Round our ttousE; or, 
THE Interview," companion to " Enquire Within," containing 
copious Information upon Domestic Matters. 

20. "The Practical Housewife and Family Medical 
Guide," a Series of Instructive Papers on Cookery, Food, 
Treatment of the Sick, &c., &c. 

21. " The Family Save-all," containing a System of Secondary 
Cookery with Hints for Economy in the use of Articles of 
Household Consumption. 

22. "Notices to Correspondents," a Work full of curious 
Information on all Subjects, gathered from actual Answers to 
Correspondents of various Magazines and Newspapers. 

23. " The Corner Cupboard," a Family Repository of Facts 
and Amusements for young and old. With Designs for Needle 
and other Fancy Work. 

24. " Life Doubled by the Economy of Time," and " How 
a Penny became a Thousand Pounds." Advocating the 
benefits of Industry and Thrift. 

25 & 26. " Wonderful Things ; " affording interesting de- 
scriptions of the Wonders of all Nations^ with Illustrations. 

27. "The Historical Finger-post," giving briefly, but 
clearly, the meaning and origin of hundreds of Terms, Phrases, 
Epithets, Cognomens, Allusions, <fec., in connection with History, 
Politics, Theology, Law, Commerce, Literature, Army and Navy, 
Arts and Sciences, Geography, Tradition, National, Social, and 
Personal Characteristics, &c. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CONTENTS. 



TAOU 

Adultibations or Food, Tbsts fob 324-326 

Bbtsbaqss, Pbbparation or, and BacipaB fob .... 385-342 

GHiLOBEir, Rkabiko akd Managbicbnt or 304-310 

Choicb or Food, MABKBTiifO, bto 9-12 

Chbibtian Nambs, Pbbcious Stombs, thbib Siqnificatiox . 187-192 

CoNFBcnoNBBT: Oakbs, Jbllibs, Swbbtmbats 346-258 

COMMBRCIAL AKD MONBTABT HiNTS, MaXIXS 319-324 

OooxBBT FOB Childbbn 808-310 

Cooking, Thbort and Pbogsssbs of 201-264 

COBRBCT SpBABINO, HiNTB OK WbTTINO, PUNCTTUATION .63, 77-89 

Dinneb-Tablb Obsbbyancbs: Oabviko, btc 327-832 

DlSINFBCTANTS, BaNDAOBS, POULTICES, BTC 156-166 

DoMBBTio Pbts, Bibds, Rabbitb, Poultbt, btc 368-372 

DoMBsnc Phabmaoop(bia, Pbbscbiftions, bto. .... 115-157 

DOMBSTIO SUBOEBT 163-171 

DoMBBTiG Whys akd Whebbfobbi 290-292 

Dybing, Sooubiko, Olbaniko, Laukdbt Opbrations .... 268-275 

EMBBOBK0IB8 AKD ACCIDBNTS : DbOWNINO, FibB, BTC. . . . 164-182 

BnauBTTB, FoBMs AKD Cebbmokibs OF 296-304 

BvBKiNO PAsmfBB : Cabd Gambs, Ohabades, Dances « . . 19-62 

Fanct Nbbdlbwobk 384-394 

Food of Various Kinds, When in Season 14-18 

Fuel, Liobtino, btc.. Economy and Managbmknt of . . . 192-196 

FUBKITUBB, 8BLECTI0N AND AbBANOEMBNT OF 97 

Gabdening Operations theoughout the Year .... 90-96 

Golden Hints fob Housbwiyes 112-115 

homgk>pathic treatment of allments 157-163 

Household Hints, Various 98-112 

Indoor Games and Amusements 19, 400-405 

Ladibs' Employments: Leatheb-Wobk, Diaphanib, etc. . . 873-384 

Legal Infobbcation and Adyice 347-368 

MiSCBLLANEOUS PREPARATIONS: InK, GuM, CbMEKT, ETC. . . 394-398 

Modelling, Pbbpabikg Botanical Specimens, etc .... 375-381 

OuTDOOB Sports and Pastimes : Lawn Tennis, etc 406-417 

Poisoning, Treatment in Cases op 176-180 

Rules of Conduct: Counsels, Hints, Adyice 310-819 

Tables of Pebcentagbs, Interest, Marketing, Wages . . 418-420 

Toilet Requisites, Recipes for, etc 276-282 

Ubbful Cookeby Rsapss, Bbbadiiaking, ktc. . 196-264, 342-347 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ENQUIEE WITHIN 

UPON 

EVEBYTHINa. 



1. TO CH008B A&TICLSS OF 
FOOD. — Nothiiu; is more important 
in the affairs of noosekeeping than the 
choice of wholesome food. Apropos 
to this is an amusing conimdrum 
which is as follows : — ** A man went 
to market and hought ttoo fish. 
When he reached home ne found there 
were three! How was thist" The 
answer is — "He had two mackerel, 
and one smell!** Those who envy 
him his bargain need not care about 
the following rules ; but to others 
they will be valuable : — 

2. Xaekerel must be perfectly 
fresh, or it is a very indifferent fish ; 
it will neither bear carria^, nor being 
kept many hours out of the water. 
The firmness of the flesh, the clearness 
of the eyes, and the general brightness 
of its appearance, must be the criteria 
of fresh mackerel, as they are of all 
other fish. If the gills are not red 
the fish is stale. 

8. Tarbot, and all flat white fish, 
is rigid and firm when fresh ; the 
under side should be of a rich cream 
colour. When out of season, or too 
long kept this becomes a bluish white, 
and the flesh soft and flaccid. A clear 
bright eye in any fish is also a mark of 
Its Deing fresh and good. 

4. Cod is known to be fresh by the 
rigidity of the muscles (or flesli), the 
redness of the gills, and clearness of 
the eyes. Crimping much improves 
this fish. Haddocks are judged in 



the same wav as ood. Dr. Kitchiner, 
in his Cooks Orade, considers that 
both ood and turbot are in better con- 
dition for eating after they have been 
kept for a day than when quite 
fresh. 

5. Salmon. — The flavour and excel- 
lence of this fish depend upon its 
freshness and the shortness of time 
since it was caught ; for no method 
can completely preserve the delicate 
flavour that salmon has when just 
taken out of the water. When per- 
fectly free^ there is a creamy substance 
between the flakes. A great deal of 
what is brought to London has been 
packed in ice, 'and comes from the 
Scotch and Irish rivers, and, though 
perfectly fresh, is not quite equal to 
salmon from English streams. Trout 
may be selected in the same way as 
salmon. 

6. Herringi and Sprats should be 
eaten when very fresh ; and, like 
mackerel, will not remain good many 
hours after thev are caught. But 
they are excellent, especially for 
breakfast relishes, either salted, split, 
dried, and peppered, or pickled. 
Xaokerel are very good when prepared 
in any of these ways. 

7. Fresh- Water Fish. —The re- 
marks as to firmness and clear fresh 
eyes apply to this variety of fish, of 
which there are carp, tench, pike, 
perch, &c. 

8. Lobftan, recently caught, have 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



10 



THE POOR MAN FASTS BEOATTSfi HE HAS KO ICEAT, 



always some remains of muscular 
action in the claws, which may be 
excited by pressing the eyes with the 
finger ; when this cannot be produced, 
the lobster must have been too long 
kept. When boiled, the tail preserves 
its elasticity if fresh, but loses it as 
soon as it becomes stale. The heaviest 
lobsters are the best ; when light they 
are watery and poor. Hen lobsters 
may generally be known by the spawn, 
or by the breadth of the ** flap.'* 

9. Crtbf and Crayflih must be 
chosen by observations similar to those 
given above in the choice of lobsters. 
Crabs have an agreeable smell when 
fresh. When buying shell-fish, care 
should be taken that their weight is 
not due to wateriness. 

10. Prawns and Shrimps, when 
fresh, are firm and crisp. 

11. Oysters. — If fresh, the shell is 
firmly closed; when theshells of oysters 
are open, they are dead, and unfit for 
food. The small-shelled oysters, the 
Byfleet, Colchester, and Milford, are 
the finest in flavour. Larger kinds, as 
the Torbay oysters, are generally con- 
sidered only tit for stewing and sauces, 
and as an addition to rump-steak pud- 
dings and pies, though some persons 
prefer them to the smaller oysters, even 
when not cooked, 

12. Beef. — The grain of ox beef, 
when good, is loose, the meat red, and 
the fat of a creamy white colour. When 
fine and well-fed, the flesh is inter- 
grained or marbled with fat. If the 
fat is yellowish, the meat is either 
inferior, or the beast has been fed on 
oil-cake. Cow beef, on the contrary, 
has a closer grain and whiter fat, but 
the meat is scarcelv as red as that of 
ox beef. Inferior beef, which is meat 
obtained from ill-fed animals, or from 
those which have become too old for 
food, mav be known by a hard, skinny 
fat, a darlc red lean, and in old animals, 
a line of homy texture running 
through the meat of the ribs. When 
meat rises up quickly, after being 
pressed by the finger, it may be con- 



sidered as being the flesh of an animal 
which was in its prime ; but when 
the dent made by pressure returns 
slowly, or remains visible, the animal 
had probably passed its prime, and the 
meat consequently must be of inferior 
quality. 

13. Yeal should be delicately 
white, though it is often juicy and 
well-flavoured when rather dark in 
colour. Butchers, it is said, bleed 
calves purposely before killing them, 
with a view to make the flesh white, 
but this also makes it dry and flavour- 
less. On examining the loin, if the 
fat enveloping the kidney be white and 
firm-looking, the meat will probably 
be prime and recently killed. Veal 
will not keep so long as an older meat, 
especially in hot or damp weather: 
when going, the fat becomes soft and 
moist, the meat flabby and spotted, 
and somewhat porous like sponge. 
Large, overgrown veal is inferior to 
small, delicate, yet fet veal. The 
meat is best when the calf is from 
three to four months old. The fillet 
of a cow-calf is known by the udder 
attached to it, and by the softness of 
the skin ; it is preferable to the veal 
of a bull-calf. 

14. Mutton. — The meat should be 
firm and close in grain, and red in 
colour, the fat white and firm. Mutton 
ij in its prime when the sheep is 
between four and five years old : but 
at the present time it is rarely to be 
had above three, and is often only two 
years old. If too young, the flesh 
feels tender when pinched ; if too old, 
on being pinched it wrinkles up, and so 
remains. In young mutton, the fat 
readily separates ; m old, it is held 
together by strings of skin. In sheep 
diseased of the rot, the flesh is very 
pale-coloured, the fat inclining to yel- 
low ; the meat appears loose from the 
bone, and, if squeezed, drops of water 
ooze out from the grains; aftercooking, 
the meat drops clean away from the 
bones. Wether mutton is preferred to 
that of the ewe ; it may be known bj 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TRS RICH MAN fASTS BBCATrs< EC WILL HOT EAT. 



ii 



the lumpof fat on the inside of the 
thigh. The price of New Zealand 
mutton averages about 4d per lb. less 
than English. 

16. lamb. — This meat will not keep 
Ions after it is killed. The laige vein 
in tne neck is bluish in colour when the 
fore quarter is fresh, green when it is 
becoming stale. In the hind quarter, 
if not recently killed, the fat of the 
kidney will have a slight smell, and 
the knuckle will have lost its firmness. 
New Zealand lamb costs about id, per 
lb. less than English. 

16. Pork. — When good, the rind is 
thin, smooth, and cool to the touch ; 
when changing, from being too long 
killed, it becomes flaccid and clammy. 
Enlarged glands, called kernels, in the 
fat, mark an ill-fed or diseased pig. 

17. Bacon should have a thin rind, 
and the fat should be firm and tinged 
red by the curing ; the flesh should be 
of a clear red, without intermixture of 
yellow, and it should firmly adhere to 
the bone. To judge the state of a ham, 
plunge a knife into it to the bone ; on 
drawing it back, if particles of meat 
adhere to it, or if the smell is disagree- 
able, the curing has not been efiectual, 
and the ham is not good ; it should, in 
such a state, be immediately cooked. 
In buying a ham, a short thick one is 
to be preferred to one long and thin. 
Of English hams, Yorkshire, West- 
moreland, and Hampshire are most 
esteemed ; of foreign, the Westphalian. 
The bacon and "sugar cured" hams 
now imported in large quantities from 
Canada and the United States are often 
both cheap and goo<l. 

18. Suokinff Pigs are best at about 
three weeks old, and they should be 
cooked as soon as possible after being 
killed. 

19. Veniion.— When good, the fat 
is clear, bright, and of considerable 
thickness. To know when it is neces- 
sary to cook it, a knife must be plunged 
into the haunch ; and from the smell 
the cook must determine whether to 
dress it at once, or to keep it a little 



longer. It should be dusted with 
ginger and pepper, as this will keep 
away the flies. 

20. Turkey. — In choosing poultry, 
the age of the bird is the chief point 
to be attended to. An old turkey has 
rough and reddish 1^ ; a young one 
smooth and black. Freeh killed, the 
eyes are full and clear, the feet moist, 
and the wattles bright rsd. When it 
has been kept too long, the parts about 
the vent have a greenish appearance. 

21. Common Bomeitie Fowls, when 
young, have the legs and combs 
smooth; when old these parts are 
rough, and on the breast long hairs are 
found when the feathers are plucked 
off" ; these hairs must be removed by 
singeing. Fowls and chickens should 
be plump on the breast, fat on the 
back, ana white-legged. 

22. Geese.— The bills and feet are 
red when old, yellow when young. 
Fresh killed, the feet are pliable, but 
they get stiff" when the birds are kept 
too long. Geese are called green when 
they are only two or three months old. 
If over a twelvemonth old they are not 
fit to bring to table. 

23. Bucks. — Choose them with 
supple feet and hard plump breasts. 
Tame ducks have yellow leet, wild 
ones red. 

24. Pigeons are very indifferent 
food when they are kept too long. 
Suppleness of the feet shows them to 
be young; the flesh is flaccid when 
they are getting bad from keeping. 
Tame pigeons are larger than wild 
pigeons, out not so large as the wood- 
pigeon. 

25. Hares and Babbits, when old, 
have the haunches thick, the ears dry 
and tough, and the claws blunt and 
ragged. A young hare has claws 
smooth and sharp, ears that easily 
tear, and a narrow cleft in the lip. A 
leveret is distinguished from a hare 
by a knob or small bone near the 
foot. 

26. Partridget, when young,'have 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 



THE MISER FASTS WITH GREEDY MIND TO SPARE; 



yellowish legs and dark-coloured bills. 
If held up by the lower bill, it should 
break. Old partridges are very in- 
different eating. 

27. Fheatants.^Tbe spurs of old 
birds are long and pointed, in young 
birds short and round. 

28. Woodoocki and Snipes, when 
old, have the feet thick and hard; when 
these are soft and tender they are both 
voung and fresh killed. When their 
bills become moist, and their throats 
muddy, they haye been too long killed. 
(See Food in Season, Pars. 82—44.) 

29. KAKB8 AlTD SITVATIOKS 
OF THB YABI0IT8 JOIHTS. 

90. MEATS.— In different parts of 
the kingdom the method of cutting 
up carcases yaries. That which we 
describe below is the most general, 
and is known as the English method. 

i Beef. — Fart Quarter. — Fore rib 
(fiye ribs) ; middle rib (four ribs) ; 
chuck (three ribs, for second quality 
of steak). Shoulder piece (top of fore 
leg) ; brisket (lower or belly part of 
the ribs, salted, for boiling) ; clod 
(fore shoulder blade) ; neck ; shin 
(below the shoulder, used for stew- 
ing) ; cheek. Hind Quarter. — Sirloin; 
rump (the finest part for steaks) ; 
aitch-bone (the boiling piece) — these 
are the three diyisions of the upper 
part of the quarter ; buttock (prime 
boiling piece), and mouse-buttock, 
which diyide the thigh ; yeiny piece, 
joining the buttock ; thick flank 
(primest boiling piece) and thin flank 
(belly pieces), ana leg. The sirloin and 
rump of both sides form a baron. Beef 
is in season all the year ; best in winter. 

ii ScottUh Mode of Diyision — 
This giyes a greater yaricty of pieces 
for boiling, but is scarcely so econo- 
mical as the English plan, which 
also affords better steaks and joints 
for Toasting. The names of pieces in 
the Scotch plan, not found in the 
English, are the hough, or hind le« ; 
the nineholes. or English buttock ; 
the lai^ge ana small runner, taken 



fh>m the rib and chuck pieces of the 
English plan ; the shoulder-Wer, the 
English shoulder, but cut di£ferently; 
the spare-rib or fore-eye, the sticking 

Siece, &c The Scotch also cut mutton 
ifferently. 

iii MuttOA. — Shoulder; breast (the 
belly) ; oyer which are the loin (chump, 
or tail end); loin (best end) ; neck (best 
end) ; neck (scrag end) ; \eg ; haunch, 
or leg and clmmpend of loin; and 
head. A chine is two necks ; a saddle, 
two loins. MuUon is best in winter, 
spring f and autumn, 

iv. Lamb is cut into fore quarter 
and hind quarter ; saddle ; loin ; 
neck ; breast ; leg ; and shoulder. 
Grass lamb is in setison from Easter 
to Michaelmas: house lamb from 
Christmas to Lady-da^. 

▼. Pork is cut into leg, hand or 
shoiilder ; hind loin ; fore loin ; belly- 

?&rt ; spare-rib, or neck ; and head. 
ork is in season nearly all the year 
round, but is better relished in winter 
than in summer, 

▼i. Veal is cut into neck (scrag 
end) ; neck (best end) ; loin (best 
end) ; loin (chump, or tail end) ; 
fillet (upper i)art or hind leg) ; hind 
knuckle, which joins the fillet ; 
knuckle of fore leg ; blade (bone of 
shoulder) ; breast (best end) ; and 
breast (brisket end). Veal is always 
in season, btU dear in winter and 
spring. 

yii Venison is cut into haunch ; 
neck ; shoulder ; and breast Doe 
venison is best in January, October, 
November, and December, and buck 
venison in June, July, August, and 
SeptemJber, 

81. BBLATIVZ SCOKOMT OF 
TEE JOIBTS OF BSSF. 

L The Bound is, in large families, 
one of the most profitable pnrts owing 
to its comparatiyo freedom from bone; 
it is usually boiled, and is generally 
sold at a lower price than the sirloin 
and ribs. It is sometimes diyided 
downwards, close to the bone ; one 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE GLUTTON FASTS TO EAT THE GREATER SHARE. 



18 



side being known as tho top side^ and 
the other as the Hker side, father 
of these parts is as good roasted as 
boiled. 

iL The Brisket is always less in 
price than the roasting parts. It is 
not so economical a ]mrt as the round, 
having more bone with it, and more 
fat vVhere there are children, very 
fat joints are not desirable, being often 
disagreeable to them, and sometimes 

Sreiudicial, especially if they have a 
isfike to fat . This joint also requires 
more cooking than many others ; that 
is to say, it requires a double allow- 
ance of time to oe given for simmering 
it ; it will, when served, be hard and 
scarcelv digestible if no more time be 
allowed to simmer it than that which 
is sufficient for other joints and meats. 
Joints cooked in a boiler or saucepan 
should always be simmered^ that is to 
say, boiled as slowly as possible. Meat 
boiled fast, or *' at a ^llop," as the 
phrase goes, is always tough and 
tasteless. The brisket is excellent 
when stewed ; and when cooked iVesh 
(i. tf. uusalted) an excellent stock for 
soup may be extracted from it, and 
yet the meat will serve as well for 
dinner. 

iiL The Edge-bone, or Aiteh-bone, 
is not considered to be a very econo- 
mical joint, the bone being large in 
proportion to the meat ; but the 
greater part of it, at least, is as good 
as that of any prime part. On 
account of the quantity of Done in it, 
it is sold at a cheaper rate than the 
best joints. It ma^r be roasted or boiled. 

iv. The Bump is the part of which 
the butcher makes great profit, by 
selling it in the form of steaks, but 
the whole of it may be purchased as a 
joint, and at tiie price of other prime 
parts. It may be tamed to good 
account in producing many excellent 
dishes. If salted, it is simply boiled; 
if used unsalted, it is generally 
stewed. 

▼. Th« Veiny Pleee is sold at a 
moderate price per pound ; but, if 
hung for a day or two, it is very 



good and very profitable. Where 
there are a number of servants and 
children to have an early dinner, this 
part of beef will be found desirable. 
m ▼!. The Leg and Shin atTord excel- 
lent stock for soup; and, if not 
reduced too much, the meat taken 
from the bones may be served as a 
stew with vegetables ; or it may be 
seasoned, pounded with butter, and 
potted; or, chopped very fine, and 
seasoned with herbs, and bound 
together by e^ and bread-crumbs, it 
may be fried m balls, or in the form 
of laige eggs, and served with a 
«ravy nuule with a few spoonfuls of 
the soup. 

The proverb says, *' 0/ all the 
Fowls of the air, commend me to the 
shin of hetf, for there's marrow for 
the master, meat for the mistress, 
gristles for the servants, — and bones 
for the dogs." — Kiichiner, 

▼ii The Sirloin and the Bibs are 
the roasting parts of beef, and these 
bear in all places the highest price. 
The more profitable of these two 
joints at a family table is the ribs. 
The bones, if removed from the beef 
before it is roasted, are useful in 
making stock for soup. When boned, 
the meat of the ribs is often rolled up 
in the shape of a small round or fillet, 
tied with string, and roasted ; and this 
is the best way of using it, as it enabfles 
the carver to distribute equally the 
upper part of the meat with the fatter 
parts, at the lower end of the bones. 
The tenderest part for fr^g or boil* 
ing, and one most extensively used in 
France, is the e7Urec6te, It is the 
undercut of the sirloin, eitiier cooked 
whole or cut iuto filets. 

▼ilL Oz-tail is much esteemed for 
purposes of soup ; so also is the cheek. 
The Tongue is nighlv esteemed. The 
Heart, stuffed with veal stuffing, 
roasted, and served hot, with red cur- 
rant jelly as an accompaniment, is a 
palatable dish. 

iz. Calves' Heads are very useful 
for various duthes ; so also are their 
Knuckles, Feet, Heart, 4c. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



14 



THE HYPOCRITE WILL ?A8T TO SEEM MOEE HOLY ; 



32. FOOP nr SEASOH. 

There is an old maxim, '* A place 
for everything, and eveiything in its 
place." To which may be added 
another, **A season for everything, 
and everything in season." 

83. IN SEAsoir nr jahitast. 

[Fish, Poultry, Ac., whose names are dis> 
tinguiahed by Jtaliet in each month's 
** Food in Season," are to be had in the 
highest perfection during the month.] 

L Fiih. —Barbel, bloaters, brill, 
carp, cod, crabs, cray-fish, dabs, dace, 
eels, flounders, haddocks^ herrings, 
lampreys, ling, lobsters, mussels, 
oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, 
Dutch salmon, shrimps, skate, smelts, 
soles, sprats, sturgeon, tenchf thorn- 
back, turbot, whUitig, 

ii Meat.— Beef, house-lamb, mut- 
ton, pork, veal, and doe venison. 

iii Poultry aad Oame.— Capons, 
chickens, ducks, wild ducks, fowls, 
geese, Tuires^ larks, moor-game, part- 
ridges, pheasants, pigeons (tame), 
pullets, rabbits, snipes, turkeys (hen), 
widgeon (and wila-fowl generally), 
woodcocks. 

iv. Vegetables.— Artichokes (globe 
and Jerusalem), aubergines, beet, 
broccoli (white and purple), Brussels 
sprouts, cabbage, cardoons, carrots, 
cauliflowers, celery, chervil, colewort, 
cresses, endive, garlic, herbs (dry), 
kale (Scotch), leeks, lettuces, mmt 
(dry), mustard, onions, parsley, par- 
snips, potatoes, rape, rosemary, sage, 
salsify, Savoy cabbages, sea-kale, 
scorzonera, shalots, skirrets, sorrel, 
spinach (winter), tarragon, thyme, 
turnips, turnip-tops, tomatoes. 

▼. Forced.Yegetablet.— Asparagus, 
cucumbers, musnrooms, sea-kale. 

vi. Fruit. — Almonds. Apples : 
Golden pippin, golden russet, Kentish 
pippin, nonpareil, winter pearmain. 
Pears : Bergamot d'Hollande, Bon 
Chretien, Chaumontel, Colmar, winter 
beurr^. Grapes : English and foreign. 
Chestnuts, medlars, oranges, walnuts, 
filbert nuts. Foreign preserves, dried 



fruits (as almonds and raisins), French 
plums, prunes, figs and dates. 

84. IH SEASON IN FEBSITABT. 

i Fish.— Barbel, brill (inferior), 
carp, cockles, cod, crabs, cray-fish, 
daw, dace, eels, flounders, gurnets, 
haddocks, halibut, herrings, lampreys, 
ling, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, 
pike, plaice, prawns, red mullets, 
salmon, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, 
sprats, sturgeon, tench, thomback, 
turbot, whiting. 

ii Meat— Beef, house-lamb, mut- 
ton, pork, veal. 

iii. Poultry and Game.— Capons, 
chickens, ducklings, geese, gumea- 
fowls, hares, partridges, pheasants 
(until the 15th), pigeons (tame and 
wild), rabbits (tame), snipes, turkeys, 
turkey poults, wild ducks (not in full 
season), woodcocks (wild birds gener- 
ally). 

iv. Veffetables. — Beet, broccoli 
(white ana purple), Brussels sprouts, 
cabbage, cardoons, carrots, celery, 
chervil, colewort, cresses, endive, 
garlic, herbs (dry), Jenusalem arti- 
chokes, leeks, lettuces, mint (dry), 
mushrooms, new potatoes (Malta and 
Teneriffc), onions, parsnips, parsley, 
potatoes, radish, rape, rosemary, 
sage, salsify. Savoys, scorzonera, 
shalots, skirrets, sorrel, spinach, 
sprouts, tarragon, thyme, tomatoes, 
turnips, winter savoury. 

V. Forced Vegetables. — Asparagus, 
cucumbers, mushrooms, sea-kale, &c. 
vi. Fruit — Apples : Golden pip- 
in, golden russet, Holland pippin, 
'entish pippin, nonpareil, Wheeler's 
russet, winter pearmain. Bananas, 
chestnuts, oranges. Pears: Bergamot, 
winter Bon Chretien, winter Rus- 
selet 

36. IH SEASON IN MAECH. 

L Fish. — Barbel, brill (inferior), 
carp (until 16th), cockles, cod, con- 
ger-eels, crabs, daba, dory, eels, 
flounders, herrings, ling, lobsters, 
mallets, mussels, oysters, perch (till 



i 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE EIOHTXOUS MAN TO PUNISH SIN AND VOLLT. 



15 



15th), pike (till 15th), plaice, prawns, 
salmon, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, 
sprata. storffeon, torbot, tench (till 
15 th), and whiting. 

ii Msat — Beef, house-lamb, mut- 
ton, pork, veaL 

ill. Poultry and Oame. — Capons, 
chickens, ducklings, fowls, geese, 
leverets, pigeons, rabbits, snipes, 
turkeys, woodcocks and wild-iowl 
(tiU 15th). 

It. Vegetables. — Artichokes (Jeru- 
salem), beet, broccoli (white and 
purple), Brussels sprouts, cabbage, 
caraoons, carrots, celery, chervil, 
colewort, cresses, endive, garlic, herbfi 
(dry), kale (sea and Scotcn), lettuces, 
mint, mushrooms, mustanl, onions, 
parsley, parsnips, potatoes, rape, 
rosemary, sage, Savoys, shalots, sorrel, 
spinach, tamigon, thyme, turnips, 
turnip- tops. 

V. Forced Vegetables. —Asparagus, 
French beans, cucumbers, and rhu- 
barb. 

▼i Fmit. — Apples: Golden russet, 
Holland pippin, Kentish pippin, non- 
pareil, Nonolk beefing, Wheeler's 
russet. Chestnuts, oranges. Pears : 
Bergamot, Chaumontel, winter Bon 
Chretien. Forced: Strawberries. 

36. nr ssAsoir nr apbh. 

i. Fiih. — Bloaters, brill (inferior), 
cockles, conger-eels, crabSy dabs, 
dory, eels, flounders, halibut, ling, 
lohaters, mackerel, mullets, mussels, 
oysters, prawnSt plaice, salmon (rather 
scarce and dear), scallops, shrimps, 
^caiCy smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, 
trout, turbot, whitebait, whiting. 

ii Meat — Beef, grass-lamb, house- 
lamb, mutton, pork, veaL 

liL Poultry and Oame. — Capons, 
chickens, ducklings, fowls, goslings, 
leverets, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, 
turkey poults, wood-pigeons. 

iv. Vegetables. — Artichokes, aa- 

Saragus, broccoli, cabbages, cauli- 
owers, carrots (new), chervil, cole- 
wort, cucumbers, endive, fennel, 
herbs of all sorts, lettuce, onions, 
parsley, parsnips, peas, potatoes (new, 



Malta and Teneriffe), radishes, sea- 
kale, sorrel, spinach, small salad, 
tarragon, tumip-radiBhes, turnip-tops, 
and rhubarb. 

▼. Fruit— Apples : Golden russet, 
nonpareil, Wheeler's russet. Nuts, 
oranges. Pears ; Bergamot, Bon Chre- 
tien, Carmelite. Bimanas. Forced: . 
Apricots, cherries, strawberries. 

87. 19 SXAEQV nr KAT. 

i Fish. — Bass, brill, bloaters, con- 
ger-eels, cmbsy cray-fish, dabs, dace, 
dory, eels, flounders, gurnets, haddock, 
hake, halibut, ling, lobsters, mackerel, 
mullet, plaice, jfratonSj scUmorif scal- 
lops, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, 
sturgeon, trout, tm-bot, whitebait^ 
whiting. 

ii Meat — Beef, grass-lamb, house- 
lamb, mutton, pork, veal. 

iii Poultry aad Oaine. — Capons, 
chickens, ducklings, fowls, gosUngs, 
leverets, pigeons, pullets, rabbits, 
wood-pigeons. 

iv. Vegetables. — Angelica, arti- 
chokes, asparagus, balm. Kidney-beans, 
beetroot, cabbage, carrots, cauliflowers, 
celeriac, chervil, cucumbers, eschalots, 
endive, fennel, garlic, herbs of all 
sorts, horseradish, leeks, lettuce, mint, 
mushrooms, onions, parsley, peas, 
new potatoes, radishes, rhubarb, 
salad of all sorts, sea-kale, sorrel, 
spinach, turnips. 

▼. Fruit— Apples : Golden russet, 
winter russet Bananas, brazils, May- 
duke cherries, currants, figs, goose- 
berries, melons, oranges, Spanish nuts. 
Pears : L'amozette, winter - green. 
Forced: Apricots, grapes, peaches, 
pines, strawoerries. 

88. nr sEAsoir is tuve. 

I. Fish.— Carp (after 15th), conger- 
eels, crabs, cray-nsh, dabs (after 15th), 
dory, eels, flounders, gurnets, had- 
docks, ling, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, 
perch (after 16th), pike (after 15th), 
plaice, pratons, salmon, salmon-trout, 
skate, smelts, soles, sturgeon (after 
15th), trout, turbot, whitebait, 
whiting. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



16 



WITHOUT ECONOMY, XONB CAN BE RICH; 



ii Meat— Beef, grass-lamb, house- 
lamb, mutton, pork, veal, buck 
venison. 

iiL Poultry and Oame. — Chickens, 
ducklings, fowls, geeae, leverets, 
pigeons, plovers, pullets, rabbits, tur- 
key poults, wheat-ears, wood-pigeons. 

iv. Vegetables.— Angelica, arti- 
chokes, asparagus, beetroot, beans 
(French, kianey, and Windsor), white 
beet, cabbage, carrots, cauliflowers, 
celeriac, chervil, cucumbers, endive, 
herbs of all sorts, leeks, lettuce, 
mustard and cress, onions, peas, 
potatoes, radishes, salad of all sorts, 
spinach, turnips, vegetable marrow. 

¥. For Drying.— Burnet, mint, tar- 
ragon, lemon thyme. 

▼i Fruit — Almonds. Apples : 
Quarrenden, stone pippin, golden 
russet. Apricots, bananas. Cherries : 
May-duke, bigaroon, white-heart. 
Currants, gooseberries, melons. 
Pears: Winter-green. Raspberries, 
strawberries, i^brced ; Grapes, nectar- 
ines, peaches, pines. 

89. IK SEASON DT JTTLT. 

L Pish.— Bass, bloaters, brill, carp, 
conger-eels, crabs, cray-fish, dabs, 
dory, eeU, flounders, gurnets, had- 
docks, hake, herrings (end of month), 
ling, lobsters, mackerel, mullet, perch, 
pike, plaice, pratons, salmon, sea 
bream, skate, soles, tench, thomback, 
trout, whitebait, and whitine. 

IL Heat — Bee{,grasS'lamh,mvitton, 
veal, buck venison. 

iii. Poultry and Game.— Capons, 
chickens, ducks, fowls, green, geese, 
leverets, pigeons, plovers, quails, 
rabbits, turkey poults, wheat-ears, 
wild jrige<ms, wild ducks (flappers), 
wild rabbits. 

Iv. Vegetables.— Artichokes, aspa- 
ragus, b3m, beans (French, kidney, 
scarlet, and Windsor), beetroot, 
cabbages, carrots, cauliflowers, celery, 
ohervU, cucumbers, endive, French 
beans (end of month), herbs of all 
sorts, lettuces, mushrooms, peas, 
potatoes, i-adibhes, salads of all sorts, 



salsify, scarlet runners, scorzonera, 
sorrel, spinach, turnips. 

▼. For Drying. — Knotted mar- 
joram, mushrooms, winter savoury. 

Ti For Pickling.— French beans, 
red cabbage, cauliiiowers, garlic, gher- 
kins, nasturtiums, onions. 

yii Fruit— Apples: Codlin, jennet- 
ting, Margaret, summer pearmain, 
summer pippin, quarrenden. Apricots, 
cherries (bfick-heart), currants, pluma, 
greengages, gooseberries, melons, 
nectannes, peaches. Pears : Cather- 
ine, green-chisel, jargonelle. Pine- 
apples, raspberries, strawbeniea. 

40. nr SEASON IN AITGIT8T. 

i. Fiih.— Bass, barbel, bloaters, 
brill, carp, conger-eels, crabs, cray- 
fish, dabs, dace, eels, flounders, 
gurnets, haddocks, herrings, lobsters, 
mullet, oysters (after 4th), perch, 
pike, plaice, praitms, salmon, skate, 
soles, tench, thomback, turbot, 
whiting, whitebait 

IL Meat— Beef, graas-Umb, mut- 
ton, veal, buck venison. 

iii. Poultry and Oame. -;-Black- 
cock and grey hen, capercailzie (after 
20th), capons, chickens, ducks, fowls, 
green geese, grouse (from 12tli), hares 
(after 1st), leverets, pigeons, plovers, 
ptarmigan (after 20th), rabbits, 
turkeys, turkey poults, wheat-ears, 
wild ducks, wild pigeons, wild rabbits. 

iv. Vegetables.- Artichokes, beans 
(French, kidney scarlet, andWindsor). 
white beet, carrots, cauliflowers, 
celei-y, cucumbers, endive, French 
beans, pot herbs of all sorts, leeks, 
lettuces, mushrooms, onions, i)ea8, 
potatoes, radishes, salad of all sorts, 
salsify, scorzonera, shalots, spinach, 
turnips. 

▼. ForDrying.— Basil, sage, thvme. 

Ti. For Pickling.— Red cabbage, 
capsicums, chilies, tomatoes, walnuts, 

vii. Fruit— Apples : Codlin, sum- 
mer pearmain, summer pippin. Apri- 
cots, bananas. Brazils, cherries, cur- 
rants, figs, filberts, gooseberries, grapes, 
greengages, melons, mulberries, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WITH ECONOMY, FEW NEED BE POOR. 



17 



nectarines, peaches. Pears: Jargon- 
elle, summer, Bon Chretien, Windsor. 
Pines, plums, raspberries, Alpine 
strawberries, Spanish nuts. 

41. IH 8BAB0K DT SEPTEKBXB. 

L Fifh. — Barbel, bass, bloaters, 
brill, carp, cockles, cod, conger-eels, 
crabs, dace, eels, flounders, gurnets, 
haddocks, hake, herrings, lobsters, 
mackerel, mullet, mussels, oysters, 
perch, pike, plaice, prawns, salmon 
(tUl 7th), snrimps, soles, tench, 
thornback, trout (till 7th), turbot, 
whiting. 

ii Meat —Beef, mutton, pork,yeal, 
buck venison. 

UL Poultry and 0ame.— Blackcock, 
capons, chickens, ducks, fowls, green 
geese, grouse, hares, larks, leverets, 
partridges (commence on Ist), pigeons, 
plovers, rabbits, teaZ, turkeys, turkey 
poults, wheat-ears, wild ducks, wild 
pigeons, wild rabbits, and wild-fowl 
generally. 

iv. Vegetable!.— Artichokes, Jeru- 
salem artichokes, beans (French and 
scarlet), cabbages, capsicums, carrots, 
cauliflowers, celery, cucumbers, endive, 
eschalots, herbs of all sorts, leeks, 
lettuces, mushrooms, onions, parsnips, 
peas, potatoes, radishes, salad of all 
sorts, turnips. 

▼. Tmit — Apples : Golden nob, 
pearmain, golden rennet Bananas, 
brazUs, cob-nuts, cherries (Morella), 
damsons, figs, filberts. Granes : 
Muscadine, Frontignac, red and black 
Hamburg, Malmsey. Hazel nuts, 
lemons, medlars, melons, peaches. 
Pears : Bergamot, brown beurr^. 
Pineapples, plums, quinces, straw- 
berries, walnuts. 

42. nr 8EA80K DT OCTOBEB. 

i Fish. — Barbel, bloaters, brill, 
carp, cockles, cod, conger-eels, crabs, 
dace, dory, eels, gudgeon, haddocks, 
hake, hiOibut, herrings, lobsters, 
mussels, oysters, perch, pQce, prawns, 
shrimps, smelts, soles, tench, thorn- 
back, turbot, whiting. 



ii Meat— Beef, mutton, pork, veal, 
doe venison. 

iiL Poultry and Game.— Capons, 
capercailzie, chickens, dotterel, ducks, 
fowls, green geese, grouse, hares, 
larks, moor-game, parmdges, pheas- 
ants (after 1st), piceons, ptarmigan, 
rabbits, snipes, tMd, turkey, wheat- 
ears, widgeon, wild ducks, wild 
pigeons, wud rabbits, woodcocks, and 
wud-fowl generally. 

iv. Y6|[etablei.*~Artichokes, Jeru- 
salem artichokes, broccoli, cabbages, 
carrots, cauliflowers, celery, coleworts, 
endive, French beans, herbs of all 
sorts, leeks, onions, parsnips, peas, 
potatoes, radishes, salad. Savoys, 
scarlet (runners, scorzonera, skirrets, 
shalots, spinach (winter), tomatoes, 
truffles, turnips, vesetable marrows. 

▼. Fruit — Apples : Pearmain, 
golden pippin, golden rennet, royal 
russet Bananas, brazils, black and 
white bnllace, cobnuts, cranberries, 
damsons, late fics. Almonds, filberts, 
hazel nuts, wamuts, grapes, lemons, 
medlars, nectarines. Peaches : Old 
Newington, October. Pears; Ber- 
^mot, beurr^, Chaumontel, Bon 
Chr^tien,swan'8-egg. Quinces, services, 
walnuts. 

48. nr 8EA80K DT KOVXMBSB« 

i Fiih. — Barbel, bloaters, brill, 
turbot, carp, cockles, cod, crabs, 
cravfish, dace, dory, eels, flounders, 

fud^ons, gumeta, haddocks, hake, 
alibut, herrings, ling, lobsters, 
mackerel (scarce), mullet (red), 
mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, 
prawns, Dutch salmon, shrimps, skate, 
smelts, soles, sprats (from the 9th), 
tench, thombacK, turbot, whiting. 

IL Meat.— Beef, house-lamb, mut- 
ton, pork, veat, doe venison. 

ill. Poultry and Game. — Oapons, 
chickens, dotterel, ducks, fowls, geese, 
grouse, hareSf larks, partridges, 
pheasants, pigeons, quails, rabbits, 
snipes, tecu, turkey, wheat-ears, 
wideeon, wild ducks, woodcocks, and 
WilcUfowl generally. 

It. Vegetablet.— Jerusalem arti- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IS DO GOOD TO TOtm XKSMY, THAT Bt MAY BEOOMt TOim ]?RIEM). 



chokes, beetroot, borecole, broccoli, 
Brussels sprouts, cabbages, cardoons, 
carrots, cauliflowers, celery, chervil, 
coleworts, endive, herbs o!f all sorts, 
leeks, lettuces, onions, parsnips, 
potatoes, salad, Savoys, scorzonera, 
skirrets, shalots, ^inach, tomatoes, 
turnips, tumip-tops. 

T. Fmit — Almonds. Apples: Hol- 
land pippin, golden pippin, Kentish 
pippin, nonpareil, winter pearmain, 
Wheeler's mssets. Bananas, brazils, 
bullaces, chestnuts, filberts, hazel nuts, 
walnuts. Grapes, medlars, melons 
(water), oranges (Tangerine). Pears : 
Beigamot, Ch»umontel, Bon Chretien. 

44. IK 8EA80V nr DECIlCBra. 

I Fiih.— Barbel, bloats, brill, 
turbot, carp, cockles, cod^ crabs, dab, 
dory, eels, gudgeon,gumets, haddocks, 
hake, halibut, herrings, Hngy lobsters, 
mullet, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, 
plaice, nifi', salmon, shnmps, skcUet 
smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, terieh, 
turbot, whitings. 

U. ICaat.— Beef, house-lamb, mut- 
ton, pork, veal, doe venison. 

iii Poultry and fiame. — Black 
0ime and capercailzie (till 20th). 
Capons, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, 
grouse (till 18th), guinea-fowl, hares, 
&rks, partridges, pea-fowl, pheasants, 
pigeons, rabbits, snipes, teal, turkevs, 
wheat-ears, widgeon, wild ducks, 
woodcocks, wild-fowl generally. 

iy. Vegetables. — Jerusalem arti- 
chokes, beetroot, borecole, white and 
purple broccoli, Brussels sprouts, 
cabbages, cardoons, carrots, celery, 
endive, herbs of all sorts, leeks, 
lettuces, onions, parsnips, potatoes, 
radishes, rhubarb,' salad, Savoys, 
scorzonera, skirrets, shalots, spinach, 
truffles, turnips, forced asparagus. 

T. Fniit. — Almonds. Apples : 
Golden pippin, nonpareil, winter 
pearmain, golden russet, Newtown 
pippins. Bananas, chestnuts, filberts, 
isLzel nuts, walnuts. Almeria grapes, 
medlars, oranges. Pears : Bergeunot, 
beurr^ d hiver. 



45. PBTDTG HE£B8. — Fresh 
herbs are preferable to dried ones, but 
as'they cannot always be obtained, it is 
most important to dry herbs at the 
proper seasons : — Basil is in a fit state 
for drying about the middle of August. 
Burnet m June, July, and August, 
Chervil in May, June, and Jul}'. 
Elder Flowers in May, June, and July. 
Fennel in May, June, and July. 
^TwWtfdi/anwam during July. Lemon 
Thyine end of July and through 
August Mint^ end of June and July. 
Orange Flowers, May, June, and July. 
Pars/ey, May, June, and July. Sage^ 
August and September. Sumvier 
Savoury, end of July and August. 
Tarragon, June, July, and August 
Thyme, end of July and August. fVin- 
ter Savoury, end of July and Au^st 

These herbs always at hand will be 
a great aid to the cook. Herbs should 
be gathered on a dry day ; they should 
be immediately well cleansed, and 
dried by the heat of a stove or Dutch 
oven* The leaves should then be 
picked off, pounded and sifted, put 
mto stoppered bottles, labelled, and 
put away for use. Those who are un- 
able or may not take the trouble to 
dry herbs, can obtain them prepared 
for use in bottles at the greengrocers. 

46. PB. EITCHIKSS'8 JtULES 
FOB MABKETIKG.— The best rule for 
marketing is to pay ready money for 
everything, and to deal unth the inost 
respectable tradesmen in your neigh- 
bourhood. If you leave it to their 
integrity to supply you with a good 
article at the mir market price, you 
will be supplied with better provisions, 
and at as reasonable a rate as those 
bargain-hunters who trot ** around, 
arouiid, around about'* a market till 
they are trapped to buy some unchew- 
able old poultry, tough tup mutton, 
stringy cow beef, or stale fish, at a 
very little leas than the price of prime 
and proper food. With sa/viTigs like 
these they toddle home in triumph, 
cackling all the way, like a goose that 
has got ankle-deep into gooa luck. All 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DO OOOD fO tOtrft f&tSltD, T^At til UAt fcttfAOt 't^OUtl ORIENT). Id 



tha akiU of the most accomplished 
cook will avail nothiog unless she is 
furnished with prime provisions. The 
best way to procure these is to deal 
with shops of established character : 
you may appear to pay, perhaps, ten 
ufir cenL more than you would were 
you to deal with those who pretend to 
seJl cheap, but you would be much 
more than in that proportion better 
served. Every trade has its tricks 
and deceptions ; those who follow them 
can deceive you if they please, and 
they are too apt to do so if you pro- 
voke the exercise of their over- reaching 
talent. Challenge them to a game at 
" Catch who can, by entirely relying 
on your own judgment, and you win 
soon find that nothing but very long 
experience can make you equal to the 
combat of marketing to tne utmost 
advantage. If you think a tradesm^ 
has imposed upon you, never u^ a 
second word, if the first will not do, 
nor drop the least hint of an imposi- 
tion ; the only method to induce him 
to make an abatement is the hope of 
future favours ; pay the deoiand, and 
deal with the gentleman no more ; 
but do not let him see that yon aro 
displeased, or as soon as you are out 
of sight your reputation will suffer as 
much as your pocket has. Before you 
go to market, look over your larder, 
and consider well what things are 
wantiuK^-especially on a Saturday. 
No well-regulated family can suiTor a 
disorderly caterer to 1^ jumping in 
and out to make purchases on a Sun- 
day morning. Tou will be enabled to 
manage much better if you will make 
out a bill-of-fare for the week on the 
Saturday before : for example, for a 
femily of half-a-dozen— 

A(iu2ay— Boast beef and pudding. 
Mmdap—WfyvX, what was left of pudding 
fried, or wanned in the Dutch oven. 
TM9day—C9Xf% hetid, apple pie. 
Wtdn€»day—lje% of mutton. 
7%icrKf«y~I>itto broiled or haabed, and 



Frtda,f-'¥\%\ pudding. 
&i<im2ajr-Slab, AT tggi and biOQB. 



It is au excellent plan to have certain 
thinffs on certain days. When your 
butcher or noulterer knows what yon 
will want, he has a better chance of 
doing his best for you ; and never 
think of ordering bieef for roasting 
except for Sunday. When you order 
meat, poultry, or fish, tell the trades- 
man wnen you intend to dress it : he 
will then have it in his power to serve 
you with provision that will do him 
credit, which the finest meat, lac. , in 
the world will never do, unless it has 
been kept a proper time to be ripe 
and tender. — fotchiujer's Oook'a OraJtt 
66th Thousand. 5s, Jloulston & Sons. 

47. BOCUL WWMTffQB.—Uudi 

enjoyment, and in some cases gceat 
benefit, miflht be obtained, at very 
Uttlo trouble or expense, if a few 
congenial friends arranged to meet and 
spend an evening together once a week 
for reading, discussion, music, games, 
or any other amusement mutually 
agreea on. 

We suggest a few simple rules that 
may be useful to any one wishing to 
try the experiment and start a fiiendly 
social circle and thus bring about more 
constant, easy, intercourse amongst 
friends, the writer feeling convinced 
that society is equally beneficial and 
requisite — m fact, that mankind i^ 
seclusion, like the sword in the 
scabbard, often loses |>oli8h, and 
gradually rusts. 

Bulb i. That meetings be held weekly In 
rotation at each member's house. 

Bulb ii. That such meetings oonunence 
at eight and end before twelve. 

BuuB III. That only light reftieBhrnents 
shall be proyided,^uch as saudwiches, sausage 
rolls, cakes, tea and- coffee, 4^c 

Bulb it. That memben make a point of 
attending each meeting unless tmavoidably 
prevented. 

49. IPVJSVJS^ PASTXXXS. 

Amon^; the innocent recreations of 
the fireside* there are few more com- 
mendable and practicable than those 
afforded by what ai^ sev«ndly termod 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



20 



WHO NSTXB TBIX8 WILL WIN KO PBIZX. 



Acrostics, Anagrams, ArithmoremB, 
Charades, Conundrums, Cryptographs, 
Enigmas, Hidden Words, Logogriphs, 
Puzzles, Rebnses, Riddles, Transpo- 
sitions, kc. Of these there are such 
a variety, that they are suited to every 
capacity ; and they present this ad- 
ditional attraction, that ingenuity 
may be exercised in the invention of 
them, as well as in their solution. 
Many persons who have become noted 
for their literate compositions may 
date the origin of their success to the 
time when uie^ attempted the compo- 
sition of a trifling enigma or charade. 

40. ACB08TIG8.— The acrostic 
is a short poem in which the first 
letters of each line, read in their order, 
form a name, word, or sentence. The 
word comes from the Greek aJbtw, 
at the point or end, and dichoe, order 
or line. The acrostic was formerly in 
voffue for valentine and love verses. 
When employed as a riddle it is called 
a £ebus, which tee. 

60. A0B08TIG8 (Double).— This 
very fashionable riddle is a double 
Rebus, the initial and final letters of 
a word or words selected making two 
names or two words. The usual plan 
is to first suggest the foundation words, 
and then to describe the separate 
words, whose initials and finals famish 
the answer to the question. Thus : — 
A Party to ohann the yotmg and erratio— 
But likely to Mghten the old and rheu- 
matic. 
1 The carriage In which the &ir visitants 



S A very old tribe with a very old name ; 
8 A brave Prince of Wales free from scandal 

oraharoe. 
The answer is Picnic. 

1 P Phaeton N 

S I I«ml I 

3C Caradoo C 
Sometimes the Double Acrostic is in 
prose, as in this brief example : A 
Briton supports his wis, his grand- 
mother, his comfort, ana his country- 
women. The answer is. Beef— Beer : 
£6bf Eve, Eaae, Fur, 



61. AGB08TI08 (Triple) are formed 

on the same plan, three names beins 
indicated by the initial, central, and 
final letters of the selected words. 

62. AHAGBAM8 (from ana, back- 
wards, and gramma, a letter) are 
formed by the transposition of the 
letters of words or sentences, or names 
of persons, so as to produce a word, 
sentence, or verse, of pertinent or of 
widely difierent meamng. They are 
very difficult to discover, but are ex- 
ceedingly striking when good. The 
foUowmg are some of the most re- 
markable : — 

Wcrdi Trantpo9Ui4)nM 

Astronomers ».....»... No more itan. 

Catalognes Got at a cine. 

Elegant Neat leg. 

Impatient Tim in a pet 

Immediately I met my Delia. 

Masquerade Qneerasmad. 

Matrimony .» Into my arm. 

Melodrama ....» Made moraL 

Midshipman Mind hit map. 

Old England ............ Oolden«land. 

Parishioners I hire parsons. 

Parliament Partial men. 

Penitentiary Nay I repent it 

Presbyterian Best in prayer. 

Radical Reform......... Rare mad frolic 

Revolution To lore ndn. 

Sir Robert Peel Terrible poeer. 

Sweetheart... There we sat 

Telegraphs Great helps. 

68. ASITHX0BEM8.— This class 
of riddle is of recent introduction. The 
Arithmorem is made by substituting 
figures in a part of the word indicated 
for Roman numerals. The nature of 
the riddle — from the Greek arithmon^ 
number, and the Latin remanere, l^ick 
again — ^will be easily seen from the lol- 
lowing example, which also forms a 
double acrostic : — 
H 51 and a tub—ti flne large fish. 
A twice 60 and govt a sprightly movement 

inmnslo. 
R 6 and &•— a part of speech. 
U 551 and <u cm o^-a Spanish province. 
To 901 and nm,— « itupeQring drug. 
R 109 and »l— an add. 
OU 950 and poo— a Meziean town. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LOOK ALWAYS ON THE SITNNY SIDE. 



21 



The answer is Ewx/nna Tobacco. 
JSTalibiU, AUepo, Verh, Andalusia, 
J^arcotic, Jfitnc, ^capnloo. 

64. 0HABADS8 are compositions, 
poetical or otherwise, founded upon 
words, each syllable of which consti- 
tates a noun, the whole of each word 
constituting another noun of a some- 
what diiferent meaning from those 
supplied by its separate syllables. 
Words which fully answer these con- 
ditions are the best for the purposes 
of charades ; though man^ other words 
are employed. In writing, the first 
syllable is termed **My first,** the 
second syllable " My second,** and the 
complete word "Ify whole." The 
following is an example of a Poetical 
Charade.*— 

The breath of the morning is sweet ; 

The earth is bespangled with flowers, 
And buds in a ooontless amy 

Have oped at the touch of the showers. 
The birds, whose gisd voices are ever 

A music delightftil to hear. 
Seem to welcome the Joy of the morning, 

As the hour of the bridid draws near. 
What is thst which now steals on nyjlnt. 

Like a sound from the dreamland of love. 
And seems wand'ring the valleys among, 
That they may the nuptials approve? 
'Tis a sound which my iteond explains, 

And it comes from a sacred abode, 
And it merrily trills as the villagers throng 

To greet the Ikir bride on her road. 
How meek la her dress, how befitting a 
bride 
So beautifhl, spotless, and pure 1 
When she weareth my teond, oh, long may 
it be 
Ere her heart shall a sorrow endure. 
See the glittering gem that shines fbrth 
fhun her hair^— 
Tis mjr wAotc which a good Cither gave : 
Twas worn by her mother with honour be 
tore— 
But akt sleeps in peace in her grave. 
Twas her earnest request, as she bade them 
adieu, 
That when her dear daughter the altar 
drew near, 
She should wear the same gem that her 
mother had worn 



When she as a bride fbll of promise stood 
there. 
The answer is £ar'ring. The bells 
ring, the sound steals upon the ear, 
ana the bride wears an ear-ring. 
Charades may be sentimental or 
humorous, in poetry or prose; they 
may also be acted, and m this way 
afford considerable amusement 

65. CHAEABS8 (ACTED). — A 

drawing-room with folded doors is the 
best for the purpose. Various house- 
hold appliances are employed to fit up 
something like a st^, and to supply 
the fitting scenes. Characters dressed 
in costumes made up of handkerchiefs, 
coats, shawls, table-covers, kc, come 
on and perform an extempore play, 
founded upon the parts of a woni, 
and its whaile, as indicated already. 
For instance, the events explained in 
the poem given might be aded — ^glasses 
mignt be rung for bells— something 
might be said in the course of the 
dialogues about the sound of the bells 
being delightful to the ear; there 
might be a dance of the villagers, in 
which a ring might be formed; a 
wedding might be performed ; and so 
on : but for ading charades there are 
many better words, because Ear-ring 
could with difficulty bo represeTUed 
without at once betraying the meaning. 
There is a little work entitled PhU' 
osophy and Mirth united by Pen and 
Pencil, and another work. Our 
Charades; and How we Played 
Them,^ by Jean Francis, which 
supply a large number of these 
Charades. But the following is the 
most extensive list of words ever 

Eublished upon which Charades may 
e founded : — 

66. W0BB8 for Acting or Written 
Charades:— 

Ac-cent Aid-less Al-tar 

Acci-dent Air-pump Ale-house 

1 PkUcmphy and Mirth, uniud byPmcmd 
Peneil, U, 

Our Charadu ; and How vn playtd TKem, 
by Jean Francis. 1<. 

Both published by Houlstnn and Sooiy 
Paternoster Square, London, B.GL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



22 



A OONTBirrKD MIND^ 18 A CONtlNUAL FSAAT. 



Aitn-OQiioo 


B^^ton 


Fit«-man 


Ham-let 


m-Wed 


Uh-gatad 


A.pex 


Cab-in 


Fire-pan 


Ham-mock 


Ill-nature 


Like-wise 


AKh-migel 


Qin-dld 


Fire-ship 


Hand-euff 


Hl-usage 


Live-long 


Arm-let 


Can-ton 


Fire-work 


Hang-man 


Imp-lore 


Load-stone 


Art-lesi 


Care-fUl 


Fir-kln 


Hap-pen 


In-action 


Log-book 


A88-aU 


Car-pet 


Fish-hook 


Hard-ship 


In-bom 


Lo;;-wood 


Bft-boon 


Car-rot 


Flag-rant 


Hard-ware 


In-crease 


Loop-hole 


Back-bite 


Cart-ridgfl 


Flip-i«nt 


Harts-horn 


In-Justice 


Lord-ship 


Back-slide 


Cash-ier 


Flood-gate 


Ilead-Und 


Ink-ling 


Love-sick 


Bag-dad 


Chair-man 


Fond-ling 


Head-less 


In-land 


Low-land 


Bag-gage 


Chamber-mftM Foot-ball 


He»d-long 


In-mate 


Luck-less 


Bag-pi po 


Cheer-ful 


Foot-man 


Head-stone 


In-no-cent 


Luke-wann 


Ball-able 


Cheer-less 


Foot-pad 


Head-strong 


In-sane 


Ma-caw 


Bale-ful 


Christ-mas 


Foot-step 


Hoar-say 


In-spirit 


Mad-cap 


Band-age 


Church-yard 


Foot-stool 


Heart-less 


In-tent 


Mad-house 


Band-bot 


Clans-men 


Por-age 


Heart-sick 


Inter-meddle 


iifad-man 


Bane-fUl 


Clerk-ship 


Por-bear 


Heiirt-string 


Inter-sect 


Mag-pie 


Bar-bed 


Cob-web 


FoT-Wd 


Hedge-hog 


Inter- view 


Main -mast 


Bar-gain 


Cock-pit 


Fonnd-Hng 


Heir-less 


In-valid 


Main-sail 


Bar-rack 


Cod-Ung 


Pox-glove 


Heir-loom 


In-vent 


Hain-st»ring 


Bar-row 


Coin-asge 


Free-hold 


Hell-hound 


In-vest 


Mam-moth 


Bat-ten 


Con-flned 


Pree-Ung 


Hell-kite 


In-ward 


Man-age 


Beard-less 


Con-flrm 


Free-stone 


Hence-forth 


Ire-M 


Man-date 


Bed-lam 


Con-fbrm 


Fret-work 


Hen-roost 


Iron-mould 


Marks-man 


Be-head 


Con-tent 


Pri-dsy 


Herb-age 


I-sing-Iass 


Mar-row 


Btd-den 


Con-test 


Friend-ship 


Herds-man 


Jac(k)o-bite 


Mass-«cre 


Bird-lime 


Con-tract 


Frost-bite 


Her-self 


Joy-ftol 


Match-less 


Birth-rlght 


Con-verse 


Fur-long 


Hid-den 


Joy-less 


May-game 


Black-gnard 


Cork-screw 


Gain-say 


High-land 


Justice-ship 


Meat-man 


Black-smith 


Count-less 


Oang-way 


High-way 


Key-stone 


Mess-mate 


Blame-leas 


Court-ship 


Glow-wonn 


Hind-most 


Kid-nap 


Mis-chance 


Block-head 


Crab-bed 


Glut-ton 


Hoar-frost 


King-craft 


Mis-chief 


Boat-man 


Cross-bow 


God-child 


Hob-goblin 


King-fisher 


Mis-count 


Book-worm 


Cur-taU 


God-daughter 


Hogs-head • 


Kins-man 


Mis-deed 


Boot-jack 


Cnt-lass 


God-father 


Home-bred 


Kit-ten 


Mis-Judge 


Bound-leas 


Ci.i-throat 


God-mother 


Honey-bag 


Knight-hood 


Mis-quote 


Bow-ling 


Dark -some 


God-son 


Honey-comb 


Know-ledge 


Mis-take 


Brace-let 


Day-break 


Gold-flnch 


Honey-moon 


Lace-man 


Monks-hood 


Brain-less 


Death-watch 


Gold-smith 


Honey-suckle Lady-bird 


Moon-beam 


Break-fast 


Dog-ma 


Goose-berry 


H*)od-wick 


Lady-ship 


Moon-l.ght 


Breath-less 


Dol-phin 


Grand-father 


Horse-back 


Lam}>-black 


Muf-fiu 


Brick-bat 


t)on-key 


Grate-ftil 


Horse-shoe 


Land-lady 


Name-sake 


Brick-dust 


Drink-Able 


Grave-stone 


Host-age 


Land-lord 


Nan-keen 


Bride-groom 


Drug-get 


Green-fluch 


Hot-bed 


Land-mark 


Nap-kin 


Bride-cake 


Duck-ling 


Grey-hound 


Hot-house 


Land-scape 


Neck-cloUi 


Brim-stone 


Ear-ring 


Grim-ace 


Hot-spur 


Land-tax 


Neck-lace 


Broad-cloth 


Earth-quake 


Grind-stone 


Hounds-ditch Lap-dog 


Nest-ling 


Broad-side 


Ear-wig 


Ground-plot 


Hour-glass 


Lap-pet 


News-pai>er 


Broad-sword 


^alse-hood 


Ground-sell 


House-hold 


Laud-able 


Nick-name 


Brow-beat 


Pan-atio 


Guard-ship 


House-maid 


Law-giver 


Night-cap 


Bng-bear 


Pare-well 


Gun-powder 


House-wife 


Law-suit 


Night-gown 


Bull-dog 


Far-tiling 


Had-dock 


Hum-drum 


Lay-man 


Night-mare 


Bnll-rush 


Fear-less 


Hail-stone 


Hump-back 


he&p-trog 


Night-watch 


Bump-k n 


Field-Dare 


fiail-storm 




Leap-year 


Nine-fold 


pooj-aut 


Klro-lock 


Half-pe&ny 


Id^l 


Lee-wani 


^oon.ti49 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A LIAR SHOTTLD HAVE A GOOD MEMORY. 



North-gtar 


Over-flow 


Pa-pa 


Pot-ash 


Seam-less 


Slip-slop 


North-ward 




Par-able 


Pot-hook 


Beam-stress 


Slope- wise 


Noee.gay 


Over-head 


Pa-rent 


Pound-age 


Sea-nymph 


Slow-worm 


Not-i^le 


Over-hear 


Pa-ring 


I*rim-r08e 


Sea-piece 


Snip-pet 


Not-ice 


Over-heaard 


Par-snip 


Prior-shlp 


Sea-port 


Snip-snap 


No-where 


Over-joy 


Par-son 


Prop-a-gate 


Sea-sick 


Snow-ball 


Nat-gall 


Over-lay 


Par-took 


Punch-bowl 


Sea-son 


Snow-drop 


Nat-meg 


Over-leap 


Part-ridge 


Quad-rant 


Sea-ward 


Snuff-bot 


Oak-apple 


Over-load 


Pass-able 


Quench-less 


Second-hand 


Sod-den 


Oat-cake 


Over-look 


Pass-over 


Quick-lime 


Seed-cake 


So-lace 


Ost-meal 


Over-match 


Pas-time 


Quick-sand 


Seed-ling 


So-lo 


Off-etid 


Over-right 


Patch-work 


Quick-8«e 


Seed-pearl 


Sol-vent 


Oil-man 


Over-pass 


Pa-tent 


Quick-silver 


Seeds-man 


Some-ttod^ 


O^men 


Over-pay 


Path-way 


Rain-bow 


Seed-titee 


8ome-hoW 


On-set 


Over-plus 


Pat-ten 


Bam-part 


Sex-tile 


Some-time 


O-pen 




Peace4tble 


Ran-sack 


Sex-ton 


Some-What 


O-pinion 


Over-power 


Pea-cock 


Rap-a-city 


Shame-less 


dome-^here 


Out-act 


Over-press 


Pear-led 


Rasp-berry 


Sham-rock 


dong-stress 


Out-bid 


Over-rate 


Peer-age 


Rattle-snake 


Shape-less 


Son-net 


Out-cast 


Over-reach 


Peer-less 


Red-breast 


Sharp-sct 


Soutfiem-Woiod 


Out-cry 


Over-ripe 


Pen-knife 


Red-den 


Slieep-cot 


dpank-ing 


Out-do 


Over-rule 


Pen-roan 


Rid-dance 


fiheep-rttearingdpare-rib 


Out-flt 


Over-run 


Pen-man-ship 


Ring-leader 


6heep-walk 


Spar-row 


Out-gfoir 


Over-see 


Per-jury 


Ring-let 


Slieet-anchor 


Speak-a1)l6 


Out-la* 


Over-seer 


Pert-in-a-city 


Ring-tail 


Slieli-flsh 


Speech-Ies^ 


Oat-lin6 


Over-set 


Pick-lock 


Ring-worm 


Shift-lees 


Spite-ftil 


Out-Uve 


Over-shadow 


Pick-pocket 


Rolling-pin 


Ship-boa*d 


Sports-man 


Out-rage 


Over-shoe 


Pie-bald 


Rose-t^ater 


Ship-wreck 


Spot-less 


Oat-ride 


Over-shoot 


Pike-stair 


Rot-ten 


Shirt-1688 


Spring-halt 


Out-rtm 


Over-sight 


Pil-age 


Round-about 


Shoe-string 


Spruce-beer 


Out-flWl 


Over-size 


Pi-lot 


Round-house 


Shop-bo*d 


Stair-ca^ 


Out-shine 


Over-sleep 


Pin-cushion 


Run-a-gate . 


Shop-matt 


Star-board 


Out-sWe 


Over-spread 


Pine-ai)ple 


Rush-light 


Shore-less 


Star-gazer 


Out-spread 


Over-stock 


Pip-kin 


Safe-guard 


Short-hand 


Star-less 


Out-stare 


Over-strain 


Pitch-fork 


Sal-low 


Short-lived 


Star-light 


Out-stretch 


OveJ-sway 


Pit-men 


Sand-stone 


Shot-flfee 


Star-like 


Out-talk 


Over-swell 


Plain-tiff 


Sat-in 


Shoulder-belt l^tar-linir 


Out-ward 


Over-take 


Play-fellow 


Sat-ire 


Shrove-tide 


States-mSn 


Out-weigh 


Over-throw 


Play-house 


Sauce-box 


Side-board 


Stead-&st 


Out-wit 


Over-took 


Play-mate 


Sauce-pan 


Side-long 


Steel.yard 


Out-work 


Over-value 


Play-Wright 


Saw-dust 


Side-saddle 


Steer-age 


Out-worn 


Over-work 


Plough-man 


Saw-pit 


Side-ways 


Step-dame 


Over-act 


Our-selves 


Plough-share 


Scare-crow 


Sight-less 


Step-daughter 


Over-awe 


Ox-grtll 


Pole-cat 


Scarf-skin 


Silk-weavef 


8tep-<afher 


Over-bear 


Ox-lip 


Pol-lute 


Scar-let 


Silk-worm 


Step-mother 


Over-board 


Pack-age 


Pop-gun 


Scot-free 


Silver-smith 


Steward-ship 


Over-boil 


Pack-cloth 


Pop-in-jay 


Screech-oWl 


Sin-less 


StifT-neck 


Over-buiden 


Pad-dock 


Port-able 


Sea-bom 


Six-fold 


StiU-bom 


Over-cast 


Pad-lock 


Port-hole 


Sea-calf 


Skim-milk 


Stock-jobber 


Over-charge 


Pain-ful 


Post-age 


Sea-coal 


Skip-jack 


Stone-fruit 


Over-cloud 


Pain-less 


Post-chaise 


Sea-fiiring 


Sky-lark 


Store-frult 


Over-come 


Pal-ace 


Post-date 


Sea-girt; 


Sky-light 


Store-house 


Over-do 


Pal-ate 


Post-house 


Sea-gull 


Slap-dash 


Stow-age 


Over-due 


Pal-let 


Post-man 


Sea-maid 


Sleeve-lesfl 


Strata-gem 


Over-fced 


P«n-cake 


Poet-offlce 


Sea-man 


SUp^Oiod 


Straw-berry 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



24 



BEGIN WELL AND END BETTER. 



Stream-let Thonght-ftil 
Strip-ling TboQght-loM 
Sum«mai7 Thread-bare 
SumiDer-hoQMThree-fold 
Summer-set Three-soore 
Son-beam Tlireah-old 



Sim-bamt 

Son-day 

Son-dzy 

Son-flower 

Son-lesa 

Sop-plant 

Sop-pliant 

Sup-port 



Throogh-out 
Thonder-bolt 
Thonder- 

itruok 
Till-age 
Tip-pet 
Tip-staff 
Tire-some 



Sop-iort-able Title-page 
Sop-poaition Toad-stool 
Sop-press Toil-«t 
Swans-down Toll-some 
Sweep-stake Tbm-bojr 
Sweet-bread Tooth-acbs 
Sweet-briar Top-knot 
Sweet-heart Top-most 
Sweet-william Top-sail 
Sweet-willow Tooch-stone 
Swine-herd TOooh-wood 
Bwords-nuui Towns-men 
Tar-get Toy-shop 



Tar-tar 

Taw-dry 

Tax-able 

Tea-cop 

Teem-M 

Teem-less 

TeU-tale 

Ten-able 

Ten-a-city 

Ten -ant 

Ten-danoe 

Ten-don 

Ten-drU 

Ten-or 

Thank-ftil 

Thank-less 



Track-] 

Trap-door 

Tre-foil 

Trip-let 

Trip-thong 

Trod-den 

Tom-pike 

Tom-spit 

Tom-stile 

Tutor-age 

Twemh-nigfat 

TweUth-tlde 

Two-fold 

Two-pence 

Vain-glory 

Van-guard 



Them-selves Vault-age 
Thence-forth Up-braid 



There-after 

There-at 

There-by 

There-fbre 

There-from 

There-in 

There-on 

There-to 

There-with 

Thick-set 



Up-hiU 

Up-hold 

Up-land 

Up-ride 

Up-right 

Up-roar 

Up-shot 

Up-start 

Up-ward 

Use-less 



Wag-on 

Wag-tail 

Wain-scot 

Waist-ooat 

Wake-fUl 

Wal-nut 

Wan-ton 

Ward-mote 

Ward-robe 

Ward-ship 

Ware-hoose 

War-fkre 

War-like 

War-rant 

Wash-ban 

Waste-fbl 

Watch-fbl 

Watch-man 

Watch-word 

Watw-coorse 

Water-(kU 

Water-fowl 

Water-man 

Water-mark 

Water-mm 

Water-work 

Way-lay 

Way-ward 

Weather-cock 

Weather-glass 

Weather-wise 

Web-bed 

Web-foot 

Wed-Iock 

Week-day 

Wel-come 

Wel-fkre 

Well-born 

Well-bred 

Wheel-wrlght 

Where-at 

Where-by 

Whet-stone 

Whip-cord 

Whip-hand 

Whirl-pool 

Whirl-wind 

White-wash 

WhIt-low 

Whit-son-tide 

Who-ever 

Whole-sale 

Whole-some 

Wil-low 

WUd-flre 



Wn-ftil 

Wind-lass 

Wind-miU 

Wind-pipe 

Win-now 

Win-some 

Wise-acre 

Wit-less 

Wolf-dog 



Wood-cock 

Wood-land 

Wood-lark 

Wood-man 

Wood-note 

Wood-nymph 

Work-boose 

Work-man 

Work-shop 



Worm-wood 

Wrath-ftU 

Wrath-less 

Wrist-band 

Writ-ten 

Tear-ling 

Yel-low 

Tooth-fta 



67. CHBOKOORAXS OB CHBO- 
K0OBAPH8 are riddles in which the 
letters of tlie Roman notation in a 
sentence or series of words are so 
arrang^ as to make up a date. The 
following is a good example :•— 

My Day Closed Is In Immortality. 
The initials MDCIII give 1608, the 
year of Queen Elizabeth's death. 
Sometimes the Chronogram is em- 
ployed to express a date on coins or 
medals ; but oftener it is simply used 
as a riddle : — A poet who in blindness 
wrote; another lived in Charles's 
reign ; a third called the father of 
English verse ; a Spanish dramatist ; 
the scolding wife of Socrates ; and tiie 
Prince of Latin poets, — their initials 

S've the year of the Great Plague — 
DCLXV — 1666: MUton, Dryden, 
Chaucer, Lope-de-Vega, XanUppe, 
ViigiL The word comes from CTinmos, 
time, and gramma, a letter. 

5& COirxrHBBinU.— These are 

simple catches, in which the sense is 
playfully cheated, and are generally 
founded upon words capable of double 
meaning. The following are ex- 
amples : — 

Where did Charles the First's ezecotloner 
dine, and what did he take ? 

He took a chop at the King's Head. 

When is a plant to be dreaded more than 
a mud dog? 

When it's madder. 

What is mi^Jesty stripped of its externals? 

It is a jest. [The m and the y, externals, 
are taken away.] 

Why is hot breftd like a caterpillar T 

Because it's the grvb that vtakes the butter 

fiy- 

Why did the accession of Victoria throw a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XVSBT MAN KKOWB WHERE HIS OWN 8H0S PINCHES. 



25 



gxvater damp over Bngland Uum the death 
of KibgWilUam? 

BtcauH tht King «mm mi$Md (milt) vhiU 
UU QMcm wu reigning (xmining>. 

Whj should a goaty man make his will T 

To have hit UgaUee Geg at ease). 

Why are hankmpts more to be pitied 
than idiots? 

Beeenue bankrupU an broken, vMU idhU 
are onlp eraeketL 

Why is the treadmill like a true convert? 

BeeauH «C« turning U tht retiUt of coiivic- 
tiofn. 

When may a nobleman's property be said 
to be all feathers? 

When M« uMu are aU entaiU (hen-tailsX 

Why are sagar>plams like race-horses ? 

Beeauee the tnare yon lick them th4 fatter 
theggo. 

Why is a dog's tail like the heart of a 
troe? 

Becaum it' $ farther from the bark. 

Why should an alderman wear a tartan 
waistcoat? 

To keep a duck on hie etomaeh. 

Why are JoumalistB like chickens? 

BeeauH theg have to eeratehfor a living. 

What was the dilTerenoe between Noah's 
Ark and Joan of Arc 

One wu made efOopMr wod and theother 
McMofOrUanM. 

69. CBYPTOGEAPHT, or secret 
writing— from the Greek eryptos, a 
secret, and grapfO, a writing— has 
beeoi largely employed in state de- 
spatches, commercial correspondence, 
love epistles, and riddles. The tele- 
graphic codes employed in the trans- 
mission of news by electric wire, 
partake somewhat of the crypto- 
sraphic character, the writer employ- 
mg certain words or figures, the kej 
to which is in the possession of his 
correspondent The single-word de- 
spatdi sent by Napier to the Govern- 
ment of India, was a sort of crypto- 
graphic conundrom — Peecavi, I have 
sinned (Scinde) ; and in the agony 
colnmn of the Times there commonly 
appear paragraphs which look puzzling 
enough untu we discover the key-letter 
or figure. Various and singular have 



been the devices adopted— as, for in- 
stance, the writing iu the perforations 
of a card especially prepared, so as only 
to allow the real words of the messaj^e 
to be separated from the mass of writ- 
ing by means of a duplicate card with 
similar perforations ; the old Greek 
mode of writing on the edges of a 
strip of paper wound round a stick in 
a certain mrection, and the substitu- 
tion of figures or signs for letters or 
words. When one letter is always 
made to stand for another, the secret 
of a cryptograph is soon discovered, 
but when, as in the following example, 
the same letter does not mvariaDly 
correspond to the letter for which it 
is a substitute, the difficulty of deci- 
phering the cryptograph is manifestly 
increased: — 

Ohs ya h sych, oayarsa rr loacys synis 
Osrh srore rrhmu h smsmsmah emshyr 
snn^s. 

The translation of this can be made 
only by the possessor of the key. 

a bed e fgh ijklmnopqrstnv 
h ush money bye ha rl eshros 

wzy s 

sesq 

** Hush Mone}r, by Charles H. Ross, 
Esq. " — ^twenty-six letters which, when 
applied to the cryptograph, will give a 
couplet from Parnell s ** Hermit " : — 

" FArin a wild, unknown to public view, 
From youth to age a reverend hermit 
grew." 

The employment of figures and signs 
for letters is the most usual form of 
the cryptograph. From the following 
jumble we set a portion of Hamlet's 
address to the Ghost :— 
9a62xt0ain3a8t2tt*7«t96 

3127 Sal ;t 
428*;t(8t8,*7829X,lM6»4 
x8alOUa21 

With the key— 
abcdefghij klmnopqrstnv 
946127C88-1-- X I a*()tt , ; : 
wxy z 
.ol-l- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 



DO NOT JtST n? SERIOUS MATTKRS. 



it is easy to write and not very hard 
to read the entire speech. The whole 
theory of the cryptogram is that each 
correspondent possesses the ke3r to the 
secret To confound an outside in- 
quirer the key is often varied. A good 
C' a is to take a line from any ordinary 
k and substitute the first twenty- 
six of its letters for those of the alpha- 
bet In your next cryptogram you 
take the letters from another page or 
another book. It is not necessary to 
give an example. Enough will be 
seen from what we have written to 
instruct an intelligent inquirer. 

60. DECAPITATIOirS AlTD CUB- 
TAmiEKTS are riddles somewhat of 
the nature of the Logo^ph, which 
see. In the firsts the omission of the 
successive initials produces new words, 
as — Prelate, Relate, Elate, Late, Ate. 
In the curtailment the last letter of 
the word is taken away with a similar 
result as, — Patent, Paten, Pate, 
Pat, Pa. Of like kind are the riddles 
known as variations, mutilations, 
reverses, and counterchanges. A good 
example of the last-named is this : — 

*' Charge, Chester, Charge : on, Stanley, 
on, 
Were the last words of Mairolon. 
Had I but been in Stanley's place, 
When Harmion urged him to the 

chase, 
A tear might come on every fkce." 
The answer is onion — On, I on. 

61. EBIOMAS are compositions of 
a different character, based Upon 
ideas^ rather than upon words, and 
frequently constructed so as to mis- 
lead, and to surprise when the solution 
is made known. Enigmas may be 
founded upon simple catches, like 
Conundrums, in which form they are 
usually called Riddles such as— 

•' Though yon set me on foot, 
I shall be on my heed." 
The answer is, A nail in a shoe. The 
celebrated Enigma,on the letter H, by 
Miss Catherine Fanshawe, but usually 
attributed to Lord Byron, commenc- 
ing:— 



*' 'Twas whispered in heaven, 't#as mut- 
tered in hell. 
And echo canght fidntly the sound as it 
fell;- 
and given in full elsewhere in this 
volume, is an admirable specimen of 
what may be rendered in the form of 
an Enigma. 

62. HIDDEN WOBDa— A riddle 
in which names of towns, persons, 
rivers, &c., are hidden or arranged, 
without transposition, in the midst of 
sentences which convey no suAsestion 
of their presence. In the following 
sentence, for instance, there are hid- 
den six Christian names: — Here is 
hid a name the people of Pisa acknow- 
ledge : work at each word, for there 
are worse things than to give the last 
shilling for bottled wine. — The names 
are Ida, Isaac, Kate, Seth, Ethel, 
Edwin. Great varieties of riddles, 
known as Buried Cities, Hidden 
Towns, &c., are formed on this princi- 
ple, the words being sometimes placed 
so as to read backwards, or from right 
to left. The example given will, 
however, sufficiently explain the mode 
of operation. 

68. LIPOGBAII— from Idpo, "I 
leave out,'* and gramma^ a letter — is 
a riddle in which a name or sentence 
is written without its vowels, as 
Thprffthpddngsnthtng,— The proof gI 
the pudmng is in the eating. 
Whnhnorfllst t»— rlfltd, 
Dths bt*-«r rtrt ftn nftay. 
" When honour's lost 'tis a relief to die, 

Death's but a sure retreat from Infemy." 

64. lOOOGBlfH.— This is a riddle 
(logos, a woi-d, and griphosy a riddle) 
in which a word is made to undergo 
several changes. These changes aie 
brought about by the addition, sub- 
traction, omission, or substitution of a 
letter or letters. The following by 
the late Lord Macaulay is an excellent 
example : — 

" Cut off my head, how singular I act ! 
Cut off my tail, and plural I appear. 

Cut off my head and taii^most cniious 
li»ct, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IDLi tOLKS ABB ALWAYS BUST. 



27 



AMioogb my middle's left, there's 

nothing there ! 
What it my head out offt— a soonding 

seal 
What Is my tail cut off?—* flowing 

river! 
Amid their min^^ing depths I flsarless 

play 
Parent of softest sounds, though mute 

for ever I . 

The answer is cod. Cut ofT its head 
and it is od (odd, singular) ; its tail, 
and it is Co., plural, for company ; 
head and tail, and it is o, nothing. 
Its head is a sounding C (sea), its tail 
a flowing D (river Dee), and amid 
their depths the cod may fearless 
play, parent of softest sounds yet 
mute for ever. 

65. METAGBsAJI, a riddle in which 
the change of the initial letter pro- 
duces a series of words of different 
meanings ; from meUiy implying 
change, and gramma^ a letter. 
Thus:— 

I cover your head ; change my head, and 
I set you to sleep; change it again and 
again, and with every ctiange comee a new 
idea.— Cap, Nap, Gap, Sap, Hap, Map, Lap, 
Pap, Rap, Tap. This kind of riddle is also 
known as word-capping. 

66. PAIIirBltOllCS, from the Greek 
palin-dromos, running back again. 
This is a word, sentence, or verse that 
reads the same both forwards and 
biickwards — as, madam, level, reviver; 
live on no evil ; love your treasure 
and treasure your love ; you provoked 
Harry before Harry provoked you ; 
servants respect masters when masters 
respect servants. Numerous examples 
of Palindrome or reciprocal word- 
twistiug exist in Latin and French ; 
but in English it is difficult to get a 
sentence which will be exactly the 
same when read either way. The 
best example is the sentence which, 
referring to the first banishment of 
the Great Napoleon, makes him say, 
as to his power to conquer Europe — 

"Able wi^ f ero I saw JSIH ' 



67. PtfZZLSS vary mnch. One of 
the simplest that we know is this : — 

Take away half of thirteen and let eight 
remain. 

Write XIII on a slate, or on a piece of 
paper— rub out the lower half of the figures, 
and VIII will remain. 

Another. From forty-five take forty-flve 

and let forty-flve remain. To do tliis write 

the figures 1 to 9 consecutively in a line, 

above them write the same figures in reverse 

order 9 to 1, subtract the bottom line fh>m 

the top line and the result as well as tlie 

other two lines will each total 4&— thus 

987654321 s 45 

1234667 89 a 45 

bd4197632 = 45. 

Upon the principle of the square- 
words, riddlers form Diagonals, Dia- 
monds, Pyramids, Crosses, Stars, ke. 
These specimens will show their peca- 
liarities : — 

68. Oblique Puttie. — Malice, eight, 
a polemical meeting, a Scottish river, 
what I write with, a decided negative, 
the capital of Ireland. The initials 
downward name a celebrated musician. 

09. Diftg<«uil^tiil{le.— A direction, 
a singer, a little bird, a lady's rinjr, a 
sharp shaver. Read from left to right 
and right to left, the centrals show two 
favourite novelists. 

The following are the answers to 
these two puzzles, and afford good 
examples of their construction to any 
one who wishes to try his hand at 
their manufacture. 

Obliquk Diaookal. 

REVENGE LABEL 

OCTAVE TENOR 

SYNOD DIVER 

6PET JifeWEL 

INK &A Z OH 

KO 

i 

70. Diamond Pnttle.— The head o^ 
a mouse, what the mouse lives in, the 
county of calves, the city of porcelain, 
a German town, a Transatlantic strearm, 
a roval county, a Yorkshire borongh. 
Eve s temptation, our noor reJutidli, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



28 



SLOW BUT SURE WINS THE RACE. 



myself. Centrals down and across, 
show a wide, wide, long river. 

The constraction of the Diamond 
Puzzle is exhibited in the following 
diagram, which is, at the same time 
the answer to it 

Diamond. 

M 

AIR 

B 8 SB X 

DRESDEN 

GOTTINOBN 

MISSISSIPPI 

BBRKSHIRB 

HALIFAX 

APP L B 

AP B 

I 

71. BEBUSBSformaclass of Enigma 
generally formed by the first, some- 
times the first ana last, letters of 
words, or of transpositions of letters, 
or additions to words. Dr. Johnson, 
however, represents Bebus to be a word 
represented by a picture. And putting 
the Doctor's definition and our own 
explanation together, the reader may 
glean a good ooncej^tion of the nature 
of the i^bus of which the following is 
an example : — 

The tether of the Greoimn Jove ; 

A liUle boy who's blind ; 
The foremost land in all the world ; 

The mother of mankind ; 
A poet whose love-sonnets are 

Still very much admired ;— 
The initial letters will declare 

A blessing to the tired. 

Answer— Aitam ; 'love; Aigland; .Vve; 
Plutarch. The initials form iltep. 

The excellent little work mentioned 
on page 21, entitled Phihac^hy and 
Mirth United by Pen and Pencil, has 
this novelty, that many of the Enig- 
mas are accompanied by enigmatical 
pictures, so that the eye is puzzled as 
well as the ear. 

72. SQUASE WORDS. —A compar- 
atively modem sort of riddle, in which 
the letters of each word selected read 
both across and down. With four 



letters the making of the riddle is 
easy, but with five or six ^e difficulty 
increases. We give an example of 
each. 

i. Inside, a thought, a liquid gem, 
a timid creature. 

ii To run out, odour, to boil, to 
loosen, unseen essence. 

iii Compensations, a court favour- 
ite, to assist, to bite slightly, Spanish 
money, sarcasms. 

1. ii. 

PITH ISSUB 

IDBA 8CBNT 

TBAR SBETH 

HARB UK TIB 

BTHBR 

iii. 

AMENDS 

MI N I ON 

B N A B LB 

N I B B L B 

DOLLAR 

8 N E B R 8 

With seven or eight letters the 
riddle becomes exceedingly difficult, 
especially if the selected words are of 
like character and syllables. 

78. CAPPIHa LIKE8. — In this 
game the com pan v sit round the 
room, and one is selected as Head of 
the class, and reads or speaks a line 
of poetry. He or she then cliallenges 
the next player to give the following 
line, and the name of the author. If 
he cannot do either he pays two for- 
feits ; but if he can cap the line or 
give the author's name, he only pays 
one, goes to the top of the class, and 
is exempted from all forfeits for the 
rest of the round. He then in his 
turn gives a line and so on through the 
game. 

Example: — (First player) "The 
way was long, the wind was cold '* 

(Second player) "The minstrel 
was infirm and old (Scott).*' 

74. THE "EYES'' OAXE.— 
The curtains having been drawn 
all close, the pl&yers except one go 
behind them. Those benind the 
curtains choose one of their number 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



trSB WEALTH OENXBOVSLT. 



29 



who looks between the cartains, show- 
ing only his eyes. The player who is 
left in toe room has to gness who it is. 
If he is wrong he has to ^y a forfeit. 
If right, he may go behind the car- 
tain, and the one detected has to 
guess. 

75. CHS8S. LAWS OF.— The 
rules given below are those which are 
now universally accepted by English 
players.^ 

i The board is to be so placed as 
to leave a white square at tne right 
hand of the player. 

ii Any mistake in placing the 
board or the men may be rectified 
before the fourth move is completed, 
but not after. 

iii. The players draw lots for the 
first move, and take the move alter- 
nately. 

[When odds are given, the player giving 
them moves first. White generally moves 
flnL It Is nsoal to play with the white 
and black men alternately.] 

It. The piece touched must be 
moved. Wnen the fingers of the 
player have once left the piece, it can- 
not be af;ain removed from the square 
it occupies. 

(Bzcept the move be illegal, when the 
opponent can insist on the piece being 
moved in the proper manner, or fbr the 
player's King to be moved instead.] 

T. In touching a piece simply to 
adjust it, the player must notify to 
his adversary that such is his inten- 
tion. 

Ti If a player take one of his own 
men by mistake, or touch a wrong 
man, or one of his opponent's men, or 
make an illeaal move, his adversary 
may compel him either to take the 
man, make the right move, move his 
King, or replace the piece, and make 
a leeal move. 

▼ii. A pawn may be played either 



* The Book (^ Chtu, bv O. H. Selkirk, 5*, 
Honlaton ft Sons, London, with numerous 
examples and dla^ams, will be fbnnd a most 
nsefhl guide to the ntndy of the game. 



one or two squares at a time when fiirst 
moved. 

[In the latter case it is liable to be taken 
en poitmU, i.e. with a pawn that conld 
have taken it had it been played only one 
square.] 

▼iii A player cannot castle under 
any of the following circumstancos : — 
1. If he has moved either King or 
Rook. 2. If the King be in check. 
S. If there be any piece between the 
King and the Rook. 4. If the King, 
in moving, pass over an^ square com- 
manded by any one of his adversary's 
forces. 

iz. If a player give a check without 
crying "check," the adversary need 
not tflJce notice of the check. But if 
two moves only are made before the 
discovery of the mistake, the pieces 
may be replaced, and the game pro« 
perly played. 

X. If a player say check without 
actually attackin|[ the King, and his 
adversary move his King or take the 
piece, the latter may elect either to let 
the move stand or have the pieces 
replaced and another move made. 

xL If, at the end of a game, the 
placers remain, one with a superior to 
an inferior force, or even if they have 
equal forces, the defending player may 
call upon his adversary to mate in 
fifty moves on each side, or draw the 
game. 

[If one player penist in giving perpetual 
check, or repeating the same move, his 
opponent may count the moves for the 
draw.] 

xU. Either stalemate, or perpetual 
check constitute a drawn game. 

xiiL Directly a pawn reaches its 
eighth square it must be exchanged for 
a piece. 

[It is usual to change the pawn fbr a 
Queen, but it may be raplaced by a Rook, 
Bishop, or Knight, without refarence to the 
pieces already on the board. In practice it 
would be dumged for a Queen or a Knight, 
seeing that the Queen's moves include those 
of the Book and Bishop. Thus you may 
have two or more Queens, three or more 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



so 



OBSERVATION IS THK 3|WT TULkOEXR. 



Rooks, Bishops, or Knights on the boArd »t 
the end of the game.) 

76. DBATOHTS, VUJM OF W^ 
OAXE. — The accepted laws for regu- 
lating the game are as follow : — 

i. The board is to be so placed as to 
have the black doable corners at the 
right hand of the player. 

ii. The first move is taken by 
agreement, aud in all -the subsequent 
games of the same sitting, the first 
move is taken alternately. 

ill. The man touched must be 
moved, but the men may be properly 
adjusted during any part of the game. 
After they are so placed, if either 
player, when it is his turn to play, 
touch a man he must move it or 
forfeit the game. 

iv. It 18 optional with the player 
either to allow his opponent to stand 
the huflt or to compel him to take the 
ofiered piece or let the piece remain on 
the board. 

["Standing the huff" is when a player 
reAiseB to take an offered piece, but either 
intentionally or accidentally makes another 
move. His adversary then removes the man 
that should have taken the piece, and 
makes his own move— huff and move, as it 
is called.] 

T. Five minutes is the longest time 
allowed to consider a move, which if 
not made within that time, forfeits 
the game, and where there is only one 
way of taking om or more pieces, one 
minute only is allowed, or the gdme 
is forfeited. 

vL 1 1 is compulsory upon the player 
to take all the pieces he can legally 
take by the same series of moves. On 
making a King, however, the latter 
remains on his square till a move has 
been made on the other side. 

vii. A false move must be remedied 
as soon as it is discovered, or the 
maker of such move loses the 
game. 

viii. When only a small number of 
men remain toward the end of the 
game, the possessor of the lesser num- 
ber may call on his opponent to win 



in at least fifty moves, or declare the 
game drawn. With two Kings to one, 
the game must be won in at most 
twenty moves on each side. 

77. HAI.KA{OBHOPPmr).— This 

game is played by either two or four 
players, upon a special board contain- 
ing 256 squares, or it may be played 
by one person A la solitaire. 

L The board is so marked that in 
each comer there is a "goal or yard " 
of thirteen 8(juares bounded by a black 
or coloured line. The thirteen square 
goals are used when four persons play. 
In two of the comers, however,*^ six 
extra squares are marked off by a 
thicker line, and these nineteen square 
goals are used when only two persons 
play. 

ii Place the board in position with 
a nineteen -square goal at the left hand 
of each player. Each player selects 
his colour and fills his nineteen squares 
with his own men. 

iii. The object of each playex is to 
get all his nineteen men into his oppo- 
nent's goal, and the one who does so 
first wins the game. 

if. Each player steps or hops one of 
his pieces, in turn. A step means 
shoving or pushing a piece into any 
adjoining square which is vacant, 
either forward, backward, sideways, 
or any way (but only one square at a 
time). 

▼. A hop means jumping over one 
or a series of men (like leapfrog), 
but not more than one man can De 
jumped over at a time, and each man 
jumped over must necessarily have a 
vacant square behind it to jump into. 
The move is much the same as in 
draughts, but there is no ** taking ' of 
pieces, and a hop may be made back- 
wards, or in anv direction the player 
chooses. The nop, also, may mean a 
series, right across the board even, 
until there is no piece in an adjoining 
square to hop over — when the jump 
ends. 

▼L A player may hop over either 
his own or hi^ opponent's pieces at hU 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GOVKBK WEALTH DiSCEXETLY. 



SI 



discretion, «od then hop again in any 
direction, as often and as far as he 
finds opportunity: bnt he must not 
move in the same way as a knight does 
in Chess. 

77*. HALXA FOB FOTHt PLAT- 
"EBB. — As we have before stated, the 
board in this case is placed with a 
thirteen-square goal on the left of each 
player. 

L Each player may play for himself, 
when the game is virtually the same 
as with two players. 

iL Two opDosite players may be 
partners, in which case the object of 
the game is reversed, as they tiy to 
assist each other across the Ixiud, 
instead of blocking the way. 

78. VKVZJUtt^-^Tlna very popular 
game is plaved on an ordinarv chess 
or draugnt Doard, with sixty-four re- 
versible pieces or counters (usually 
Ted on one side and black on the 
other). 

i Each player takes thirty-two of 
the counters, one placing his with the 
rod side uppermost, and the other the 
black side. 

ii. The first player places a counter 
on one of the centre squares. The 
other player then places one of his, 
and so on until the four centre squares 
are filled up. 

iiL The object of the game is to 
capture and keep as many of your 
opponent's men as you can by revers- 
ing them. The centre sauares being 
filled up, the next player places a piece 
on one of the squares adjoining one of 
his opponent's pieces, thus enclosing 
it between two of his own colour. He 
is then entitled to reverse and claim 
the piece as his own. A player may 
capture all his opponent's pieces that 
happen to lie in a continuous and 
unbroken line (either straight or 
diagonally) between two of his own. 

iv. At every move at least one piece 
must be taken, and unless this is done 
the player loses his turn, and his oppo- 
nent {)rooeed8 to play the pieces as long 
as he is so situated. ' 



T. A piece once placed on the board 
must not be moved from its particular 
square, but it can be reversed by either 
pkyer as often as occasion presents 
Itself. 

yi The player who succeeds in 
blocking his opponent, or who, when 
the whole sixty-four so uares have been 
covered with pieces, nas the greater 
number of his colour on the board 
wins the game. It mav happen that 
the game is finished before all the 
squares are occupied. 

vii If a player omits to reverse all 
the pieces which he is entitled to 
reverse, he must correct the omission 
if his opponent calls his attention to 
it. 

CAB9 BAMSB, 

79. W^fST. — (Upon the principle 
of Hoyle's games.) — Great silence and 
attention snonld be observed by the 
players. Four persons cut for part- 
ners ; the two highest are against the 
two lowest. The partners sit opposite 
to each other, ana he who cuts the 
lowest card is entitled to the deal. 
The ace is the lowest in cutting. 

i Shofflinff. — Each person has a 
right to shuffle the cards before the 
deal ; but it is usual for the elder hand 
only ; and the dealer after. 

ii. Dealing. — The pack is then cut 
by the right-hand adversary ; and the 
dealer distributes the cards, one by 
one, to each of the players, beginning 
with the player on his left, until he 
comes to the last card, which he turns 
up for trump, and leaves on the table 
till the first trick be played. 

[NoTB.— A better plan than turning np the 
last card and thus exposing one of the 
dealer's hand, is to determine the trump by 
cutting before commencing each deaL] 

iii First Play.— The eldest hand, 
the player on the left of the dealer, 
plays first. The winner of the trick 
plays again ; and so on till all the cards 
are played out 

It. MipttikM. — No intimations or 
signs are permitted between the part- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



82 



LOOK TWIOS IRB YOIT DSTERMINI ONOB. 



ners. The mistake of one party is the 
profit of the adversary. 

▼. CoUeoting Trieks.— The tricks 
belonging to each nlayer should be 
tumea and collected by one of the 
partners only. All above six tricks 
reckon towaras game. 

▼i Honours.— The ace, king, queen, 
and knave of trumps are callea 
honours ; and when either of the 
partners hold three separately, or 
between them, they count two points 
towards the game; and in case they 
have four honours, they count four 
points. 

viL Oame. — Long IVhist game con- 
sista of ten points, Short Whist of five 
points, 

80. TBSM8 trSSB IK WHIST. 

L Finessing is the attempt to gain 
an advantage ; thus : — If you have 
the best and third best card of the 
suit led, you put on the third best, 
and run [the nsk of your adversary 
havinff the second best ; if he has it 
not, which is two to one against him, 
you are then certain of gaimng a trick. 

ii Forcing is playing the suit of 
which your partner or adversary has 
not any, and which in order to win he 
must trump. 

iiL Long Trump, the one or more 
trumps in your hand when all the rest 
are out 

iv. Loose Card, a card of no value, 
and the most proper to throw away. 

▼. Points, — Ten make the game ; 
as many as are gained by tricks or 
honours, so many points are set up to 
the score of the game. 

▼i. Quarte, four successive cards in 
suit 

vii Quarte Afafor, a sequence of 
ace, king, queen, and knave. 

▼iiL Quint, five successive cards 
in suit 

iz. Quint Major is a sequence of 
ace, king, queen, knave, and ten. 

X. Ruffing, — Trumping a suit other 
than trumps. 

zi. See'Saw is when each partner 
trumps a suit, and when they play 



those suits to each other for that 
purpose. 

zii. Score is the number of points 
set up. The followins is a good 
method of scoring with coins or 
counters : — 



1 2 



6 



4 5 

0; 

00 000 000 000 000 

7 8 9 

000 000 000 



For Short Whist there are regular 
markers. 

ziii Slam is when either side win 
every trick. 

ziv. Tenace is possessing the first 
and third best canls, .'and being the 
last player ; you consequently catch 
the adversary when that suit is played : 
as, for instance, in case you have ace 
and queen of any suit, and your adver- 
sary leads that suit, you must win 
two tricks, by having the best and 
third best of the suit played, and being 
^e last player. 

XT. Tierce, three successive cards 
in suit 

xvL Tierce Major, a sequence of ace, 
king, and queen. 

81. MAXnU FOB WHIST. 

i. Lead from your strong suit, be 
cautious how you change suits, and 
keep a commanding card to bring it in 
agam. 

it Lead through the strong suit and 
up to the weak ; but not in trumps '^ 
unless verv strong in them. 

iii. Lead the highest of a sequence ;: 
but if you have a quarte or qumt to a 
king, lead the lowest. 

iv. Lead through an honour, parti- 
cularly if the game is against you. 

▼. Lead your best trump if the* 
adversaries be eight, and you have no 
honour ; but not if you have four 
trumps, unless you have a sequence. 

vi Lead a trump if you have four 
or five of a strong hand ; but not if 
weak. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OHILD&BN AND OHIOKXNS MUST ALWAYS BE PIOKINO. 



88 



▼ii. Having ace, king, and two or 
three small cards, lead ace and king 
if weak in tramps, but a small one u 
strong in them. 

Yiii. If you have the last trump, 
with some winning cards, and one 
losing card only, lead the losing 
card. 

ix. Return your partner's lead, not 
the adversaries* ; and if you hold only 
three originally, play the best ; but 
you need not return it immediately, 
when you win with a king, queen, or 
knave, and have only small ones, or 
when you hold a good sequence, a 
strongsuit, or five trumps. 

X. Do not lead from ace queen, or 
ace knave. 

zi Do not — as a rale— lead an ace, 
unless you have a king. 

xiL Do not lead a thirteenth card, 
unless tramps be out 
I Till. Do not tramp a thirteenth 
card, unless you be last player, or 
want the lead. 

xiv. Keep a small card to retura 
your partner's lead. 

ZT. Be cautious in tramping a card 
when strong in tramps, particularly 
if you have a strong suit 

xvi. Having only a few small 
trumps, make them when you can. 

xyU. If your partner refuse to 
trump a suit, of which he knows you 
have not the best, 4ead your bcot 
trump. 

ZYilL When you hold all the re- 
maming tramps, play one, and then 
try to put the lead in your partner's 
hand. 

ziz. Remember how many of each 
suit are out, and what is the best card 
left in each hand. 

XX. Never force your partner if 
you are weak in tramps, unless you 
have a renounce, or want the odd 
trick. 

xxi. When playing for the odd 
trick, be cautious of trumping out, 
especially if your partner be likely to 
tramp a suit. 

xxii. If you take a trick, and have 
a sequence, win it with the lowest 



82. LAWS OF WHIST, as accept- 
ed at the best Clubs. 

i The deal is determined by cut- 
ting-in. Cutting-in and cutting-out 
must be by pairs. 

[Less than three cards, above or below, is 
not a cat Ace is lowest Ties out igain. 
Lowest deals. Bach player maj shnflle, the 
dealer last The right-hand adversary cuts 
to dealer.] 

ii If a card be exposed, a fresh 
deal may be demanded. 

iU. Dealer must not look at bottom 
card ; and the tramp-card must be 
left, face upwards, on the table till 
the first tricK be turaed, or opponents 
may call a fresh deal. 

iv. Too many or too few cards is a 
misdeal — an exposed or face card. In 
either case, a &esh deal may be de- 
manded. 

[In cases of a misdeal, the deal passes to 
the next player.] 

v: After the first round has been 
played, no fresh deal can be called. 

[If the first player hold fewer than thir- 
teen cards, the other hands being right, the 
deal stands.] 

▼L If two cards be dealt to the same 
player, the dealer may rectify his 
error before dealing another card. 

[The dealer mnst not touch the cards after 
they have left his hand ; bat he may ooant 
those remaining in the pack if he suspect a 
misdeal, or he may ask the players to coant 
their cards. One partner may not deal for 
another without the consent of opponents.] 

Til. If the tramp-card be not taken 
into the dealer's hand at the expiration 
of the first round, it may be treated as 
an exposed card, and called. 

[After this, no one has a right to aak what 
was the trnmp-oard, bat he may ask '* What 
are Trumps ?"] 

▼iii If the third hand play before 
the second, the fourth has a ri^ht to 
play before his partner ; or if the 
fourth hand play before the second, 
or third, the csirds so played must 
stand, and the second be compelled to 
win the trick if he can. 

o 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ti 



tHXBE kRt Koirt do wicitxi> AS ni^ttAsttrrtD. 



iz. If a plftjer lead ont of his turn, 
or otherwise expose a card, that card 
may be called, if the playing of it 
does not cause a revoke. 

[Calling a card is the insisting on its being 
playM whon Uie suit eomes round, or when 
it may be played.] 

X. If a player trump by mistake, 
he may recall his card, and play to 
the suit, if the card be not covered ; 
but he may be compelled to play the 
highest or lowest of the suit led, and 
to play the exposed trump when it is 
called by his adversaries. 

Ki If, before a triok be turned, a 
player discover that he has not fol- 
lowed suit, he may recall his card ; 
but the card played in error can be 
called when the suit is played. 

xii Before a trick is turned, the 
player who made it may see the pre- 
ceding thck. 

[Only one trick is to be shown ; not more, 
as is sometimes erroneously helieved.] 

xiii Before he plays, a player maj 
require his partner to "draw hia 
card," or he may have esjch card in 
the trick claimed before the trick be 
turned. 

xiv. When a player does not follow 
suit his partner is allowed to ask him 
whether ne has any card of the suit led. 

XV. The penalty for a revoke— 
eitlier by wrongfully trumping the 
suit led, or by plajlng a card of 
another suit— is the loss of three 
tricks ; but no revoke can be claimed 
till the cards are abandoned, and the 
trick turned. 

[Revokes forfeit three toicks ftom the 
hand or score, or opponents may add three 
to their score ; partner may ask and correct 
a trick if not turned ; the revoking side 
cannot score out in that deal.] 

xvi No revoke can be claimed after 
the tricks are gathered up, or after 
the cards are cut for the next deal. 

[The wilful mixing up of the cards in such 
case loses the game.] 

xtU. The proof of a revoke lies 
^th the claimants, who may examine 



each trick on the completion of the 
round. 

XTiii. If a revoke occur on both 
sides, there must be a new deaL 

xix. Honours cannot be counted 
unless they are claimed previous to 
the next deal. 

[So omission to score honours can be 
rectified after the cards are packed ; but an 
overscore, if proved, must de deducted.] 

XX. Honours can only be called at 
eij^ht points (in Long whist), and at 
nme they do not count. 

[In some aubs, eight, with the deal, 
cannot call against nine.] 

83. 8H0BT WHIST is the above 
game cut in half. Honours are not 
called at any part of the game ; but, 
as in Long A\ hist, they are counted 
by their holders and scored — except 
at the score of four. All the maxima 
and Rules belonging to the parent 
game apply to Short Whist. 

84. POIKTS AT SHOET WHIST.— 

The Game consists of Five Points. 
One for a Single— 6 to 8 or 4 ; Two 
for a Double— 6 to 1 or 2 ; Three for 
a Triple— 5 to love. A Rubber— two 
Games successively won, or the two 
best Games out of three— counts for 
Two Points. Thus, if the first Game 
be won by 5 to 4, the Points are 1 to 
love ; the second Game won by the 
opposite side by 5 to 1, the Pointa 
are then 1 to 2 ; the third Game won 
by tiie side which won the first, by 6 
to love. The Points are then 6 to 2 
—a balance of 4. This is arrived at 
thus : the Single in the first Game, 
1 ; the Triple in the third Game, 3 ; 
the Rubber (two Games of three), 2 ; 
together, 6. From this deduct 2, for 
the Double gained by the opponents 
in the second Game, which leaves 4, 
as above. 

85. SOLO-WHIST.— This game is 
played by two, three, or four persons 
with an ordinary pack of fifty-two 
cards. When five persons wish to 
play, the one on tne ri^t of th« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



KOKZ ABB SO GOOD AS TfiEY SHOtTLD BS. 



35 



dealer neither joins in the current 
round nor pays any stakes. Pools or 
Kitties should not be formed when 
there are five players. The regular 
and best game is with four players. 

The deal, as in Whist, is taken by 
the players in rotation, and is decided 
by tne lowest of the four cards turned 
up. (In cutting for deal the ace is 
lowest, and the king is highest. ) The 
cards are dealt three at a time to each 
player in rotation, beginning with the 
Tverson at the dealer's left. When 
forty-eight eards have been dealt, 
twelve to each player, the remaining 
four are dealt singly, the last being 
tamed up to indicate the trump suit. 
' A better plan, however, in to cut 
the trump suit from another pack 
instead or turning up and exposing 
the last card, and this is recommended, 
as it not unfrequently occurs that an 
exposed card spoils a Mis&re declare, 
e, g. if an ace or king be exposed in an 
otherwise perfect Mis^re hand it be- 
comes a dangerous card to the holder 
and may prevent a call ; if not exposed 
he may have a chance to discard. 

86. OBJECTS nr SOLO WHIST.— 

Every game is played Mdth a specific 
object in view, that object being 
declared beforehand. This is known 
as a * * Call " or " Declaration. " There 
are six objects or calls in Solo- Whist, 
each of them having a different scope 
and value. They are as follows — 

i. Proposition {or Proposal) and 
Acceptance, where two players in 
partnership essav to make eight or more 
tricks between them against the others. 
The first caller, the player on the 
dealer's left, may accept a proposition 
after having originally passed, as he 
would otherwise be debarred the 
chance of accepting ; but in all other 
instances a player who has once passed 
cannot acoept or make any other 
declaration. 

iL Solo, The making of not less 
than five tricks by a player out of his 
own hand, against the other three 
players. 



iii Mislre, The attempt by the 
caller to lose all thirteen triolcs, the 
other players tmng to force him to 
win a trick. (There are no trumps 
in a misire.) 

iv. Mis^re owcerte. This is the same 
as ordinary mis^re with this differ- 
ence, that after the first trick has been 
played the caller exposes his remain- 
ing cards on the table. 

V. Abondance, Where the player 
declaring endeavours to make not less 
than nine tricks against the other 
three players. The person playing 
the abondance selects any suit ho 
pleases for trumps, but does not 
announce such selection until it ap- 
pears evident that no other player 
can announce a superior calf, the 
trump suit then bein^ named. An 
abonoance with the onginal turn-up 
suit declared as trumps, takes prece- 
dence of an abondance in another suit. 

vi Abondance deelange. The high- 
est call at Solo, the caller having to 
make all thirteen tricks. There are 
no trumps, each suit being of equal 
value, and the caller, no matter where 
he sits, always leads out first ; as the 
leader cannot make overtricks he is 
not liable to pay for undertricks should 
he fail, but is only liable for the 
stakes, the game being ended directly 
he loses a &ck. 

87. SOLO-WmST — XODE Ot 
PLAT. — Every round at Solo is com- 
plete in itself and is played to attain 
one of these six objects, and there is 
no scoring. Honours are not counted 
as at ordinary Whist, and court cards 
in trumps are nsefol only for the 
tricks they make. 

The players having examined their 
cards, the eldast hand (the player on 
the dealer's left) declares first If he 
holds a superlative hand and sees a 
likelihood of winning all the tricks, 
he declares abondance declare, and 
cannot be stopped by any player who 
has subsequently to declare. 

If he has an exceptionally bad hand 
consisting almost entirely of small 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 



NIGHT IS NOT DARK TO THB GOOD. 



cards he declares Mish-e ouverU, the 
next highest call. Should he have a 
▼ery strong hand in trumps, and 
thinks he can win nine tricks, he 
goes Abondanee, It is rarely, how- 
ever, that a player gets a sufficiently 
strong hand to make nine tricks, much 
less thirteen, or a sufficiently weak 
hand to nuike Mistre ouverte. He 
then has four courses open to him. 
If he has a bad hand, he may declare 
a mish-e, or he mav refuse to declare 
(saying *'I pass '). If he has a 
pretty strong hand, he may either 
declare Solo, or he may make a 
PmoBition, 

The eldest hand having declared, 
the second makes his declaration, and 
then the third and fourth. A propos- 
ing hand not finding an acceptor, can 
alter his call to one of the superior 
calls, viz, solo, mis^re, or abondanee ; 
and any caller, who has not passed, 
even if he be only an acceptor, if 
overcalled, can make any higher de- 
claration he chooses. 

If all the hands pass the deal is 
void, the cards are thrown in and re- 
dealt by the next dealer, each player 
contributing a certain sum (generally 
half or a quarter the proposed stake), 
and the first player wno makes a 
successftil independent call (a call 
other than a proposition and accept- 
ance) takes the pool, or if unsuccess- 
ful doubles it 

Frequently instead of throwing up 
the hands, a "general" or ''general 
mis^re" is played, the hand being 
played in the usual way and the player 
talung the last trick having to pay 
an amount agreed on (half the pro- 
posed stake, as a rule) to each of his 
opponents. There are no trumps in 
a "general." 

It is usual to pay double price for 
overtricks (but not double for the 
stake) when the declaring side makes 
a " slam " of all thirteen tricks. 

There is no penalty for a misdeal, 
the cards being simply re-dealt by the 
same player. 

If, on an independent call being 



niade, any placer make a remark 
directly or mdirectly conveying an 
intimation as to the state of the 
hands, the caller may demand that 
the offender pay the stakes to the 
side that wins, or he can throw up 
his hand and claim a re-deal. 

A player revoking forfeits for every 
revoke three tricks, which are de- 
ducted from the score of his own side 
and added to that of his opponents : 
when both sides revoke, the whole 
deal is invalidated and neither side 
can win. 

Stakes. — ^There is no. scoring, and 
the stakes are generally agreed on 
beforehand and paid immediately ; but 
a proportionate scale should be estab- 
lisnea between the calls and over- 
tricks. The following is an example 
of what is known as a one, two, three 
shilling, and threepenny overtrick 

re (the shillings for the stakes and 
threepences for the over or under- ' 
tricks). £ach adversary would have 
to pay to, or receive from propositions 
or solos, l5. each for the stake, and 3d, 
each for every under or overtrick. 
Thu^ if the proposer and accepter 
made eight tncks they would each 
receive I5. for the stake, and M. for 
every trick they made over eight; 
but if they did not make eight, they 
would have to pay 1«. each, and Zd. 
for each trick under eight ; and so 
with a Solo, 

The abondanee is on the same lines ; 
but in misdre, misire ouverte, and 
dbondance dedarie, the stakes only 
are paid, there being no over or 
undertricks. The most popular 
arrangement is that of the sixpenny 
and penny game : sixpence for solos 
tfnd proposals, ninepence for abon- 
danee, one shilling for miahree, and 
penny overtricks. 

88. 80L0-WHI8T FOB THBEB 

PLAYERS.— There are two methods 
of playing solo with three players 
The first and more preferable way is 
by taking out the twos, threes, and 
fours ; the turn-up card only being 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



NOR 18 DAY BRIGHT TO THE WIOKBD. 



87 



used to denote trumps. The other 
system is to discard one entire suit, 
and play the remaining three. In 
this case there is no odd card, the 
tom-up being the dealer's. 

In the three players' game there 
are no proposals and acceptances, and 
the lowest call is a solo of six tricks. 
As there is very frequently a general 
'*nas8/' it is usual to call solos in 
"flying colours" {see the Kimberley 
Game), the second solo being one of 
six tricks. 

89. SOLO WHIST FOB TWO 
PLAYERS. — Here, again, the pack 
consiBts of forty cards, the twos, threes, 
and fours being eliminated, and the 
turn-up card not being used except to 
denote the trump suit. Deal the 
cards into three lots, the one to 
the dealer*s left being used as a 
dummy, and not looked at until a call 
is decided on. It is then opened, 
sorted out, and exposed on the table 
to ihe left of the caUer, The caller's 
opponent then plays dummy's cards 
with his own against the declaration. 
The hand to the dealer's left (whether 
dummy or caller) inyariably having 
first lead. 

The lowest call is a solo of five 
^cks ; the order being solo, abon- 
dance, mis^re, and aTOndance de- 
clare. 

Abondance is double the price of 
solo ; misfere three times the price of 
solo ; and abondance declaree four 
times the price of solo. 

There is necessarily no misire 
ouverte, the ordinary misire being 
more exposed than in any other 
variation of the game (for not only are 
the caller's cards^own, but also those 
of his adversaries). This game also is 
played with ** ilying colours," solo in 
the second suit boing of five tricks. 

90. SOLO-WHIST. THE KIX- 
BEBLET OAXS.— This game (so 
oJled from the place whence it ori- 
ginated, we presume) is Solo- Whist 
without propositions and acceptances. 
A solo is therefore the lowest call, and 



if all the players pass, a pool is formed, 
the first person' making a successful 
call taking it, or douUing it if un- 
successful. 

The Kimberley Game is played with 
"flying colours,^' that is to say, when 
every one passes a second chance of 
calling is j^ven to them in regular 
rotation. This second call must be 
a solo of six tricks, the caller select- 
ing and naming his own trump suit, 
but it must not be the originiu suit. 
A solo only can be called in "flying 
colours," and the over or undertricks 
are counted from six, 

91. SCOTCH WHIST, OB CATCH 

THE TEH.— This may be played by 
any number of persons, from two to 
eight, with a pack of thirty-six cards 
(the twos, threes, fours, and fives 
being taken out). 

L The cards are all dealt round one 
at a time, the last one being turned up 
as the trump. Each player must have 
an equal number of carcb ; therefore if 
there are five or seven players one 
of the sixes is also taken out ; if there 
are eight players the game must be 
played with the piquet pack of thirty- 
two cards (all below seven being taken 
out). 

ii If there are two, three, five, 
or seven players, each plays on his 
own account; four play in partner- 
ship as in Whist ; six may play either 
in three couples, or three against 
three ; ei^ht may play four against 
four ; or in four partnerships. The 
partners and their adversaries sit 
alternately as in Whist. If only two 
play, the cards are dealt so as to give 
three separate hands to each player, 
the hands being played indepenaently. 
If there are three players, tioo hands 
are given to each of them. 

iU. Should the dealer (1) omit to 
have the cards cut before dealing, (2) 
expose any of his opponent's cards 
(unless already exposeu in the pack), 
or (3) give too many or too few cards 
to a player, it is a misdeal and the 
deal goes to the next player. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



88 



BU8TLS 18 NOT INDUSTRY^ 



iy. The cards rank as in Whist, 
except in tnimps, when the Knave is 
the highest card, the order then being 
knave, ace, king, queen, ten, nine, 
eight, seven, six. 

V. The game u forty-one up, and 
the object of the play is to win tricks 
containing those cards which are of 
special value in scoring as follow :-— 
The Knave of trumps counts 11 points. 
The Ten „ „ 10 „ 

The Ace „ „ 4 „ 

The King „ „ 8 „ 

The Queen „ „ 2 „ 

The players also score for *' cards," 
that is to sf^, for all the cards obtained 
over their proportionate number of the 
pack. For example, if there were 
four players, their allowance would be 
nine cards each. If the players on 
one side should win seven tricks (t. e. 
twenty-eight cards) they would be ten 
in excess of their allowance, and 
would be entitled to score ten for 
"cards." 

vi Speaking generally, the play 
follows the rules of Whist ; but the 
special object is to "catch," or 
*'save," the ten, as it makes a differ- 
ence of twenty to one's score. The 
knave is even a better card, but as it 
is the highest trump, it of course 
remains with the side that received it 
when dealt 

02. PBOOSESSIVS WHIST. — 

Progressive Whist had its origin in 
America, and was only introduced into 
England in quite recent years. In 
playing this game three or more tables 
(the usual number is six tables) should 
be arranjged, with four players at each 
table. The cards are dealt and played 
as in ordinary whist. The tables 
should be numbered consecutively 
from 1 upward, each table having in 
its centre a card bearing its distinctive 
number. After playing the first deal 
the two winning players "progress" 
to the next taUe — (i. e. from No. 1 
table to No. 2 table, from No. 2 to 
No. 8, No. 3 to No. 4, No. 4 to No. 5, 
^0. 5 to No. 6, No. 6 to No. 1, and 



so on), being careful to change partners 
at each successive table. The same 
method of *' progressing " is followed 
after each deal ; and the game may 
consist of any number of de^s. After 
playing each deal, each player marks 
on his or her scoring card the total 
number of tricks tctken as partners^ 
and at the end of the evening the lady 
and gentleman having the highest 
totals are awarded the prizes of merit, 
while the lady and gentleman having 
the lowest totals receive the consola- 
tion or " booby " prizes. The increas- 
ing popularity of this game is largely 
owing to the opportunities which it 
affords of promoting pleasant inter- 
course among the players. 

98. CBIBBAOE.— This game is 
played with the full pack of cards, 
often by four persons, but it is a better 
game for two. There are also different 
modes of plaving — with five, six, or 
eight cards ; but the best games are 
those with five or six cardu 

04. TUUC8 V8BD DT CBIBBAeB. 

L Crib. — The crib is composed of the 
cards thrown out by each player, and 
the dealer is entitled to score whatever 
points are made by them. 

11. Pairs are two similar cards, as 
two aces or two kings. Whether in 
hand or play they reckon for two 
points. 

iii. Pairs-Eoyal are three similar 
cards, and reckon for six points, 
whether in hand or play. 

iv. Double Pair- Royal are four 
similar cards and reckon for twelve 
points, whether in hand or play. The 
points gained by pairs, pairs-royal and 
double pairs-royal, in plajring, are 
thus effected: — Your adversary having 
played a seven and you another, con- 
stitutes a pair, and entitles you to 
score two points ; your antagonist 
then playing a third seven, makes a 
pair-royal, and he marks six ; and 
your playing a fourth is a double 
pair-royal, and entitles you to twelve 
points, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



KOR IS IMPUDBKOE OOUBAOB. 



80 



V. FifUena, — Every fifteen reckons 
for two points, whether in hand or 
play. In hand they are formed 
either by two or more cards. If in 
play, such cards as together make 
It f teen are played ; the player whose 
card completes that number, scores 
two points. 

yi. Sequences are three, four or more 
SQCcessive cards, and reckon for an 
eqnal nomber of pointn, either in hand 
or play. In playing a sequence, it is 
of no consequence which card is 
thrown down first ; as thus : your 
adversary playing an ace, you a five, 
he a three, you a two, then he a four 
— he counts five for the sequence. 

tU. Ftuih. — When the cards are all 
of one suit, they reckon for as many 
points as there are cards. For a flush 
in the crib, the turned up card must 
be of the same suit as thosa put 
out. 

viii His Nob,— The knave of the 
suit turned up reckons for one point. 

ix. His Heels. — The knave when 
turned up reckons for two points, but 
is only once counted. 

X. The (?o.— The point scored by 
the last player, if he make under 
thirty-one ; if he make thirty-one 
exactly, he marks two. 

zL Last, — Three points taken at 
the commencement of the game of 
five-card cribbage by the non-dealer. 

95. LAWS OF OmiBlAQS. 

i. The players cut for deal. The ace is 
lowest in cutting. In case of a tie 
they cut again. The holder of the 
lowest card deals either five, six or 
eight cards each, as arranged. 

li A cut must consist of not fewer 
than four cards. 

iii Too many or too few cards dealt 
constitutes a misdeal, the penalty for 
which is the taking of two points by 
the non-dealer. 

iv. A faced card, or a card ex- 
posed during the act of dealing 
necessitates a new deal, without 
penalty. 

y, Tt^e dealer shuffles U^ cards and 



the non-dealer outs them for tha 
"start." 

▼i. If the non-dealer touch the 
cards (except to cut them for the turn- 
up) after they have been out for the 
start, he forfeits two points. 

▼11 In cutting for the start, not 
fewer than three cards must be lifted 
from the jwick or left on the table. 

viii The non-dealer throws out for 
the crib before the dealer. A card 
once laid out cannot be recalled, nor 
must either party touch the crib till 
the hand m played out Either 
player confusing the crib cards with 
his band is liable to a penalty of 
three points. 

[In three and ftmr-hand crlbUge the left- 
hand player throws out flrat fbr the crib, 
then the next, the dealer last. The usual 
and best way it for the non-dealer to throw 
his crib over to the dealer's aide of the 
board; on these two oarda the dealer places 
his own, and hands the pack over to be cut. 
The pack is then at the right side oC the 
board for the next deal.] 

iz. The player who takes more 
points than those to which he is 
entitled, .either in play or in reckoning 
hand or crib, is liable to be "pegged ; 
that is, to be put back as many points 
as he has overscored, and have the 
points added to his opponent's side. 

[In pegging yon mutt not remove your 
opponent's /yY>n< peg till you have given him 
another. In order "to take Iiim down," 
you remove your own back peg and place It 
toher* hii front peg ought to he: you then take 
his wrongly plaetd peg and put it in front of 
your own fronts as many holes as he hat 
forfeited by wrongly scoring.] 

X. No penalty attaches to the 
taking of too few points in play, 
hand or crib. 

xi When a player has once taken 
his hand or crib, he cannot amend his 
score. 

xii. When a knave is turned up, 
**two for his heels" must be scored 
before the dealer's own card can be 
played, or they cannot be taken. 

xiij. A player caimot demand th^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



40 



NEVBR OPEN THE DOOK TO A LITTLX VICE, 



aasistauce of his idvenary in reckon- 
ing hand and crib. 

ziv. A player may not, except to 
"peg him/* touch his adversary's 
pegs, under a penalty of two points. 
If the foremost p^ has been dis- 
pbced by accident, it must be placed 
in the hole behind the peg standing 
on the board. 

XV. The pe^ once holed cannot be 
removed by either player till another 
point or points be gained. 

zvi The placer who scores a game 
■8 won when, in fact, it is not won, 
loses it. 

xyIL a Zure/t— scoring the whole 
sixty-one before your aaversary has 
scorod thirty-one— is equivalent to a 
double game, if agreed to previous to 
the commencement of the game. 

zriiL A card that may be legally 
played cannot be withdrawn after it 
has been once thrown face upwards < 
on the table. 

xix. If a player nef^lect to score his 
hand, crib, or any point or points of 
the game, he cannot score them after 
the cards are packed or the next card 
played. 

zx. The player who throws up his 
cards and refuses to score, forfeits the 
game. 

x^ If a player neglect to play 
when he can play a card within the 
prescribed thirty-one, he forfeits two 
holes. 

zxii. Each player's hand and crib 
must be plainly thrown down on the 
table ana not mixed with the pack, 
under penalty of the forfeiture of the 
game. 

The player who refuses to abide by 
the rules loses the game. Bystanders 
must not interfere unless requested to 
decide any disputed point 

Five Card Cribbage is pla>;ed in the 
same way, five cards only being dealt 
to each player, of which they each 
lay out two for crib. 

06. SIX OABD 0BIBBAOS.->In 

this the sixty-one points or holes on 
the cribbage-board mark the game. 



The player cutting the lowest card 
deals ; Mter which, each player lays 
out, face downwards, two of his six 
cards for the crib, which belongs to 
the dealer. The adversary cuts the 
remainder of the pack, and the 
dealer turns up and lays upon the 
crib the uppermost card, which is 
called the turn-up. If it be a knave, 
he marks two points. The card 
turned up is reckoned by both in 
counting their hands or crib. The 
eldest hand then plays a card, which 
the other should endeavour to pair, or 
find one, the pips of which, reckoned 
with the first, will make fifteen ; then 
the non-dealer plays another card, 
and so on alternately, until the pips 
on the cards played make thirty-one 
or the nearest possible number under 
that. (The Court cards count as ten 
each in all games of cribbage.] 

07. oovimire fob oaicx nr 

OBIBBAOS. — When he whose turn 
it is to play cannot produce a card 
that makes thirty-one, or under that 
number, he says, **6o," and his 
antagonist scores one, or plays any 
card or cards he may have that will 
make thirty-one, or under ; if he can 
make exactly thirty-one, he takes two 
points. Such cards as remain after 
this are not played, but each player 
then counts and scores his hand, the 
non-dealer first. The dealer then 
marks the points for his hand, and 
also for his crib, each reckoning the 
cards every way they can possibly be 
varied, and always including the 
tumed-up card. 

Points. 
For every fifteen .... 2 
For a sequence of 8 or 4 CArdi . 8 or 4 
For a pair (two of a kind) ... 2 
For a royal pair (8 of a kind) . 

For a doable pair-royal (4 of a kind) 12 
Knave of tbe iuit tamed np . 1 

For a fluah In hand, that is, cards all of 
one salt, or for a full flash, when the cards 
in hand and the tam-ap are of the same 
suit, 1 for each caxd. 
The highest number that can be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LS8T A OBEAT ONE SHOULD BNTER ALSO. 



41 



counted from five cards is 29 — made 
from four fives and a knave ; that is, 
three fives and a knave of the suit 
tamed u^, and a five on the pack — for 
the combinations of the four fives, 16 ; 
for the double pair-royaL 12 ; his nob, 
1=29. 

ee. 1CAXIM8 FOB LAYDra OUT 
THE OBIB OABDS.— In laying out 
cards for the crib, the player should 
consider not only his own hand, but 
also to whom the' crib belongs, as 
well as the state of the game ; for 
what might be right in one sitoation 
would be wrong in another. Possess- 
ing a pair-royal it is generally advis- 
able to lay out the other cards for crib, 
unless it belong to the adversary. 
Avoid giving him two fives, a deuce 
and a trois, five and six, seven and 
eight, five and any other tenth card, 
when he does not thereby materially 
injure his hand, the player should for 
his own crib lay out close cards in 
hopes of making a sequence ; or two 
of a suit, in expectation of a flush ; or 
cards that of themselves reckoned with 
others will count fifteen. When the 
antagonist be nearly up, it may be 
expedient to keep such cards as may 
prevent him from gaining at play. 
The rule is to baulk your adversary's 
crib by laying out cards cot likely to 

Erove of advantage to him, and to 
ly out favourably for your own crib. 
This applies to a stage of the game 
when it may be of consequence to 
keep in hand cards likely to tell in 
play, or when the non-dealer would 
be either out b^ his hand, or has 
reason for thinlung the crib of little 
moment. A king and a nine is the 
best baulk, as none can form a se- 
quence beyond it; kin^ or queen, 
with an ace, six, seven, eight, or nine 
are good ones to put out. Low cards 
are senerally the most likely to gain 
at play ; the flushes and sequences, 
particularly if the latter be also flushes, 
are eligible hands, as thereby the 
player will often be enabled either to 
assist hia own crib, or baulk that of 



the opponent ; a knave should never 
be put out for his crib, if it can be re- 
tained in hand. 

09. THBEE OB FOTnt-HAKB 
CBIBBAGB ditfers little from the pre- 
ceding. The players put out but one 
card each to the crib, and when tliirty- 
one, or the nearest to that has been 
made, the next eldest hand leads, and 
the players go on again in rotation, 
with the remaining cards, till all are 
played out, before they proceed to show 
nands and crib. For three-handed 
cribbage triangular boards are used. 

100. AUrFOirBS is usually played 
by two persons ; sometimes by four. 
Its name is derived from the four 
chances, called Eight Low, Jack, 
Oame, each making a point It is 
played with a complete pack of cards, 
six of which are to be dealt to each 
player, one at a time ; and the next 
card, the thirteenth, is turned up for 
the trump if there are only two players, 
and the twen^-fifth if there are four. 
If the trump be a knave it belongs to 
the dealer, who scores one for it 

101. scoBiire nr all-foubs. 

L ITigh, — For the highest trump 
out, the holder scores one point 

ii Low, — For the lowest trump 
out, the original holder scores one 
point, even if it be taken by the 
adversary. 

iii Jack, — For the knave of trumps 
the holder scores one. If it be won 
by the adversary, the winner scores 
the point. 

iv. OanUy which also counts one 

point, is scored by the player who can 

reckon the highest number in the 

tricks he has gained, viz. 

For each Ace 4 For each Knave 1 

„ King 8 „ Ten 10 

„ Qiieen 2 

The other cards do not count : thus 
it may happen that a deal may be 
played witnout having any to reckon 
for game. 

Should the eldest hand dislike his 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 



TOU CANNOT BAT TOUR OAKX AND HAYX IT. 



cards, he usee hia privilege, and aava, 
'*/ b&g;" in which case the dealer 
either allows him to score one point, 
saying, ** Take one,** or gives each 
Xjlaver three cards more from the pack, 
and then tarns up the next cara, the 
seventh, for trumps. If, however, 
the trump tamed up be of the same 
suit as the first, tlie dealer must go 
on, ^ving each three cards more, and 
tummg up the seventh, until a change 
of suit for trumps shall take place. 
The cards thus dealt are then played, 
winning tricks, as in Whist, except 
that a player may win a trick either 
by trumping it or by a superior card 
of the same suit. £ach player then 
examines the tricks he has won, and 
scores as above. The player who firet 
scores ten points wins the game. 

102. LAWS 07 ALIrTOUBB. 

i No person can beg more than 
once in each hand, except by mutual 
agreement. 

ii Each player must trump or 
follow suit on penalty of the adversary 
scoiing cue point 

iii. If eitner player score wrongly 
it must be taken down, and the adver- 
sary either scores four points or one, 
as may have been previously agreed. 

iv. When a trump is played, it is 
allowable to ask your adversary if it 
be either high or low. 

V. One card may count all -fours ; 
for example, the eldest hand holds the 
knave and stands his game, the dealer 
has neither trump, ten, ace nor court- 
card ; it will follow that th *5 knave will 
be both High, Low, Jack, and Game. 

108. ICAZIMS POB ALL-POUBB. 

i Make your knave as soon as you 
can. 

ii Secure your tens by playing any 
small cards, by which you may throw 
the lead into your adversary's hand. 

iii Win your adversary's best cards 
when you can, either by trumping or 
with superior cards. 

iv. Ii, being eldest hand, you hold 
^ik^ aoe^ king, or ^aeen of trumps, 



without the knave or ten, play them 
immediately, aa, by this means, you 
may chance to win the knave or ten. 

104. LOO.— When this came is 
played for a determinate stake, as a 
penny for the deal and threepence for 
tlie Loo, it is called Limited Loo, but 
when each Loo must equal the amount 
which happens to be in the pool, it is 
called Uiuimited Loo, 

i Any number of persons can play 
from three, but five or seven make 
the best game. 

ii. The cards take their usual value, 
ace highest ; then king, queen, knave, 
and so on. They are cut for deal in 
the usual manner, the holder of the 
lowest card being dealer ; after which 
the deal goes round. 

iii The dealer then fives three 
cards, one at a time, face downwards, 
to each player, and also dealing an 
extra hand, called '*miss.*' Having 
dealt these he turns up the next card 
on the pack as ** trump.** 

iv. The stakes being settled before- 
hand, the dealer puts his into the pool 
and the game proceeds. 

V. The first player on the left of the 
dealer looks at his hand, and declares 
whether he will play or take the 
"miss." If he decides to play, he 
says, ** I play," or ** I take the miss." 
Whoever takes the **miss" is com- 
pelled to play, whether it happens to 
be good or bad ; but he may elect to 
do neither ; in which case he places 
his cards on the pack, and has nothing 
further to do with that round. The 
next player looks at his hand, and says 
whether he will play or not ; and so on, 
till the turn comes round to the dealer, 
who, if only one plaver stand the chance 
of the loo, may either play or give up 
the stakes. 

105. LOO— MODE OP FLAT. 

i When it is seen how many players 
stand in the round, the elder hand 
plays a card— his highest trump if he 
has two or more ; if not, any card he 
chooses. The next plays^ and, if h^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A GOHFOBTABLE FIRESIBB BBING8 fiOHX THX HUSBAND. 



48 



can, follows suit or heads the trick 
with a trump. If he can do neither, 
he throws away any card. 

ii And so the round goes on ; the 
highest card of the suit, or the highest 
trump, winning the trick. The wmner 
of tiie trick then leads another card. 

iiL The game consists of three 
tricks, and uiepool is divided equally 
among the players possessing them. 
The three tncks may of course he won 
by a single player, or they may be 
divided between two or three. £ach 

Iilayer who fiiils to win a trick is 
ooed, and pays into the next pool the 
amount determined on as the loa 

iv. When a club is turned up as 
trump card, **Club Law" comes in, 
when all the players must play, 
whether their hands are good or bad, 
and no one is allowed to take the 
"miss." By this means the pool is 
inoreased. 

106. LAWS OF LOO. 

i. For a misdeal the dealer is looed. 

ii. For playing out of turn or look- 
ing at the " miss " without taking it, 
the player \b looed. 

iii If the first player possess two or 
three trumps, he must play the high- 
est, or be looed. 

iv. With ace of trumps only, the 
first player must lead it, or be looed. 

▼. The player who looks at his own 
cards, or the ** miss " out of his turn, 
is looed. 

▼i The player who looks at his 
neighbour's hand, either during the 

f>lay or when they lie on the table, is 
ooed. 

▼ii. The nkyer who informs another 
what cards ne possesses, or gives any 
intimation that ne knows su& or sucn 
cards to be in the hand or the "nuss," 
is looed. 

107. OAHADIAK^ WHI8T.— A 

capital game for two players. All the 
cards are used, and in dealing are 
placed in pairs, face downwards on 
the table. Each player then turns 
^e^ the top card of twelve of the 



thirteen pairs dealt to him, takinff 
the other two cards (which are called 
" blinds '*) into his hand. The non- 
dealer has the choice of trumps, after 
having seen all the exposed cards, and 
the game proceeds as at Whist ; it ia 
optional to take a trick, but a led 
suit must be foUpwed, even from the 
** blinds." A^%ach exposed card is 
played the under card must be exposed. 
Counting commences after either hand 
has taken thirteen tricks, each trick 
beyond thirteen counting one. Eleven 
is the usual game, but any number is 
optional as agreed upon before starting. 

108. SIGHTT.— A ^me for two 

players. Six cards are dealt to each 
player, two at a time ; the trump card 
IS then placed exposed under the re- 
maining cards, of which one card, the 
top, must also be exposed. The game 
is to secure in one's own hand as many 
as possible of the tens, aces, kings, 
queens, knaves, these bearing respect- 
ive values thus : tens 10, aces 4, kings 
3, queens 2, knaves 1, which in the 
aggregate amount to eighty — ^hence 
the name. As each trick is taken, the 
winner takes the top card from the 
pack, the loser taking the next and 
at the same time tuniing over the 
following card on the pack. In all 
cases suits led must be followed when 
possible, if not you may throw away 
or trump as may appear desirable. 
Each hand is a game in itself, and 
when played out, each player counts 
his own cards of value as specified, the 
highest scorer being the winner. 
When stakes are played for, the 
difference between the two hands is 
reckoned and paid for at so much a 
point. Small stakes are recommended 
as the difference on each game may be 
considerable. 

109. SPECITLATIOK is a lively 
round ^me, at which several may 
play, with a complete pack of cards, 
bearing the same value as at Whist. 
A pool is made with fish or counters, 
on which such value is fixed as the 
company may agree. The highest 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44 



A STILL TONGUE SHOWS A WISB HSAD. 



tramp in each deal wins the pool ; and 
should it happen that not one trump 
be dealt, then the company pool again, 
and the event is decided by the sac- 
ceeding deal. After determining the 
deal, kc,, the dealer pools six fish, 
and every other player four ; then 
three cards are given to each, one at 
a time, and anothe^tumed up for 
trump. The cards' are not to be 
looked at except in this manner : The 
eldest hand shows the uppermost 
card, which if a trump the company 
may speculate on, or bid for — the 
highest bidder buying and paving for 
it, provided the price offered be a^ 
proved of by the seller. After this is 
settled, if the first card does not prove, 
atnimp, then the next eldest is to show 
the uppermost card, and so on — the 
company speculating as they please, 
till all are exposed, when the possessor 
of the highest trump, whether by pur- 
chase or otherwise, gains the pool. I^ot 
only may an exposed card be sold, but 
any card or a whole hand of cards, the 
purchaser not looking at them, but 
adding them to his own hand, and turn- 
ing up one at a time as his turn comes 
round. The turning up of the ace of 
trumps of course ends the game for that 
round. It is sometimes made a rule 
that any player turning up a five or 
a knave shall pay into the pool. This 
adds fun to the game. 

110. MATEDIONT.— This game 
is played with an entire pack of cards, 
by any number of persons from five to 
fourteen. It consists of five chances, 
usually marked on a board, or sheet 
of paper, as follows : — 



BMt 

The Ace of Diamondg turned up. 



^S 



INTRIGUE ; 

OR 

QUEEN AND KNAVE 



1^ 



Pairs. 
The Highest. 



The game is generally played with 



counters for stakes, and the dealer 
puts what he pleases on each or any 
chance, the otner placers depositing 
each the same quantity, less one — 
that is, when th& dealer stakes 
twelve, the rest of the company lay 
down eleven each. After this, two 
cards are dealt round to every ouc, 
beginning on the left; then to each 
person one other card, which is turned 
up, and he who so happens to eet the 
ace of diamonds sweeps aU. If it be 
not turned up, then each player shows 
his hand ; and any of them having 
matrimony, intrigue, kc, takes the 
counters on that point ; and when 
two or more ^ple happen to have a 
similar combmation, the eldest hand 
has the preference, and, should any 
chance not be gained, it stands over 
to the next deal. — Observe: The ace 
of diamonds turned up takes the 
whole pool, but when in hand ranks 
only as any other ace ; and if not 
turned up, nor any ace in hand, then 
the king, or next superior card, wins 
the chance styled best 

111. POPE JOAH.— A game some- 
what similar to Matrimony. It is 
played by any number, with an ordin- 
ary pack of cards, and a marking or 
pool boBidf to be had of most fancy 
stationers. The eight of diamon(u 
must first be taken from the pack. 
After settling the deal, shuffling, &c, 
the dealer dresses the board. This 
he does by putting counters into the 
several compartments— one counter 
or other stake to Ace, one each to 
King, Queen, Knave, and Game ; two 
to Matrimony, two to Intrigue, and 
six to the mne of diamonds, styled 
the Pope. This dressing is, in some 
companies, at the individuial expense of 
the dealer, though the players usually 
contribute two stakes each towards the 
pooL The cards are then dealt round 
equally to every player, one turned up 
for trump, and about six or eight left 
in the stock to form stops. For ex- 
ample, if the ten of spades be turned 
up, the nine becomes a stop. The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



don't cry over 8PILLKD MILK. 



45 



four kings, and the seven of diamonds, 
are always fixed stops, and the dealer 
is the only person permitted, in the 
coarse of the gam6, to refer occasion- 
ally to the stock for information what 
other cards are stops in their respect- 
ive deals. If either aoe, king, queen 
or knave happen to be the tumed-np 
tramp, the dealer may take whatever 
is deposited on that head ; but when 
Pope be turned up, the dealer is 
entitled both to that and the game, 
besides a stake for every card dealt to 
each player. Unless the game be 
determined by Pope being turned up, 
the eldest hand begins by playing out 
as many cards as possible ; first the 
stops, then Pope, if he have it, and 
afterwards the lowest card of lus 
longest suit — particularly an ace, for 
that never can be led through. The 
other players follow, when niey can, 
in sequence of the same suit, till a stop 
occurs. The player having the stop 
becomes eldest huid, and leads accord- 
iaglj ; and so on, until some player 
parts with all his cards, by which he 
wins the pool (game), and becomes en- 
titled besides to a stake for every card 
not played by the others, except from 
any one holding Pope, which excuses 
him from paying. If Pope has been 
played, then the nlayer having held 
it is not excused. King and queen form 
what is called matrimony ; queen and 
knave, when in the same hand, make 
intrigue ; but neither these nor ace, 
king, queen, knave or pope, entitle 
the holder to the stakes deposited 
thereon unless played out; and no 
daim can be allowed after the board is 
dressed for the succeeding deal. In all 
sach coses the stakes remain for future 
determination. Pope Joan needs only 
a little attention to recollect what stops 
have been made in the course of the 
play. For instance, if a player begin 
by laying down the eight of clubs, 
then itte seven in another hand forms 
a stop, whenever that suit be led from 
any lower card ; or the holder, when 
eldest, maj safelv lay it down, in order 
to clear his hand. 



112. KSWKAEXST.— A verisimi- 
lar g|ame to Pope Joan, but requires no 
speoal board. The eight of diamonds 
having been taken out of the pack, the 
game is played with the remaining 
cards. The ace of spades, king of dia- 
monds, queen of hearts, and knave of 
clubs from another pack are laid in the 
centre of the table race upwards in the 
form of a square. Each player stakes 
an agreed number of counters, the 
dealer staking double that number. 
The stakes are divided among the 
four exposed cards as he chooses. 

The cards are dealt one at a time, 
an extra hand also being dealt (as at 
Pope Joan), in order to form a like 
number of "stops." There are no 
trumps. 

The player on the dealer's left leads 
any suit he likes, but must lead the 
lowest (aoe ranks lowest), at the same 
time naming the card. The player 
having the next highest card of the 
same suit plays and names it, and so 
on till a "stop** is reached, when 
the person playing the stop leads to 
the next round. 

So the game continues till a player 
is " out," that is to say, has plajed 
all his cards. The winner receives 
from the losers one counter for each 
card remaining in their hands ; and 
when, during uie game, a card corre- 
SDonding with one of the pool cards is 
played, the person playing it receives 
all the counters staked on that card. 

118. EBABT8 is played by four 
persons, with a full pack of fifty-two 
cards. The cards rank as in Whist, 
to which this game has some resem- 
blance ; there is, however, no partner- 
ship, no trump suit, and although 
tricks are made, the object is to avoid 
winning any trick which contains a 
card of the heart suit. 

The deal having been cut for, the 
cards are shuffled and dealt as at 
whist, but the last card is not turned 
up. Each player is bound to follow 
suit if possible. If he cannot, he may 
play any card he chooses, getting rid 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 



CKOWLtDOt HAKKS HTTMBLC ; 



of an^ hearts he may have. Each 
hand la a game. 

At the finish of the hand, the tricks 
«re turned up, and the hearts counted. 
Supposing that of the 18 hearts A has 
8, B 1, C 4, and D 5. Here B wins, 
having the smallest number, and each 
of the other players pays him one 
counter (or as agreed on) for each 
heart he holds. If there is a tie, as 
where A and B have 2 hearts each, C 
4, and D 5, C an<i D pay 9 counters 
and A and B divide them ; but as 
this cannot be done equally the odd 
counter is put in the middle of the 
table to await the result of the next 
game. 

Where there are three players, one 
of the black deuces is generally taken 
out ; or the complete pack may be 
used, leaving the last card face down- 
ward in the centre of the table at 
each deaL 

114. COMMEBOE is played with 
a full pack of cards, and by any 
number of persons. A pool is formed 
and then tnree cards are dealt, face 
downwards, to each player, another 
three being turned face upwards in 
the centre of the table. 

The eldest hand may then exchange 
one of his cards for one of the three 
exposed ones, leaving the discarded one 
face upwards with the other two. The 
next player has the same option, and 
so on all round the table; but a 
player who has once "passed" can- 
not again change a card in any 
subsequent round. 

This goes on until two players are 
satisfied with their cards, which they 
announce by saying ** Content," or 
by knocking on the table. Each of 
the other players may then make 
one more exchange, and having done 
so the cards are turned up, and the 
best hand takes the pooL 

The object is to make (1) a Tricon, 
(2) Sequence, or (3) Point. 

(1) A IVtotm is three cards of like 
value. Tricons of higher cards prevail 
over those of lower. 



(2) Sequence — Three cards of a suit 
in order of rank, as ace, king, queen. 

(8) The Point means the lowest 
number of pips on three cards of one 
suit, the ace counting as eleven, tens 
and court cards for ten each, and the 
other cards according to the number of 
their pips. 

115. CASSnrO.y-This game is 
played with an entire pack of cards, 
generally by four persons, in which 
case they take partners as in Whist, 
but sometimes by three, and often by 
two. 

The deal and partners are deter- 
mined by cutting, as at Whist, and 
the dealer ffives four cards, one at a 
time, to each player, and either regu- 
larly as he deals, or by one, two, three, 
or four at a time, lays four more, face 
upwards, upon the board, and when 
each has played his four cards, four 
more are dealt to each person (but it 
is only in the first deal that any cards 
are to be turned up on the board); 
when these have been played the re- 
maining sixteen cards are dealt. 

Each person in turn plays one card 
at a time, with which he may not only 
take up every card of the same de- 
nomination upon the board, but like- 
wise all that will combine therewith ; 
as, for instance, a ten takes not only 
every ten, but also nine and ace, eight 
and deuce, seven and three, six and 
four, or two fives ; and if he clear the 
boMrd he scores a point ; whenever any 

Slayer cannot pair or combine^ then 
e is to put down a card. 
After all the pack is dealt, the 
player who obtains the last trick takes 
all the cards thenrnmainingunmatched 
upon the table. This being done, each 
player or pair of partners looks over 
the cards ne has won, and scores as 

under: for 

Pointa 

Great Cassino, the ten of diamond* . 2 

Little Cassino, the two of spades . 1 
Cards, the player or partners who 

bold the mafority of cards • • " 

SpadM, the majority of this salt . 1 

I Aces, each reckons .... 1 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tMoUOKM iiAxn motfo. 



47 



The cards are then shuffled, and 
again dealt out and played as described 
aboye, the deal passing to the next 
player. 

The game is won by the player or 
pair of partners who first score a 
number of points previously agreed 
upon. 

Building in CSassino. — An interest- 
ing yariation of the game is where 
the player, by adding one low card 
from nis hand to one or more cards on 
the table, can make a number corre- 
sponding to a higher card in his hand, 
in which case he places his low 
card on the one or two exposed ones, 
sayings **I build" seven, eight, or 
whatever the number of his higher 
card may be, and then leaves it till 
the next time round, when if not able 
to add to his "build" by combining 
another low card out of his hand with 
any of those on the table, he takes it 
with the high card he has built to. 
He, however, has to risk his "build" 
being appropriated by an opponent, 
as any one having a card in his hand 
equal to the number built may take 
them when it comes to his turn. 
Partners may help each other greatly 
in building— for instance, if either of* 
the partners has in his hand an ace 
and eight, and on the table are ace, 
four, and two, the player can add the 
ace from his hand to those cards, 
saying, ** I build eight." Supposing 
the next player puts down six, the 
first player's partner, if he has a two 
in his hand, mav add that and the 
six to the eight already built, saying. 
" I add to my partner's eight, ''^ and 
when it comes to the first partner's 
turn he takes up both eights built 
with the eight in his hand. 

Although difficult to explain it will 
readily bo seen that the many possible 
combinations and changes make the 
game much more amusing, and give 
scope for considerable skill. 

116. ▼nWH-Wr.— The game of 
Vingt-wi, or twenty-one, may be 
played by two or more persons ; and, 



as the deal is advantageous, and often 
continues long with tne same person, 
it is usual to determine it at the 
commencement by turning up the first 
ace, or knave. 

Oounting in ^^gt-im.— Ace counts 
either one or eleven, court cards ten 
each, and the other cards according 
to the number of pips. 

Metkod of Playing. — The dealer 
first deals one card round, each player 
then looks at his card, and, witn the 
exception of the dealer, stakes what 
he chooses on it ; a second cai*d is then 
dealt round, after which the dealer 
asks each player in rotation, beginning 
with the eldest hand on l^e left, 
whether he stands or chooses another 
card. If he need another card, it 
must be given from the top of the 
pack, and afterwards another, or more, 
if desired, till the points of the addi- 
tional card or cards, added to those 
dealt, exceed or make Vingt-un, or 
twenty-one exactly, or such a number 
less than twenty-one as the player 
thinks fit to stand upon. When the 
points on the player's cards exceed 
twenty-one, he throws the cards on the 
table, face downwards, and pays the 
stake. The dealer is, in turn, entitled 
to draw additional cards, and on mak- 
ing a Vingt-un, receives double stakes 
from all who stand the game, except 
such other players, likewise having 
twenty-one, between whom it is there- 
by a drawn game. When any adversary 
has a Vingt-un, and the dealer not, 
then the opponent so having twenty- 
one, wins double stakes from him. In 
other cases, except a natural Vingt-un 
happen, the dealer pays single stakes 
to all whose numbers under twenty- 
one are higher than his own, and 
receives from those who have lower 
numbers ; but nothing is paid or 
received by such players as have 
similar numbers to the dealer. When 
the dealer draws more than twenty- 
one, he pays to all who have not 
thrown up. In some companies ties 
pay the dealer. 

Vatnral Tlngt-ia. — Twenty-otM^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 



KNOWLEDOB TALKS LOWLT ; 



when dealt in a player's first two 
cards, is s^led a Natwral, It should 
be dedared at once, and entitles the 
holder to doable stakes from the 
dealer, and to the deal, except it be 
agreed to pass the deal round. If the 
dealer turns up a natural he takes 
double stakes from all the players and 
retains the deal. If there be more 
than one natural, all after the first 
receive single stakes only. 

117. FBSVCH ynrGT-VH OB 
VABIATI0K8.— There are eight 
rounds in this game, each played 
differently, thus — 

1. As m ordina^ Vingt-un. 

2, {Imaginary TtTis,) Each of the 
players stakes before receiving a card. 
Ten points are added to the value of 
his card, and the holder decides, 
according to the amount then made, 
to draw or otherwise. 

8. {Blind Vingt-un,) Each of the 
players, having staked, receives two 
cards, but must not look at them. 
He may, if he chooses, draw one or 
more cards, doing so at haphazard. 

4. {SympcUhy and Antipathy,) Each 
of the players, having staked, is called 
on to elect for Svmpathv or Anti- 
pathy. Having elected, he receives 
two cards. If they are the same colour 
Sympathv wins ; if different Anti- 
pathy. The player receives or pays 
as he has chosen correctly or not 

6. {Bouae et noir.) foich player, 
having staked, declares for either red 
or black, and receives a card. If he 
has chosen correctly he wins, or vice 
vend. 

6. (Self and Company.) The players 
stake, and the dealer deals two cards, 
face upwards, one for himself, and 
the other for the company. If they 
are alike he wins. If not, he keeps 
on dealing the cards one by one, face 
upwards, until a card is dealt which 
pairs either of the two first dealt. If 
that for **8elf" is paired, the dealer 
wins ; and vice verad. 

7. {Differences.) Two cards are 
dealt, face upwards, to each player, 



and two to the dealer. The latter 
pays all who are higher, and receives 
nrom all who are lower, at an agreed 
amount for each unit of difference. 
Ties cancel, and aces count one only. 

8. {The Clock.) The cards being 
shuffled and cut, the dealer commences 
to deal the cards, face upwards, saying 
as he deals the first, *^One," — as he 
deals the second '*Two," and so on 
up to king. If a card turned up 
agrees with the number called out, he 
wins the stakes. If he reaches thirteen 
without any card agreeing, he pays 
the other players. 

118. THIBTT-OHE.— This game 
is played with a flill pack of fifty-two 
cards ; any number of persons can 
jD^ay ; and the cards rank as in Whist 
The stakes having been placed in the 
pool, three cards are oealt to each 
player, and three more are laid in 
the centre of the table, face up- 
wards. 

The object of the game is to obtain 
three cards of the same suity which 
together will make * * thirty-one. " The 
ace is counted as eleven, court cards 
ten each, and the other cards accord- 
ing to the number of their pips. As 
is evident, the ** thirty-one '* can only 
be made with an ace and two tens. 

Next to the ** Thirty-one " in value 
is a triplet, which counts thirty and 
a-half. The higher has the preference 
as between two triplets. In default 
of thirty-one, or a triplet, the highest 
total (in any one suit) wins. 

The elder hand exchanges one of his 
cards for one of the three exposed ones, 
leaving his discarded one face upwards 
with tne other two, then the other 
players do the same. 

The players keep on discarding until 
one of them makes thirty-one, when 
he shows his cards and takes the pool ; 
or till one player is "content,** which 
he announces or knocks on the table. 
In that case, each of the players is 
entitled to exchange one more card ; 
the hands are then shown and the 
highest wins. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IGNORANCE TALKS LOUD. 



49 



119. QTTADBILLS.— This game, 
formerly very popular, has been super- 
seded by Whist Quadrille, the game 
referred to by Pope in his ''Rape of 
the Lock," is now obsolete. 

120. lteABTZ.—Thisgame, which 
has lately revived in popularity, is 
played by two ^rsons with a pack of 
cards from which the twos, threes, 
fours, fives, and sixes have been dis- 
carded. In the clubs it is usual to 
play with two packs, used alternately. 
The players out for deal, the highest 
card doils. The pack is shuffled and 
the non-dealer cuts. The dealer then 
from the united pack gives five cards 
to each in the manner described in 
Rule v., beginning with his adversary. 
The eleventh card is turned up for 
trump. If the turn-up be a king, the 
dealer marks one point ; five points 
being game. The non-dealer looks at 
his caras, and if he be dissatisfied with 
them, he may propose — that is, change 
any or all of them for others from the 
stock, or remainder of the pack on the 
table. Should he propose, he says, 
" I proi>ose," or ** cards," and it is in 
the option of the dealer to |^ve or 
refuse cards. When he decides to 
give, he says, **I accept,'* or ** How 
many I " Should he refhse to chance 
he says, *• I decline," or " Play." The 
dealer may, if he accept the proposal, 
change any or all the cards in his own 
hand. Sometimes a second discard is 
allowed, but that must be by previous 
agreement Of course the non-dealer 
may play without discarding, in which 
case the dealer must play his own 
hand ¥rithout changing any of his 
ciurds. When the han£ are arranged 
the non-dealer plays a card, which is 
won or lost by the playing of a superior 
CMrd of the suit lea. The second must 
follow suit, or win the trick if he can ; 
otherwise he may throw any card he 
chooses. The order in value of the 
cards is-— king, queen, knave, ace, ten, 
nine, eigj^t, seven. Trumps win other 
suits. The winner of the trick leads 
for the next trick, and so on till the 



five cards on each side are played. 
The winner of three tricks scores one 
point ; if he win the whole five tricks 
— the v6le—he scores two points ; if 
he hold the king, he names it before 
playinc; his first card — ** I maark king." 
Should the non-dealer play without 
proposing, and fail to make three 
tricks, his adversary marks two points ; 
should the dealer refuse to accept and 
fail to win three tricks, his opponent 
scores two. The game is five up ; 
that is, the player who first makes 
five points wins. The score is marked 
by two cards, a three and a two, or 
by counters. The deal is taken alter- 
nately; but when the play is for 
rubbers it is usual to cut for deal at 
the end of each rubber. A player 
holding the king should not announce 
it till the last moment The non- 
dealer should not declare the king 
until in the act of playing his first 
card ; and the dealer should not an- 
nounce the king till after his opponent 
has led. 

121. THBEEEAHDED tCASTt 

— If three persons wish to form a game 
they can play a pool, each contributing 
an equal amount to the pooL They 
all cut, the lowest being out, and the 
other two playing the first game. The 
loser puts into the pool a sum equal 
to that which he originally put in, 
and the person who was out takes his 
place. Should the winner of the first 
^ame lose the second, he puts a stake 
m the pool, stands out, and so on 
until one player wins two consecutive 
games, when he takes the pooL 

122. BULSS OF tCARTk. 

i. Each player has the right to 
shufile the cards above the table. 

iL The cut must not be fewer than 
two eards off the pack, and at least 
two cards must be left on the table. 

iii When more than one card is 
exposed in cutting, there must be a 
new deal 

iv. The highest icKtU card cut se- 
cures the deal, which holds good even 
though the pack be imperfect 
D 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



60 



KNOWLEDOB IS MODEST, CAUTIOUS, AND PURE; 



▼• The dealer most give five cards 
to etch by throe and two, or by two 
and three, at a time, which plan must 
not be changed daring the game. 

▼i. An incorrect deal, playing out 
of turn, or a fiused card, necessitates 
anew deaL 

Tii. The eleventh card must be 
turned up for trumps ; and the re- 
maining cards placed, face downwaixls, 
on the table. 

Tiii. The king turned up must be 
marked by^the dealer before the trump 
of the next deal is turned up. 

ix. A king of trumps held in hand 
must be announced and marked before 
the player lays down his first card, 
or he loses his right to mark it. If 
played in the first trick, it must be 
announced before it is played to. 

z. A proposal or acceptance cannot 
be retractea or altered. 

zi. Before taking cards, the player 
must place his di^rded cards, face 
downwards, on the table, and neither 
look at nor touch them till the round 
be over. 

xii. The player holding king marks 
one point ; making three tricks, one 
point ; five tricks, two points. 

»iii- The non-dealer playing with- 
out proposing and failing to win the 
point, gives two tricks to his oppo- 
nent. 

xiv. The dealer who refuses the 
first proposal and fails to win the 
point (three tricks), gives his opponent 
two points. 

zv. An admitted overscore or un- 
derscore may be amended without 
penalty before the cards are dealt for 
the following round. 

128. ETTCHBB, which is founded 
on Ecarte, and is the national game 
of the United States, is played with 
a pack of cards firom which the twos, 
threes, fours, fives, and sixes have 
been withdrawn. In the Euchre pack 
the cards rank as at "Whist, vrith this 
exception — the knave of trumps, 
called the lUght Bower, and the other 
knave of the same colour, known as 



the Left Bower, take precedence over 
the rest of the trumps. Thus, when 
hearts are trumps, the cards rank 
thus : — Knave ot hearts, knave of 
diamonds, ace, king, queen, ten, nine, 
eijght, and seven of hearts. When 
diamonds are trumps, the knave is 
right bower, and the knave of hearts 
left bower ; and in like manner the 
knaves of spades and clubs become 
right and left bower, when the black 
suits are trumps. — In Four-handed 
Euchre, two play against two, and 
the tricks taken by both purtners 
count for points. 

124. BULSS FOB XITOHBB. 

i. The players cut for deal; the 
higher card cut dealing. 

ii. The cards are dealt by twos and 
threes, each player having five. 

iii. The eleventh card is turned up 
for trumps, but this does not become 
the trump card. 

iv. Five points constitute game. 

V. The player winning three or four 
tricks marks one point; winning 
five tricks, two points. 

vi. When the first player considers 
his hand strong enough to make the 
odd trick, he can order it urn— that is, 
he can oblige the dealer to discard one 
of his cards and take up the turn-up 
card, which becomes confirmed as 
trumps, and forms part of his hand. 
It remains on the table however, face 
upwards. 

▼iL When the first player does not 
find his hand strong enough, he may 
pass, saying — '* I pass;** with the 
view of changing the suit. 

viii. In case of the first player ** or- 
dering it up," the game begins by his 
playing a card, to which the dealer 
must follow suit or tnimp, or throw 
away. The winner of the trick then 
leads : and so on till all the five cards 
in each hand are played. 

iz. If the plaver order up the trump 
and fail to make three tricks, he is 
euchred, and his opponent marks two 
points. 

z. If the i^yer, not being strong 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IGNORANCE BOAflTFTL, CONCEITED, AND SURE. 



51 



enon^ rasses, the dealer can say, 
** I play, and take the tramp into 
his own hand ; bat, as before, if he 
fiul to score, he is eachred. 

zi. If both players pass, the first 
has the privilege of altering the 
tramp, and the £aler is compelled to 
play. Should the first player fail to 
score, he is euchred. 

zii. If he pass for the second time, 
the dealer can alter the trump, with 
the same penalty if he fail to score. 

X"<T When trumps are led and you 
cannot follow suit, you must play the 
left bower if you liave it, to win the 
trick. 

The score is marked, as in Ecart^ 
by each side with a two and three. 

126. liZiaTTE.— This formerly 
fashionable came is played with two 
packs of cards, from which the twos, 
threes, fours, fives, and sixes, have 
been discarded. The sixty-four cards 
contained in both packs, snuffled well 
together, are then dealt out, eight to 
each player, either one at a time, or 
by threes, twos, and threes ; the 
seventeenth turned up for trump, and 
the rest (called the ** talon" or 
"stock") left, face downwards, on 
the table. If the trump card be a 
seven, the dealer scores ten points. 
An incorrect deal or an exposea card 
necessitates a new deal, which passes 
to the other player. The non-dealer 
has the lead. A trump card takes 
any card of another suit. Except 
trumping, the higher card, whether 
of the same suit or not, takes the 
trick — ^the ace ranking highest, the 
ten next, and then the king, queen, 
knave, nine, &c. When two cards 
of equal value are played, the first 
wins. Some players require the win- 
ning card to he of the same suit as that 
led, unless trumped. After each trick 
is taken, an additional card is drawn 
by each player from the top of the 
pack — the taker of the last trick 
drawing first, and so on till all the 
pack is exhausted, including the 
trump isaid. Players are not obliged 



to follow suit or trump until all the 
cards have been drawn from the pack. 
Tricks are of no value, except for the 
aces and tens they may contain. 
Tricks should not be looked at till 
the end of the deal, except by mutual 
consent. When a player plays with- 
out drawing, he must draw two cards 
next time, and his opponent scores 
ten. When a player draws out of 
turn, his opponent scores ten, if he 
has not drawn a card himself. When 
a player draws two cards instead of 
one, his opponent may decide which 
card is to be returned to the pack, and 
it should not be placed at the top, but 
towards the middle of the pack. A 
player discovering his opponent hold- 
ing more than eight caras, while he 
only holds eight, adds 100 to his 
score. Should both have more than 
their proper number there is no 
penalty, but each must play without 
drawing. 

126. Termf and eonnting used in 
BMqme. — L A Declaration is the 
exhibition on the table of any cards 
or combination of cards, as follows : — 

ii B^sique is the queen of spades 
and knave of diamonds, for whicn the 
holder scores 40 points. 

[A vmriatfon provides that when the 
trmnp is either spades or diamonds, B^ziqne 
may be queen of clubs and knave of hearts.] 

iii. Double Bizique — B^zique hav- 
ing been declared, may be a^un used 
to form Double B^zique, two queens 
of spades and two knaves of diamonds. 
All four cards must be visible on the 
table together — 500 points. 

iv. Sequent is ace, ten, king, 
queen, and knave of trumps — 260 
points. 

Y. Boyal Marriage is the king and 
queen of trumps — 40 points. 

vi. Oommon Afamage is the king 
and queen of any suit, except trumps 
—20 points. 

vii Four aces are the aces of any 
suits — 100 points. 

yiii. Four kings are the kings of 
any suits — 80 poiats. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



52 



BE NOT THE FIRST BT WHOM THE NEW IS TRIED, 



ix. Fowr queens are the queens of 
any suits — 60 points. 

X. Four knaves are the knaves of 
any suits — 40 i)oiuts. 

ii. Playing the seven of trumps — 
except in last eight tricks — 10 ; ex- 
changing the seven of trumps for the 
trump card— 10 ; the last trick— 10 ; 
each ace and ten in the tricks at the 
end of each deal — 10. 

xiL The game is 1,000, 2,000, or 
4,000 up. Markers are sold with the 
cards. 

127. Mode of Flaying BMqve. 

i. Play is commenced by the non- 
dealer, whose card is played to b^ the 
dealer. Immediatelv after taking a 
trick, and then only, a player can 
make a Declaration ; but he must do 
so before drawing another card. Only 
one Declaration can be made aft^ 
each trick. 

IL If, in making a declaration, a 
player put down a wrong card or 
cards, either in addition to or in the 

Slace of any card or cards of that 
eclaration, he is not allowed to score 
until he has taken another trick. 
Moreover, he must resume the cards, 
subject to their being called for as 
"faced" cards. 

ill. The seven of trumps may be 
exchanged for the trump card, and 
for this exchange ten is scored. This 
exchange is made immediately after 
he has taken a trick, but he may 
make a declaration at the same time, 
the card exchanged not being used in 
such declaration. 

iv. "Whenever the seven of trumps 
is played, except in the last eight 
tricks, the player scores ten for it, no 
matter whether he wins the trick or 
not 

Y. When all the cards are drawn 
from the pack, the players take up 
their eight cards. Ko more declara- 
tions can be made, and the play pro- 
ceeds as at Whist, the ten ranking 
higher than the king, and the ace 
hiprhest. 

vi. In the last eight tricks the 



player is obliged to follow suit, and 
he must win the trick if possible, 
either by playing a higher card, or, 
if he has not a card of the same suit, 
by pla}ring a trump. 

m A player who revokes in the 
last eight tricks, or omits to take 
when he can, forfeits the eight cricks 
to his opponent 

▼iii The last trick is the thuiy- 
seoond, for which the winner scores 
ten. 

[The game may be varied by making the 
last trick the twenty-fourth — ^the next 
before the last eight tricks. It is an un- 
important point, but one that should be 
agreed upcm before the game Is commenced.] 

ix. After the last ei|;ht tricks are 
plaved, each player examines his cards, 
and for each ace and ten that he holds 
he scores ten. 

X. The non-dealer scores aces and 
tens first ; and in case of a tie, the 
player scoring the highest number of 
points, less the aces and tens in the 
last deal, wins the game. If still 
a tie, the taker of the last trick 
wins. 

xi. All cards played in error are 
liable to be called for as *' faced" 
cards at any period- of the |;ame, ex- 
cept during the last eight tncks. 

xii. In counting forfeits a player 
may either add the points to his own 
score or deduct them from the score 
of his opponent. 

Marriagei, Sequeneei, *e. 

i The cards forming the declarations 
are placed on the table to show that 
they are properly scoi^, and the cards 
may thence be played into tricks as if 
in your hand. 

U. Kings and queens once married 
cannot be re-mamed, but can be used 
while thev remain on the table, to 
make up four kings, four queens, or a 
sequence. 

ui The king and queen used in a 
sequence cannot afterwards be declared 
as a roval marriage. 

It. If four knaves have been de- 
clared, the knave of diamonds may 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



NOR TST THE LAST TO CAST THB 0I4> A8IDB. 



53 



be used again for a b^zique, or to 
complete a aeqnence. 

Y. If four aces have been declared, 
the ace of trompe may be again used 
to perfect a sequence. 

tL If the queen of spades has been 
married, she may be again used to 
form a b^zique, and vice versd^ and 
again for four queens. 

12a F0BFSIT8 AT B^aiTS.— 

The following are Forfeits : — 

For drawinff out of turn, 10 ; for 
plaving out of turn, 10 ; for playing 
without drawing, 10 ; for overdraw- 
ing, 100; for a revoke in the last 
eight tricks, all the eight tricks. 

129. OAunoKB nr Biziavs — 

In playing B^que, it is best to keep 
your tens till you can make them 
count ; to retain vour sequence cards 
as long as possible ; to watch your 
opponent's play ; to declare a royal 
marriage previous to declaring a se- 
quence or double b^zique ; to make sure 
of the last trick but one in order to 
prevent your opponent from declar- 
ing ; to declare as soon as you have 
au opportunity. 

180. THBEB-EAHDED BiziaVS. 

L The above rules hold good in 
the case of three-handed games — 
treble b^ziqne counting 1,500. An 
extra pack of cards is required for the 
third other player ; so that, in the 
case of three, the trump card is the 
twenW^-fifth. 

ii The game is always played from 
left to right, the first player on the 
left of the dealer commencing. 
Three-handed b^zique is sometimes 
played with two packs of cards, 
suppressing an eight, thus rendering 
them divisible by three. 

181. FOITB-EAirDED BiZiaVS. 

L Four-handed B^zique may be 
played by partners decided either by 
choice or cutting. Partners sit oppo- 
site each other, one collecting the 
tricks of both, and the other keeping 



the score, or each may keep his own 
score, which is preferable. 

iL A player may make a declaration 
immediately after his partner has 
taken a trick, and mav inquire of his 
partner if he has anything to declare, 
before drawing. 

iii Declarations must be made by 
each player separately, as in two- 
handed TOzique. 

iv. The above descriptions will 
serve to sufficiently acquaint the 
reader with the rules ana modes of 
play adopted in this excellent game. 
Bezique is said to be of Swedish ori- 

g'ln, and to have been introduced to 
nglish players through the medium 
of some Indian officers who had learned 
it of a Scandinavian comrade. Vari- 
ations in the play occur in different 
companies. Tnese, however, having 
been indicated above, need not be 
more particularly noted. 

182. NAPOLEON OB NAP.— 

This popular game is played by four, 
five, or six persons with a full pack 
of (^rds, which take the same value 
as in Whist The object of the game 
is to make tricks, which are paid to 
or received from the declarer at a 
fixed rate, a penny or more a trick, 
as previously arranged. The deal 
being decided in the usual way, the 
pack is cut and five cards are dealt 
one at a time to each player, begin- 
ning at the left After every round 
t^e deal passes. Each player looks 
at his caros, the one to the left of the 
dealer bein^ the first to declare. 
When he thinks he can make two or 
three tricks he says, **I go two," or 
**I go three." The next may per- 
haps think he can make four tricks ; 
and if the fourth believes he can do 
better he declares "Napoleon," and 
undertakes to win the whole five 
tricks. The plavers declare or pass 
in the order in which they sit ; and ft 
declaration once made cannot be re- 
called. The game then proceeds. 
The first card played becomes the 
trump suit ; and to win the trick, a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64 



WILLOWS ABB WIAK, TTT tHiY BIKD OTfiEE WOOD. 



higher card than that led in each 
suit must be played. The winner of 
the first trick leads for the tecond, 
and so on till each of the five tricks 
are played out Baeh plarer must 
follow suit, but he is not lioand to 
head the trick or to trump. Each 
card as played remains hce upwards 
on the taole. Supposing the stake to 
be a penny a trick, the declarer, if he 
¥rin all the tricks he declared, receives 
from each of his adrersaries a penny 
for each of the declared tricks ; but if 
he fail to win the required number, 
he i)ays to each of them a penny a 
tricK. For ** Napoleon** he receives 
double stakes from each player ; but 
fiiiling to win the five tricks, he pays 
them single stakes. The game, 
though simple, requires good judg- 
ment and memory to play it weU. 
The aim of the players is to co-operate 
to prevent the declarer winning the 
number of tricks he declared. In 
some companies it is varied by the 
intnxiuction of a * * Wellington, " which 
is a superior call after the Napoleon, 
and takes triple stakes ; or *' Mis^re," 
in which the plsyer undertakes to lose 
all his tricks. This declaration takes 
precedence of all the others. Each 
plaver may Pass, or decline to make 
a declaration ; and when all the 
players pass, the deal is void. Occa- 
sional] v a pool or kitty is made by 
each aealer paying a half stake ; or 
the players may pui-chase new cards 
from the pack, in either case, the 
pool is taken by the winner of the 
first Napoleon, or divided according to 
arrangement at the close of the play. 

138. PIQITET.— A game for two 
players, once very fashionable in 
France and of some repute in England ; 
but now ^uite obsolete. Like Quad- 
rille, it IS encumbered with a vast 
number of rules and maxims, tech- 
nical terms and calculations ; all too 
long and tiresome for modem card- 
players. 

134. MXSl, OE BEAW MKB, 

a gambling game common in the 



United States. An elaboration of the 
old English game of Brag^ which, like 
Blind Hookey and Baacarcd^ is purely 
one of ohanoe. It is generally plavea 
by two or three sharpers opposed to 
three or four greenhorns, and, for 
these reasons, is unworthy a place in 
this volume. 

135. BAHTSBGOBOFin).— This 

game is chiefly played in the West of 
England, and is of a simple character. 
It may be played by any number, and 
affords plenty of fan to the youngsters. 
The fall pack of fifty-two cards is 
employed, aces ranking lowest and 
kings highest, and each player has 
three counters, or "lives," of such 
value as may be agreed upon, their 
combined values making a * * pool " for 
the winner. 

The dealer gives one card to each 
player, and the object of the game is 
to avoid holding the lowest card. No 
distinction is made between the suits. 
When the deal is completed, each 
player looks at his card, and the 
player on the dealer's left, if he does 
not like his card, pushes it (face 
downwards) along the table towards 
his left-hand neighbour, at the same 
time saying ** change.'* 

The latter player, no matter how 
good his own card may be, is com- 
pelled to exchange, unless his card 
nappens to be a king, when he 
retams it, saying, ** King." Suppos- 
ing, however, that he does not have a 
king and makes the exchange ; if he 
is also not satisfied with the card he 
has taken, he in his turn pushes it on 
to his left-hand neighbour, and thus 
the card goes round the table, until it 
gets stopped by a king, or one of the 
plavers gives a worse card for it, in 
which case he is content, and has no 
reason for making any further change. 
He then "stands," and the next 
lUayer changes or not with his left- 
hand neighbour, as he may think fit. 
If a player gives an ace, two or three, 
in exchange, he must name it for ths 
benefit of the other playeii. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ALWAYS ItAKS TH2 fiEST OP A BAB JOB. 



M 



If the card referred to baa been 
given in compliance with a request for 
an exchange, it remains with the 
I^yer who takes it, and of course 
the other players will be secure if 
they ** stand on cards of higher 
▼aloe, however small their own may 
be. For instance, should an ace be 
declared, a player having a deuce 
(and more especially a higher card) 
would be safe. But if the card is 
one offered in exchange by an elder 
to a younger player, it will most 
likely go rouna till it comes to the 
dealer, and if he also wishes to change 
it he cuts the pack, taking the top 
card of the cut, which then belongs 
to him. The cards are then tum^ 
up, and the player holding the loioest 
loses a life ; but if the dealer, in 
cutting as before mentioned, turns 
up a king, Ae loses a life, and this 
although there is an ace among the 
turned cards. 

On a player losing all his three 
lives, he is *'out," and the game goes 
on between the other players, the last 
out taking the pooL 

186. 8L0BBEBHAVHS8. — A 

pack of thirty-two cards is used (all 
below seven being taken out), and the 
cards rank in value as at whist. The 
game is played by four persons, but 
there is no partnership, each playing 
independently. The cut is for lead 
(not deal), the highest taking it and 
the player on his right deals. 

There are no trumps, all suits 
being of the same value. Each 
player is obliged to follow suit where 
he can do so, the highest card gains 
the trick, and the winner leads off 
again. 

The object, however, is «o^ to make 
tricks, for the player who first wins 
ten points loses the game, and pays 
the other players such stake as has 
been previously agreed upon. 

It is an advantage to have the 
lead, as you are pretty certain to 
have one losing card, and will lead 
accordingly. 



The points are scored thus : — 

For the first trick ... 1 Point. 

For the last do. . . . 1 „ 

For the trick containing the 
queen of clubs . . . 1 „ 

If, in the same hand, a player wins 
all three tricks above mentioned, he 
is said to get Slobberhannes, and must 
score an extra point for it. 

The penalty for a revoke is one 
point added to the score of the player 
revoking. 

187. SPIKAIK).— A variation of 
Pope Joan ; but played without a board. 
The division of the pool is only for 
Matrimony, Intrigue, and Game, or 
"First out." The dealer pays two 
dozen counters, viz. one dozen to 
Matrimony, half-a-dozen to Intrigue, 
and half-a-dozen to First out. The 
other players pay three each, which 
are placed in the First out division. 

The eight of diamonds and all the 
deuces having been taken out, the 
cards are dealt round (with an extra 
hand as at Pope Joan), but there is no 
"turn up." Matrimony consists of 
king ana queen: and Intrigue, of 
queen and knave of diamonds. The 
ace of the same suit is called Spinado, 
or "Spin." 

The player on the dealer's left 
leads, and those players having the 
next higher cards play them in rota- 
tion tiff a **s^p occurs, when the 
last player again leads. 

If able to strike in, the player hold- 
ing Spinado names and plays it with 
his own card. For instance, if the 
five of clubs is led, and he has the 
six, and Spinado, he will call "six and 
Spin," thus maldng the six of clubs a 
stop. He then receives three counters 
from each of the other players and the 
lead passes to him. But the holder of 



Spinado is not bound to play it with 
his first card. 

The player having the king of 
diamonas receives two counters from 
each player; and if he plays both 
king and queen, he takes the Matri- 
mony pool A person playing queen 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



56 



POSITIVE MSN ARK MOST IN ERROR. 



and knave of diamonds takes the 
Wrigv^ pooL If the same penon 
holds (and plays) all three cards, he 
receives both pools. The player of 
a king (other than of diamonds) 
receives one counter from each player. 
" First out " (unless dealer) is exempt 
from putting into the pool next deal 



188. 80LITAIEB.— Thisisagame 
for one person, played on a board 
pierced with thirty-three holes ; in 
each one of whioh is placed a marble 
or peg. The art or motive of the game 
is to remove one marble and then to 
shift the rest about, so as to bring the 
last marble to the hole whence the first 
was removed. One marble or man 
takes any other over which it can leap 
into a vacant hole beyond ; or any 
number of men in succession, so long 
as there is a hole into which it can go. 

189. BACKGAIOCOK.— Agameof 
mingled chance and skill, played on 
a boieird marked with points, and 
generally to be found inside the box 
draught-board. The board has 
twenty-four points, coloured alter- 
nately red and blue ; the implements 
of play are fifteen draught-men on 
each side, and the movements of the 
men are determined by the throw of 
two dice ; each player being provided 
with a dice box and dice. It is an 
elaborate game to explain, and would 
occupy too much space to be given in 
detau in this work. Cheap hand- 
books to the game are easily procur- 
able. 

140. BOimrOBS.— This game is 
played bv two or more persons, with 
twenty-eight pieces of oblong ivory, 

Slain at the oaok, but on the face 
ivided by a black line in the middle, 
and indented with spots, from one to 
a double-six. Sometimes a double-set 
is played with, of which double-nine 
is uie highest. 

Method of Play. — At the commence- 
ment of the game the dominoes are 
well mixed together, with their faces | 



upon the table. Each player draws 
one, and if four play, those who choose 
the two highest are partners sgainst 
those who take the two lowest Draw- 
ing the latter also serves to determine 
who is to lay down the first piece — a 
great advantage. Afterwards each 
player takes seven pieces at random. 
The eldest hand having laid down one, 
the next must pair him at either end 
of the piece he may choose, according 
to the number of pips, or the blank in 
the compartment of the piece; but 
whenever any one cannot match the 
part, either of the domino last put 
down, or of that unpaired at theotner 
end of the row, then he says, **Ch;" 
and the next is at liber^^ to play. 
Thus they play alternately, either 
until one party has played all his 
pieces, and thereby won the game, or 
till the game be blocked ; that is, when 
neither party can play, by matching 
the pieces where unpaired at either 
end ; then that player wins who has 
the smallest number of pips on the 
pieces remaining in his hand. It is 
to the advantage of every j)layer to 
dispossess himself as early as possible 
of the heavy pieces, such as a double- 
six, five, four, &C. Sometimes, when 
two persons play, they take each only 
three or five pieces, and agree to play 
or draw — i. e, when one cannot come 
in, or pair the pieces upon the board 
at the end unmatched, ne draws from 
the pieces in stock till he finds one to 
suit There are various other ways of 
playing dominoes, but they are idl 
depenaent on the matching of the pips. 

141. DAHCS8. 

142. aiTADBILLXS.— The First 
Set. First Figicre, Le Pantalmu — 
Right and left Balancez to partners ; 
turn partners. Ladies' chain. Half 
promenade ; half right and left (Four 
times.) 

Second Figure, L*JBU. — Leading lady 
and opposite gentleman advance ancl 
retire ; chassez to right and left ; cross 
over to each other's places ; chsssez to 
right and left Balances and turn . 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A CLEAR COKSOIBKOX FKARS NO ACCUSATION. 



67 



parcuers. (Four times.) Or Double 
UEU, — Both couples advance and 
retire at the same time ; cross over ; 
advance and retire again ; cross to 
pUces. Balancez and torn partners. 
(Four times.) 

Third Figure, La PotUe» — Leading 
lady and opposite gentleman cross 
over, giving right nands; recross, 
giving left han£, and fall in a line. 
Set fonr in a line ; half promenade. 
Advance two, and retire (twice). Ad- 
vance four, and retire ; half right and 
left. (Four times.) 

Fourth Figure, Trinise,— The first 
conple advance and retire twice, the 
lady remaining on the opposite side ; 
the two ladies go round the first gentle- 
man, who advances up the centre; 
balancez and turn partners. (Four 
times. ) Or La PasioraU is sometimes 
danced as the Fourth Figure, The 
leading couple advance twice, leaving 
the lady opposite the second time. 
The three advance and retire twice. 
The leading gentleman advances and 
sets. Hands four half round ; half 
right and left to places. (Four times.) 

F^ Figure, Oalop Finale,^ All 
galopade or promenade, eight bars. 
Advance four, en galopade oblique, and 
retire, then half promenade, eight bars. 
Advance four, retire, and return to 
places with the half promenade, eight 
oars. Ladies' chain, eight bars. Re- 
peated by the side couples, then by 
the top and bottom, and lastly by the 
side couples, finishing with grand 
promenade. 

Instead of this figure, another one 
called "Flirtation" is often danced, 
thus; — All join hands and form a 
circle ; advance towards centre and 
retire ; loose hands and turn partners 
to places; ladies advance to centre, 
bow, and retire ; gentlemen to centre, 
and each turns towards the corner 
lady on his left, bows, promenades 
round set with her, returning to his 
own place. Join hands in circle again 
and repeat as above four times, on the 
last occasion joining original partners. 
Finish with circle and turn partners. 



143. LAKCSBS.— L Li Rose.^ 
First gentleman and opposite ladv 
advance and set — turu with botn 
hands, retiring to places — return, 
leading outside — set and turn at 
comers. 

IL La Lodoiska. — First couple ad- 
vance twice, leaving the lady in the 
centre—set in the centre — turn to 
places — all advance in two lines — all 
turn partners. 

liL La Dorset. — First lady advances 
and stops, then the opposite gentleman 
— both retire, turning round — ^ladies' 
hands across half round, and turn the 
opposite gentleman with left hands- 
repeat back to places, and turn partners 
with left hands. 

iv. LMoile, — First couple set to 
couple at right— set to couple at left 
— change places with partners, and set, 
and pirouette to places— right and left 
with opposite couple. 

V. Les Landers, — The grand chain. 
The first couple advance and turn 
facing the top ; then the couple at 
right advance behind the top couple ; 
then the couple at left and the opposite 
couple do the same, forming two lines. 
All change places with partners and 
back again. The ladies turn in a line 
on the right, the gentlemen in a line 
on the left. Each couple meet up the 
centre. Set in two lines, the ladies 
in one line, the gentlemen in the other. 
Turn partners to places. Finish with 
the grand chain. 

144. THE CAI.E2>ONIAK8.— Ftr5f 

Figure, — The firstand opposite couples 
hands across round the centre and back 
to places — set and turn partners. 
Ladies' chain. Half promenaile — half 
right and left Repeated by the side 
couples. 

Second Figure, — ^The first gentleman 
advances and retires twice. All set at 
comers, each lady passing into the 
next lady's place on the right Prom- 
enade by all. Repeated by the other 
couples. 

Third Figtire.—The first lady and 
opposite gentleman advance and retire, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



5S 



THl OTJBEAKT TRXl WAS INTmODVOED IK 1583. 



bending to each other. First kdy and 
opposite gentleman pass round each 
other to places. First couple cross 
over, having hold of hands, while the 
opposite couple cross on the outside 
of them — the same reversed. All set 
at comers, turn, and resume partners. 
All advance and retire twice, in a circle 
with hands joined — turn partners. 

Fourth Figure, — The first lady and 
opposite gentleman advance and stop ; 
then their partners advance ; turn 
partners to places. The four ladies 
move to right, each taking the next 
lady's place, and stop^the four gentle- 
men move to left, each taking the 
next gentleman's place, and stop — the 
ladies repeat the same to the right — 
then the gentleman to the left. All 
join han£ and promenade round to 
places, and turn partners. Repeated 
oy the other couples. 

Fifth Figure,— The first couple 
promenade or waltz round inside the 
figure. The four ladies advance, join 
hands round, and retire — then the 
gentlemen perform the same — all set 
and turn partners. Chain figure of 
eight half round, and set All pro- 
menade to places and turn partners. 
All change sides, join right hands at 
comers, and set, back again to places. 
Finish with grand promenade. — These 
three are the roost admired of the 
quadrilles: the First Set invariably 
takes precedence of every other dance. 

145. 8PAKI8H BANCE-T-Danced 
in a circle or a line by sixteen or 
twenty couples. The couples stand 
as for a Country Dance, except that 
the first gentleman must stand on tlie 
ladies' side, and the first lady on the 
gentlemen's side. First gentleman 
and second lady balancez to each 
other, while first lady and second 
gentleman do the same, and change 
places. First gentleman and partner 
oalancez, while second gentleman and 
partner do the same, and change 
places. First gentleman and seoond 
lady balancez, while first lady and 
second gentleman do the aame, and 



change places. First gentleman and 
second lady balancez to partners, and 
change places with them. All four 
join nands in the centre, and then 
change places, in the same order as 
the foregoing figure, four times. All 
four poussette, leaving the second 
lady and gentleman at the top, the 
same as in a Country Dance. The 
first lady and geutleroan then go 
through the same figure with the 
third lady and gentleman, and so 
proceed to the end of the dance. 
Tills figure is sometimes danced in 
eight bars time, which not only 
hurries and inconveniences the 
dancers, but also ill accords with the 
music. 

146. WALTZ COnLLOH.— Places 

the same as (Quadrille. First couple 
waltz round inside ; first and second 
ladies advance twice and cross over, 
turning twice ; first and second gentle- 
men do the same ; third and fourth 
couples the same ; first and second 
couples waltz to places, third and fourth 
do the same ; all waltz to partners, 
and turn half round with both hands, 
meeting the next lady ; perform this 
figure until in your places ; form two 
side lines, all advance twice and cross 
over, tuming twice ; the same re- 
turning ; all waltz round ; the whole 
repeated four times. 

147. OALOP is an extremely 
graceful and spirited dance, in a con- 
tinual chassez. An unlimited num- 
ber may join ; it is danced in couples, 
as waltzing. 

14a XAZTTSKA.— This dance is 
of Polish origin — first introduced into 
England by the Duke of Devonshire, 
on his return from Russia. It con- 
sists of twelve movements ; and the 
first eight bars are played (as in 
quadrilles) before the nrst movement 
commences. 

140. BXBOWA WALTZ is com- 
posed of three parts, distinct fh}m 
each other. Ist, The Pursuit 2nd, 
The walU called Redowa. 8rd, The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6AdBA(nt8, OARitOtS, VfO., Vf^BM itOT ftHoWll ftSfORS 1547. 5ft 



waltz k Denz Temps, executed to a 
peculiar measure, and which, by a 
chauge of the rhythm, assumes a new 
chanuster. The middle of the floor 
must be reserved for the dancers who 
execute the promenade, called the 
pursuit, while those who dance the 
waltz turn in a circle about the room. 
The position of the gentleman is the 
same as for the waltz. The gentleman 
sets out with the left foot, and the 
lady with the right In the pursuit 
the position is different, the gentle- 
man and his partner face, and take 
each other by the hand. They ad- 
vance or fall back at pleasure, and 
balance in advance and backwards. 
To advance, the step of the pursuit is 
made by a glissade forward, without 
springing, eoupi with the hind foot, 
and jeti on it. You recommence with 
the other foot, and so on throughout 
The retiring step is made by a Siding 
step of the foot backwards, without 
spring, yeM with the front foot, and 
coup6 with the one behind. It is ne- 
cessary to advance well upon the 
sliding step, and to spring lightly in 
the two others, swr place, balancing 
equally in the pas de tkmrsuite, which 
is executed alternately by the left in 
advance, and the right backwards. 
The lady should follow all the move- 
ments of her partner, falling back 
when he advances, and advancing 
when he &lls back. Bring the 
shoulders a little forward at each 
sliding step, for they should always 
follow the movement of the leg as it 
advances or retreats ; but this should 
not be too marked. When the gentle- 
man is about to waltz, he should take 
the lady*s waist, as in the ordinary 
wsJtz. The step of the Redowa, in 
turning, may be thus described. For 
the gentleman— ;;«W of the left foot, 
passing before the lady. Olissade of 
the right foot behind to the fourth 
position aside — the left foot is broucht 
to the third position behind — then 
the pa9 de baique is executed by the 
right foot, bringing it forward, and 
you recommence with the left The 



pas de basque should be made in three 
very eaual beats, as in the Mazurka. 
The laay performs the same steps as 
the gentleman, beginning bv the pas 
ds basque with the right foot To 
waltz k deux temps to the measure of 
the Redowa, we should make each 
sten upon each beat of the bar, and 
flna oiu*8elve8 at every two bars, the 
gentleman with his left foot forwards, 
and the lady with her right, that is to 
say, we should make one whole and 
one half step to every bar. The music 
is rather slower than for the ordinary 
waltz. 

IGO. TALSl CBLIAEnrS.— The 

gentleman takes the lady's left hand 
with his right, moving one bar to the 
left bv gli^adcy and two hops on his 
left foot, while the lady does the 
same to the right, on her right foot ; 
at the second bar they repeat the 
same with the other foot — tnis is re* 
peated for sixteen bars; they then 
waltz sixteen bars, glissade and two 
hops, taking care to occupy the time 
of two bars to get quite round. The 
gentleman now takes both hands of 
the lady, and makes the grand square 
— moving three bars to nis left — at 
the fourth bar making two beats while 
turning the angle ; his right foot is 
now moved forward to the other angle 
three bars — at the fourth, beat ag^ 
while turning the angle ; the same 
repeated for sixteen bars — the lady 
haring her right foot forward when 
the gentleman has his left foot for- 
ward ; the waltz is again repeated ; 
after which several other steps are in- 
troduced, but which must needs be 
seen to be understood. 

161. WALTZ (the original known 
as the VcUsed trois temps). This dance 
consists of three steps. The gentle- 
man places his right hand on the 
lady's waist, taking her right hand in 
his left, the lady l£en placing her left 
hand on the gentleman s right shoul- 
der. The laay begins with her right 
fbot with a sliding step to the ri^t, 
then a step forward with t^e left foot 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OOFFBS WAS FIRST BROTTOHT TO ENGLAND IN 1641. 



bringmg the right foot up to it, 
slightly rising on the toes and tam- 
ing half-round, then three similar 
steps commencing with the left foot 
comnlete the other half round. The 
gentleman takes the same steps, but 
commences with the left foot 

152. Talse i Denx Tsmps.-— This 
waltz contains, like the common 
waltz, three times, but differently 
divided. The first time consists of a 
l^lidin^ step; the second a chassez, 
mcludmg two times in one. Achassex 
is performed by bringing one leg near 
the other, then moving it forward, 
backward, right, left, and round. 
The gentleman begins by sliding to 
the left with his left foot, then per- 
forming a chassez towardis the left 
with his right foot without turning at 
all during the first two times. He 
then slides backwards with his ri^ht 
leg, turning half round ; after which 
he puts his left leg behind, to perform 
a chassez forward, turning then half 
roand for the second time. The lady 
waltzes in the same manner, except 
that the first time she slides to the 
right with the right foot, and also 
performs the chassez on the right, and 
continues the same as the gentleman, 
except that she slides backwards with 
her right foot when the gentleman 
slides with his left foot to the left ; 
and when the gentleman slides with 
his right foot backwards she slides with 
the left foot to the left. To perform 
this waltz gracefully, care must be 
taken to avoid jumping, but merely 
to slide, and keep tne knees slightly 
bent 

153. CntCULAB WALTZ.~The 
dancers form a circle, then promenade 
during the introduction — all waltz 
sixteen bars — set, holding partner's 
right hand, and turn — waltz thirty- 
two bars — rest, and turn partners 
slowly — face partner and chassez to 
the right and left— pirouette lady 
twice with the right hiemd, all waltz 
sixteen bars— set and turn — all form 
a circle, still retaining the lady by 



the right hand, and move round to 
the left, sixteen bars— waltz for 
finale. 

154. CIBCA88IAV dSOLE.— The 

company is arranged in couples round 
the room — the ladies being placed on 
the right of the gentlemen, — after 
which, the first and second couples 
lead off the dance. Figure, Bight 
and left, set and turn partners — 
ladies* chain, waltz. — At the conclu- 
sion, the first couple with fourth, and 
the second with the third couple, re- 
commence the figure, — and so on 
until they go completely round the 
circle, when the dance is concluded. 

155. POLKA.— The gentleman 
and lady place themselves in position 
as in the waltz. The lady steps 1o 
the right with the rijjht foot, araws 
the left foot up to it and springs 
slightly on the nght foot ; then steps 
to the left with the left foot, draws 
the right foot up to it and springs 
slightly on the left foot, at the same 
time turning to the right Care 
should be tdcen to mark each third 
step as indicated by the music. The 
gentleman's step is exactly the same 
as the lady's, but of course he com- 
mences with the left foot 

156. 8CH0TTI8CHE.— Theg;entle- 

man holds the lady precisely as in the 
waltz. Beginning with the left foot, 
he slides it forward, then brings up 
the right foot to the place of the left, 
slides the left foot forward, and 
springs or hops on this foot. This 
movement is repeated to the right 
He begins with the right foot, slides 
it forward, brings up tne left foot to 
the place of the right foot, slides the 
right foot forward again, and hops 
upon it The gentleman springs 
twice on the left foot, turning half 
round ; twice on the right foot ; twice 
enc^e on the left foot, turning half 
round ; and again twice on the right 
foot, taming half round. Beginning 
again, he proceeds as before. The 
Ifuiy begins with the right foot, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PHOSPHORTTS WAS DISGOVERED IN 1677. 



61 



her step is the same in principle as 
thQ gentleman*8. Vary, by a reverse 
turn : or by going in a straight line 
round the room. Double, if yon like, 
each part, by giving foar bars to the 
first part, and four bars to the second 
part. The ^iTTW may be stated as pre- 
cisely the same as in the polka ; but 
let it not be forgotten that La Schot- 
iieche ought to be danced much 
slower. 

157. THE AXSBICAN BABH 

DAHCE.— The Barn Dance can be 
danced to any Schottische music. 
The partners stand side by side, the 
gen tlemantakinghis partner's left hand 
with his right, going straight forward 
in the first four bars. Start with the 
ri^ht foot, take three steps, extend, 
bnnsf up and extend ; now swing the 
left foot (from behind) in front of the 
right, with the foot turned down- 
wards. This finishes up the fourth 
beat. The left foot now being in 
front, the next bar is commenced with 
it, repeating the step, and bringing 
the right foot in front on the fourth 
beat. The next two bars are danced 
in the same way, finishing with four 
bars of hops, as m the ordinary Schot- 
tische. 

158. THE lOLAHTHS.— The time 
is the same as in the Bam Dance. 
Partners give hands for the first four 
bars, and join as usual for the next 
four bars. The lolanthe has, in 
addition to that used in the Bam 
Dance, nine other steps or figures. 
They are not easy to describe, and 
must be learned by practical experi- 
ence. 

159 THE NATIONAL (dlTAD- 
BILLE). — Thi.s is a very pretty and 
popular quadrille, and is danced 
thus : — 

England (1st Figure). Balancez 
to partners — Balancez to comers — 
advance and retire (Four) — AdvanVe 
and waltz with ladies vis-^i-vis — Ad- 
vance and retire once more — 
adyanoe and waltz with partners to 



places — Hands all round, advance, 
retire, and turn pai'tners — (sides re- 
peat from the first "advance "). 

Wales (2nd Figure). Four ladies 
advance and retire — Advance, join 
right hands, and waltz to opposite 
places — Four gentlemen advance and 
retire — Advance, right hands across, 
and rejoin partners — Demi-grande 
chatne to places — Grand waltz (16 
bars). 

Second time. — Four gentlemen ad- 
vance and retire — Advance, right 
hands across, waltz to opposite places 

— Four ladies advance and retire — 
Advance, right hands across, rejoin 
their partners — Demi-grando chaine — 
Grana waltz (16 bars). 

Scotland (drd Fi^^ure). Balancez 
to comers — ^Waltz with comer ladies 
to opposite places — Again balancez 
to corners — Waltz with next comer 
ladies to places — Repeat till all in 
their places — Four ladies cross right 
hands to opposite places while gentle- 
men waltz to right, and meeting 
partnera, all waltz to places — Gen- 
tlemen cross right hands to opposite 
places while ladies waltz to right, and 
meeting partners all waltz to placesh— 
Finish with demi-grande clmne, and 
all waltz to places. 

Ireland (4th Figiu^). 1st and 2nd 
couples waltz round (8 bars) — Grand 
moulin bv all the couples — Change 
sides — Hands all round, tum comera 

— Hands all round again, tum part- 
ners — Repeat, side couples be^nning. 

United Kingdom (5th Figure). 
Grand chain — Ist couple prome- 
nade, sides follow, all form two lines 
(as in last figure of Lancers) — Ladies 
waltz to the right and gentlemen to 
left — Meet at bottom and waltz 
to places — Grand waltz (16 bars) — 
Repeat the whole four times, each 
couple starting to promenade in tum. 

llnale. Grand chain, and finish 
with grand waltz (twice) and courtesy. 

160. Snt BOOSB BE COYSB- 
LET. — ^AU form two lines, the een- 
tlemen focing the ladies. Top Suly 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



$2 AVERAGE WEIGHT OT MAN'S BBAIH, 8) LB8. ; WOMAN'S, 2 LBS. 11 OZB. 



md bottom gentleman adyanoe to 
centre, present right hands and pass 
quickly round each other to placet, 
top gentleman and bottom lady do 
the same, then top lady and bottom 
gentleman advance, give left hands 
and pass qoicklv round to places, top 
gentleman and bottom lady the same. 
The beginning couple adyance and 
give both hands, turning round to 
places, following couple the same. 
The top lady and bottom gentleman 
advance to centre and turn round each 
other back to back without touching, 
the other couple do the same ; first 
lady and bottom gentleman then 
advance, bow to each other and retire, 
first gentleman and bottom lady the 
same. The top gentleman then turns 
outwards to his right, and the ladv 
turns outwards to her left; each 
leading down to the bottom of the 
room, followed by the other gentlemen 
and ladies. The top couple meet at 
the bottom, join hands, holding them 
up as an arch for the other couples to 
dance through to places, but remain- 
ing themselves at the bottom. The 
figure is then repeated by the other 
couples in succession. 

161. LA POLKA COUNTBT 
DANCE. — All form two lines, ladies 
on the right, gentlemen on the left 
Figure, Top lady and second gen- 
tleman heel and toe (polka step) across 
to each other's place — second lady and 
top gentleman the same. Top lady 
and second gentleman retire back to 
places — second lady and top gentle- 
man the same. Two couples polka 
step down the middle and back agun 
— two first couples polka waltz. First 
couple repeat with the third 
couple, then with fourth, and so on 
to the end of dance. 

162. THE HieHLAirD BSSL.— 

This dance is performed by the com- 
pany arranged in parties of three, 
along the room in the following 
manner : a lady between two gentle- 
men, in double rows. All advance 
and retire — each lady then performs 



the reel with the gentleman on her 
ri^t hand, and retires with the op- 
posite gentleman to places— hands 
three round and back agcain — all six 
advance and retire — then lead through 
to the next trio, and continue the 
figure to the end of the room. Adopt 
the Highland step, and music of 
thrse-foor time. 

168. TEEKS USED IN DANCES. 

Balancez. — Set to partners. 

Chatne Anglaise. — The top and 
bottom couples right and left. 

Chaine Anglaise double. — The right 
and left double. 

Chaine des Dames. — The ladies' 
chain. 

Chaine des Dames double. — The 
ladies' chain double, which is i)er- 
formed by all the ladies commencing 
at the same time. 

Chassez. — Move to the right and 
left 

Chassez croisez. — Gentlemen change 
places with partners, and back again. 

Demie CJiaine Anglaise, — The four 
opposite persons half right aud left 

Vemic ProTnenade. — ^All eight half 
promenade. 

Demie Moulimt. — The ladies all ad- 
vance to the centre, giving hands, and 
return to places. 

La Grande Chaine. — All eight 
chassez quite round, ladies starting 
to their left and gentlemen to their 
right, giving alternately right and 
left hands. 

La Orande Honde. — All join hands 
and advance and retire twice. 

Pas d^Allemande. — The ^ntlemen 
turn the partners under their arms. 

Traversez. — The two opposite per- 
sons change places. 

Fis-d'Vis. — The opposite partner. 

164. SCANDAL-LIVE IT DOWN. 

Should envious tongaes some malice frame. 
To son and tarnish your good name, 

Live it down I 
Grow not disheartened ; *tis the lot 
Of all men, whether good or not : 

Live it down I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A man's HEABT beats 92,160 TIMSS a DAT. 



68 



BaU cot in aiunrer, but be calm : 
For silence yields a rapid balm : 

Live it dovn ! 

Qo not among yonr friends and say, 
Bvil hath fallen on my way : 

Live it down ! 

Far better thus yourself alone 

To suffer, than with friends bemoan 

The trouble that is all your own : 

Live it down ! 

What though men evil call your good ! 
80 Christ Himself, misundexstood, 
Was nailed unto a cross of wood I 
And now shall you for lesser pain, 
Your inmost soul for ever stain. 
By rendering evil back again 7 

Live it down ! 

166. EBB0B8 DT SPSAKIVO.— 

There are several kinds of errors in 
speaking. In some cases words are 
employed that are unsuitable to convey 
the meaning intended. Thus, a person 
wishing to express his intention of 
going to a given place, says, ** I pro- 
pirn going, ^ when in feet, he purposes 
going. The following affords an amus- 
ing iUustration of this class of error : — 
A venerable matron was speaking of 
her son, who, she said, was quite 
stage struck. " In fact, remarked the 
old lady, ** he is goin^ to 9k premature 
performance this evening ! " Consider- 
ing that most amaleur performances 
are premtUure, it cannot be said that 
this word was altogether misapplied ; 
though, evidently, the maternal inten- 
tion was to convey quite another 
meaning. 

i. Other Srron Arise from the 
substitution of sounds similar to the 
words which should be employed ; that 
is, spurious words instead of genuine 
ones. Thus, some people say '*renu- 
merative" when they mean ** remu- 
nerative.'* A nurse, recommending 
her mistress to have a perambulator for 
her child, advised her to purchase a 
preamputatoT I 

iL Errors are OeoasioAed by im- 
perfect knowledge of the English 
grammar: thus, many people say, 
"Between you and I," instead of 



*' Between you and me" And there 
are numerous other departures ^m 
the rules of grammar, which will be 
pointed out hereafter. 

iii. By the Misoae of the Adjeetiye : 
" What beauiifid buttw 1 " " What 
a nice landscape ! " They should say, 
"What a beautiful land$eaper' 
**Wha,t nice butter/" 

iv. By the ][iiproB«noiatiom of 
Words. Many persons say jm>nouneia- 
^ion instead oi pronundation ; others 
say pro-nun'-she-a-shun, instead of 
pro-nun -ce-a-shun. 

y. By the XisdiTiiioa of Wordi 
and syllables. This defect makes 
the word an ambasaador sound like 
a nambastador, or an adder like a 
nadder, 

▼i. To eorreet theie errors by a 
systematic course of study would in- 
volve a closer application than most 
persons could afford, and require more 
space than we can devote to the 
subject. We however give numerous 
Rules and Hints, in a concise and 
simple form, which will be of great 
assistance to inquirers. These Rules 
are founded upon the authority of 
scholars, the usages of the bar, the 
pulpit, and the senate, and the 
authority of societies formed for the 
purpose of collecting and diffusing 
knowledge pertaining to the language 
of this country. 

166. BULES AND HUTTS FOB 
COBBXCT 8FEAKIKG. 

1. W7u> and whom are used in 
relation to persons, and which in 
relation to things. But it was once 
common to say ''the man which.'* 
This should now be avoided. It is 
now usual to say, "Our Father who 
art in heaven," instead of ** which art 
in heaven." 

2. IFhose is, however, sometimes 
applied to things as well as to persons. 
We may therefore say, " The country 
whose inhabitants are free." Gram- 
marians differ in opinion upon this 
subject, but general usage justifieo 
the rule. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64 



A SALMON HAS BEEN KNOWN TO PEODUCB 10,000,000 EGOS. 



S. Thou is employed in solemn 
discourse, and you in common lan- 
guage. Ye (plural) is also nsed in 
serious addresses, and you in familiar 
language. 

4. The uses of the word It are 
Tarious, and very perplexing to the 
uneducated. It is not only nsed to 
imply persons, hut things, and even 
ideas, and therefore, in speaking or 
writing, its assistance is constantly 
re<}uired. The perplexity respecting 
this word arises from the fact that in 
using it in the construction of a long 
sentence, sufficient care is not taken 
to ensure that when it is employed it 
really points out or refers to the 
object mtended. For instance, ** It 
was raining when John set out in his 
cart to go to the market, and he was 
delayed so long that it was over before 
he arrived." Now what is to be 
understood by this sentence T Was 
ihe rain over ! or the market t Either 
or both might be inferred from the 
construction of the sentence, which, 
therefore, should be written thus : — 
" It was raining when John set out in 
his cart to go to the market, and he 
was delayed so long tliat the market 
was over before he arrived." After 
writinff a sentence always read it 
throagn, and see that wherever the 
word It is employed, it refers to or 
carries the mind back to the object 
which it is intended to point out 

5. The general distinction between 
This and That ma^ be thus defined : 
this denotes an object present or near, 
in time or place, that something which 
is absent. 

6. These refers, in the same manner, 
to present objects, while those refers 
to things that are remote. 

7. tVho changes, under certain 
Conditions, into whose and whom. 
But t?uU and which always remain 
the same. 

8. Thatm&j be applied to nouns 
or subjects of all sorts ; as, the girl 
that went to school, the dog that bit 
me, the ship that went to London, 
the opinion that he entertains. 



0. The misuse of these pronouns 
gives rise to more errors in speaking 
and writing than an^ other cause. 

10. AVhen you wish to distinguish 
between two or more persons, say, 
** Which is the happy manf" — not 
who — " Which of those ladies do you 
admire t " 

11. Instead of " Who do you think 
him to be?" — say, **Whom do you 
think him to be ? " 

Whoni sliould I see t 
To whom do you speak 1 
^f^said so? 
W?io gave it to you ? 
Of wJwm did you procure them ? 
Who was he t 

Who do men say that / am ! 
Whom do they represent me to 
be?' 

12. In manj Instances in which ir^ 
is used as an uterrogative, it does not 
become whom; as •* Who do you 
speak to ? " " Who do you expect ? " 
*' Who is she married to ? " ** fflio is 
this reserved for?" •* Who was it 
made by ? " Such sentences are found 
in the writings of our best authors, 
and it would be presumptuous to 
consider them as ungrammaticaL If 
the word w?iom should be preferred, 
then it would be best to say, ** For 
whom is this reserved ? " &c. 

13. Sel/shovld never be added to 
hiSy their^ mine^ or ihine. 

14. Each is used to denote every 
individual of a number. 

15. Every denotes all the indi- 
viduals of a number. 

16. Either and or denote an alter- 
native : ** I will take either road, at 
your pleasure ; " "I will take this or 
that'^ 

17. Neither means not either; and 
nor means not the other, 

18. EHher is sometimes used for 
each — **Two thieves were crucified, 
on either side one." 



1 PereonB who wish to become well ac- 
oualnted with the principles of Engluk 



uTonfnMwr by tzL essf proo688, Afo recom- 
mended to procure ** The Useftil GnimmAi,' 
price 8d., pnbliahed by Houlston and Sons. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SOME FEMALE SPIDERS PRODUCE 2000 E008. 



65 



19. "Let each esteem others as 
good as themselves/' should be, 
"Let each esteem others as good as 
himself." 

20. "There are bodies each of 
which are so small," should be " each 
of which i8 so small." 

21. Do not use double superlatives, 
such as most straigJUest, most highest, 
inost finest, 

22. The term worser has gone out 
of use ; but lesser is still retained. 

23. The use of such words as dhief^ 
est, extremist, &c., has become obso- 
lete, because they do not give any 
suprior force to the meanings of the 
pnmaiT words, chitf, extreme, &c. 

24. Such expressions as, rtwre im- 
possible, more indispensahle, more 
universal, more uncontrollable, more 
unlimited, &c., are objectionable, as 
they really enfeeble the meaning 
which it is the object of the speaker 
or writer to strengthen. For instance, 
impossible gains no strength by render- 
ing it more impossible. This class of 
error is common with persons who 
say, "A great large house," "A 
great big animal," "A tiny little 
hand." 

25. Here, there, and where, origin- 
ally denoting place, may now, by 
common consent, be used to denote 
other meanings, such as, " T?iere I 
agree with you," " WTtere we differ," 
" We find pain wliere we expected 
pleasure, " ** Here you mistake me. " 

26. Hence, whence, and ihenct, de- 
noting departure, &c., may be used 
without the word/rowi. The idea of 
fro^n is included in the word whence — 
therefore it is unnecessary to say, 
^*From whence," 

27. Hithfir, thither,, and whither, 
denoting to a place, have generally 
been superseded by here, there, and 
where. But there is no good reason 
why they should not be employed. 
If, however, they are used, it is 
unnecessary to add the word to, 
because that is implied — " Whither 
are you going 1" " Where are you 
going t " Each of these sentences is 



complete. To say, " Where are you 
going to ; " is redundant 

28. Two negaiives destroy each 
other, and produce an affirmative. 
** Nor did he Tioi observe them," 
conveys the idea that he did observe 
them. 

29. But negative assertions are 
allowable. "His manners are not 
unpolite," which implies that his 
manners are, in some degree, marked 
by politeness. 

80. Instead of "I A<ui rather walk," 
say " I would rather walk." 

31. Instead of "Let you and /,*' 
say " Let you and me." 

32. Instead of "I am not so tall 
as him," say " I am not so tall 
as he." 

83. When asked " Who is there I " 
do not answer " Me," but " /." 

84. Instead of "For you and 7," 
say "For you and me." 

35. Instead of ''Says I," say "I 
said." 

36. Instead of " You are taller than 
WW," say " You are taller than I." 

87. Instead of "I ain\" or "I 
am*t," say " I am not." 

88. Instead of "Whether I be 
present or no," say "Whether I be 
present or not." 

39. For " Not that I know cw," 
say " Not that I know." 

40. Instead of '*Was I to do so," 
say "Were I to do so." 

41. Instead of "I would do the 
.same if I was him," say " I would do 
the same if I were he. 

42. Instead of "I had as lief go 
myself," say "I would as soon go 
myself," or " I would rather." 

43. It is better to say " Six weeks 
ago," than " Six weeks back." 

44. It is better to say '* Since which 
time," than " Since when." 

45. It is better to say " I repeated 
it," than "I said so over again." 

46. Instead of "X«w friends," say 
" Fewer friends." Less refers to 
quantity. Fewer to numbers. 

47. Instead of " A quantity of peo< 
pie," say "A number of people." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



i6 THEBB ABB 9000 CBLL8 IK A 8QUARB FOOT OF BOKETCOMB. 



48. Instead of ^* As for as I can 
see," say *' So (or as I cap sec" 

49- lusteftd of " If I am no^ m>i^ 
iahent** say " If I mistake not" 

^. Instead of " You are mis- 
Men" say **You mistake." 

51. Instead of *'What beatUiftU 
tei^ !" say "What ffood teal** 

52. Instead of "What a nice pros- 
pept J " ^y '* What a hecdutifMl proa- 
peotl" 

53. Instead of "A n»v) pair of 
gloves,** say *♦ A pair of new gloves." 

54. Instead of saying ** Not no sqch 
thiiuj," 8^y ** Not any such thing." 

557 Instead of ** I hope you'l} think 
pothing cm it," say ** | hope you'll 
^hink |iot)iing of it." 

56. Instead of ''Restore it back to 
m#," sny ** Restore it to ip©." 

57. Instead of " I seldom or ev^ see 
him," say "I seldom see him." 

58. Instead of ** Math^ toarmisk" 
or "A liUle warmish," say "Rather 
warm." 

5Q. Instead of *' I expected io have 
found him»*' aay ** I expected to ^nd 
him." 

60. Instead of ** He is a very riting 
person," say ** He is rising rapjdly." 

6V Ipstead of ** Who Itams you 
music?" say "Who teaches you 
m^sic I " 

62. Instead of '* I mvfr sing when- 
ever I can help it," say *' J never sing 
when I can help it" 

i(3. Instead of ** Before I do that I 
must j$rs( ask leave," say ** Before I 
do that I must ask leave." 

64. Instead of ** To gf^^owr the dif- 
ficulty,'* swr " To overcome the diffi- 
culty.'* 

65. The phrase "get over" is in 
many cases misapplied, as, to "get 
over a person," to " get over a week," 
to "get over an opposition.** 

66. Instead of saying "The obser- 
vation of the rule,*' say "The obser- 
vapce of thentle." 

67. Instead of "A map of eighty 
years of age," say "A man eighty 
years old.*' 

68. |pst«Ad of " Hf> dirf from neg- 



ligence,'* say "He died through neg- 
lect," or "in consequepce of neg- 
lect." 

69. Instead of " Apples are plenty,*' 
say *' Apples are plentiful." 

70. Instead of "The laUer end of 
the year," say " The end, or the close 
of the year.'* 

71. Instead of "The then goverp- 
ment," say " The government of that 
Sge, or century, or y«Wf or time." 

72. Instead of * ' For ought I know,*' 
write " For aught I know.** 

73. Jpstead of * • They are united to- 
gether in the bonds of matrimony,** 
say " They are united in matiimony,*' 
or, " They are married." 

74. Instead of "We travel slovf,*' 
say " We travel slowly." 

75. Instead of "He plunged <to«?tt 
into the river," say " He plunged into 
the river." 

76. Instead of "He jumped /row 
offo/ihe scaffolding," say " He jumped 
otf the scaffolding. " 

77. Instead of "He came the last 
qfall" say " He came the last." 

78. Instead of ** uuiversalf" with 
reference to things that have any 
limit, say "general"; "generally 
approved," instead of "pniversally 
approved"; "generally beloved, 
instead of " universal! v beloved.'* 

79. Instead of "They ruiped one 
another," ss^y "They ruined each 
other." 

80. Instead of "If in case I suc- 
ceed," say " If 1 succeed." 

81. Instead of "A k^rg^ enomh 
room," say "A room large enough. ' 

82. Instead of "I am sligpt in 
comparison to you,'* say "I am 
slight in comparison with yop.** 

83. Instead of "I went^r to see 
him," say " I went to see him." 

84. Instead of " The cake is all eait 
uj>" say "The cake is all oaten." 

85. Instead of "Handsome is as 
handsome does,*' say ^'Handsome is 
who handsome does. 

86. Instead of "As I take it," say 
"As { see,** or "As I upderstand 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A COW 00NSTTME8 100 LBS. OF OltEBN TOOD DAILT. 



67 



87. iDstend of ** His opinioiiB are 
approved of by all, " say ** His opinions 
are approved by all.'* 

88. Instead of "A sad curse is 
war," say " War is a sad curse." 

89. Instead of ** He stands six foot 
high," say **He measures six feet," 
or ** His height is six feet." 

00. Instead of ** I go every now 
and ihen^** say " I go often, or fre- 
quently." 

91. Instead of *' Who finds him in 
clothes," say **Who provides him 
with clothes." 

92. Say "The first two," and *'the 
last two," instead of ** the ttco Jirtt," 
** the two last ;" leave out all exple- 
tives, such as '* of all," ''first of ail," 
•'last of aU," "best of all," Itc., 
kc 

98. Instead of "His health was 
drank with enthusiasm,'* say "His 
health was drunk enthusiastically." 

94. Instead of " Except I am pre- 
vented," say "Unless I am pre- 
vented." 

96. Instead of **In its primary 
mi$e" say ** In its primitive sense." 

96. Instead of " Qive me ihem 
papers," say "Give me those papers." 

97. Instead of "He was a man 
notorious for his benevolence," say 
"He was noted for his benevolence." 

98. Instead of " She was a woman 
celebrated for her crimes," say " She 
was notorious on account of her 
crimes." 

99. Instead of "What may your 
name be ? " say "What is your name ! " 

100. Ixisiem oi^'lAyimokingitoften 
becomes habitual," say "By smoking 
often it becomes habitual." 

101. Instead of "I lifted it wp," 
say "I lifted it" 

102. Instead of " It is equally ofih$ 
same value," say "It is of the same 
value," or "eaual value.** 

108. Instead of " I knew it iwmtm* 
to your telling me," say " I knew it 
previously to your telling me." 

104. Instead of " You t^os out when 
1 called," say "Yon were out when I 
oalled." 



105. Instead of " I thought I should 
have won tliis game," say " I thought 
I should win this came." 

106. Instead of"* This much is cer- 
tain," say "So much is certain." 

107. Instead of " He went away as 
it may he yesterday week," say **He 
went away yesterday week." 

108. Instead of <*Put your watch 
inyonx pocket," say ** Put your watch 
into your pocket." 

109. Instead of "He has po< riches," 
say "He has riches." 

110. Instead of "Will you set 
down ? " say " Will you sit down I " 

111. Instead of "The hen is setr 
ting,** say "The hen is sitting." 

112. Instead of '* It is raimnff very 
hard" say " It is raining very fist" 

113. Instead of "No tAofiJkee," say 
"No thank you." 

114. Instead of "I cannot do it 
without/ar^A^r means," say " I cannot 
do it without further means." 

115. Instead of "No sooner hut,*' 
or " No other bui" askj " than." 

116. Instead of ** Nobody else hat 
her," say *♦ Nobody but her." 

117. Instead of "He fell cIoumfit»n 
the balloon," say "He fell from the 
balloon." 

118. Instf^ad of " He rose up from 
the ground," say "He rose from the 
ground." 

119. Instead of ** These kind of 
oranges are not good," say " This kind 
of oranges is not good. " 

120. lastead of "Somehow or 
aTiother,** say "Somehow or other." 

121. Instead of " Undeniable refer- 
ences required," sav '*Unexo6ptioBable 
references required." 

122. Instead of " I cannot rise suf- 
ficient funds," say "I cannot raise 
sufficient funds." 

128. Instead of « WeU, 1 don't 
know," say " I don't know." 

124. Instead of " JVill I give }k>u 
some more teaf" sav "Shell I give 
you some more tea ? " 

125. Instead of "Oh dear, what ici/2 
I do?" say "Oh dear, whet shall J 
do!" 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



68 



2800 SILKWORMS PRODTJCS 1 LB. OF SILK. 



126. Inatead of *' I will send it (xm- 
formahle to your orders," say ** I will 
send it confonnably to your orders." 

127. Instead of '*6ive me a few 
broth," say **Give me some broth." 

128. Instead of '* Her said it was 
here," say "She said it was hers." 

129. Instead of '* To be given atcay 



grcUis" say **To be given away." 

180. Instead of «^Will you enter 
in I " say ** Will you enter V* 

181. Instead of *' This three days 
or more," say ** These three days or 
more." 

132. Instead of ** He is a bad gram- 
marian^** say *'He is not a gram- 
marian." 

183. Instead of "We accuse him 
for,*' say *• We accuse him of." 

134. Instead of "We acquit him 
from/' say " We acauit him of." 

135. Instead of " 1 am adverse/rom 
that," say " I am adverse to that." 

136. Instead of " I confide onjou,** 
say " I confide in you." 

187. Instead of " I differ with you," 
say " I differ from you." 

188. Instead of "As soon as ever" 
say "As soon as." 

189. Instead of "The very best,'* or 
*'The very worst," say "The best or 
the worst." 

140. Instead of " A winter's mom- 
ing," say " A winter morning," or " A 
wintry morning." 

141. Insteaa of "Fine morning, 
this morning," say "This is a fine 
morning." 

142. Instead of " How do yon dot " 
say " How are you ! " 

143. Instead of "Not so well as I 
could wish," say "Not quite well." 

144. Avoid such phrases as "No 
great shakes," " Nothing to boast of," 
" Down in my boots," " Suffering from 
the blues. " All such sentences indicate 
vulgarity. 

145. Instead of "No one ?iasn*t 
called," say "No one has called." 

146. Instead of " You have a rigJU 
to pay me," say " It is right that you 
should pay me." 

147. Instead of " I am going on a 



tour," say "I am about to take a 
tour." 

148. Instead of "I am going over 
the bridge," say "I am going across 
the bridge." 

149. instead of " He lives opposite 
the square," say "He lives opposite 
to the square." 

150. Instead of " He belongs to the 
Reform Club," say " He is a member 
of the Reform Club." 

151. Avoid such phrases as " I am 
up to you," " I'll be down upon you," 
"Cut," or "Mizzle." 

1 62. Instead of " J should just thiuk 
I could," say " I think 1 can." 

153. Instead of "There has been 
a good deal,** say "There has been 
much." 

164. Instead of " Follwring up a 
principle," say "Guided by a prin- 
ciple.'* 

165. Instead of "Your obedient, 
humble servant,'* say "Your obedient," 
or, "Your humble servant." 

156. Instead of saying "The effort 
you are making /or meeting the bill," 
say "The effort you are making to 
meet the bill." 

157. Dispense with the phrase "Con- 
eealfrom tketnselves the fact ; " it sug- 
gests a gross anomaly. 

158. Never say ** Pure and unaduU 
terated,'* because the phrase embodies 
a repetition. 

159. Instead of saying, "Adequate 
for," say " Adequate to."' 

160. Instead of saying "A stirplus 
over and above," say " A surplus. ' 

161. Instead of saying "A lasting 
and permanent peace,'* say ** A perma- 
nent peace. " 

162. Instead of saying " I left you 
behind at London," say "I left you 
behind me at London.' 

163. Instead of saying ** Has been 
followed by immediate dismissal," say 
"Was followed by immediate dis» 
missal." 

164. Instead of saying " Charlotte 
was met with Thomas," say * * Charlotte 
was met by Thomas." But if Charlotte 
and Thomas were walking together, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A QTTEEN BSE PRODUCES 100,000 EGOS IN A SEASON. 



'* Charlotte and Thomas were met by," 
&c. 

165. Instead of '* It is stranj^ that 
no author should never have wntten," 
say '*It is strange that no author 
should ever have written." 

166. Instead of **I won't never 
write," say ** I will never write." 

167. Instead of saying "They are 
not what nature designed them/' say 
"They are not what nature designed 
them to be." 

168. Instead of " By this means" 
say **By these means." 

169. Instead of "All that was 
waniing/* say "All that was 
ixraiitod ' 

170. Instead of * * The quality of the 
apples were good," say " The quality 
of the apples was good." 

171. Instead of "The want of 
learning, courage, and energy are 
more visible," say "Is more visible." 

172. Instead of "We are conver- 
sant a6ou< it," say "We are conver- 
sant with it." 

178. Instead of "We die/<?r want," 
say " We die of want." 

174. Instead of "He died Jy fever," 
say " He died of fever." 

175. Instead of "I enjoy bad 
health," say "My health is not 
good." 

176. Instead of " SUher of the 
three," say "Any one of the three." 

177. Instead of " Better nor that," 
say "Better than that." 

178. Instead of "We often think 
an you," say " We often think of you. " 

179. Instead of "He was remark- 
able handsome," say "He was re- 
markably handsome.^* 

180. Instead of "You will some 
day be convinced," say "You will 
one day be convinced." 

181. Instead of "Because I don't 
choose to," say "Because I would 
rather not." 

182. Instead of ** Beca^iee why?" 
say "Why?" 

188. Instead of "That i^wj boy," 
say "That boy." 

18^ Instead of "Direct your letter 



tome," say "Address yoorlettet to 
me." 

185. Instead of "The horse is not 
mtieh woHhf** say " The horse is not 
worth much." 

186. Instead of saying "When he 
was come back," say "When he had 
come back." 

187. Instead of saying "His health 
has been shook," say " His health has 
been shaken." 

188. Instead of "It was spoke in 
my presence," say " It was spoken in 
my presence." 

189. Instead of " Fery right," or 
"F«ry wrong," say "Right," or 
"Wrong." 

190. Instead of "This town is not 
osIbx^ as we thought," say "This 
town IS not so larse as we thought" 

191. Instead of "I took you to be 
another person," say "I mistook you 
for another person. 

192. Instead of ''There's fifty," 
say "Tliere are fifty." 

198. Instead of "The^»<ofthe 
two," s^ " The better of the two." 

194. Instead of "Is Lord Lytton 
in I " say " Is Lord Lytton within I " 

195. instead of "Two spoonsful of 
phjrsic," say "Two spoonfuls of 
physic" 

196. Avoid such phrases as " I said, 
says I " " She said, says she," &c 

197. Instead of " He was in e77iira«7i< 
danger," say "He was in imminent 
danger." 

198. Instead of " The weather is 
hot" say "The weather is very 
warm.*' 

199. Instead of " I stoeat" say "I 
perspire." 

200. Instead of "I only want two 
shillings," say "I want only two 
shillings." 

201. Instead of " Whatsomever," 
always take care to say "Whatever," 
or "Whatsoever." 

202. Avoid such exclamations as 
" God bless me ! " " God deliver me ! " 
"By God!" "By Gor'!"*"My 
Lor ! " " Upon my soul," &c, which 
are vulgar, and savour of impiety. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



70 IT WOtnO TAKB 27,600 SPlDillS to PftODTJC* 1 Lfl. Of WKfi. 



167. PBOmrNClATIOH.— To ao- 

Suire a good knowledge of pronuncia- 
[OD, it is adrisable to listen atten- 
tively to the examples given by good 
speakers, and by educated persons. 
We learn the pronunciation of words 
to a great extent by imitoHonf just 
as birds acquire the notes of other 
birds which may be near them. 
Borne valuable Rules of Proaunoiation 
are given in paragraph 176. 

166. ACOIHTTTATIOH 07 W0BD8 

is a particular stress or force of the 
voice upon certain syllables or words. 
This mark ' in printing denotes the 
syllable upon which the stress or force 
of the voice should be placed. 

I. A wotd may liave mbrt ihMH one 
aoMftt — Take as an instance tispira- 
tion. In uttering this word we give 
a marked emphasui of the voice upon 
the first and third syllables, and there- 
fore those svUables are said to be 
accented. The first of ^hese accents 
is l6ss distinguishable than the second, 
upon which we dwell longer, there- 
fore the second accent in point of 
order is called the primary, or chief 
accent of the word. 

II. When the fttll accent falls on a 
vowel, that vowel should have a long 
sound, as in vo'cal ; but when it falls 
on or after a consonant, the preced- 
ing vowel has a short sound^ as in 
haJf/U. 

UL It If very Important to bear in 
mind that there are many words hav- 
ing a double meaning or application, 
and that the difference of meaning is 
indicated by the difference of the 



accent Among these words, fxouns 
are distinguished from verbs by this 
means : noujis are mostlv accented on 
the first syllable, and verbs on the last. 

ly. KoaA signifies name; noum 
are the names of persons and things, 
as well as of things not material and 
palpable, but of which we have a con* 
ception and knowledge, such as 
courage^ firmness^ goodness^ strengths 
and verbs express acHons^ movemeniSj 
kc. If the word used signifies that 
anything has been done, or is bein^ 
done, or is to be done, then that word 
is a verb. 

t. Thus, when we lay that any* 
thing is **an in'sult," that word is a 
Yumn, and is accented on the first 
syllable ; but when we say he did it 
** to insult' another person," the wCrd 
insulf implies ctcling^ and becomes a 
verbf and should be accented on the 
last svUable. The effect is, that, in 
speakmg, you should employ a differ- 
ent pronunciation in the use of the 
same word, when uttering such sent- 
ences as these :— ** What an in'sult ! " 
** Do you mean to insult' me V* In 
the first sentence the stress of voice 
must be laid upon the first syllable, 
tV, and in the latter case upon the 
second syllable, suUf. 

vi. Meaning varied by aceentnatlen. 
— In the following list of words that 
are liable to this variation it will be 
noticed that those in the first column, 
having the accent on the first syllable^ 
are mostly nouns ; and that those in 
the second column, which have the 
accent on the second and final sylla- 
ble, are mostly verbs : — 



lee. 


W0BD8 THS MSAKIHO 07 WHICH IS VAKIEI) BT 






ACCEirrUATIOlf, 






iVtfun, <jtc. 


Verb, dee. 


Noun, drc. 


Verb, ite. 


Noun, <tc. 


Verb, itc 


Ab'ject 


abject' 


Ang'ment 


augment' 


Com'pound 


compound' 


Ab'sent 


absent' 


Bom'bani 


bombard' 


Com'press 


compress' 


Ab'stract 


abstract' 


Ckjlleague 


colleague' 


Con'cert 


concert' 


Ac'cent 


accent' 


Conect 


collecf 


Con'crete 


concrete* 


Affix „ 


affix' 


Com'ment 


coramenf 


C!on'dact 


conduct' 


Afl'pect 


aspect' 


Com'pact 


compact' 


Cton'flne 


confine' 


At'tribute 


attribute' 


Com'plot 


complot' 


Con'fllct 


conflict' 


Au'gOBt 


Kugasf 






Oon'serre 


eonaerve' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THX HVMAK BOOT HAS 240 BONIB* 



Tl 



JfountdfCi 


rer6,*c 


Jfonn^Jtc 


Verb,^, 


Noutif *c. 


P(r6,^c 


CdD'sort 


consort^ 


Ex'port 


export' 


Pre'inlse 


premise' 


Con'test 


contest/ 


Bx'ti^t 


extracf 


Pre'sage 


presage' 


Con'toxt 


context' 


Per'ment 


fferment' 


Pres'ent 


presenf 


Gon'tract 


contract' 


Fore'cast 


IbrecJist' 


Prod'uce 


produce' 


Con'trast 


contnut' 


Fore'taste 


foretaste' 


Proj»bct 


project' 


Con'vene 


convene' 


Fre'quent 


fineqnent' 


Prot'eat 


protests 


Con'vert 


convert' 


Ira 'part 


impart' 


Reb'el 


rebel' 


Con'vict 


convict' 


Im'port 


import* 


Rec'ord 


i«coni' 


Con'voy 


convoy' 


Im'press 


impress' 


Refuso 


refUso' 


De'creaso 


decrease' 


Im'print 


imprint' 


Re'tail 


retail* 


t)e8'cant 


descant' 


In'cense 


incense' 


Sub*ject 


sul^ect' 


Des'ert 


deucrf 


In'crease 


increase' 


fin'pina 


iupine' 


De'tftil 


detail' 


Inlay 


iiUa/ 


feur'vey 


survey' 


Di'gest 


digest' 


In'sult 


Insult' 


tor'nient 


torment' 


tUs'cord 


discord' 


Ob'Joct 


object' 


, Tra'ject 


tnn^ect' 


DU'count 


discount' 


Out'letlp 


outleap' 


Trana'fer 


transfer' 


EPflut 


efflux' 


Per'fect 


perfect* 


Trans'port 


transpotf 


Ite'cort 


escort' 


PorTuttia 


perftime' 


Un'dresft 


Undress' 


Ss'say 


essaf 


Per'mit 


permit' 


Up'cast 


Upcast* 


Sx'ile 


exilo' 


Pre'flx 


prefix' 


Up'start 


npstarV 



176. JEOtnrCIAt DIALKCtS.— 

Fersous bred in many of the districts 
of the United Kingdom often retain 
metlMxls of pronunciation and certain 
expressions that are peculiar to those 
various localities, and therefore, when 
they move into other districts, their 
peculiarities of speech often cause 
them to appear vulgar and unedu- 
cated, when they are not so. It is, 
therefore^ desirable for all persons to 
approach the recognized standard of 
correctness as nearly as possible. 

171. Alltr&lKO PBOYIKCIALISMS. 

L Oornith.— An onid man found, 

one day, a young gentleman's 

Sortmantle, as he were a going to bs 
ennar : he took'd et en and gived et 
to OS wife, and said, *' Mf^lly, here's a 
roul of lither, look, see, I suppoase some 
yooT ould slioemaker or other have 
Wen ; tak'en, and put'en a ton of the 
teaster of tha bed ; heUI be glad to liab 
'en agin sum day, I dear say." The ould 
man, Jan, that was es neame, went to 
es work as before. Mally then opened 
the portmantle, and found en et three 
huiiaerd pounds. Soon after the4, 
tlie ould man not being very well, 
ilallysaid, "Jan, I'ave saaved away 
a little money) by the bye, and as 



thee caan*t read or write, thee ehu'st 
go to scool '* (he were then nigh three- 
score And ten). He went but a very 
short time, and comod hoam one day 
and said, ** Mally, t waiut ffo to scool 
no more, ^caase the chiloer do be 
lafien at me: they can tell their 
letters, and I caan't tell my A, B, C, 
and i wud rayther go to work agen." 
**Do as thee wool, ses Mally. Jan 
had not been oat many days, afore the 
young gentleman came by that lost 
the portmantle, and said, ** Well, mv 
ould man, did'ee see or hear tell o' sich 
a thing as a portmantle?*' ** Port- 
mantle, sar, was't that un, tomething 
like thickey t " (pointing to one behind 
es saddle.) ** I vound one the t'other 
day zackly like that." ** Where efl 
etl" "Come along, I carr'd 'en and 
gov'en to my ould 'ooman, Mally ; thee 
sha'tav'en, never vear. — Mally, where 
es that roul of lither I broft en tould 
thee to put en a top o' the teaster of 
the bed, qfore I go'd to scool t*^ 
"Brat thee emperance," said the 
young gentleman; **thee art be- 
wattled ; that wei'e afore I were horrC* 
So he druv'd off, and left all the 
three hunderd pounds with Jan and 
Mally. 
ii. Torkahire.— Men an' women is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 



THE MT78IOAL 80ALE WAS INVENTED IS 1022. 



like 80 xnonnj cards, playod wi' be 
two oppoanents. Time an Eternity : 
Time gets a gam' noo an' then, and 
hez f pleasure o' keepin' his cards for 
a bit, bad Eternity's be far t' better 
hand, an' proves, day be day, an' hoor 
be hoor, 'at he's winnin' incalcalably 
fast.—" Hoo sweet, hoo varry sweet, 
is life ! " as f flee said when he wur 
stuck 1' treacle ! 

ill. West Country.— Tttm?/ii«. " I 
zay, Jim, be you a purtectionist ? " 
Jim. ** E'as I be." Tummus. 
"Wall, I zay, Jim, what be purtec- 
tiont" Jiin, **Ix)a'r, Tummus, 
doan't 'ee knawt" Tummus, "Naw, 
I doan't " Jim, ** Wall, I doan't 
knaw as I can tell 'ee, Tummus, vur I 
doarCt ezakerly knaw myseV I '* 

172. AXUBIKG 0OGKHSYI8X8. 

i LowOookney. — "Seen that party 
lately ? " *• What 1 the party with 
the wooden lee, as come with — " 
" No, no — not that party. The party, 
you know, as—'* ** Oh 1 ah ! I Know 
the party you mean, now." "Well, 
a party told me as he can't agree with 
that other party, and he says that if 
another party can't be found to make 
it all square, he shall look out for a 
party as wilL" — [Aind so on for half- 
an-hour.) 

ii Omnibus Drirer. — Old acquaint' 
ance. " 'Ave a drop. Bill ? " Driver, 
** Why, yer see, Jim, this 'ere young 
hoss has only been in 'amess once 
afore, and he's such a beggar to bolt ; 
ten to one if I leave 'im he'll bo a- 
runnin' hofT, and a smashin' into 
suthun. Howsoever — here — (handing 
reins to a timid passenger)^}ay hold, 
sir, I'll chance it ! " 

iii Cookney Flunkey. — Country 
Jfootman meekly inquires of London 
Footman — ** I'ray, sir, what do you 
think of your town ? A nice place, 
ain't it?" London Footman (conde- 
scendingly). "Well, Joseph, I likes 
your town well enough. It's clean : 
your streets are hairy ; and you have 
lots of rewins. But I don't like your 
champagne, it's all gewsberry ! " 



It. Cookney Cabbjr {with politeness). 
— "Be^ pardon, sir; please don't 
smoke m the keb, sir ; ladies do com- 
plain o' the 'bacca uncommon. Better 
let me smoke it for yer outside, sir ! " 

T. JuTenilo Low Cockney.— "Jack ! 
Whereabouts is -tftastid-am ! " Jack. 
** Well, I can't say exackerley, but I 
know it's somewhere near *.^mpstid- 
'eath ! " 

yi Cookney Bomestio. — Lady. 
"Wish to kave! why, I thought, 
Thompson, you were very comfortable 
with me ! '* Thompson {who is ex- 
tremely r^ned). "Ho yes, mum 1 
I don't find no fault with you, mum 
— nor yet with master— but the truth 
his^ mum— the hoUier servants is so 
*orrid vulgar and hignorant, and 
speaks so hungrammatical, tbat I 
reely cannot live in the same 'ouse 
with 'em — and I should like to go 
this day month, if so be has it won't 
inconvenience you ! " 

Til. Cockney Hairdresser.— "They 
say, sir, the cholera is in the Hair, 
sir!" Qeni {very uneasy). "In- 
deed ! Ahem I Then I hope you're 
very particular about the brushes you 
use." Hairdresser. "Oh, I see you 
don't hunderstand me, sir ; I don't 
mean the 'air of the 'ed, but the haXr 
Aof .the ^atmosphere ! " 

173. HINTS FOB THE COBBEC- 
TICK OF THE IRISH BBOOTJE — 

According to the directions given by 
Mr. B. H. Smart, an Irishman wishing 
to throw off the brogue of his mother 
country should avoid hurling out his 
words with a superfluous quantity of 
breath. It is not hroadher and 
widher that he should say, but the d, 
and every otlier consonant, should be 
neatly delivered by the toncue, with 
as little riot, clattering, or breathing 
as possible, ^ext let him drop the 
roughness or rolling of the r in all 

E laces but the beginning of syllables ; 
e must not say s£fr-rum undfar-rum, 
but let the word bo heard in one 
smooth syllable. He sliould exercise 
himself until he can convert plas^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ALtm FIRST DISOOVE&SD A.D. 1800. 



78 



into please, plinly into plenty. Jama 
into Jesus, and so on. He should 
modulate his sentences, so as to avoid 
directing his accent all in one manner 
— from the acute to the grave. Keep- 
ing his ear on the alert for good ex- 
amples, and ezei-cising himself fre- 
quently upon them, he may become 
master of a greatly improved utter- 
ance. 

174. HIHTS FOB COBBSCmiG 
THE SCOTCH BBOGirS.— The same 
authority remarks that as nn Irish- 
man uses the closing accent of the 
Toice too much, so a Scotchman has 
the contrary habit, and is continu- 
ally drawling his tones from the 
grave to the acute, with an effect 
which, to southern ears, is suspensive 
in character. The smooth guttural r 
is as little heard in Scot£ind as in 
Ireland, the trilled r taking its place. 
The substitution of the former instead 
of the latter must be a matter of 
practice. The peculiar sound of the u, 
which in the north so often borders 
on the French u, must be compared 
with the several sounds of the letter 
as they are heard in the south ; and 
the long quality which a Scotchman 
is apt to give to the vowels that 
ought to be essentially short, must 
be clipped. In fact, aural observation 
and lingual exercise are the best 
remedies for excessive brogue. 

176. AKESICAKISXS.—We give 
below a short list of words in general 
use in America with their English 
equivalents. 



American. 


BnfflUh, 


Biscuit 


Roll 


Cracker 


Biscuit 


Dep6t 


Railway SUtioa 


Cars 


Railway Carriages 


"Bone-Can 


Tramway Oars 


Side Walk 


Foot Pavement 


Chore 


Errand 


Store 


Shop 


Saloon 


Public House Bar 


Ranch 


Cattle or Sheep Farm 


Lamber 


Timber 


FaU 


Autmim 



Anuriecm, 


Bngluh. 


Rooster 


Cock 


Sick 


m 


BOM 


Master 


Help 


Servant 


Caucus - 


Secret Assembly 


Smart 


Clever 



There are also man^r expressions 
peculiar to Americans witli which we 
are now getting quite familiar, such as 
— **I guess ;^ "I calculate;" "I 
reckon ; " " You bet ; " «* fix yourself 
up;"**run astore ;" "haven'tared 
cent ; " ** to boom," &c., &c 

176. BXTLSB OF FBOHITKCIATIOH. 

i C before a, o, and u, and in some 
other situations, is a close articulation, 
like k. Before e, i, and y, c is precisely 
equivalent to « in sarne, this; as in 
eeaar, civil, cypress, capacity, 

ii £ final mdicatee that the pre- 
ceding vowel is long ; as in hate, mete, 
sire, robe, lyre, abate, recede, invite, 
remote* intrude. 

iii. £ final indicates that c preceding 
has the sound of « ; as in lace, lance ; 
and that g preceding has the sound of 
j, as in charge, page, challenge. 

It. £ final, in proper English words, 
never forms a syllable, and in the most- 
used words, in the terminating unac- 
cented syllable it is silent Thus, 
motive, genuine, examine, granite, are 
pronounced rnotiv, genuin, examin, 
granit, 

T. E final, in a few words of foreign 
origin, forms a syllable ; as syncope, 
simile, 

▼i E final is silent after I in the 
following terminations, — hk, cle, dUe, 
fie, gle, kle, pie, tie, zle ; a» in able, 
nianacle, cradle, ruffle, mangle, 
tcrinkle, supple, rattle, puzzle, which 
are pronounced a'bU tnana'd, cra'cU, 
ruffl, man'gl, wrinkl, sup'pl, pu^zl, 

vii. E is usually silent in the ter- 
mination «n ; as in token, broken ; pro- 
nounced iokn, hrokn, 

yiii OUS, in the termination of 
adjectives and their derivatives, is 
pronounced it^/ as in gracious, pious, 
pompously. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



u 



AtS mtt) Ag A nVfeftAOS 404 TBAM B.C. 



ix. CE, CI, Tl, before a ro^l, have 
the sound of sh ; as in cetcuxous, gra- 
cious, malum, partial, ingrcUiatt ; pro- 
nounced cetashus, grashus, momun, 
parshal, ingrdshidU 

X. St, after an accented vowel, is 
pronounced like zh; as in Ephesian^ 
ctmfuMoh ; pronounced Ephezhan, con- 
fkzhotL 

tL When CI or TI Jn-ecede simi- 
lar combinations, as in pronuueui^/on, 
lietfotia^ion, they should oe pronounced 
ce instead of she, to prevent a repeti- 
tion of the latter syllable ; as pronun- 
eeashun instead oi pronumfluashon, 

Xii* GH, both ih the middle and at 
the end of words, is silent; as in 
catLght, bought, /HgfU, nigh, sigh ; pro* 
nounced aiut, baui, /rite, ni, si. In 
the following ezceptious, however, ah 
is pronounced as /r — cough, chough, 
clough, enough, laugh, rough, slough, 
tough, trough, 

ziii. When WH begins a word, the 
aspirate h precedes to in pronunciation ; 
as in what, iohifi, iohale ; pronounced 
hwat^ hwiff, hwUe, w having precisely 
the sound of oo, French ou. In the 
following words w is silent i-^who, 
whom, whose, whole, 
I sir. H after r has no sound or use ; 
as in rheum, rhyme; pronounced reum, 
ryme, 

XT. H should be sounded in the 
middle of words | as in foreAead, ab^r, 
beAoId, exAaust, inAabit, unAorse. 

Xft H should always be sounded 
except in the following words : — heir, 
honest, honour, hour, humour, and 
all their derivatives, — such as humor- 
ously, derived from humour. 

triL K and G are silent before n ; 
as know, gnaw ; pronounced no, naw, 

ztiiL W before r is silent ; as in 
wring, Wreath; pronoimced ri-ng, 
reath. 

six. B after m is silent ; as in dumb, 
numb ; pronounced rfwm, nu7n. 

xz. L before k is silent ; as in balk, 
walk, talk; pronounced bauk, wauk, 
tauk, 

xxi PH has the sound of/; as in 
philosophy; pronounced ^Zosq^y. 



XtiL KG has two sounds, one as in 
singer, the other as iafin-mr, 

xtiiL N after m, and closing A 
syllable, is silent ; as In hymn, 
condemn. 

xxiT. P before sand t is mute ; as in 
psalm, pseudo, ptarmigan; pronoimoed 
sarm, »udo, tarmigan, 

ttt. R has two sounds, one strong 
and vibrating, as at the beginning of 
words and syllables, such as roSter, 
reckon, error ; the other as at the ter- 
tnl nations of woi-ds, or when succeeded 
by a consonant, as/arwuT, mom, 

xxvi. Before the letter K there is li 
slight sound of e between the vowel 
and the consonant. Thus, bare, pdrent, 
apparent, mere, mire, m^re, pure, pyre, 
are pronounced nearly ft<wr,jtfatfre7ii, op' 
paerent, tne er, mier, moer,pucr,pyer. 
This pronunciation proceeds from the 
peculiar articulation of r, and it occa- 
sions a slight change of the sound of a, 
which can only be learnt by the ear. 

xxvii. There are other rules of pro- 
nunciation affecting the combination^ 
of vowels, kc. ; but as they are more 
difficult to describe, and as they do 
not relate to errora which are com- 
monly prevalent, we shall content 
ourselves with giving examples ot 
them in the following list of wordl 
When a syllable in any word in this 
list is printed in italics, the accent or 
stress of voice should oe laid on that 
syllable. 

177. (roper PronnnoUtion of 
Words often Wrongly Prononneed. 

Ab-domen, not d!»'-(16men 

AcQmen, not ac-ii-men. 

Again, usually pronounced ti-gen, not as 
fipelt. 

Allen, AH-en not ale-yen. 

Al-lop'-athy, not allo-iuithy. 

Antii>odefl, an-tip-o-dees. 

Apostle, as a-pos'lt without the t. 

Arch, artch in compounds of our own kin- 
guage, aa in archbishop, archduke; but 
ark in words derived from the Greek, as 
archaic, ar-lra-lk; archaeology, ar-ke-oi- 
o-gy: archangel, ark-aingel; archetype, 
or-ke-type ; archieplscopal, are-ke-e-pw-co- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ftk »lR8t tr«D in SKOLAKD A.D. 1698. 76 




Divers (several^ «a-V«rt j but diverse (dUfcr. 


ar-ldvz, Ac. 


ent), (R-terse. 


Ada, o-sha. 


Dome, as spelled, not doom. 


Aspaiagas as tpelled, not MpAngrass. 


Drought, drowt* not dtawb. 


Aunt, ant, not awnt 


Duke, as spelled, not dook. 


Awkward, awk-intrtf, not awk-Mitf. 


Dynasty, ctyn4W-te, not dy-nas-ty. 


Bade, bad. 


Edict, «-dickt, not ed-ickt. 


Bacaaae, be-cowt, not to-«ot. 


E'en and e'er, een and air. 


Beloved, as a verb, be4uvd ; as an a4JectlYe, 


Egotism, eg-O'XAzttk, not e-go-tlsm. 


^ be-{«v-ed. Blessed, cnnadfJte., are sattjeet 


Either, e-ther or i-ther. 


to the same rule. 


Engine, <n-Jin, not tn-Jin. 


B.neath, with the ih in brMtb, not with the 


Ensign, «n-8ign ; ensigncy, M4ln»«e. 


t* in breathe. 


Epistle, Without the t. 


Biog'raphy, as speUed, not beography. 


Epitome, e-pii-a-tnt. 


Bnoy, boy, not bwoy. 


Epoch, e-pock, nut <;p-oek. 


Cachinnation (laughter) is prononnoed kdk- 


Equinox, «-qui-nox, not e^-kwe-hot. 


in^nOfthdn. 


Europe, £7-rope, not If-rup. Auro-i)e-an, not 


OiUndar (an almanac), should be distlng. 


Eu-n>-pean. 




Every, w-er-y, not er-ry. 


Canal', as spelled, not ca-n«l. 


Executor, egz-ee-utor, not With the sound 


Caprice, cappeeoe. 


ofx. 


Catch, as speUed, not ketch. 


Extraordinary, as Spelled, not ex-tmr-di- 




ner-i, or «f-traotdlnftry, nor eitrorharey. 


Charlatan, «A4r*latan. 


Wicet (of a diamond) is pronounced fas'dt, 




not fa-set. 


Chasten, ohaim. 


February, as spelled, not Febuory. 


Chemistry, kem'-U-tn, not Hm-li-tre. 


Finance, flB-nance, not^nance. 


Chivaliy, «Ait>-aliy. 


Foundling, as spelled, not/<md-llng. 


Choir, kwire. 


Garden, gar^n^ not gikr-den, nor g&rd-lng. 


Clerk, Mark. 


Gauntlet, gawnt-let, not ^onMet. 


Cogndmen, not cog'ndmen. 


Geography, as spelled, not ^ojfraphy, or 


Colonel, as k^meL 


gehography. ' 


Combat, irum-bat. 


Geometry, as spelled, not>om-etry. 


Conduit, kun-dit 


06nddla, not gondOla. 


Corps, kor : the pluml corps Is pronounced 


Haunt, hawnt, not bant 


korz. 


Height, hite. not highth. 


Courteous, eurt-yus. 


Heinous, Aay-nus, not A««.flU8. 


Courtesy (politeness), cur-tc-sey. 


Her-ku-l6an, not her-kQ-lean. 


Courtesy (a lowering of the body), eurt-aOf. 


Highland, ^Mand, not Aee-Und. 


Covetous, cuv-e-tus, not cuv-e-chus. 


Horizon, ho-ri-zn, not hoM-toh. 


Cresses, as spelt, not cr««-8es. 


Housewife, pronounced In the ordinary 


Ciirios'ity, cu-re-<w^ty, not curotity. 


way when it mtsans the mistress of a 


Cushion, eoo«^-nn, not coosh-in. 


house who is a good manager ; but Atu-wi^, 


Dannt, downt, not dant or damt, as some 


when it means a small case for needles. 


erroneously pronounce it. 


Hymeneal, hy-men-<-ol, not hymenal 


Desire should have the sound of «. 


n-lus'trilted, not fl-lus'-ter-ated. 


Despatch, de-«pa«cA, not tfw-patch. 


Indict Is pronounced In-dlte, not ih^'ct. 


Dew, due, not doo. 


Instead, in-«^, not instid. 


Diamond, as spelled, not di-raond. 


Isolate, t-so-late, not iz-o-late, nor i^late. 


Diphthong should be pronounced dif'ihmg. 


Jalap, >aZ-ap, notjolnp. 


Diploma, de-pfo-ma, not dip-lo-ma. 


January, as spelled, not Jenuary. 


Diplomacy, de-pto-ma-cy, not diplo-vA-cf. 


Ja-gu-lar, not jCig'u-lar. 


Direct, de.fec*t, not di-rect. 


Just, as spelled, not Jest. 


piatlch (poetry) is pronounced dJU-Hk, 


Leave, as spelled, not leaf. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 



AUCTIONS OOMMENCSD IN BRITAIN A.D. 1779. 



Legend, l^^-vud, not I«-gend. 

Lieutenant, lef-eoi-«nt, not lea-<«iMUit. 

LUmo, not l«y>lock. 

Many, mm-ney, not man-nj. 

Marchioness, tnor^un-ness, not u spelled. 

MsMacre, mcu-sa-ker, not mas-sa-ore. 

Matron, ma-trun, not mat-ron. 

Mattress, as spelled, not m<a-trass. 

Medicine, mect-e^in, not mecf-oin. 

Minute (sixty seconds), nun-it. 

Minute (small), Ttd-nttU, 

Miscellany, mis-«eMany, not mu-cellany. 

Mischievous, t)u«-chiv-u8, not mi8-cA«<v-ius. 

Murrain is pronounced THur^rin. 

Ne'er, for never, nare. 

Neighbourhood, nay-bur-hood. 

Nephew, ii«v-u, not n<r-u. 

New, no, not noo. 

Notable (worthy of notice), no-ta-bL 

Oblige, as spelled, not obleege. 

Oblique, ob4e€kt not o-Uilx. 

Odorous, o-der-us, not oeI-ur*us. 

Of, ov, except when compounded with there, 
here, and where, which should be pro- 
nounced there-^, here-</, and wheren}/^. 

Often, of n, nut of-ten. 

Organization, or-gan-i-io-tion, not or-ga- 
iM-za-shun. 

Ostrich, of-trich, not oi-tridge. 

(Vid, not O-vid. 

Pageant, jNv*ent, notpo-Jant. 

Partisan, jxir-te-zan, not par-te-san, nor 
jxtr-ti*zan. 

Patent, jxi-tent, not jxU-ent. 

Perh'aps, not praps. 

Phthisis is pronounced tU-it. 

Physiognomy, as ^-i-o^-nomy, not phy- 
sionnomy. 

Pincers, pin-cerz, not pinch-erz. 

PlaintifT, as spelled, not plan-tiff. 

Pleb-is-cl-tum, not ple-bisci-tum. 

Pneumonia, as nQ-rao'-nea. 

Pour, pore, not so as to rhyme with our. 

Pr6b'-end-ary, not pr6-bend-ary. 

Precedent (an example), jirw-e-dent; pre- 
ce-dent (going before in point of time, 
previous, former) is the pronunciation 
of the adJectJve. 

Prologue, pro-log, not proZ-og. 

Quadrille, ka-dril, not quod-riL 

Quarantine is pronounced quarantine. 

Quay, key, not as spelled. 

Rodiali, as spelled,* not red-ish. 

Baillexy, nii^'-er-y, or ro^-er-y, not as spelled. 



Rather, ror^ther not xay-ther. 

Resort, re-Mrt 

Resound, n-tound. 

Respite, tn-pit, not as spelled. 

Rout (a party ; and to rout) should be pro- 
nounced rowt. Route (a road), root 

Saunter, «av»-ter, not tam-ter or «ai»*ter. 

Sausage, saio-sage, not sos-sidge, nor sas- 
sage. 

Sceptic is pronounced tldpftik. 

Schedule, «Aed-ule, not shed-die. 

Seamstress is pronounced teem-stress ; but 
semp-stress, as the word is now commonly 
spelt, is pronounced Mm-stress. 

Sewer, «oo-er or nt-er, not shore, nor shure. 

Shire, as spelled, when uttered as a single 
word, but shortened into shir in compo- 
sition. 

Shone, shdn, not shun, nor as spelled. 

Soldier, «>^-jer. 

Solecism, w^e^^icm, not so-le-cixm. 

Soot, as spelled, not sut 

Sovereign, sov-er-in, not suv-er-in. 

Specious, «pe-shus, not ipe«^us. 

Stomacher, <(«fii-a-cher. 

Stone (weighty as spelled, not stun. 

Synod, niMxl, not <y-nod. 

l^net, (en-et, not te-net. 

Tenure, «n-ure, not (<-nure. 

Than, as spelled, not thun. 

Theatre is pronounced CA^ater, not iht-df' 
ier. 

Trait is pronounced tray. 

Tremor, trew-ur, not «re-mor. 

Twelfth should have the th sounded. 

Umbrella, as spelled, not um-ber-el-la. 

Vase, vaiz or varz, not vawze. 

Vi'olet not voU'et 

Was, woz, not wuz. 

Weary, veer-l, not wary. 

Wore, wer, not ware. 

Wont, not wiut 

Wrath, rawth, not roth : as an ad^Jective it 
is spelled wroth, and pronoimced with the 
vowel sound shorter, as wr&th-fUl, Ac. 

Yacht, yot, not yat. 

Yeast, as spelled, not ytet. 

Zenith, xen-Ith, not M-nith. 

Zodiac, z<Hle-ak. 

Zoology should have both o's sounded, as 
zo-oi-o-gy, not aw-lo-gy. 
iVbte.— The tendency of all good elocu- 
tionists is to pronounce as nearly in accord- 
ance with the spelling as possible. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PUBLICATION OF BANNS OF MARRIAOB OOMUXNOBD A.D. 1210. 



77 



Pr01L01Ul06~-~ 

■ ftce, not las, as fturnace, not tamis9. 

— '•ga, not idge, as cabbage, conrage, post- 
age, ylUage. 

«-«in, •ane, not in, as certain, oertanc, not 
cerU'n. 

— ate, not it, as moderate, not moderif. 

^eot, not ec, as aspect, not aspec ; sald«ct, 
not snttjac. 

— ed, not id, or ud, as wickol, not wicktd, 
or wickud. 

— ^ not 1, nuxtol, not modi ; novel, not novl 

—en, not n, as sodden, not suddn.— Bur- 
den, burthen, garden, lengthen, seven, 
strengthen, often, and a few others, have 
the e silent. 

— ence, not unoe, as influence, not influ-itnc«. 

— es, not is, as pleas««, not pleasu. 

— ile should be pronounced il, as forttf, not 
tertUey in all words except chamomile 
(c(uh\ exile, gentile, infiintile, reconcile, 
and senile, which should be pronoimced 
ile. 

—in, not n, as latin, not Latii. 

— nd, not n, as husband, not husban ; thou- 
sand, not thousan. 

— neas, not niss, as oarefkiln«M, not carsftil- 

— ng, not n, as singing, not singjn; spealc- 
in^, not speakin. 

— ngth, not nth, as strength, not strenth. 

—son, the o should be silent ; as in treason, 
trt^n, not tn-ton, 

— tal, not Ue, as capitoZ, not capitt^ ; metal, 
not vaeUU: morto/, not mortU: periodi- 
cal / not periodictc 

— xt, not X, as nttcf , not nex. 

178. PTTHCrnrATIOH. 

Ptmotuation teaches the method of 
pUdng FoifUs, or Stops, in written or 
printed matter, in such a manner as to 
clearly indicate the pauses which 
would be made by the author if he 
were communicating his thoughts 
orally instead of by written signs ; 
and correct punctuation is essential 
to convey the meaning intended, 
and to give due force to such pas- 
sages as the author may wish to 
impress upon the mind of the person 
to whom they are being communi- 
cated. 



179. THE F0IHT8 OB 8T0F8 are 

as follows : — 

Comma, Note of Interroga- 

Semicolon ; tion ? 

Colon : Note of Bxdama- 

Period, or Pull Point . tion I 
Apostrophe ' Parenthesis ( ) 

Hyphen - Asterisk, or Star * 

As these are all the points required in 
sim|)le epistolary composition, we will 
contme our explanations to the rules 
which should govern the use of them. 
The Other Points, however, are the 
paragraph IT ; the section § ; the dag- 
ger T ; the double dagger t ; the 
parallel || ; the bracket or parenthesis 
[ ] ; and some others. These, however, 
are quite unnecessary, exoept for 
elaboiate works, in which they are 
chiefly used for notes or marginal 
references. The rule — is sometimes 
used as a substitute for the bracket. 

180. BSLATIVE DUBATIOIT OF 
THE FAXTSEB FOB EACH FOIHT. 

Comma While you count One. 

Semicolon „ „ „ Two. 

Colon „ „ „ Three. 

Period „ „ „ Four. 

This, however, is not an infallible 
rule, because the duration of the 
pauses should be re^pilated by the 
degree of rapidity with which the 
matter is being read. In slow read- 
ing the duration of the pauses should 
be increased. 

181. DAHGEB OF lOSFLACIHa 
P0IKT8.— The misplacing of even so 
slight a point, or pause, as the 
comma, will often alter the meaning 
of a sentence. The contract made 
for lighting the town of Lirerpool, 
during the year 1819, was made 
void by the misplacing of a comma in 
the advertisements, thus: — "The 
lamps at present are about 4,050, and 
have in general two spouts each, com- 
posed of not less than twenty threads 
of cotton." The contractor would 
have nroceeded to furnish each lamp 
with the said twenty threads, but this 
being but half the usual quantity, the 
commissioners discorered that the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



78 



•ILK riKOT BROUOHT FROM INDIA A.D. 274. 



difference arose from the comma 
following instead of preceding the 
word i£h. The parties agreed to 
annul the contract, and a new one 
was ordered. 

18S. VI0S88ITT FOB UBS Of 
POniTl. The following sentence 
shows how (U^cult it is to read with- 
out the aid of the points used as 
pauses t — 

Death waits not for storm nor sunshine 
within a dwelling in one of the upper 
streets respectable In appearance and fur- 
nished with such eonveniences as distin- 
guish the habitations of those who rank 
among the higher classes of society a man 
of middle age lay on his last bed momently 
awaiting the final summons all that the 
most skilftil medical attendance all that 
love warm as the glow thai fires an angel's 
bosom eould do had been done by day and 
night for many long week4 had ministering 
spirits queh as a devoted wife and loving 
children are done all within their power to 
ward off the blow but there be lay his 
raven hair smoothed off from his noble 
brow his dark eyes lifted with unnatural 
brightness and contrasting strongly with 
the pallid hoe whieh marked him as an 
expectant of the dread messenger. 



The tent Sentence, properly 
pointedt and with capital letters 
placed after full-points, according to 
the adopted rule, may be easily read 
and unoerstood ': — 

Peath waits not for storm nor sunshine. 
Within a dwelling in one of the upper 
streets, respectable in appearance, and fur- 
nished with such conveniences as distin- 
guish the habitations of those who rank 
among the higher classy of society, a man 
of middle age lay on his last bed, momently 
awaiting the final summons. All that the 
most skilftU medical attendance— all that 
love, warm as the glow that fires an angel's 
bosom, could do, had been done ; by day 
and night, fbr many long weekA, had 
ministering spirits, such as a devoted wife 
and loving children are, done all within 
their power to ward off the hlow. But 
there he lay, his raven hair smoothed off 
fhNBi his noble brow, his dark eyes lighted 



with unnatural brightness, and contrasting 
strongly with the pallid hue which marked 
him as an expectant of the dread messenger. 

188. P0IHT8 IKDICATDre IX 
FEB88I0N, mAKIlTG, A» OON- 

KECTION.— i. The Apostrophe ' is 
used to indicate the combining of 
two words in one, — as John's book, 
instead of John, his book ; or to show 
the omission of parts of words, as 
Glo'ster, for Gloucester— tho* for 
though. These abbreviations should 
be avoided as much as possible. Cob- 
bet says the apostrophe ** ought to be 
called the mark of laziness and 
vulgaritv." The first use, however, 
of whicn we gave an example, is a 
necessary and proper one. 

it The Hyphent or conioiner - is 
used to unite words which, though 
they are separate and distinct, have 
so close a connection as almost to 
become one word, as water-rat, wind- 
mill, kc. It is also used in writing 
and printing, at the end of a line, to 
show where a word is divided and 
continued in the next line. Look 
down the ends of the lines in this 
column, and you will notice tiie hy- 
phen in several places. 

iii. Th9 Note of Intenrogfttiom P 
indicates tliat the sentence to which 
it is added asks a question ; ' as. 
What is the meaning of that asser- 
tion ? What am I to do t 

iv. The Note of Xselamation or of 
Admiration ! indicates surprise, plea- 
sure, or sorrow } as Oh ! Ah ! Good- 
ness ! Beautiful ! I am astonished ! 
Woe is me I 

Sometimes, when an expression of 
strong surprise or pleasure is intended, 
two notes of this character are em- 
ployed, thus ! ! 

T. The Parenthesis ( ) is used to 
prevent confusion by the introduction 
to a sentence of a passage not neces- 
sary to the sense thereof. ** I am 
going to meet Mr. Smith (though I 
am not an admirer of him) on Wed- 
nesday next" It is better, however, 
as a rule, not to employ pai-enthetical 
sentences. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WIXV8 WERE FIRST MADB Df BRITAIK A.D, 876. 



79 



vi, T%f 4iteri|k, or Star * may be 
employed to refer from the text to a 
imta of explanation at the foot of a 
ColumQ, or ^t the end of a letter. 
*^* Three stars are sometimes used to 
call particular attention to a para- 
graph. 

1Q4, SUTTSI OF SmiJHO. — 
The following rule^ will be found of 
great assistance in writing, because 
they relate to a class of words about 
iho spelling of which doubt and 
hesitation are frequently felt : — 

\. All words of one syllable ending 
in /, with a single vowel before it, 
havfl double I, at the close ; as, millf 

iL AU words of one syllable ending 
in I, with a double vowel before it, 
l)are one I only at the close : as, 
mmlt ml 

iU. Words of one syllable ending 
in /, when compounded, retain but 
one / each ; a9> fulfilj ikHfuL 

|y. Words of more than one syl- 
lable ending in I have one I only at the 
close; naydelight/uh faithful : except 
irfailf dowr^fallt recall, unwell, &c. 

ir. All derivatives from words end- 
ing in I have one I only ; as, equality, 
from $q\wl ; fultie99, from full; 
except they end in er, or ly; as, 
millt miller; full, fully. 

vi AU participles in ing from 
Terbs ending in e lose the e final ; as 
Tiavief having; amuse, amusing ; un- 
less they come from verbs ending in 
double #, and then they retain both { 
a?, 4ee, seeing ; agree, agreeing, 

YiL AU adverbs ending in ly and 
nouns in ment retain the e final of the 
primitives ; as hrave, bravely ; refiru, 
T^nemeTit; except truly, actnaw- 
ledgment, kc. 

Tiii. All derivatives from words 
ending in er retain the e before the r ; 
as rcfir, rrference; except hindrance, 
from hinder; r&memhranee from re- 
member; disastrous from disaster; 
mtM^lhrfim from monster; vxxndflrous 
from vm4tf ; twmbrum from swBiher, 



iz. Compound words, unless they 
both end in I, retain their primitive 
parts entire ; as, millskme, cMngeabk^ 
graceless; exoe^t alioays^ also, deplore 
able, alihough, alm^ost, admirable, 
ke, 

X. All words of one syllable ending 
in a consonant, with a single vow^ 
before it, double that consonant in 
derivative9 ; as, sin, sinner ; ship, 
shipping; big, bigger; sad, sadder, 
ko. 

xi. Words of one syllable ending in 
a consonant, with a double vowel be- 
fore it, do not double the consonant 
in derivatives: as, sleep, sleepy; 
troop, troopers. 

xii. AU words of more than one 
syllable ending in a single consonant, 
preceded by a single vowel, and 
accented on the last syllable, double 
that consonant in derivatives; as, 
eammit, committee ; eompel, compelled ) 
appal, appalling ; distil, distiUer. 

xiii Nouns of one syllable, ending 
in y preceded by i^ consonant, change 
y into ies in the plural ; and verbs 
ending in y preceded by a consonant, 
change y into ies in the third per* 
son singular of the present tense, and 
into ied in the past tense and past 
participle, as, f(y, flies ; I apply, he 
applies; vfe reply; we replied, or 
have replied. If the y be preceded 
by a vowel, this rule is not applicable ; 
as key, keys ; I play, he plays; we 
have enjoy&i ourselves. 

xIt. Compound words whose prim- 
itives end in y change y into i ; as, 
beauty, beaiutiful; k^eiy, loveliness, 

185. H Om HO HI THAT 18 

THE QUXSTIOH.— Few things point 
so directly to the want q( cultivation as 
the misuse of the letter H by persons 
in conversation. We hesitate to 
assert that this common defect in 
speaking indicates the absence of 
education — for, to our surprise, we 
have heard even educated persons 
frequently oommit this common and 
vulgar error. Now, for the purpose 
of MBJiting thoM who desire to im- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



80 



COAUB FIRST BROUGHT TO LONDON A.D. 1857. 



prove their mode of speaking, we 
intend to tell a little story about oar 
next-door neighbour, Mrs. Alexander 
Hitching, — or, as she frequently 
styled herself, with an air of con- 
scious dignity, Mrs. Halexander 
'Itching. 

Her husband was a post-captain of 
some distinction, seldom at home, 
and therefore Mrs. A. H. (or, as she 
rendered it, Mrs. H, L) felt it incum- 
bent upon herself to represent her 
own dignity, and the dignity of her 
husba^ also. Well, this Mrs. 
Hitching was a next-door neighbour 
of ours— a most agreeable lady in 
many respects, middle-aged, ffood- 
lookmg, uncommonly fond of talking, 
of active, almost of fussy habits, very 
good-tempered and good-natured, but 
with a most impleasant habit of mis- 
using the letter H to such a degree 
that our sensitive nerves have often 
been shocked when in her society. 
But we must beg the reader, if Mrs. 
H. should be an acquaintance of his, 
not to breathe a word of our having 
written this account of her — or there 
would be no limit to her " Aindigna- 
tion." And, as her family is very 
numerous, it will be necessary to keep 
the matter as quiet as can be, for it 
will scarcely be possible to mention 
the subject anywhere, without '* 'orri- 
fying" some of her relations, and 
instigating them to make Mrs. H. 
become our "Aenemy,'* instead of 
remaining, as we wish her to do, our 
intimate friend. 

One morning, Mrs. H. called upon 
me, and asked me to take a walk, 
sayixig that it was her Aobject to look 
out ror an 'ouse, as her lease had 
nearly terminated ; and as she had 
often heard her dear 'Itching say that 
he would like to settle in the neigh- 
bourhood of 'Ampstead 'Eath, she 
should like me to assist her by my 
judgment in the choice of a resi- 
dence. 

'* I shall be most happy to accom- 
pany you," I said. 

" I knew you would," said she ; 



"and I am sure a Aour or two in 
your society will give me pleasure. 
It's so long since we've 'ad a gossip. 
Besides wnich, I want a change of 
Aair." 

I glanced at her peruke, and for a 
moment laboured under the idea that 
she intended to call at her hair- 
dresser's ; but I soon recollected. 

** I suppose we had better take the 
Aomnibus," she remarked, **and we 
can get out at the foot of the 'ilL" 

I assented, and in a few minutes 
we were in the street, in the line of 
the omnibus, and one of those vehi- 
cles soon appearing — 

** Will you 'ail it !** enquired she. 

So I hailed it at once, and we got 
in. Now Mrs. H. was so fond of 
talking that the presence of strangers 
never restrained ner — a fact which I 
have often had occasion to regret. 
She was no sooner within the omni- 
bus than she began remarking upon 
the ^inconvenience of such vehicles, 
because of their smallncAS, and the 
^insolence of many of the conductors. 
She thought that the proprietors 
ought only to 'ire men upon whose 
civility they could depend. Then 
she launched out into laiger topics — 
said she thought that the J7emperor 
of Austria — (here I endeavoured to 
interrupt her by asking whether she 
had any idea of the part of Hamp- 
stead she would like ; but she would 
complete her remarks by saying)— 
must be as 'appy as the days are long, 
now that the Aempress hsd presented 
him with a hare to the throne 1 
(Some of the passengers smiled, and 
turning round, looked out of the 
windows. ) 

I much wished for our arrival at 
the spot where we should alight, for 
she commenced a story about an 
'andsome young nephew of hers, who 
was a distinguished ^officer of the 
Aarmy. This was suggested to her, 
no doubt, by the presence in the om- 
nibus of a nne-looking young fellow, 
with a moustache. She said that at 
present her nephew was stationed in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PAPER MADE OF OOTTON BAGS A.D. 1000. 



81 






JETireland ; but he expected soon to 
be bordered to South ^africa. 

The gentleman with the mouBtaohe 
seemed much amosed, and smilingly 
asked her whether her nephew was at 
all Aambitioos ? I saw that he (the 
ffenUeman with the moustache) was 
jesting, and I would' have given any- 
thing to have been released from the 
unpleasant predicament I was in. 
But what was my annoyance when 
Mrs. H. proceeded to sav to this 
outh, whose face was radiant with 
lumour, that it was the 'ight of her 
nephew's Ambition to serve lus 
country in the horn of need; and 
then ^e proceeded to ask her fellow- 
traveller nis opinion of the ^upshot 
of the war— remarking that she oped 
it would soon be Aover. 

At this moment I felt so nervous 
that I pulled out my handkerchief, 
and enoeavoured to create a diversion 
by making a loud nasal noise, and 
remarking that I thought the wind 
very .c(ud, when an accident 
happened which took us all by sur- 
prise : one of the laije wheels of the 
omnibus dropped on, and all the 
passengers were jostled down into a 
comer, but, fortunately, without 
serious injury. Mrs. H., however, 
happening to be under three or four 
jtorsons, raised a loud cry for •* ' elp I 
'elp ! " She was speedily got out, when 
she assured us that she was not " 'urt ; 
but she was in such a state of Aagita- 
tion that she wished to be taken to a 
chemist's shop, to get some J^aroma- 
tic vinegar, or some ffoede Cologne ! " 
The chemist was exceedingly polite 
to her, for which she said she could 
never express her ^obligations — an 
assertion which seemed to me to be 
literally true. It was some time be- 
fore she resumed her accustomed free- 
dom of conversation ; but as we 
ascended the hill she explained to me 
that she should like to take the house 
as tenant from *ear to *ear/ — but 
she tliought landlords would Aobject 
to such an agreement, as when they 
got a good tenant they liked to 'old I 



'im as long as they oould. She ex* 
prissed an opinion that 'Amstead 
must be very ealthy, because it was 
so 'igh hnp. 

We soon reached the summit of the 
hill, and turned through a lane which 
led towards the Heath, and in which 
villas and cottages were smiling on 
each side. *' Now, there's a Aelegant 
little place!" she exclaimed, "just 
suited to my Aideas — about Aeight 
rooms and a Aoriel Aover the En- 
trance." But it was not to let — so 
we passed on. 

I^*esently, she saw something likely 
to suit her, and as there was a bill 
in the window, "To be let — ^Enquire 
Within," she gave a loud rat-a-tat-tat 
at the door. 

The servant opened it 

" I see this 'ouse is to let." 

*' Yes, ma'am, it is ; will you walk 
in!" 

" 'Ow many rooms are there ? " 

** Eleven, ma'am ; but if you will 
step in, mistress will speak to you." 

A very graceful lady made her ap- 
pearance at the parlour door, and in- 
vited us to step m. I felt exceedingly 
nervous, for I at once perceived that 
the lady of the house spoke with that 
accuracv and taste which is one of the 
best indications of refinement. 

"The house is to let — and a very 
pleasant residence we have found it. 

** 'Ave you ^occupied it lonff 1 " 

"Our family has resided here for 
more than nine years." 

" Then, I suppose, your lease 'as run 
Aout 1 " 

"No! we have it for five years 
longer : but my brother, who is a cler- 
j^yman. has been appointed to a living 
in Yorkshire, and for his sake, and for 
the pleasure of hiB society, we desire 
to remove." 

" Well— there's nothing like keeping 
families together for the sake of 'appi- 
ness. Now there's my poor dear 'Itch- 
ing" (here she nausea, as if some- 
what affected, ana some young ladies 
who were in the room drew their heads 
together, and appeared to oonsultabout 

V 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



82 



GLASS MAJftTFACrtnilrt) tN EKGLA!rt) A.D. 1457. 



their needlework; bat I saw, «by 
dimples upon their cheeks, which they 
could not conceal, that they were 
smiling), **'e's 'itherto been Aat 'ome 
so seldom, that I've *ardly ^ver known 
what ^appiness Ms." 

I somewhat abruptly broke in upon 
the conversation, by sugj^estin^ that 
she had better look through the house, 
and inquire the conditions of tenancy. 
We consequently went through the 
various rooms, and in every one of 
them she had "an Objection to this," 
or **a 'atred for that, or would cive 
**an *int which might be useful to 
the lady when she removed. The 
young ladies were heard tittering very 
much whenever Mrs. H. broke out, in 
a loud voice, with her imperfect elocu- 
tion, and I felt so much annoyed, that 
I determined to cure her of her defective 
speaking. 

In theeveninSy after returning home, 
we were sitting by the fire, feeling com- 
fortable and cnatty, when I proijosed 
to Mrs. Hitching the following enigma 
from the pen of the late Heniy May- 
hew: — 

The Vide Vorld you may tearch, and my 

fellow not find ; 
I dwells tn a Wacaum, deficient in Vind ; 
In the Wi8i«e I'm seen— ia the Woice I am 

heard. 
And yet Vm inwlsible, givea went to no Yard. 
I'm not much of a Vag, for I'm vanting in 

Vit; 
Bat distinguished In Werse for the Wolluma 

I've writ. 
I'm the head of all Willains, yet far from the 

Vurst- 
Vm the foremost In Wice, though In Wirtuo 

the first 
rm not used to Yeapons, and ne'er goes to 

Yor; 
Though in Walour inwincible— In Wktory 

sure: 
The first of all Wiands and Wictuals is 

mine— 
lUch In Wen'ion and Weal, but deficient in 

Ylne. 
To Wanity given, I in Welwets abound ; 
But in Yoraan, in Yife, and fn Yidder ain't 

found: 



Tet oonspieuous In Wiigini, and I'll tell you, 

between us. 
To persons of taste I'm a bit of a Wenus ; 
Yet none take me for Yeal— or for Yoe in its 

stead. 
For I ranks not among the sweet Yoo'd, 

Yun, and Yed I 

Before the recital of the enisma was 
half completed, Mi's. Hitching laughed 
heartily — she saw, of course, nie mean- 
ing of it — that it was a play upon the 
C<x;kney error of using the V instead of 
tlie W, and the latter instead of the V. 
Several times, as I proceMed, she ex- 
claimed "ifexcellent ! ^excellent!" 
and when I had finished, she remarked 
that it was very "^ingenious," and 
enough to **^pen the /ieyes" of the 
Cockneys to their stupid and vulgar 
manner of speaking. 

A more difficult and delicate task lay 
before me. I told her that as she was 
so much pleased with the first enigma, 
I would submit another by the same 
author. I felt very nervous, but deter- 
mined to proceed : — 

I dwells hi the Berth, and I breathes In the 

Hair; 
If you searehes the Hooean, you'll find that 

I'm there. 
The first of all [Hangels, in Holympus am 

Hi. 
Tet I'm banished from 'Eaven, expelled from 

on 'Igh. 
But though on this Horb I am destined to 

grovel, 
I'm ne'er seen in an 'Ouse, in an 'Ut, nor an 

'Ovel ; 
Kot an 'Oss nor an tJnter e'er bears me, 

alas! 
But often I'm found on the top of a Hass. 
I resides in a Hattic, and loves not to roam, 
And yet I'm invariably absent ftom 'Ome. 
Though "ushed in the IJrricane, of the 

Hatmosphere part, 
I enters no 'Bd, I creeps into no 'Art 
Only look, and youll see in the Heye I 

appear, 
Only 'ark, and youll 'ear me Just breathe in 

the Hear; . 
Though in sex not an 'E, I am (strange 

paradox!) 
Not a bit of an 'Biferi but partly a Hox. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1»I11NTIN0 BRorOHT TO BNOLANt) BY OAXTON A.D. 14fl. 



^ 



Of Hetemity Hi'm the b«giiiniiig! And, 

mark, 
Though I goes not with Noah, I am first In 

the Hark. 
Tm never in 'Ealth, hare with Fysic no 

power ; 
I dies in a Month, but comes hack in a 

Heur! 

In reciting tbe above I strongly 
emphasised the misplaced A's. Auer 
a brief pause, Mrs. Hitchings ex- 
claimed, "Very good; very clever." 
I then determined to complete my task 
by repeating the following enigma upon 
the same letter written by Miss Cather- 
ine Fanshawe and often erroneously 
attributed to Byron : — 

Twas whispered in heaven, 'twas muttered 

in hen. 
And echo caught fkintly the sound as it fell ; 
On the confines of earth twas permitted to 

rest. 
And the depths of the ocean Its presence 

confess'd. 
Twin be found in the sphere when tis riven 

asunder, 
Be seen in the lightning, and heard in the 

thunder. 
Twas aUotted to man with his eaiOiest breath. 
Attends at his birth, and awaits him in 

death; 
It presides o'er his happiness, hononr, and 

health. 
Is tiie prop of his house, and the end of his 

wealth. 
In the heaps of the miser 'tis hoarded with 

care, 
Bat is sare to be lost on his prodigal heir. 
It begins every hope, every wish It must 

bound. 
With the hosbandmaa tolls, wHh the monarch 

is crowned. 
Without it the soldier and ff m rnan may 

roam. 
But woe to the wwtch who expels it from 

home. 
In the whispers of oontoSenee its voice win 

be found. 
Nor e'en, in the whirlwind of panien be 

drowned. 
TwiU not soften the heart, and though deaf 

to the ear, 
TwiU make it acutely and instantly hear. 



But in shade let it rest, like a delicate 

(lower— 
Oh, breathe on it softly-^it dies in an hour. 

She was much pleased, but seemed 
thoughtful, and once or twice in con- 
versation checked herself, and cor- 
rected herself in the pronunciation of 
words that were difficult to her. 

A few days afterwards, I called 
upon her, and upon being introduced 
to the parlour to wait for her appear- 
ance, I saw lying upon her table the 
following 

186. HSKOEAKBtJlC OK THS 
08S OF THS LEHXK H. 

Pfwioim«— Heir, 'Eir. 

w Honesty, 'Onesty. 

„ Honour, 'Onour. 

„ Hour, 'Our. 

„ Humour, 'Umour. 

In all other ccua th«H it to U mmndtd 
when it beffiTU a word. 

Mem,— Be careflil to sound the J7 slightly 
in such words as wAere, w^n, wAat, wAy-— 
don't say were, wen, wat, wy. 

187. Hnrrs on CONTEBgATIOK. 

There are many talkers, but few 
who know how to converse agreeably. 
Speak distinctly, neither too rapidly 
nor too slowly. Accommodate thepitch 
of your voice to the hearing or the 
person Tyith whom you are conversing. 
Kever speak with your mouth full. 
Tell your jokes, and laugh afterwards. 
Dispense with superfluous words — 
such as, ""Well, 1 should think," etc. 

The Woman who wishes her con- 
versation to be agreeable will avoid 
conceit or affectation, and laughter 
which is not natural and spontaneous. 
Her language will be easy and un« 
studied, marked by a graceful care- 
lessness which, at the same time, 
never oversteps the limits of propriety. 
Her lips will readily yield to a pleasant 
smile, she will not love to hear her- 
self talk ; her tones will bear the im- 
press of sincerity, and her eyes kindle 
with animation as she speaks. The 
art of pleasing is, in truwi, the very 
soul of good breeding ; for the preciBe 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



84 



TOBACCO BROUGHT TO BNOLAKD FBOM VIROIKIA A.D. 1588. 



object of the latter is to render us 
agreeable to all with whom we asso- 
ciate — to make us, at the same time, 
esteemed and loved. 

Wo need soareely adrert to the 
rudeness of interrupting any one who 
is speaking, or to the impropriety of 
ptushing, to its full extent, a discus- 
sion which has become unpleasant. 

Some persona hare a Xania^ for 
Greek and Latin quotations : this is 
peculiarly to be avoided. It is like 
pulling up the stones from a tomb 
wherewith to kill the living. Nothing 
is more weaiisome than p^antry. 

If you feel yonr Intelleotnal 
Superiority to any one with whom 
YOU are conversing, do not seek to 
bear him down; it would be an in- 
glorious triumph, and a breach of 
^i^ood manners. Beware, too, of speak- 
ing lightly of subjects which bear a 
sacred character. 

It is a Common Idea that the art of 
writing and the art of conversation 
are one ; this is a great mistake. A 
man of genius may be a very dull 
talker. 

The Two Grand Modes of making 
your conversation interesting, are to 
enliven it by recitals calculated to 
affect and impress your hearera, and 
to intersperse it with anecdotes and 
smart things. Count Antoine Rivarol, 
who lived from 1767 to 1801, was a 
master in the latter mode. 

188. HIW TB Oir LETTEB 
WBITIKG. 

L At the head of your Letter, in 
the right-hand comer, put your ad- 
dress in full, with the day of the 
month underneath ; do not omit this, 
though you may be writing to your 
most intimate friend for the thira or 
even the fourth time in the course of 
a day. 

ii What yon have to Say in yonr 
Letter, say as plainly as possible, as 
if vou were speaking ; this is the best 
rule. Do not revert three or four 
times to one circumstance, but finish 
as you go on. 



iii. Do not Cross your Letters; 
surely paper and postage is cheap 
enough now to admit of using an 
extra half-sheet, in case of necessity. 
Frequent underlining of words is 
another fault, and is generally un- 
necessary. If your letter is properly 
expressed, the reader will supply the 
emphasis. 

It. Let your Signature be written 
as plainly as possible (many mistakes 
will be avoided, especially in writing 
to strangers), and without any flour- 
ishes, as these do not add in any way 
to the harmony of your letter. We 
have seen signatures that have been 
almost impossible to decipher, being a 
mere mass of strokes, without any 
form to indicate letters. This is done 
chiefly by the ignorant, and would 
lead one to suppose that they were 
ashamed of signing what they had 
written. 

T. If you are not a Ck>od Writer 
it is advisable to use the best ink, 
paper, and pens. For although they 
may not alter the character of your 
handwriting, yet they will assist to 
make your writing look better. The 
paper on which you write should be 
clean, and neatly folded. 

▼1. If ^u write to a Stranger for 
information, or on your own business, 
be sure to send a stamped envelope 
with your address plainly written ; 
this will not fail to procure you an 
answer. 

Til. Let the Direetion be written 
very plainly ; this will save the post- 
man trouble, and facilitate business by 
preventing mistakes. 

yiii. If the Addreii bo in London 
add the letters of the postal district in 
which it happens to be, for this also 
saves trouble in the General Post 
Office. Thus, in writing to the nub- 
lishers of ** Enquire Within," whose 
house of business is in the East Cen- 
tral (E.G.) postal district, address 
your letter to Messrs. Houlston and 
SonSy Paternoster Square, London, 
E.C. 

is. Alwayi put a Stamp on yonr 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TELB80OPE8 INVENTED IN OBRUANY A.D. 1690. 



85 



envelope, at the top, in the right- 
hand comer. 

X. Care most be taken in giving 
titled persons, to whom yon write, 
their proper designations. 

189. ADDEESSIKG LSTTEB8.— 

As this branch of epistolary corre- 
spondence is one of the most import- 
ant, we subjoin a few additional hints 
which letter writers generally would 
do well to attend to. 
i. When writing several letters, 

5 lace each in its envelope, and ad- 
resB it as soon as it is written, 
otherwise awkward mistakes may 
occur, your corresnondents receiving 
letters not intended for them. If 
there be a town of the same name as 
that to which you are writing existing 
in another county, specify the county 
which you mean on the address. 
Thus, Richmond, Yorkshire. 

iL When the person to whom you 
are writing is visiting or residing at 
the house of another person, it is con- 
sidered vulgar to put "at Mr. So- 
and-So*s," but simply "Mr. So-and- 
So's," at being understood. 

iiL When addressing a gentleman 
with the prefix "Mr.," the Christian 
name or initials should always follow, 
being more polite, as well as avoiding 
oonfSsion wnere persons of the same 
surname mav reside in one house. 

It. In addressing a letter to two or 
more unmarried l^ies, write "The 
Misses Johnson," and not "The Ifiss 
Jofvnsant;" and, lastly, always write 
an address clearlv and legibly, so that 
it may not be delayed in dehveiy, nor 
bemissent 

190. ADDBE88ES OF FSB80N8 
OF BAHK AHD DISTIVCTION.^ 

191. The Queen or King. — Super- 
seriplioTu — To the Queen's (Kin^s) 
Most Excellent Majesty. 

1 Adapted from the JHetionnrp ^ Dailjf 
WantSf published by Iloulston and Sou, 
Botornoner Sqture, CO., in one Tolame, 
half bound, at 7<. 0(2., or In three separate 
Tolomes, doth, each 2c 6d. 



CommencemenL — "Sire" or "Mad- 
am" ; May it please your Majesty. 

Conelunon, — I remain, with the pro- 
foundest veneration. Your Majesty's 
most faithful subject and dutiful 
servant 

192. Prineet of the Blood BoyaL — 

L The Sons and Daughters, Brothers 
and Sisters, Uncles and Aunts of the 
Sovereign,— Sup, — To His {Her) Koyal 
Highness the IMnce of Wales {Princess 
of Wales). 

Comm, — Your Royal Highness. 

Con. — I remain, with the greatest 
respect (I have the honour to be), 
your Royal Highness's most obedient 
servant 

ii. Other hraiuihes of the BcyaZ 
Family, — Sfip, — To His Royal High- 
ness the Duke of Cambridge. 

Comm, — Your Royal Highness. 

Con. — I remain, with the greatest 
respect, your Royal Highness s most 
humble and obedient servant 

198. Nobility and Gantry.— L 
Duke or Duchess, — Sup, — To His Grace 
the Duke (Her Orace the Duchess) of 
Northumberland. 

Comm. — My Lord Duke (Madam), 

Con. — I have the honour to be. My 
Lord Duke (Madam), Your Grace s 
most devoted and obedient servant 

ii Marquis or MarcJiioness. — Sup. 
— To thellnast Honourable the Marquis 
(Marchioness) of Salisbury. 

Comm. — My Lord Marquis 
(Madam). 

Con. — I have the honour to be, My 
Lord Marquis, Your Lordship's (Afoa- 
am. Your Ladyship^s) most'ol>cdient 
and most humble servant 

iii. Earl or Countess. — Sup. — To the 
Right Honourable the Earl (Cou^Uess) 
of Aberdeen. 

Comm. — My Lord (Madam), 

Con, — I have the honour to be, My 
Lord, Your Lordship's (Madam, your 
Ladyship's) most obedient and very 
humble servant 

It. ViseowU or Viscountess,— Sup, 
—To the Right Honourable Lord Vw- 
oount (Lady Viaoountess) Brown. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 



BOO0 BADLY BOILED ABX GOOD THINGS SPOILED. 



Comni, and Con. same as Earl's. 

V. Baron or Baronets. — Sup. — To 
the Right Honourable Lord (Lady) 
Robinson. 

Comm, and Con, same as Earl's. 

vL VouTiger Sons of Earh and 
all the Sons of Viscounts and Barons, 
— Sup, — To the Honourable Arthur 
Jones. 

Comm, — Honoured Sir. 

Con. — I have the honour to be, 
Honoured Sir, Your most obedient and 
very humble servant 

vii. Baronet and His Wife. — Sup, 
—To Sir Stafford Smith, Bart (Lady 
Smith). 

Comm. — Sir (Madam), 

Con, — I have the honour to be, Sir, 
Tour most humble and obedient 
(Madam, your Ladyship^s most obe- 
dient and very huirible) servant. 

viii. Knight and his Wife. — Sup. 
— ^To Sir Francis Brown (Lady 
Brown). 

Comm. and Con. as preceding. 

ix. Maid of iTonour.--'* The Hon. 
Miss " 

^tfjriii.— Madam. 

X. Esquire.— This title is now ac- 
corded to every man of position and 
respectability, but persons entitled to 
superior consideration are distin- 
guished by "&c, &c., &C.," added to 
their superscription. 

The wives of Gentlemen, when 
several of the same name are married, 
are distinguished by the Christian 
name of their husbands, as Mrs. John 
Harvey, Mrs. "William Temple. 

xi. Privy Councillors. — These have 
the title of Right ffonountble, which 
is prefixed to their name thus : 

Sup. — ^To the Right Honourable 
William Jones, M.P. 

Comin. Sir. 

Con. — I have the honour to be. Sir, 
Your most obedient very humble ser- 
vant. 

194. The Clergy.— L Archbishop. 
— Sup. — To His Grace the Lord Arch- 
bishop of CanterbuiT. 

Comm, — tij Lord Archbishop. 



Con. — I remain, Your Grace's moat 
devoted obedient servant. 

iL Bishop,Sup.—To the Right 
Reverend tne Lord Bishop of Win- 
chester. 

Comm. — My Lord Bishop. 

Con.— I remain. My Lord Bishop, 
Your most obedient humble servant. 

iii Dootor of ZHvinity.—Sup.—liO 
the Reverend James Willum Robinson, 
D.D., or. To the Reverend Pr. 
Robinson. 

Comm.— Reverend Sir. 

CoT^. — I have the honour to be, Rev- 
erend Sir, Your most obedient servant. 

iv. Dean. — Sup. —To the Very Rev- 
erend the Dean of St Paul's ; or. To 
the Very Reverend Richard William 
Brown, M.A„ D.C.L., D.D., Dean of 
St Paul's. 

Comm. — Very Reverend Sir. 

Con, — I have the honour to be. Very 
Reverend Sir, Your most obedient 
servant 

v. Archdeacon. — Siq>. — To the 
Venerable Archdeacon Smith, D.C.L, 

Comm. — Venerable Sir. 

Con. — I have the honour to remain^ 
Reverend Sir, Your most obedient 
servant 

vi Clergyman Sup. — To the 

Reverend Thomas Jones. 

Comm. and Con. — Reverend Sir. 

viL Clergyman with Titles. — When 
a Bishop or other Clergyman possesses 
the title of Right honourable or 
honourable, it is prefixed to his Clerical 
title, but Baronets and Knights have 
their clerical title placed first, as in the 
following examples : — 

Sup. — To the Right Honourable and 
Right Reverend the Lord Bishop of 
Bath and Wells. 

Sup. — ^To the Honourable and Right 
Reverend the Lord Bishop of Norwich. 

Sup. — To the Right Honourable and 
Reverend Lord Wriothesley Brown, 
M.A. 

Sup. — To the Honourable and Reve- 
rend Baptist Wriothesley Robinson, 
M.A. 

Sup. — To the Reverend Sir Henry 
Jones, Bart, M.A( 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



YOU MAT DEPEND THE DUSTMAN IS YOUB FRIEND. 



87 



No clerical dignity confers a title or 
rank on the vrife of {ne dignitary, who 
is simply addressed Mistress, unless 
possessing a title in her own right, or 
through her hushand, independently 
of his clerical rank. 

105. Judges, Ito.—L Lord Chan- 
cellor. — Sup. — To the Right Honour- 
able Plantagenet Smith, Lord High 
Chancellor of Great Britain. 

ii. Master of the Bolls.— Sup.—To 
the Right Honourable the Master of 
the Rolls. 

iii. Ch^f Justice.— 'Sup.^To the 
Right Honourable the Lord Chief 
Justice ; or, the Right Honourable 
Lord Smyth, Lord Chief Justice of 
England. 

The Chief Justice of the Court of 
Common Pleas is addressed in the same 
form ; are all styled My Lord. 

It. Lords Justices of Appeal. — The 
Lords Justices of Appeal are Knights, 
and should be addressed thus : 

Sup.— To the Right Honourable Sir 
Robert Brown, Knt. 

T. Puisne Judges. ** The Hon. Sir 

" if a knight, or ** The Hon. 

Mr. Justice " Begin "Sir." 

vt Judge of CourUv Courts. — Sup. 
— To His Honour Judge John James 
Jones. 

TlL Justice <tf(he Peace (in England). 
*'The Rib»it Worshipful,** referred to 
(m the benuh as " Your Worship." 

106. Offieeri of tke Kavy and 
Army. — L Naval Officers. — Admirals 
thus: — 

Sup. — To Admiral the Honourable 
Sir Richard Smith. 

If untitled they are simply styled 
Sir. 

Commodores are addressed in the 
same way as admirals. 

Captains are addressed either to 
«* Captain William Smith, R. N. ;" 
or if on service, " To William Smith, 
SsQuire, Commander of H.M.S. '* 

lAsuUnamits are addressed in the 
same way. 

ii. Military Offi£ers.—kiX officers 
in th« *nny aboTe Lieutenants, Cor- 



nets, and Ensigns, have their military 
rank prefixed to their name and title. 

Sup.— To Qeneral Sir Frederick 
Robinson. 

Subalterns are addressed as Esquire, 
with the regiment to which they 
belong, if on service. 

197. Cknrernor of Colony.— "His 
Excellency (ordinarr designation) 
Governor of Sydney. Begin accord- 
ing to rank and refer to as '* Your 
ExceUeney." 

108. Ambassadort.— Ambassadors 
have Excellency prefixed to their other 
titles, and their accredited rank 
added. 

Suv. — To his Excellency Count 
Earoiyi, Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary from H.LM. (His 
Imperial Mtgesty) The Emperor of 
Austria. 

Sup. — To His Excellency The 
Right Honourable Earl of Blankshire, 
KJ>., G.C.M.G., K.C.B., Her Brit- 
annic M^jesty's Ambassador Extra- 
ordinary and Plenipotentiary to the 
Sublime Ottoman Porte. 

Comm.— "Sir," or "My Lord," 
according to rank. 

Con. — I have the honour to be, My 
Lord, Your Excellency's Most humbte 
obedient servant. 

The wives of Ambassadors have 
also Excellency added to their other 
titles. 

Envoys and Charg^ d'Affairee are 
generally styled Excellency, but by 
courtesy only. 

Consuls have only their accredited 
rank added to their names or titles, 
if they have any, addressed thus t — 
** John Jones, Esq., H.B.M.'s As^nt 
and Consul-General," '*Consui, or 
" Vice-Consul,** as it may be. 

190. Xonioipal Offloers.— L Lord 

Mayor. — Sup. — To the Right Hon- 
ourable the Lord Mayor {The Lady 
Mayoress) of London, York, Dublin ; 
The Lord Provost (The Lady Provost) 
of Edinbui^h. 
Comm.—Uj Lord {Madam). 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



88 THS WINDOWS OFENSD MORS WOULD KEKP D00T0B8 FROM THB DOOR. 



(7<m. — I have the honour to be, my 
Lord, Tour Lordship's (Madam, Tour 
LadyMp*$) most obedient humble 
aenrant. 

ii. The Mayors of all Corporations, 
with the Sherifis, Aldermen, and 
Recorder of London, are styled Right 
WcrtiMgful ; and the Aldermen and 
Becorder of other Corporations, as 
well as Justices of the Peace, WoTihip- 
fid. 

200. Addrassai of Petitionf, kt. 
— L Queen in Council, — All applica- 
tions to the Queen in Council, the 
Houses of Lords and Commons, &c, 
are by Petition, as follows, varying 
only the title : 

To the Queen's Moat Excellent 
Mi^esty in Council, 

The humble Petition of M. N., 
Ac, showeth 

That your Petitioner 

Wherefore your Petitioner 
humbly prays that Your Majesty 
will be graciously i>1eased to . . . 
And your retitioner, as in 
duty bound, will ever pray, 
ii. Lords and Commons, — To the 
Bight Honourable the Lords Spiritual 
and Temporal (To the Honourable the 
Commons of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Ireland, in Parlia- 
ment assembled. 

The humble Petition, &c. 
And yovLT Petitioner [or Peti- 
tioners] will ever pray, ^cc 

201. Enris OK wBiTnre fob 

THB FBE88.— It would be a great 
service to editors and printers if all 
who write for the press would observe 
the following reasonable rules : — 

L Write with black ink, on white 
paper, wide ruled. 

u. Make the V^kOM or folios small, 
one-fourth of a foolscap sheet \a large 
enough. 

ill. Leave the second page of each 
lei^ blank ; or, in other words, write 
on one side of the paper only. 

It. Give to the written page an 
^y\% mai^ all round f or fold down 



the left-hand side to the extent of one- 
fourth the width of the entire paper 
so as to leave a broad margin on the 
left side of the paper. 

T. Number the pages in the order 
of their succession. 

vL Write iu a plain, bold, legible 
hand, without regud to bMuty of 
appearance. 

▼ii Use no abbreviations which are 
not to appear in print 

viii Punctuate the manuscript as 
it should be printed. 

ix. For italics underscore one line ; 
for small capitals, two; capitals, 
three. 

z. Never interline without the caret 
(a) to show its place. 

xi. Take special pains with every 
letter in proper names. 

xiL Beview every word, to be sure 
that none is illegible. 

ziii. Put directions to the printer 
at the head of the first page. 

xiv. Never write a private letter to 
the editor on the printer's copy, but 
always on a separate sheet. 

202. TTPEWBITIKO 1IACHIKE8. 

By means of these machines we are 
enabled to imprint legible character 
and letters on paper by merely pressing 
a number of keys, each representing a 
letter or character. With a little 
practice type- writing may be executed 
more rapidly and more legibly than 
writing with a pen, and as, by a simple 

Srocess, any number of copies of a 
ocument may be taken, much time 
and expense is frequently saved by the 
use of one of these machines, of which 
many varieties are to be had. 

208. MAHIFOLD WEmve. 

The demand for a rapid and simple 
method of multiplying letters, circu- 
lars, &c., has led in recent years to 
the invention of several ingenious 
processes. So few copies are obtain- 
able by the ordinary reporters* system 
of sheets of tissue paper, or *' flimsy," 
interleaved with sheets of prepared 
black paper, that various kinds of 
"graphs have been produced, by 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A DIRTT ORATB MAKBS DINNXB LATE. 



89 



which upwards of a hundred, and in 
some cases many more, copies may be 
produced from one wnting. The 
"graph" process usually consists in 
transferring a writing made in an ani- 
line dye on to a gelatine surface, from 
which, hy the application of successive 
sheets of'^paper, subjected to a smooth- 
ing pressure by the tiand, a number of 
copies may be obtained, in a manner 
very similar to the ordinary litho- 
graphic process. AH those which 
may be classed as " gelatine transfer ** 
processes are^ however, open to the 
objection that, after a certain num- 
ber of copies, the colour grows very 
faint Some other methods of mani- 
fold writing, such as the Edison, the 
Typograph, the Cyclostyle, &c. (by 
which 1000 copies can be taken from 
one writing), do not possess this fault, 
being bas^ on a principle of a fine 
stencil on prepared paper, and squeez- 
ing ink through the minute perfora- 
tions on to a sheet of paper fixed 
underneath. The writing in these 
stencil systems, however, has a "dot- 
ty *' and broken appearance, displeasing 
to many eyes — the Cyclostyle being, 
perhane, least faulty in this respect 
For tnose who would like to make a 
gelatine "graph,'" we append the fol- 
lowing recipes; any chemist will 
supply an aniline dye for the ink. 

208a. BSCIPE8 FOB OELAXnTE 
" 0RAPH8." 

L Take 2 parts of Russian glue,*!) 
of distilled water, and 5 of glycerine. 
Soak the glue in the water until soft, 
and then warm in the glycerine until 
it is dissolved ; if necessary, add 1 
part of fine whitening; pour the 
composition into a flat tray to cool — 
use when solid. 

ii. Another method is to soak 8' 
parts of Nelson's gelatine for 10 or 
12 hours in 4 parts of water. Add 8 
parts of glycerine and warm it up 
until it 18 dissolved. 

iii The German Papier Zeitung 
gives the following — Soak 4 parts of 
best clear glue in a mixture of 5 parts 



pure water and 8 parts ammonia (pre- 
sumably liquor ammonia) until the 
^lue is thoroughly softened. Warm 
it until the glue is dissolved, and add 
8 parts of granulated sugar and 8 parts 
of glycerine, stirring well and letting 
it come to the boiling point. While 
hot, paint it upon clean white blotting- 
paper, with a broad brush, until the 
olotting-paper is thoroughly soaked, 
and a Uun coating remains upon the 
surface. Allow it to dry for 2 or 3 days 
and it is then ready for use. The 
writing or drawing to be copied is 
done with the usual aniline inlc upon 
writing-paper. Before transferring to 
the blotting-paper, wet the latter with 
a sponge or brush and clean water, 
and allow it to stand 1 or 2 minutes. 
Place the document, written side down, 
on the blotting-paper, carefully strok- 
ing out any air bubbles, and submit 
the whole to gentle pressure for a few 
moments, remove the written paper, 
and a number of impressions can tnen 
be taken in the ordinary way. When 
the impressions begin to grow weak, 
wet the surfiu^ of uie "graph" again. 
This * * graph " does not require washing 
off, but simply la3ring away for 24 to 
86 hours, when the surfiice will be 
ready for a new impression. 

204. Enrrs abottt piako- 

F0BTE8. — i Damp is very ii^'urious 
to a pianoforte^ it ought, therefore, 
to be placed in a dry place, and not 
exposed to draughts. 

iL Keep your piano firee from dust, 
and do not aillow needles, pins, or bread 
to be placed upon it, especially if the 
key-board is exposMMl, as such articles 
are apt to set inside and produce a 
jarring or whizzing sound. 

ilL Do not load the top of a piano 
with books, music, &c., as the tone is 
thereby deadened, and the disagreeable 
noise alluded to in the last paragraph 
is often produced. 

It. Have your piano tuned about 
every three months ; whether it is used 
or not, the strain is always upon it, 
and if it is not kept up to concert 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^ 



MUDDLE JLT HOHS M AKSS THE HlJSBAin) ROAH. 



pitch it will not stand in tnne when 
required, which it will do if it he 
attended to regularly. 

Y. An upright instrument sounds 
better if placed a short distance from 
the wall : it is also less liable to injury 
from damp, and does not inflict dull 
and confused sounds upon your next- 
door nei^rhbour. 

vL when not in use keep the piano 
locked. 

yiL To make the polish look nice, 
rub it with an old silk handkerchief, 
being carefiil first of all to dust off 
any small particles, which otherwise 
are apt to scratch the surface. 

viil Should any of the notes keep 
down when struck, it is a sure sign 
that there is damp somewhere, which 
has caused the small joints upon which 
the key works to swell. 

306. OAXDIirarO OPBBAnOHS 
FOB THE YSAB. 

206. JAKTTABT. 

Indoor preparations for future ope«*- 
ations must be made, as in this monUi 
there are only five hours a day avail- 
able for out-door work, unless the 
season be unusually mild. Mat over 
tulip-beds. Begin to force roses. Place 
pots over seakale and surround them 
with manure, litter, dried leaves, kc. 
Plant dried roots of border fiowers in 
mild weather. Take strawberries in 
pots into the greenhouse. Take out- 
tings of chrysanthemums and strike 
them under glass. Prune and plant 
gooseberry, currant, fruit, and decid- 
uous trees and shrubs. Cucumbers 
and melons to be sown in the hot-bed. 
Apply manures to the soil. Make 
good cabbage-plots, as there may be 
gaps if the weather has been severe. 

rlowen of the Xonth. —Christmas 
Rose, Crocus, Winter Aconite, Alys- 
8um, Primrose, Snowdrop. 

207. FSBBUAXT. 

Transplant pinks, carnations, sweet- 
williams, candy-tuft, campanulas, &c. 
Sowsweetand garden peas and lettnces, 



for succession of crops, covering the 
ground with straw, kc Bow also 
savoys, leeks, and cabbages. Prune 
and nail fhiit trees, and towards the 
end of the month plant stocks for 
next year's grafting ; also cuttings of 
poplar, elder, willow-trees, for orna- 
mental shrubbery. Sow fruit and forest 
tree seeds. 

Flowers of the Xonth.— Snowdrop, 
Violet, Alyssum, Primrose. 

208. MABOH. 

Seeds of "spring flowers*' to be 
sown. Border flowers to be planted 
out Tender annuals, ferns and 
geraniums, to be potted out under 
glasses. Mushroom beds to be made. 
Sow artichokes, Windsor beans, and 
cauliflowers for autumn ; lettuces and 
peas for succession of crops, onions, 
parsley, radishes, savoys, asparagus, 
red and white cabbages, and beet: 
turnips, early brocoli, parsnips and 
carrots. Plant slips and mirtea roots 
of perennial herbs. Graft trees and 
protect early blossoms. Force rose- 
tree cuttings under glasses. A hot- 
bed is useful for many things this 
month. 

Flowers of the Konth.— Primrose, 
Narcissus, Hyacinth, Wallflower, 
Hepatica, Daisy, Polyanthus. 

209. AFBIL. 

Sow for succession peas, beans, and 
carrots ; parsnips, celery, and seakale. 
Sow more seeds of ** spring flowers." 
Plant evergreens, dahlias, chrysan- 
themums, and the like, also potatoes, 
slips of thyme, parted roots, lettuces, 
cauliflowers, cabbages, onions. Lay 
down turf, remove caterpillars. Sow 
and graft camelias, and propagate and 
graft fruit and rose trees by all the 
various means in use. Sow cucumbers 
and vegetable marrows for planting 
out Pot tomatoes for planting out 
early in June, or growing on in the 
greenhouse. This is the most import- 
ant month in the year for gardeners. 

Flowers of the Xonth.— Cowslip, 
4Jiemone, Ranunculus, Tulip, Polyan- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TOO MVOH BBD MAKB8 A DULL HBAD. 



91 



thoa. Aiuioala, Narcismis, Jonquil, 
Wftllflower, Lilac, Laburnum. 

210. ICAY. 

Plant out your seedling flowers as 
they are ready, and sow again for 
succession larkspur, mignonette, and 
other spring flowers. Pot out tender 
annuals. &move auriculas to a north- 
east aspect Take up bulbous roots as 
the leaves decay. Sow kidney beans, 
brocoli for spring use, rape for autumn, 
cauliflowers for December; Indian 
com, oress, onions to plant out as 
bulbs next year, radishes, aromatic 
herbs, turnips, cabbages, savoys, let- 
tuces, &c. Plant celery, lettuces, 
and annuals; thin spring crops ; stick 

Sas, &c. Earth up potatoes, &c. 
oisten mushroom beds. 
Flowers of the Xonth. —Hawthorn, 
Gentianella, Anemone, Ranunculus, 
Columbine, Honeysuckle, liabumum, 
Wisteria. 

211. JTJHS. 

Sow gi&ut stocks to flower next 
spring. Take slips of myrtles to strike, 
pipings of pinks, and make layers of 
carnation. Put down layers and take 
cuttingsofroses and evergreens. Plant 
annuals in borders, and place auriculas 
in pots in shady places. Sow kidney 
beans, pumpkins, cucumbers for pick- 
ling, and (late in the month) endive 
and lettuces. Plant out cucumbers, 
marrows, leeks, celery, brocoli, cauli- 
flowers, savoys, tomatoes, and seed- 
lings, and plants propagated by slips. 
Earth up potatoes, &c Cut herbs for 
drying when in flower. 

Flowers of the Xonth. —Water-lily, 
Honeysuckle, Sweet-william, Pinks, 
Syringa, Rhododendron, Delphinium, 
Stock. 

212. JTILT. 

Part auricula and polyanthus roots. 
Take up summer buloe as they go out 
of flower, and plant saffron crocus and 
autumn bulbs. Gather seeds. Clip 
eveigreen borders and edges, strike 
mjrrUo slips under gUssea. |7et fruit 



trees. Finish budding by the end of 
the month. Head down espaliers. Sow 
early dwarf cabbages to plant out in 
October forspriuff ; aLuo endive, onions, 
kidney beans for Tate crop, and turnips. 
Plant celery, endive, lettuces, cabbages, 
leeks, strawberries, and cauliflowers. 
Tie u^ lettuces. Earth celery. Take 
up onions, &c., for drying. 

Flowers of the Xonth.— Rose, Car- 
nation, Piootee, Asters, Balsams, 

218. AVeUST. 

Sow annuals to bloom indoors in 
winter, and pot all young stocks raised 
in the greenhouse. Sow early red 
cabbages, cauliflowers for spring and 
summer use, cos and cabbage lettuoe 
for winter crop. Plant out winter 
crops. Dry herbs and mushroom 
spawn. Plant out strawberry roots, 
and net currant trees, to preserve tha 
fruit through the winter. 

Flowers of the Xonth.— Geranium, 
Verbena, Calceolaria, Hollyhock. 

214. 8EPTSXBBB. 

Plant crocuses, scaly bulbs, and 
evergreen shrubs. Place chrysan- 
themums under cover towards the 
end of the month, or before, if ftosts 
appear. Propsoate by layers and 
cuttings of all the herbaoeous plants, 
currant, gooseberry, and other fruit 
trees. Plant out seedlins pinks. 
Sow onions for spring plantation, 
carrots, spinach, and Spanish radishes 
in warm spots. Earth up celery. 
House potatoes and edible bulbs. 
Gather pickling cucumbers. Make 
tulip ana mushroom beds. 

Flowers of the Xonth. —Clematis, 
or Traveller's Joy, Jasmine, Passion 
Flower, Arbutus. 

215. OCTOBBB. 

Sow fruit stones for stocks for 
future grafting, also larkspurs and 
the hardier annuals to stand the 
winter, and hyacinths and smooth 
bulbs in pots and glasses. Plant 
voung trees, cuttings of jasmine, 
honeysuckle, an<| overgreeqs. Sow 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



92 



WHXN TFS HAND IS OLKAN IT MEEDS NO SCREEN. 



miffnonette for pots in winter. Plant 
cabbages, kc, for spring. Gather 
potatoes, ripe or not ; and earth up 
celery. Cut down asparagus, separate 
roots of daisies, irises, &o. Trench, 
drain, and manure. 

Flowers of the Xonth.— Asters, 
Indian Pink, Chrysanthemum, Stock. 

216. KOYSKBEB. 

Sow sweet peas and garden peas for 
early flowers and crops. Take up 
dahlia roots. Complete beds for as- 
paragus and artichokes. Plant dried 
roots of border flowers, daisies, &c. 
Take potted mignonette indoors. 
Hake new plantations of strawberries, 
though it is better to do this in 
October. Sow peas, leeks, beans, and 
radishes. Plant BJiubarb in rows. 
Prune hardy trees, and plant stocks 
of fruit trees. Store carrots, &c 
Shelter from frost where it may be 
required. Plant shrubs for forcing. 
Continue to trench and manure vacant 
ground. 

FlowenI of the Month.— Lauras- 
tinus, Michaelmas Daisy, Chrysan- 
themum. 

217. DEOEKBSE. 

Continue in open weather to nre- 
pare vacant ground for spring, and to 
protect plants from frost. Cover 
bulbous roots with matting. Dress 
flower borders. Prepare forcing ground 
for cucumbers, and force asparagus 
and seakale. Plant goosebeny, cur- 
rant, apple, and pear trees. Roll 
grass-plots if the season be mild and 
not too wet. Prepare poles, stakes, 
pea-sticks, frc, for spring. Finish 
all pruning. 

Flowers of the Month.— Cyclamen 
and Winter Aconite. Holly berries 
are now available for floral decoration. 

218. THE KITCHSH OAXDEH. 

This is one of the most important 
parts of general domestic economy, 
whenever the situation of a house, 
and the sise of the garden, will per- 
mit the members of a family to avail 



themselves of the advantages it offers. 
It is, indeed, much to he regretted 
that small plots of ground, in the 
immediate vicinity of the metropolis 
more especially, are too often con- 
verted into flower gardens and shrub- 
beries, or used as mere playgrounds 
for children, when they mi^ht more 
usefully be employed in raising vege- 
tables for the family. With u little 
care and attention, a kitchen garden, 
though small, might be rendered not 
only useful, but, in fact, as orna- 
mental as a modem grass lawn ; and 
the same expense incurred to make 
the ground a laboratory of sweets, 
might suffice to render it agreeable to 
the palate as well as to the olfactorv 
nerves, and that, even without of- 
fending the most delicate optics. It 
is only in accordance with our plan to 
give the hint, and to put before the 
reader such novel points as may 
facilitate the propos^ arranjyrement. 
One objection to the formation of a 
kitchen garden in front of the dwell- 
ing, or in si^ht of the drawing-room 
and parlour is, that its very nature 
makes it rather an eyesore than other- 
wise at all seasons. This, however, 
may be readily got over by a little 
attention to neatness and good order, 
for the vegetables themselves, if 
properly attended to, may be made 
really ornamental ; but then, in cut- 
ting the plants for use, the business 
roust be done neatly — all useless 
leaves cleared from the ground, the 
roots no longer wanted taken up, and 
the ravages of insects guarded against 
by sedulous extirpation. It will 
also be found a great improvement, 
where space will admit of it, to sur- 
round the larger plot<) of ground, in 
which the vegetables are grown, with 
flower borders stocked with herbaceous 
plants and others, such as annuals 
and bulbs in due order of succession, 
or with neat espaliers, with fruit 
trees, or even eooseberry and currant 
bushes, trained along them, instead 
of being suffered to grow in a state of 
ragged wildness, as is toooften the case. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A WAITING APPETITE KINDLES MANY A SPITE. 



98 



219. TOMATO, OB LOVS APPLE.— 

This plant is a native of Sonth 
America ; its fruit has of late years 
become a yery favourite article of 
food, and may be prepared in a great 
many ways. It is equally applicable 
for soa|)8, ketchups, and sauces, and 
the unripe fruit may also be pickled. 
It can be easily cultivated in a green- 
house or a small garden, and with care 
yields a plentiful crop of fruit For i 
pot culture, in cold greenhouse 
(temperature 65*"), sow the seeds in I 
Marcm in a compost formed of two 
parts decayed turfy loam, and one 
part of well decomposed manure, 
transferring the seedlings singly into 
two-inch pots as soon as three or four 
leaves have formed, nnd afterwards, 
when the plants are six inches high, 
into six-inch pots, and again into ten- 
inch pots when twelve inches high. 
Drain the pots well. Only let one 
stem grow, rubbing off all side shoots. 
Water sparingly until the fruit is set, 
then apply liquid or artificial 
manures. 

In outdoor culture — ^plant in June, 
against south or west walls, twelve 
inches apart, or in the open, placing 
stout stakes to support the plants. 

220. AXTI7ICIAL MTTSHBOOM 
BEB8. — Mushrooms may be grown in 
pots, boxes, or hampers. &ch box 
may be about three feet long^, one and 
a half broad, and seven inches in 
depth, and should be half fiUe<l with 
manure in the form of fresh horse- 
dung from the stables, the fi-esher the 
better, but if wet, it should be allowed 
to dry for three or four days before it 
is put into the boxes. When the 
manure has been placed in the box it 
should be well beaten down. After 
the second or third day, if the manure 
has be^u to generate heat, break 
each bnck of mushroom spawn (which 
may be obtained from any seedsman) 
into pieces about three inches sr^uare, 
then lay the pieces about four inches 
apart upon the surface of the manure 
in the box ; here they are to lie for 



six days, when it will probably be 
found that the side of the spawn next 
to the manure has begun to run in the 
manure below ; then add one and a 
half inch more of fresh manure on the 
top of the spawn in the box, and beat 
it down as formerly. In the course 
of a fortnight, when you find that the 
spawn has run through the manure, 
the box will be ready to receive the 
mould on the top ; this mould must 
be two and a half inches deep, well 
beaten down, and the surface made 
quite even. In the space of five or 
six weeks the mushrooms will begin 
to come up ; if the mould then seems 
dry> gi^e it a gentle watering with 
lukewarm water. The box will con- 
tinue to produce from six weeks to 
two months, if duly attended to by 
giving a litUe water when dry, for the 
mushrooms need neither ligM nor free 
air. If cut as button mushrooms 
each box will yield from twenty-four 
to forty-eight pints, according to tiie 
season andother circumstances. They 
may be kept in dry dark cellars, or 
any other places where the fiwt will 
not reach them. By preparing a 
succession of boxes, mushrooms may 
be had all the year through. They 
may be grown without the manure, 
and be of a finer flavour. Take a 
little straw, and lay it carefully in 
the bottom of the mushroom box, 
about an inch thick, or rather more. 
Then take some of the spawn bricks 
and break them down — each brick 
into about ten pieces, and lay the 
fragments on the straw, as close to 
eacli other as they will lie. Cover 
them up with mould three and a half 
inches aeep, and well pressed down. 
When the surface appears dry give a 
little tepid water, as directed for the 
mode of raising them described above ; 
but this method needs abont double 
the quantity of water that the former 
does, owing to having no moisture in 
the bottom, while the other has the 
manure. The mushrooms will begin 
to start in a month or five weeks, 
sometimes sooner, sometimes later. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



64 soidB Hotms ws 8Botnj> f mD fok rfis PLEXsntas or thk mikd* 



according to the heat of the place 
where the boxes are sitoated. 

221. DWASF FLAITTS. — The 

following method of producing minia- 
ture trees is taken from an article on 
this subject iu Oardenina IllustrcUed, 
** Take an orange, and having cut a 
hole in the peel about the size of a 
shilling, take out the juice and pulp. 
Fill the skin thus emptied with some 
cocoa-nut fibre, fine moss, and char- 
coal, iust stifiened with a little loam, 
and tnen put an acorn or a date stone, 
or the seed or kernel of any tree that 
it is proposed to obtain in a dwarfed 
form m tnis mixture, just about the 
centre of the hollow orange peel. 
Place the orange peel in a tumbler 
or vase in a window, and occasion- 
ally moisten the contents with a 
little water through tlie hole in the 
peel, and sprinkle the surface ap- 
parent through the hole with some 
nno woodaahes. In due time the 
tree will push up its stem through the 
compost and the roots will push 
through the orange peel. The roots 
must then be cut off flush with the 
peel, and this process must be repeated 
at frequent intervals for about two 
years and a half. The stem of the 
tree will attain the height of four or 
five inches and then assume a stunted 
gnarled appearance, giving it the 
appearance of an old tree. When the 
ends of the roots are cut for the last 
time, the orange peel, which, curiously 
enough, does not rot, must be painted 
black and varnished." The writer of 
the article saw this process carried 
out by a Chinaman that he had in his 
service, and the trees thrived and 
presented a healthy appearance for 
eight years, when the Cninaman left 
his employ and took the trees with 
him. He tried the plan which has 
been described but fsoled, but he was 
successful with an acorn and a date- 
stone which were planted each in a 
thumb-pot in a mixture of peat and 
loam. The dwarfing was effected by 
turning the plants out of the pots at 



intervals of six weeks and pinchina 
off the ends of the roots that showed 
themselves behind the compost. This 
shows that the production of dwarf 
plants is chiefly due to a constant and 
systematic checkiug of the root 
growth. 

222. TO OLEAB BOSS TBSSS 
FBOX BLIGHT.— Mix equal quanti- 
ties of sulphur and tobacco dust, and 
strew the mixture over the trees in 
the morning when the dew is on them. 
The insects will disappear in a few 
days. The trees should then be 
syringed with a decoction of elder 
leaves. 

228. TOPBXVXimtlLBSWIir 
TBXBS. — The best pi-eventive ajgainst 
mildew is to keep the plant subject to 
it occasionally syringea with a decoc- 
tion of elder leaves, which will pre- 
vent the growth of fungus. 

224. TOADS are among the best 
friends the gardener has ; for they live 
almost exclusively on the most destruc- 
tive kinds of vermin. Unsightly, 
therefore, though tbey may be, they 
should on all accounts be encouraged ; 
they should never be touched nor 
molested in any way ; on the contrary, 
places of shelter should be made for 
them, to which they may retire from 
the burning heat of the sun. If you 
have no to^s in your garden, it will 
be quite worth your while to search 
for them in your walks, and bring 
them home, taking care to handle 
them tenderly, for idthongh they have 
neither the will nor the power to 
injure you, a very little rough treat- 
ment will injure them. No cucumber 
or melon frame should be without one 
or two. 

225. SLUGS AHB 8KAIL8 are 
great enemies to every kind of garden 
plant, whether flower or vegetable ; 
they wander in the night to feed, and 
return at daylight to their haimts. In 
order to catch tnem lay cabbage leaves 
about the ground, especially on the 
beds which they frequent. Every 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tffr ffli ticKiito (Jt/>a, ot^Ids tttu sotitKA oitooK. 



96 



momine examine these leaves, and 
you wul find a great many taking 
refuge beneath, and these may be 
killed by sprinkling them with a 
little lime or salt. These minerals 
are very annoying to snails and sings ; 
a pinch of salt kills them, and they 
will not touch fresh lime. It is a 
common practice to sprinkle lime 
over young crops, and along the edges 
of beds, about mws of peas and beaos, 
lettuces and other vegetables; but 
when it has been on the ground some 
days, or has been moistened by rain, 
it loses its strength. 

226. TXAP8 FOB StfAILB.— 

Snails are particularly fond of bran ; 
if a little is spread on the grouud, and 
covered over with a few cabbage-leaves 
or til^ they will congregate under 
them in great numbers, and may be 
readily caught and destroyed. 

227. 0BVB8 on orchard trees, and 
gooseberry and currant bushes, will 
sometimes be sufficiently numerous 
to spoil a crop ; but if a bonfire be 
made with dry sticks and weeds on 
the windward side of the orchard, so 
that the smoke may blow among the 
trees, you will destroy thousands ; 
for the grubs have such an objection 
to smoke, that very little of it makes 
them roU themselves up and £ei11 off : 
they must then be swept up and 
destroyed. 

228. 0ATEBPILLAB8 AKD 
APHIBES. — A garden syringe or 
engine, with a cap on the pipe full of 
very minute holes, will wash away 
these disagreeable visitors very quick- 
ly. You must bring the pipe close to 
the plant, and pump hard, so as to 
have considerable force on, and the 
plant, however badly infested, will 
soon be cleared, without receiving 
any injury. Afterwards rake the 
earth under the trees, and kill the 
insects that have been dislodged, or 
many will recover and climb up the 
stems of the plants. Aphides may 
also be dearea by means of tobacco 



smoke, but after this has been 
applied, the plant should be well 
syringed. 

229. BUTTIBFLIS8 AHD 
MOTHS, however pretty, are the 
worst enemies one can have in a 
garden ; a single insect of this kind 
may deposit eggs enough to overrun 
a tree with caterpillars, therefore 
they should be destroyed at any oost 
of trouble. 

230. TO PBOTBCT FBUIT BUBS 
FBOX BIBBS.— Just before the buds 
are ready to burst, and again when 
they have be^n to expand, give 
them a plentiful dusting with chim- 
ney soot. The soot is unpalatable to 
the birds, and they will attack no 
bush that is thus spiinkled. It in no 
way injures the nascent blossom or 
leaf, and is washed off in due course 
of time by the ndn. 

231. WASPS destroy a good deal 
of fruit, but every pair of wasps 
killed in spring saves tne trouble and 
annoyance of a swarm in autumn. 
Later in the season, it is customary 
to hang vessels of beer, or water and 
sugar, in the fruit- trees, to entice them 
to drown themselves. A wasp in a 
window may be killed almost instan- 
taneously by the application of a 
little sweet oil on the tip of a 
feather. It is necessary, however, to 
be very careful in any attempt upon 
a wasp, for its sting, like that of 
the bee, causes much pain and fre- 
quently induces considerable swelling. 

232. CITBIS FOB TKB STXHO 
OF WASP OB BXB.— In case of be- 
ing stung, get the blue-bag from the 
laundry, and rub it well into the 
wound as soon as possible. A little 
ammonia applied to the puncture will 
speedily relieve the pain, and so will 
the juice of an on ion obtained by cutting 
an onion in half and rubbing the cut 
part over the part affected. 

28a TO PBOTBCT BABDUAS 
FBOX BABWieS.— Dip a piece of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 



BIKNEB TO A MINtms, AKB ALL READY TO BWJIN IT. 



wool or cotton in oil, and tie it 
lightly round the stalk, about a foot 
from the earth. The stakes which 
you will put into the ground to sup- 
port your plants must also be sur- 
rounded by the oiled cotton or wool, 
or the insects will climb up them to the 
blossoms and tender tops of the stems. 
Insects may be prevented from climb- 
ing up stakes, trees, &c., by encircling 
them with a broad riug of tar, which 
may be renewed as often as necessary. 
Small pots containing a little hay, 
dried grass, or cotton wool inverted 
and placed on the top of stakes form 
a useful trap for slugs, snails, earwigs, 
&c., which crawl into them for 
shelter in the early rooming, and may 
thus be caught and destroyed. 

284. TO 7BS1 PLAHTS nOM 

LEAF-LICE. --The following is re- 
commended as a cheap and easy mode 
of getting rid of this pest : — Mix one 
ounce of flowers of sulphur with one 
bushel of sawdust ; scatter this over 
the plants infected with these insects, 
and they will soon be freed, though 
a second application may possibly oe 
necessary. 

286. A eAEDEKOre XO&AL. 

I HAD 8 little Spot of ground, 

Where blade nor blossom grew, 
Though the bright Bunshine all around 

Life-giving radiance threw. 
I monmed to see a spot so bare 

Of leaves of healthftil green, 
And thonght of bowers, and blossoms fitir 

I fireqaently had seen. 

Some seeds of varions kinds lay by— 

I knew not what they were — 
But, mdely taming o'er the soil, 

I strewed them thickly there ; 
And day by day I watched them spring 

From out the fertile earth, 
And hoped for many a loving thing 

Of beauty and of worth. 

Bat as I marked their leaves unfold 

As weeds before my view, 
And saw how stubbornly and bold 

The thorns and nettles grew— 



I sighed to think that I bad done. 

Unwittingly, a thing 
That, where a beauteous bower should 
thrive. 

But worthless weeds did spring. 
And thus I mused : the things we do. 

With litUe heed or ken, 
May prove of worthless growth, and strew 

With thorns the paths of men ; 
For litUe deeds, like litUe seeds, 
May flowers prove, or noxious weeds I* 

286. Enm OK TAKnre a 

HOUSE, 
i Bant — Before taking a house, be 
careful to calculate that the rent is 
not too high in proportion to your 
means ; for remember that the rent is 
a claim that must be paid with but 
little delay, and that the landlord has 
greater power over your property than 
any other creditor. It is aifficult to 
assign any fixed proportion between 
income and rental to suit all cases, 
but a reasonable basis for the settle- 
ment of this point may be found in 
the assertion that while not less than 
one-tenth of a roan's entire incoroe 
need be set apart for rent, not roore 
than a sixth, or at the very utmost a 
fifth should be devoted to this pur- 
pose, and this amoimt ought to include 
Sarochial rates and taxes. Having 
etermined the amount of rent which 
you can afford to pay, be careful to 
select the best and most convenient 
house which can be obtained for that 
sum. And in making that selection 
let the following matters be carefully 
considered : 

ii Healthy Situation.— Find out 
the nature of the sub-soil on which 
the house stands — for example, a 
gravel on chalk subsoil, is better than 
a Kubsoil of clay, because the former 
admits of a speedy escape of the sur- 
plus water in time of heavy and con- 
tinuous rain, while the latter does not. 
Avoid the neighbourhood of grave- 
yards, and of factories giving forth 
unhealthy vapours. Avoid low and 
damp districts, the course of canals, 
the localities of reservoirs of water. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A BLtTNT RNIFB SHOWS A DTTLL WIFB. 



97 



gas works, &c Make inquiries as to 
the drainage of the neighbourhood, 
and inspect the drainage and water 
supply of the premises. A house 
standing on an incline is likely to be 
better drained than one standing 
upon the summit of a hill, or on a 
level below a hilL Endeavour to 
obtain a position where the direct 
sunlight falls upon the house, for this 
is abiM>lutely essential to health ; and 
ffive preference to a house the open- 
ings of which are sheltered from the 
north and east winds. Consider the 
distance of the house from your place 
of occupation : and its relation to 
provision markets, and shops in the 
neighbourhood. 

ilL Sanitanr Condition and State 
of Bapair. — Having considered these 
matenal and leading features, examine 
the house in detail, carefUllv looking 
into its state of repair. When a fur- 
nished house is let, the law implies 
that it shall be fit for habitation ; but 
this IB not the case with regard to an 
unfumiBhed house. In the latter 
case the tenant is presumed to have 
satisfied himself beforehand as to its 
condition, and therefore a person who 
intends taking an unfurnished house 
should have it surveyed, and should 
have an undertaking from the land- 
lord that the drainage is in perfect 
order. Ascertain if possible that the 
foundations are air-tight and water- 
tight ; whether the cellars are dry or 
dunp ; state of the water supply and 
sources of supply ; water-closet appear- 
atus ; bathroom ; bell-pulls ; ventila- 
tion ; gas supply ; electric lighting 
or belC Also notice the windows 
that are broken ; whether the chim- 
neys smoke ; whether they have 
been recentlv swept ; whether the 
paper on tne walls is damaged, 
especially in the lower parts, and the 
corners, by the skirtings ; whether 
the locks, bolt8, handles of doors, 
and window iastenings are in proper 
condition ; make a list of the fixtures ; 
ascertain whether all rates and taxes 
have been paid by the previous ten- 



ant, and whether the person from 
whom you take the house is the 
original landlord, or his agent or 
tenant Do not commit yourself bv 
the signing of any agreement until 
you are satisfied upon all these points, 
and see that eUl has been done which 
the landlord may have wuierUiken to 
do, brfore you take possession qf (he 
house, 

2S7. Bnm OV TTTSHISHIire 
A HOnSS.— It is only by experience 
that you can tell what will be the 
wants of your family, so at first buy 
merely enough to get along with, and 
add other things by degrees. If vou 
spend all your money, you will nnd 
you have purchased many things you 
do not actually want, and have no 
means left to get many things which 
you do want. If you have enough, 
and more than enough, to get every- 
thing suitable to your situation, ao 
not think you must spend all you 
may be able to lay out in furniture, 
merely because vou happen to have 
it be^n humbly. As riches in- 
crease, It is easy and pleasant to in- 
crease in comforts; but it is always 
painful and inconvenient to decrease. 
Neatness, tastefulness, and good sense 
may be shown in the management of 
a small household, and the arrange- 
ment of a little furniture, as well as 
upon a larger scale. The considera- 
tion which many purchase bv living 
beyond their income, and, of course, 
living upon others, is not worth the 
trouble it costs. It does not, in fact, 
procure a man valuable friends, or 
extensive influence. 

288. CHOOSnie 0ASPET8.— In 

buying carpets, as in everything else, 
those of the best quality are cheapest 
in the end. One need only com- 
pare a good Brussels with a Tapestry 
half the price. Kidderminster wears 
well and can be turned. As it is 
extremelv desirable that it should 
look as clean as possible, avoid buy- 
ing carpeting that has any white in 
it Even a very small portion of 
o 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



dd 



A BAD BftOOk UCAV£S A DlftTT BoOlt. 



white interaperaed throagh the pat- 
tern will in a short time give a dirty 
appearance to the whole. 

A Carpet in which all the Colours 
are Light never has a clean, bright 
effect, from the want of dark tints to 
contrast and set off the light ones. 
For a similar reason, carpets whose 
colours are all of what artists call 
middle tint (neither dark nor light) 
cannot fail to look doll and dingy, 
even when quite new. 

For a Carpet to be really Beanti- 
fal and in good taste, there should be, 
as in the picture, a judicious disposal 
of light and shadow, with a grada- 
tion of very bright and of very dark 
tints ; some almost white, and others 
almost or quite black. 

The most truly chaete, rich, and 
elegant carpets are those which are 
of one colour only, the pattern, if 
pattern it may be called, bemg formed 
by a judicious arrangement of every 
variety of shade of this colour. For 
instance, a Brussels carpet entirely 
red ; the pattern formed by shades or 
tints varymg from the deepest crim- 
son (almost a black), to the palest 
pink (almost a white). Also one of 
green only, shaded from the darkest 
bottle-green, in some parts of the 
pattern, to the lightest pea-green in 
others. Or one in which there is no 
colour but brown, in all its various 
gradations, some of the shades being 
nearly black, others of a light buff. 

280. HEABTHBUOa— If you 

cannot obtain one that exactly corre- 
sponds with the carpet, get one 
entirely different ; for a decided 
contrast looks better than a bad 
match. The hearthrug, however, 
should reflect the colour or colours of 
the carpet if possible. 

Large Bugs of Sheepskin, in white, 
crimson, or black, form comfortable 
lad effective hearthrugs for a draw- 
injg-room or dining-room. In the 
winter these may be removed and an 
ordinary woollen rug laid down as 
long as fires are kept up. 



240. CT7BTAIH8 AKD ITPHOL- 
8TSBT of Furniture, and the wall 
papers and paint should also harmon- 
ize with the colours of the carpets, 
that the effect of the whole may be 
satisfactory to the eye. 

241. LnroLsinc kaxptvli- 

COH, &c, are now very generally used 
as floor coverings for halls, kitchens, 
&C., on account of their cleanliness 
and warmth ; and with proper care 
they may be made to last a long 
while, but the tile or inlaid linoleum, 
though more expensive, will be found 
best suited for hard wear, as the pat- 
tern, instead of being merely on the 
surface, goes through the material. 
They are, as a rule, made of canvas 
painted over. 

The best way to clean these floor 
coverings is to wash them with soap 
and luke-warm water, and then rub 
them over with a cloth and a little oil. 
Do not use too much water, or it will 
get underneath and rot the material. 
In buying linoleum or kamptulicon, 
test it by its weight, for the heavier 
it is the better it is. 

Some excellent floor coverings are 
now made of a material largely con- 
sisting of cork. It is very cleanly, 
and 18 an excellent floor cover for 
nurseries, bedrooms, and bathrooms, 
being very warm to the feet, ana 
easily cleaned. 

242. HOUSEHOLD TOOL CHESTS. 

— Much inconvenience and consider- 
able expense might be saved if it were 
the general custom to keep in every 
house certain tools for the purpose of 
performing at home what are called 
small jobs, instead of being always 
obliged to send for a mechanic and 
pay him for executing little things 
that, in most cases, could be suffi- 
ciently well done by a man or boy 
belonging to the fanuly, if the proper 
instruments were at hand. The cost 
of these articles is very moderate, and 
the advantages of having them alwavs 
in the house are far beyond the 
expense. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A HtTSBAKD's WEATB SPOILS THE BEST BEOTH. 



dd 



248. LIST OF nSSFTTL TOOLS. 

There should be an axe, a hatchet, 
a saw, a hammer, a tack-hammer, a 
mallet, three or four gimlets and 
bradawls of different sizes, two screw- 
drivers, two chisels, a small plane, 
one or two jack-knives, a pair of large 
scissors or shears, and a carpet fork or 
stretcher. Also an assortment of 
screws and niuls of various sizes, 
from large spikes down to small tacks, 
not forgetting some large and small 
brass-headed nails, together with hooks 
of various sizes upon which to hang 
things. 

The nails and screws should be 
kept in a wooden box, made with 
divisions to separate the various sorts 
and sizes, for it is veiy troublesome to 
have them mixed. Care should also 
be taken to keep up the supoly, lest 
it should run out unexpectedly, and 
the deficiency cause delay and incon- 
venience at a time when some are 
wanted. 

244. TOOL CLOSET.— It is well to 
have somewhere, in the lower part of 
the house, a roomy light closet, 
appropriated entirely to tools, and 
thmgs of equal utility, for executing 
promptly such little repairs as may he 
required from time to time, without 
the delay or expense of procuring an 
artisan. This closet should have 
at least one large shelf, and that about 
three feet from the floor. Beneath 
this shelf may be a deep drawer, 
divided into two compartments. This 
drawer may contain cakes of glue, 
pieces of chalk, and balls of twine of 
different sizes and quality. There 
may be shelves at tne sides of the 
closet for glue-pots, paste-pots and 
brushes, pots for black, white, green, 
and red paint, cans of oil and varnish, 
paint-brushes, &c 

246. THE TOOLS SHOTTLB BE 
SnSPSHBSB against the wall, above 
the large shelf, or laid across 
nails or hooks of proper size to 
support them. This is much better 
than keeping them in a box, where 



they are apt to be injured bv rubbing 
against each other, and the hand may 
be hurt in feeling amongst them to 
find the thing that is wanted. But 
when hung up against the back wall of 
the closet, each tool can be seen at a 
glance. 

An excellent and Bimple contriv- 
ance for designating the exact 
places allotted to all these articles is 
to draw on the closet wall with paint 
or ink a representation in outline of 
the tool belonging to that particular 
place. For instance, under each saw 
IS sketched the outline of that saw, 
under each gimlet a sketch of that 
gimlet, under the screw-drivers are 
slight drawings of screw-drivers. So 
that when any tool that has been 
taken away for use is brought back, 
the exact spnot to which it belongs can 
be found in a moment ; and the 
confusion which is occasioned in 
putting tools away in a box and 
looking for them again when they 
are wanted, is thus prevented. 

246. TO LOOSEK 8CSEWS AKD 
HAILS which have become rusted 
into wood. These may be moved by 
dropping a small quantity of kerosene 
over them. Allow this to soak in, 
and after a short time the screws, &c, 
may be taken out. 

247. WBAPPIHO PAPEB.— This 
may be piled on the floor under the 
large shelf in the tool closet. It can 
be bought at a low price by the ream, 
at the large paper warehouses ; and 
every house should keep a supply of it 
in several varieties. 

L Coane brown paper for common 
purposes, which is strong, thick, and 
in large sheets, is useful for packing 
heavy articles; and equally so for 
keepmg silks, ribbons, blondes, &c., 
as it preserves their colours. 

iL Printed Papers are unfit for 
wrapping anytiiing, as the printing 
ink rubs off on the articles enclosed in 
them, and also soils the gloves of the 
person who carries the parceL 

iii Waste Kewspapers had best 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



100 



A wipe's art is displayed in a table well laid. 



be used for lightine firea and sinffeing 
poultry. If you nave accumulatea 
more than you can use, your butcher 
or grocer will generally buy them of 
you if they are dean. 

iv. Waste Paper that has been 
written on, cut into slips, and creased 
and folded, ma^es very good allumettea 
or lamp-lighters. These matters may 
appear of trifling importance, but order 
ana regularity are necessary to happi- 
ness. 

248. BEDS FOE THE POOE.— 

Beech-tree leaves are recommended for 
filling the beds of poor persons. They 
shouM be gathered on a dry day in the 
autumn, and perfectly dried. It is said 
that the smell of them is pleasant and 
that they will not harbour vermin. 
They are also very springy. 

240. TO PEEBEEVE OUT 

PEAMES.— These may be protected 
from flies and dust by pinning tarlatan 
over them. Tarlatan fit for the 

Surpose may be purchased at the 
raper's. It is an excellent material 
for keeping dust from books, vases, 
wool work, and every description of 
household ornament. 

260. TO EESTOEE OUT 

PEAMES.— Rub them lightly with a 
sponge moistened with turpentine. 

251. EEKEBIE8 FOE DAMP 
WALLS. 

The following method is recom- 
mended to prevent the effect of damp 
walls on paper in rooms : — Line the 
damp part of the wall with sheet lead, 
rolled very thin, and fastened up with 
small copper nails. It may be mime- 
diately covered with paper. The 
lead 18 not to be thicker than that 
which is used to Une tea-chests. 

Another mode of preventing the ill 
effects of damp in walls on wall-paper 
is to cover the damp part with a 
varnish formed of naphtha and shellac, 
in the proportion of Jib. of the latter 
to a quart of the former. The smell 
of the mixture is unpleasant, but it 



weara off" in a short time, and the wall 
is covered with a hard coating utterly 
impervious to damp, and to which 
the wall paper can be attached in the 
usual way. 

252. HIKT8 OH SCOUEUTe 
BEBEOOMS. 

They should not be scoured in the 
winter time, as colds and sickness 
may be produced thereby. Dry 
scouring upon the French plan, which 
consists of scrubbing the floors with 
dry brushes, may be resorted to, and 
will be found more effective than can 
at first be imagined. If a bedroom 
is wet scoured, a dry day should be 
chosen, the windows should be opened, 
the linen removed, and a fire should 
be lit when the operation is finished. 

258. TO OET BID OF A BAB 
SMELL IE A BOOM.— Place a vessel 
full of lighted charcoal in the middle 
of the room, and throw on it two or 
three handfuls of juniper berries, shut 
the windows, the chimney, and the 
door close; twenty-four hours after- 
wards, the room may be opened, when 
it will be found that the sickly, un- 
wholesome smell will be entirely gone. 
The smoke of the juniper berry pos- 
sesses this advantage, that should 
anything be left in the room, such as 
tapestry, &c., none of it will be 
spoiled. 

254. TO EEKOVE SMELL OF 

PAIKT. — To get rid of the smell of 
oil paint, place a handful of hay in a 
pailful of water and let it stand in the 
room newly painted. 

266. TO KEEP BEB8 AIEEB. 

When not being used, they should 
be put under other beds which are in 
use ; or they may now and then be 
placed in front of a good fire and 
turned over occasionally. 

256. TOASCEETAIKWHETHEE 
A BEB BE AIEEB. — Introduce a 
drinking glass between the sheets for 
a minute or two, just when the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHO NBTEB TEIB8 CANNOT WIN THB PRIZE. 



101 



warming-pan is taken out ; if the bed 
be dry, there will only be a slight 
clondy appearance on the glass, but 
if not, the damp of the beawill col- 
lect in and on the glass and assume 
the form of drops — a warning of 
danger. 

257. DEIHSIHO WATSB. 

To test its purity Heisch ^ves a 
simple method. I^t half-a-pint of 
water in a clear ^lass-stoppered bottle ; 
add a few grams of the best white 
lump sugar. Let the bottle be exposed 
in a warm room to the daylight If 
the water is pure, the liquid should 
not become turbid, even if it has been 
exposed for a week or ten days. 

25a TO TEST IP WATEE IS EABB 
OR SOFT. 

Dissolve some good soap in alcohol, 
and put a few drops into a glass of the 
water. If it turns milky it is hard ; 
if not, it is soft 

259. TO SOFTEN HAEB WATEE, 

or purify river water, simply boil it, 
and then leave it exposed to the atmo- 
sphere for some little time. 

260. TO PEEVEITT WATER 
EHCRUSTIHO THE INSIDE OF 
KETTLES. 

"Water of every kind, except rain 
water, will speedily cover the inside 
of a tea-kettle with an unpleasant crust ; 
this may easily be guai'ded against by 
placing a clean oyster shell or piece 
of stone or marble in the tea-kettle. 
The shell or stone will always keep 
the interior of the kettle in good order 
by attracting the particles of earth or 
stone. 

261. CABBAGE WATER, or any 

water in which green vegetables have 
been boiled, should be thrown away 
out of doors (not down the sink) im- 
mediately it is done with, and the 
vessel rinsed with clean water or it 
will cause unpleasant smells. 



262. DISINFECTANTS FOR SINKS, 
DRAINS, fto. 
A little chareoal mixed with clean 
water thrown into a sink will disin- 
fect and deodorize it. Chloride of 
lime and carbolic acid considerably 
diluted, if applied in a liquid form, 
are good dismfectants, and carbolic 
powaer— a pink powder with a smell 
resembling tar, and sold at about 2d. 
p«r lb.— is both useful and effective. 
The air of a bedroom may be plea- 
santly sweetened by throwing some 
ground coffee on a fire shovel pre- 
viously heated. 

263. CHIMNET SMOKINe.— 

When this occurs only when the fire 
is; first lighted, it may be guarded 
aj<ainst by allowing the fire to kindle 
gradually, or by heating the chinmey 
by burning straw or paper in the 
grate previous to laying in the fire. 

264. TO PREVENT A LAMP 
SMOKING.— Soak the wick in strong 
vinegar, and dry it well before vou 
use it ; the flame will then bum clear 
and bright. 

265. OROinn) GLASS IMITATED. 

The frosted appearance of ground 
glass may be very nearly imitated by 
gently dabbing the glass over with a 
paint brush dipped in white paint or 
any other oil colour. The paint should 
be thin, and but yery little colour 
taken up at one time on the end of 
the bristles. When applied with a 
light and even touch the resemblance 
is considerable. 

266. To OIL CLOCKS use only 
the very purest oil, purified bv a 
quart of lime water to a gallon of oil 
in which it has been well shiken, and 
suffered to stand for three or four days, 
when it may be drawn off. 

267. NEAT MODE OF SOLDER- 
ING. — Cut o\it a piece of tinfoil the 
size of the surfaces to be soldered. 
Then dip a feather in a solq tiou of sal 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



102 THlt BEST PHYSICIANS ABE DB. DIET, DB. QUIET, AXD DB. MEBBTlf AN. 



ammoniac, and wet over the surfaces of 
the metal, then place them in their 
proper position with the tinfoil be- 
tween. Put the metals thus arranged 
on a piece of iron hot enough to melt 
the foil. When cold the surfaces will 
be found firmly soldered together. 

268. TO WATEBPBOOF MAPS, 
CHABT8, *o. — Maps, charts, or en- 
gravings may be efi^tually varnished 
by brushing a very delicate coating of 
ffutta-percha solution over their sur- 
nce. It is perfectly transparent, and 
is said to improve the appearance of 
pictures. By coating both sides of 
important documents they can be 
kept waterproof and preserved per- 
fectly. 

260. PAPEB FIBS 80BSEH8 

should be sized and coated with 
transparent varnish, otherwise they 
will soon become soUed and dis- 
coloured. 

270. PA8TILLXS FOB BTTBH- 
nrO. — Cascarilla bark, 'eight drachms ; 
gum benzoin, four drachms; yellow 
Sanders, two drachms; styrax, two 
drachms ; olibanum, two drachms ; 
charcoal, six ounces; nitre, one 
drachm and a half; mucilage of 
tragacanth, sufScient quantitv. Re- 
duce the substances to a powder, and 
form into a paste with the mucilage, 
and divide into small cones ; then 
dry them in an oven. 

271. BAST IIBTHOD OF BBEAX- 
INO GLASS TO AHY BEQXriBEI) 
SHAPB. — Make a small notch by 
means of a file on the edge of a piece 
of glass, then make the end of a 
tobM:co-pipe, or of a rod of iron of the 
same size,>red hot in the fire ; apply 
the hot iron to the notch, and draw it 
slowly along the surface of the glass 
in any direction you please : a crack 
will follow the direction of the iron. 

272 . TO BBKOVB BBOKBH 
WIB BOW-PABBS.— -If you have not 
a glazier's knife, you can melt the 
putty in a few hours by putting soft 



soap upon it ; then you can cut it 
away easily with a knife, without risk 
of breaking the glass. 

273. BOTTLnroABDFnrnro.— 

Corks should be sound, clean, and 
sweet. Beer and porter should be 
allowed to stand in the bottles a day 
or two before being corked. If for 
speedy use wiring is not neoessaij. 
Layiug the bottles on their sides will 
assist the ripening for use. Those 
that are to be kept should be wired, 
and put to stand upright in sawdust. 
Wines should be bottled in spring. 
If not fine enough, draw off a jugful 
and dissolve isinj^lass in it, in the 
proportion of half-an-ounce to ten 
gallons, and tlien pour back through 
the bung-hole. Let it stand a few 
weeks. Ta|> the cask above the lees. 
When the isinglass is put into the 
cask, stir it round with a stick, tak- 
ing great care not to touch the lees at 
the bottom. For white wine only, 
mix with the isinglass a quarter of a 
pint of milk to each gallon of wine, 
some whites of eggs, beaten with 
some of the wine. One white of an 
eg^ to four gallons makes a good 
finmg. 

274. TO SWEETEN CASKS. 

Mix half-a-pint of vitriol with a 
quart of water, pour it into the barrel, 
and roll it about ; next day add one 
pound of chalk, and roll acain. 
nung down for three or four days, 
then rinse well with hot water. 

276. TO LOOSBK GLASS STOP- 
PBBS OF BOTTLES. 

With a feather rub a drop or two of 
salad oil round the stopper, close to 
the mouth of the bottle or decanter, 
which must then be placed before the 
fire, at the distance of about eighteen 
inches ; the heat will cause the oil to 
insinuate itself between the stopper 
Tind the neck. When the bottle has 
grown warm, gently strike the stop- 
per on one side, and then on the 
other, with any light wooden instra- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ELBOW-OREASK IS GOOD FOR PURNITimE. 



103 



ment ; then try it with the hand : if 
it will not yet move, place it afi;ain 
before the nre, adding another drop 
of oil. After a while strike a^in as 
before ; and, by persevering in this 
process, however tightly it may be 
fastened in, you will at length succeed 
in loosening it 

Another Method. — Dip one end of 
a cloth in boiling water, and then 
wrap it round the neck of the bottle ; 
the heat causes the neck to expand, 
and the stopper can generally be 
moved with ease ; or put a piece* of 
string twice round the neck ana fix one 
end to a ring or hook, draw the bottle 
backwards and forwards sharply. The 
heat caused by the friction expands the 
neck as in the preceding case. 

276. OHIKA TEAPOTS are the 

safest, and, in many resjfects, the 
most pleasant. Wedgwood ware is 
very apt, after a time, to acquire a 
disagreeable taste. 

277. CABE OP UNEN.— When 
linen is well dried and laid by for use, 
nothing more is necessary than to 
secure it from damp and insects. It 
may be kept free from the latter by 
a judicious mixture of aromatic shrul:« 
and flowers, cut up and sewed in 
silken bags, which must be inter- 
spersed among the drawers and 
shelves. The ingredients used may 
consist of lavender, thyme, roses, 
cedar-shavings, powdered sassafras, 
cassia, &c, into which a few drops 
of otto of roses, or other strong- 
scented perfume may be thrown. 

278. EEPAntnrO LIHEN.— in all 
cases it will be found more consistent 
with economy to examine and repair 
all washable articles, more especially 
linen, that may stand in need of it, 

Erevious to sending them to the 
mndry. It will also be prudent to 
have every article carefully numbered, 
and so arranged, after washing, as to 
have their regular pirn and term in 
domestic YVie, 



279. MENDIKO. — When you 
make a new article always save the 
pieces until " mending day," which 
may come sooner than expected. It 
will be well even to buy a little extra 
quantity for repairs. Read over 
tne paragraphs 360—868 in this vol- 
ume headed Golden Hints fob 
Housewives and Home Comforts. 
These contain most valuable sugges- 
tions, that will be constantly useral if 
well remembered. They should be read 
frequently that their mil value may 
be secured. Let your servants also 
read them, for nothing conduces more 
to good housekeeping than for the 
servant to understand the "system" 
which her mistress approves of. 

280. TO POLISH PUKHITUEE. 

This forms an important part of 
domestic economy, not only in regard 
to neatness, but also in point of 
expense. The readiest mode consists 
in good manual rubbing, or the 
application of a little elbow-grease, 
as it is whimsically termed ; but our 
finest cabinet work requires something 
more, where brilliancy of polish is of 
importance. 

Italian Cabinet- Work in this 
respect excels that of any other 
country. The workmen firat satur- 
ate the surface with olive oil, and 
then apply a solution of gum arabio 
dissolved in boiling alcohol. This 
mode of varnishing is equally brilliant, 
if not superior, to that employed by 
the French in their most elaborate 
works. 

281. A eOOD POLISH POB PUB- 
NITUBE, which has less the appear- 
ance of a hard varnish, and may 
always be applied so as to restore the 

{>ristine beauty of the furniture by a 
ittle manual labour. Heat a gallon 
of water, in which dissolve one pound 
and a half of potash ; and a pound of 
virgin wax, boiling the wnole for 
half-an-hour, then sufler it to cool, 
when the wax will float on the sur- 
face. Put the wax into a mortar| 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



104 



IX0BS8 OALLB IN THX DOCTOR. 



and tritorate it with a marble pestle, 
adding soft water to it until it fonns 
a soft paste, which, laid neatly on 
fomitore, or even on paintings, and 
carefully rubbed when dry with a 
woollen rag, gives a polish of great 
brilliancy, without the harshness of 
the drier varnishes. 

2 82. T O POLISH MABBLB 
OHIICHIY-PIECSB. — After cleaning 
the marble with dilnted muriatic acid, 
or warm soap and vinegar, thev may 
be rubbed with the above polish, but 
the iron or brass work connected with 
them requires other processes. 

283. TO BSKOVS THE STAIVB 
OF lEOK FBOK MABBLS. 

Carefully rub the spot only with 
strong hydrochloric acid. If the 
polish is taken otT, it may be restored 
with emery paper and putty powder. 

284. POLISHED IBOK WOBK 

may be preserved from rust by an 
inexpensive mixture, consisting of 
copal varnish intimately mixed with 
as much olive oil as will give it a 
degree of greasiness, adding thereto 
nearly as much spirit of turpentine as 
of varnish. 

285. CAST ntOK WOBK is best 
preserved by the common method of 
rubbing with black-lead. 

286. TO BEXOVE BTTST 7B0X 

FIBE-IB0H8, fte. 
Apply a mixture of two parts of 
rotten-stone to one of sulnhur, intim- 
ately mingled on a marble slab, and 
laid on with a piece of soft leather. 
Or emery and oil may be applied 
with excellent effect; not laid on 
in the usual slovenly way, but with a 
spongy piece of fig-wood fully satur- 
ated, witn the mixture. This will not 
only clean but impart a polish to the 
metal as well. 

287. TO CLEAN BBASS OBKA- 

XEHTS. 

These, when not gilt or lacquered, 
may be cleaned in t^e same way, and 



a fine colour given to them, by two 
simple processes. 

i Beat sal ammoniac into a fine 
powder, then moisten it with soft 
water, rubbing it on the ornaments, 
which must be heated over charcoal, 
and rubbed dry with bran and 
whitening. 

IL Wash the brasswork with roche 
alum boiled in strong ley, in propor- 
tion of an ounce to a pint ; when dry, 
rub it with fine rotten-stone. Either 
of these processes will give to brass 
the brilliuicy of gold. 

28a LOOSE CABPETS.— If the 

comer of a carpet becomes loose and 
prevents the door opening, or tripe 
ever^jT one up that enters the room, 
nail it down at once. A dog's-eared 
carpet marks the sloven as well as the 
dog's-eared book. An English gentle- 
man, travelling some years ago in 
Ireland, took a hammer and tacks 
with him, because he found dog's- 
eared carpets at all the inns where he 
rested. At one of these inns ha 
tacked down the carpet, which, as 
usual, was loose near the door, and soon 
afterwards rang for his dinner. While 
the carpet was loose the door could 
not be opened withont a hard push ; 
so when the waiter came up he just 
unlatched the door, and then goinff 
back a couple of yards, he rushed 
against it, as his liabit was, with a 
sudden spring, to force it open. Bnt 
the wrinkles of the carpet were no 
longer there to stop it, and not meet- 
ing with the expected resistance, the 
unfortunate waiter fell full length into 
the room. It had never entered his 
head that so much trouble might be 
saved by means of a hammer and 
half-a-dozen tacks, until his fall 
taught him that makeshift is a very 
unprofitable kind of shift There are 
a good many houses in England where 
a similar practical lesson might be of 



CLEAHnrO CABPETS.— 

Take a pail of cold water, and add to 
it three giUs of ox-galL Rub it into 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



EAT HOT TO DVLNISS— DBimC NOT TO ELEVATION. 



105 



the carpet with a soft brush. It will 
raise a lather, which must be washed 
off with clear cold water. Rub dry 
with a dean cloth. Before nailing 
down a carpet after the floor has been 
washed, be certain that the floor is 
^uite dry, or the nails will rust and 
injure the carpet. Fuller's earth is 
used for cleaning carpets, and weak 
solutions of alum or soda are used for 
reviving the colours. The crumb of 
a hot wheaten loaf rubbed over a 
carpet has been found effective. 

* 290. TO TAKE GBEA8S OB OIL 
OUT OF A CABPBT.— As soon as {)08- 
sible, put plenty of flour or whitening 
on the spot, to prevent the grease 
spreading. If the ou is near a seam, you 
can rip it, and put the whitening on 
the floor under tne carpet. Next day 
sweep up the flour and put on some 
fresh whitening, then rub the spots with 
a flannel dipped inspirits of turpentine. 

201. BSATma CABPBT&^Al. 

ways beat on the wrong side first ; 
and then more gently on the right side. 
Beware of using sticks with sharp 
points, which may tear the carpet 

202. SWEEPma CABPSTS.— 

Persons who are accustomed to use 
tea-leaves for sweeping their carpets, 
and find that they leave st|dns, will do 
well to employ fresh-cut grass instead. 
It is better than tea-leaves for pre- 
venting dust, and gives the carpets a 
very bnght fresh look. 

208. SWEEPINO TTTBXST CAE- 

PETS.— In the case of heavy-piled 
Turkey or Azminster carpets, they 
should always be brushed in the 
direction the pile goes. By doing this 
the carpet will last twice as long : but 
if swept the other way the dust will 
be driven into the carpet. Small 
sweeping machines, witn boxes to 
collect Uie dust, are now extensively 
used for sweeping carpets. 

204. SWEEPING 8TAIB CAB- 
PETS. — ^These should never be swept 



down with a long broom, but always 
with a short-handled brush, a dust- 
pan being held closely under each step 
of the stairs during the operation of 
sweeping. 

205. TO CLEAH OIL-CLOTH.— 

This should never be scrubbed with a 
brush, but, after being first swept, it 
should be cleansed by washing with a 
large soft cloth and lukewarm or cold 
water. On no account use soap or hot 
water, as either will injure the paint, 
and in time remove it 

206. TO CLEAH 8TBAW HAT- 
TIHO. — Use a large coarse cloth 
dipped in salt and water, then wipe it 
dry. The salt prevents the matting 
from turning yellow. 

207. TO CLEAH PAPEB HAHO- 

IHOS.—Cut into eight half-quarters a 
quartern loaf, two days old ; it must 
be neither newer nor staler. With 
one of these pieces, after having blown 
off all the dust from the paper to be 
cleaned, by means of a good pair of 
bellows, begin at the top of the room 
and, holding the crust in the hand, 
wipe lightly downward with the 
crumb, about half-a-yard at each 
stroke, till the upper part of the paper 
is completely cleaned all round. Then 
^ round again, with the like sweep- 
ing stroke downwards, always com- 
mencing each successive course a little 
higher than the upper stroke had 
extended, till the bottom be finished. 
This operation, if carefully performed, 
will frequently make very old paper 
look almost equal to new. Great care 
must be taken not to rub the paper 
hard, nor to attempt cleaning it the 
cross or horizontal way. The surface 
of the bread, too, must be always cut 
away as soon as it becomes dirty, and 
the pieces renewed as often as may be 
necessary. 

Another Method is to make a stiff 
dough with flour and water. Take a 
handful, knead it into a ball and care- 
folly rub the paper as directed above, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1(M5 



DISEASE IS SOON SHAKEN BY PHTSIO SOON TAKEN. 



turning in the soiled portions of the 
doiu;h from time to time and taking 
fresh pieces as required. 

29a 0TT0XAH8 AHD SOFAS, 

covered with cloth, damask, or chintz, 
will look better for being cleaned 
occasionally with bran and flannel 

209. MAHOGAinr FBAMB8 of 

Sofas, Chairs, &c., should be first 
well dusted, and then cleaned with a 
flannel dipped in sweet oil or linseed 
oiL 

800. B08EW00D FTTBHITTJEB 

should be rubbed gently every day with 
a clean soft cloth to keep it in order. 

801. DnmiG TABLES may be 

polished by rubbing them for some 
time with a soft cloth and a little 
linseed oil. 

802. TO PBE8EBVS THE POLISH 
OF TABLES. — A piece of oil-cloth 
(about twenty inches long) is a useful 
appendage to a sitting-room. Kept in 
the closet, it can be available at any 
time, in order to place upon it jars, 
lamps, &c., whose contents are likely 
to soil your table during the process 
of emptying or filling them. A wing 
and duster are harmonious accompani- 
ments to the oil-cloth. 

808. TO CLEAN CAKE BOTTOM 
CHAIES. — Turn the chair bottom 
upwards, and with hot water and a 
sponge wash the cane-work well, so 
tnat it may become completely soaked. 
Should it be very dirty you must add 
soap. Let it dry in the open air, or 
in a place where there is a thorough 
draught, and it will become as tight 
and firm as when new, provided none 
of the strips are broken. 

804. TO POLISH ALABASTEB.— 

Rub first with pumice-stone, and then 
with a paste made up of whitening, 
soap and milk (or water), and finish 
off with dry flannel. 

Another Method is to first rub with 
dried shave-grass, and then with 
^ely-powder^ slacked lime made into 



a paste with water. Then rub with 
French chalk, powder, or putty pow- 
der, until the required poush is pro- 
duced. 

805. Caleareotis Alabaster is 
cleaned with a brush and warm water 
and soap, or with warm water with 
a small quantity of ammonia, or soda; 
being afterwards rinsed in clean water. 
If it is much stained cover the article 
for twenty-four hours in a paste of 
slacked lime and water, and then 
wash with soap and water. 

806. TO CLEAK ICABBLE. 

Take two parts of common soda, one 
nart of pumice-stone, and one part of 
nnely-powdered chalk ; sift it through 
a fine sieve, and mix it with water. 
Rub the marble well all over with the 
mixture, and the stains will be re- 
moved ; then wash the marble with 
soap and water, and it will be as clean 
as it was at first. 

807. GLASS should be washed in 
cold water, which gives it a brighter 
and clearer look than when cleansed 
with warm water ; or, what is better, 
wash in warm water and rinse in cold 
water. 

808. GLASS VESSELS, and other 
utensils, may be purified and cleaned 
by rinsing. them out with powdered 
charcoal. 

809. TO CLEAN BOTTLES.— 

There is no easier method of cleaning 
glass bottles than putting into them 
fine coal-ashes, and well shakine, 
either with water or not, hot or cold, 
according to the substance that fouls 
the bottle. Charcoal left in a bottle 
or jar for a little time will take away 
disagreeable smells. 

Caution. If bottles are cleaned with 
shot it should be seen that none are 
left sticking to the sides or comers of 
the bottles, as should these be refilled 
with vinegar, wine, cider, &c., the 
shot will impregnate the liquid with 
load. Small pebbles are preferable, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DISEASS IS THE PITNISHMENT OF NEGLECT. 



107 



810. TO OLSAN 7APAHHSD 
WAITEB8, UEK8, a«. 

Rub on with a sponge a little white 
soap and some lukewann water, and 
wash the waiter or urn quite clean. 
Never use hot water, as it will cause 
the japan to scale off. Having wiped 
it dry, sprinkle a little flour over it ; 
let it remain untouched for a short 
time, and then rub it with a soft dry 
cloth, and finish with a silk handker- 
chief. White heat marks on the 
waiters are difficult to remove ; but 
rubbing them with a flannel dipped 
in sweet oil, and afterwards in spirits 
of wine. may be tried. 

811. Papier MEch^ articles of all 
kinds should be washed with a sponge 
and cold water, without soap, dredged 
with flour while damp, and, when 
dry, polished with a flannel or a silk 
handkerchief. 

812. BBUVSWICK BLACK for 
Vamiflhing Chrates. — Melt four pounds 
of common asphaltum, and add two 
pints of linseed oil, and one gallon of 
oil of turpentine. This is usually 
put up in stoneware bottles for sale, 
and is used with a paint brush. If 
too thick, more tuipentine may be 
added. 

818. BLACKINO FOB STOVES 

may be made with half-a-pound of 
black-lead finely powdered, and (to 
make it stick) mix with it the whites 
of three eggs well beaten ; then dilute 
it with sour beer or porter till it be- 
comes as thin as shoe-blacking ; after 
stirring it, set it over hot coals to 
simmer for twenty minutes; when 
cold it may be kept for use. 

814. TO CLEAH KKIVES AHB 
F0BK8. — Wash the blades in warm 
(but not hot) water, and afterwards 
rub them lightly over with powdered 
rotten-stone mixed to a paste with a 
little cold water; then polish them 
with a clean cloth. 

816. To take Stains out of Enivei. 

•^Take some potato parings and some I 



finely-powdered brick-dust. Dip the 
white portion of the potato paring in 
the brick-dust and rub the knife with 
it, when the stains will disappear ; or 
a rag dipped in strong potash, or soda 
may be used (with the brick-dust 
also). 

816. TO CLEAN PAINTED 
WAINSCOT or other woodwork, 
fuller's earth will be found cheap and 
useful : on wood not painted it forms 
an excellent substitute for soap. 

817. TO CLEAN YAENISHED 
PAINT. — If soap or soda be used the 
varnish will come off. Take the tea- 
leaves which are left in the teapot, 
pour some hot water on them, ana let 
them stand for some ten minutes. Then 
pour the tea into a basin, wash the 
paint with a clean flannel and dry 
with a clean cloth. 

818. TO SCOUB BOAEDS.— Use 

lime, one part ; sand, three parts ; 
soft soap, two parts. Lay a little on 
the boards witn the scrubbing brush, 
and rub thoroughly. Rinse with 
clean water, and rub dry. This will 
keep the boards of a good colour, and 
keep away vermin. 

819. CHAECOAL AS A PUEIFIEB. 

All sorts of glass vessels and 
other utensils may be purified from 
long-retained smells of every kind, in 
the easiest and most perfect manner, 
by rinsing them out well with char- 
coal powder, after the grosser impurities 
have been scoured off with sand and 
potash. Rubbing the teeth and 
washine out the mouth with fine 
charcoal powder, will render the teeth 
beautifully white, and the breath 
perfectly sweet, when an offensive 
breath has been owing to a scorbutic 
disposition of the gums. Putrid 
water is immediately deprived of its 
bad smell by charcoal. When meat, 
fish, &C., from intense heat, or long 
keeping, are likely to become tainted, 
a simple mode of Keeping them sound 
and healthful is to put a few pieces of 
charcoal^ each about the size of an egg. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



108 



KXSP THX BLOOD PURB AND SPARE THE LEBGH. 



into the pot or saacepan wherein the 
fish or flesh is to be boiled. Amon^ 
others, an experiment of this kina 
was tried upon a turbot, which 
appeared to be too far gone to be eat- 
able ; the cook, as advised, put three 
or four pieces of charcoal under the 
strainer in the fish-kettle ; after boil- 
ing the proper time, the turbot came 
to the table sweet and firm. 

820. TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF 
MAHOOAHY. — Stains and spots 
may be taken out of mahogany with 
a little aquafortis or oxalic acid and 
water, ruboinff the part with a cork 
dipped in the liquid till the colour is 
restored. Then wash the wood well 
with water, and dry and polish as 
usuaL 

821. TO TAKE IVK STAIKS OXTT 
OFMAHOGAinr.— Put a few drops of 
spirits of nitre in a teaspoonful of 
water ; touch the spot with a feather 
dipped in the mixture, and as soon as 
the ink disappears, rub it over with a 
rag wetted in cold water, or there will 
be a white mark, which will not be 
easily effaced. 

822. SOEATCHBS OK YABNISH 

may be removed bv placing over them 
a coarse cloth well soaked in linseed 
oil. 

828. TO TAKE IKKSTAIKS OUT 
OF A COLOUESD TABLE-COVEE.— 

Dissolve a teaspoonful of oxalic acid 
in a teacup of hot water; rub the 
stained part well with a flannel or 
linen rag dipped in the solution. 
Very frequently, however, when log- 
wood has been used in manufacturing 
ink, a reddish stain still remains, 
after the use of oxalic acid, as in the 
former directions. To remove it, 
procure a solution of the chloride of 
lime, and apply it in the same manner 
as directed for the oxalic acid. 

824. TO EEKOYE INX-STAIKS 
FBOK LIHEKS, CALICOES, fte.— 

A very simple but effectual method is 
to squeeze some lemon juice on to the 



stidns, which will disappear when 
the article is washed. 

826. TO TAKE INK OUT OF 

B0AEDS.~Applv8tronjg muriatic acid 
or spirits of salts, with a piece of 
cloth ; afterwards wash well with 
water. 

826. on. OB OBEASE SPILT OH 
THE HEABTH may be removed by 
covering it immediately with hot 
ashes, or with burning coiUs. 

827. TO CLEAH SILYEB AHD 
PLATED WABE.— The following is 
taken from Span's Workshop Receipts. — 
" Take an ounce each of cream of tartar, 
common salt, and alum, and boil in a 
gallon or more of water. Plate washed 
in this solution when rubbed dry, 
puts on a beautiful silverv whiteness. 
Powdered magnesia may be used dijr 
for articles slightly taimshed, but if 
verv dirty it must be used first wet 
and then dry. " 

This ware should be washed with a 
sponge and warm soapsuds every day 
after using, and wiped dry with a 
clean soft towel. 

828. BBOKZED CEAHDELIEBS, 
LAKPS, kt,y should be merelv dusted 
with a feather-brush, or with a soft 
cloth, as washing them will take off 
the bronzing. 

829. TO CLEAV BBASSES, BBI- 
TAHHIA METAL, TIES, C0PPEB8. 
4e., use rotten-stone, soft soap, and oil 
of turpentine, mixed to the consistency 
of stiff putty. The stone should l)e 
powdered very fine and sifted. The 
articles should first be washed with 
hot water, to remove grease ; then a 
little of the above mixture, with a 
little water, should be applied to the 
metal, and then rubbed off briskly with 
dry, clean rag or leather, and a beau- 
tiful polish will be obtained. 

880. Brasiei attached to Fomi- 
tore should be cleaned with either 
powdered whitening or scraped rotten- 
stone, mixed with sweet oil and rubbed 
on with chamois leather. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LOOSS HABITS LEAD TO TIGHT BAKOAOSS. 



109 



881. TO CLSAV DISH COYZBS. 

— Silver and plated ones shoold be 
polished with plate powder and a 
leather ; those made of block tin 
should be first rubbed with sweet oil, 
and then dusted over the oil with fine 
powdered whitening, finally polish- 
ing with a soft rag. If the handles 
are' movable, take them off whilst 
cleaning. 

882. TO PBE8EBVS BRIGHT 
8TBEL FBOX BXTST.— After bright 
grates have been thoroughly cleaned, 
they should be dustea over with 
unslacked lime, and thus left until 
wanted. Coils of piano wires, thus 
sprinkled, will keep from rust for 
many years. Table-knives which are 
not in constant use ought to be put in 
a case in which sift^ quicklime is 
placed, about eight inches deep. 
They should be plunged to the top of 
the blades, but the lime should not 
touch the handles. 



TO XBEP ntOK AHD 
STEEL GOODS FBOX BUST.- 

Dissolve half-an-ounce of camphor in 
one pound of hog's lard ; take off the 
scum: mix as much black-lead as 
will give the mixtnre an iron colour. 
Iron and steel goods, rubbed over 
with this mixture, and left with it on 
twenty-four hours, and then dried 
with a linen cloth, will keep clean for 
months. Valuable articles of cutlery 
should be wrapped in zinc foil, or bo 
kept in boxes lined with zinc. This 
is at once an easy and most effective 
method. 

884. TO BEHOVE BUST FBOH 
POLISHED IBOK.— Use emery paper 
or powdered bath-brick mixed with 
oil. Steel fire-irons and fenders, when 
put away for the summer, should be 
thinly smeared over with vaseline. 
Old soft towels, or pieces of old 
sheets or table-cloths, make excellent 
wipers for iron and steel goods. 

886. TO CLEAH LOOKIVO- 

0LAS8ES.— First wash the glass all 
over with lukewarm 8oapsu(u and a 



si>onge. When dry, rub it bright 
with a chamois leather on which a 
little prepared chalk, finely powdered, 
has been sprinkled. 

886. TO CLEAH HIBBOBS, Ac. 

— Take a piece of soft sponge, well 
washed, and cleaned from everything 
gritty, dip it into water and squeeze 
it almost dry, dip it into some spirit 
of wine, and then rub it over the 
glass. Next, dust the glass over 
with some powder blue or whitening 
sifted through muslin ; wipe the 
powder lightly and quickly on again 
with a cloth ; then take a dean cloth, 
and rub the glass well once more, 
and finish by rubbing it with a silk 
handkerchief. If the glass be very 
large, clean one-half at a time, as 
otherwise the spirit of wine will dry 
before it can be rubbed off. If the 
frames are not varnished, the greatest 
care must be taken not to toucn them 
with the sponge, as this will discolour 
or take ofi^the gilding. To clean the 
frames, take a little cotton wool, and 
rub the frames with it ; this will take 
off all the dust and dirt without 
injuring the gilding. If the frames 
are well varnished, rub them with 
spirit of wine, which will take out all 
spots, and give them a fine pnolish. 
Varnished doors may be done in the 
same manner. Never use any cloth to 
frames or drawings^ or oil paintings, 
when cleaning and dusting them. 

887. TO CLEAH WIHDOWS. 

First brush the dust off the window- 
frames, then take an ounce of rock 
ammonia and dissolve it in a pint of 
cold water. Pour half a tumblerful 
of the liquid into a basin, with the 
same quantity of cold water. Then 
the windows should be wiped over 
with a piece of cotton rag dipped in 
the ammonia water, care being taken 
not to touch the window-frames. Dry 
and polish with another rag. 

888. TO CLEAH OAS GLOBES. 

These should be scrubbed with a 
nail brush, curd soap, soda, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



110 BOTTLES O^ BRAKDY ARE FOLLOWED Bt BOTTLES Of PHtSlC. 



water. Rinse them in warm water, 
and let them drain wUhotU wiping 
them. They should not be touched 
till quite dry on the outside. Then 
lift them with a soft towel and wipe 
the insides dry. If the outaides are 
wiped, they will be smeared. 

339. TO CLEAH LAMP CHIMKST8. 

— When you fill the lamp, drop a 
little kerosene on a piece of news- 
paper and rub the glass with it. 

340. CLEAKIHa CHINA AND 
GLASS O&KAMSKTS.— The best 
material for cleansing either porcelain 
or glass, is fuller's earth : but it 
must be beaten into a fine powder, 
and carefully cleared from all rough 
or hard particles, which might 
endanger the polish of the surface. 
As articles intended solely for orna- 
ment are not so highly annealed as 
others, they should never be washed 
in water beyond a tepid temperature. 

341. A Simpto Mode of Annealing 
Olaas has been some time in use by 
chemists. It consists in immersing 
the vessel in cold water, gradually 
heated to the boiling pomt, and 
suffered to remain till cold, when 
it will be fit for use. Should the 
glass be exposed to a higher tempera- 
ture than tnat of boiling water, it will 
be necessary to immerse it in oil. 

342. TO TAKE KAEBIKO INK 
OUT OF LINEN.— Use a solution of 
cyanide of potassium applied with a 
camel-hair brush. After the marking- 
ink disappears, the linen should be 
well washed in cold water. 

343. TO TAKE STAINS OF 
WINE OUT OF LINEN.— Hold the 
article in milk while it is boiling on 
the fire, and the stains will soon 
disappear. 

344. FBUIT STAINS IN LINEN.— 

To remove them, rub the part on each 
side with yellow soap, then tie up a 
piece of pearlash in the cloth, ice, 
and soak well in hot water or boil ; 
afterwards expose the stained part to 



the sun and air until the stain is 
removed. 

345. TO TAKE lEONKOULD 

OUT OF LINEN.— Soak the spots 
with a solution of one drop of 
sulphuric acid and one grain of 
ferrocyanide of potassium. Wash 
with soft water, and then take out 
the spots (which mil have turned 
blue) with a solution of potash. 

346a. KILDEWED LINEN may 

bo restored by soaping the spots 
while wet, covering them with fine 
chalk scraped to powder, and rubbing 
it well in. 

346. TO KEEP KOTHS, fto., FBOK 
CLOTHES.— Put a piece of camphor 
in a linen bag, or some aromatic 
herbs in the drawers, among linen or 
woollen clothes, and no insects will 
come near them. 

346ft. Clothei Cloteti that have 
become infested with moths, should be 
well rubbed with a strong decoction 
of tobacco, and repeatedly sprinkled 
with spirits of camphor. 

347. TO EEf^OYE COFFEE STAINS 
FBOM UNEl^.— Apply a mixture of 
egg yolk and glycerine, wash out with 
warm water, and iron whilst damp 
on the reverse side with a fairly hot 
iron. 

348. TO BEKOVS STAINS FBOK 
FLOOBS. — For removing spots of 
grease from boards, take fuller's earth 
and pearlash, of each a quarter of a 
pound, and boil in a quart of soft 
water. While hot lay the mixture on 
the greased parts, allowing it to remain 
on them from ten to twelve hours ; 
after which it may be scoured off with 
sand and water. A floor much spotted 
with grease should be completely 
washed over with this mixture the 
day before it is scoured. Fuller's 
earth and ox-gall, boiled together, 
form a very powerful cleansing 
mixture for floors and carpets. Stains 
of ink are removed by the anplication 
of strong vinegar or salts of lemon. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



B» tEMPERATE m ALL THINGS. 



Ill 



849. BCOUEDTe DBOPS FOB 
BEKOYHre OBEASE.— There are 
several preparations of tliis name; 
one of tne best is made as follows : — 
Camphine, or spirit of turpentine, 
three ounces : essence of lemon, one 
ounce ; mix and put in a small phial 
for use when required. * 

850. TO TAKE OBEASE OUT OF 
VELVET OB CLOTH.— Pour some 
turpentine over the part that is greasy ; 
rub it till quite dry with a piece of 
clean flannel ; if the grease be not 
quite removed, repeat the application, 
and when done brush the part well, 
and hang up the garment in the open 
air to take away uie smelL 

851. TO EXTBACT OBEASE 
SPOTS FBOK BOOKS OB PAFEB.— 

Gently warm the greased or spotted 
part of the book or paper, and then 
press upon - it pieces of blotting 
paper, one after another, so as to 
absorb as much of the grease as 
possible. Have ready some flne clear 
essential oil of turpentine heated 
almost to a boiling state, warm the 
greased leaf a little, and then, with a 
soft clean brush, apply the heated 
turpentine to both sides of the spotted 
part. By repeating this application, 
the grease will be extracted. Lastly, 
with another brush dipped in rectified 
spirit of wine, go over the place, and 
the grease will no longer appear, 
neither will the paper be discoloured. 

852. STAIKS AHD MABKS FBOK 
BOOKS. — A solution of oxalic acid, 
citric acid, or tartaric acid, is attended 
with the least risk, and • may be 
applied to paper and prints without 
fear of damage. These acids, which 
take out writing ink, and do not 
touch the printing, can be used for 
restoring books where the margins 
have been written upon. 

858. TO TAKE WBITIKO DTK 
OUT OF PAPEB.— Solution of 
muriate of tin, two drachms ; water, 
four drachms. To be applied with a 
camel-hair brush. After the writing 



has disappeared, the paper should be 
passed through water, and dried. 

854. MEDICINE STAINS ON 
SILVEB SPOONS may be removed by 
rubbing them with a rag dipped in 
sulphuric acid, and waSiing it oflf 
withL soapsuds. 

855. BLACKINO FOB LEATHEB 
SEATS, ftc.— Beat well the yolks of 
two eggs and the white of one : mix a 
tablespoonful of gin and a teaspoonful 
of sugar, thicken it with ivory black, 
add it to the eggs and use as common 
blacking ; the seats or cushions being 
left a day or two to harden. This is 
good for dress boots and shoes. 

856. BEVIVEB FOB BLACK 
CLOTH. — Bruised galls, one pound ; 
logwood, two pounds ; green vitriol, 
half-a-pound ; water five quarts. 
Boil for two hours and strain. 

857. ENAMEL PAINT. --Special 
preparations of paint, styled ** en- 
amel," are now made, suitable for 
both useful and decorative purposes — 
garden stands, indoor furniture or 
ornaments, baths, &c. They are ready 
mixed in a variety of shades, can be 
easily applied, and dry with a hard 
glossy surface. 

857a. WOBM EATEN WOOD mav 

be treated by fumigating it with 
benzoin, or soaking it with a solution 
of corrosive sublimate. 

858. A HINT ON HOUSEHOLD 

MANAGEMENT.— Have you ever ob- 
served what a dislike servants have 
to anything cheap I They hate saving 
their master's money. I tried this 
experiment with great success the other 
day. Finding we consumed a vast deal 
of soap, I sat down in my thinking 
chair, and took the soap question into 
consideration, and I found reason to 
suspect we were using a very expensive 
article, where a much cheaper one 
would serve the purpose better. I 
ordered half-a-dozen pounds of both 
sorts, but took the precaution of 
changing the papers on which the 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 



KXEP THE HBAD COOL AND THE FEET WABK. 



prices were marked before giving them 
into the hands of Betty. "Well, 
Betty, which soap do jou find washes 
best 1 " " Oh, please, sir, the dearest, 
in the blue paper ; it makes a lather 
as well again as the other." '* Well, 
Betty, yon shall always have it then ; " 
and thus the unsuspecting Betty saved 
me some pounds a year, and washed 
the clothes much better — Bev, Sydney 
Smith, 

859. DOKXSnC BTTLES.— Mrs. 
Hamilton, in her Cottagers of 
OlenJbumiey gives throe simple rules 
for the regulation of domestic affairs, 
which would, if carried into practice, 
be the means of saving time, labour, 
and patience, and of making every 
house a ** well-orderod " one. They 
are : 

L Do everything in its proper 
time. 

ii. Keep everything to its proper 
use. 

ilL Put everything in its proper 
place. 

860. eOLDBHEnfTSFORHOXTSS 
WIVES AHD HOKE COKFOBTS. 

861. Household Kanagement 

i Between husband and wife little 
attentions beget much love. 

iL Always lay your table neatly, 
whether you have company or not. 

iiL Whatever you may choose to 
give away, always be sure to keep your 
temper. 

iv. Late at breakfast — ^hurried for 
dinner — cross at tea. 

T. Breakfast should always be 
served regularly, as it is the starting 
point of the day's duties and engage- 
ments ; if it is late it upsets the 
whole day's programme. 

vL In winter, get the work for- 
ward by dayliglit, to prevent running 
about at night with candles. Tims 
you escape grease spots, and risks of 
fire. 

▼iL Matches should be kept in 
every bedroom, well out of the reach 
of cliildron. They are cheap enough. 



Tiii. A wire fire-guard, for each 
fire-place in a house, costs little, and 
greatly diminishes the risk to life and 
property. Fix them before going to bed. 

ix. Allowing children to talk in- 
cessantly is a mistake. We do not 
mean to say that they should be re- 
stricted from talking in proper 
seasons, but they should be taught to 
know when it is proper for them to 
cease. 

z. A leather strap, with a buckle 
to fasten, is much more commodious 
than a cord for a box in general use 
for travelling ; cording and uncording 
is a tedious job. 

862. Boonomj. 

}. Much knowledge may be obtained 
by the good housewife observing how 
things are managed in well-regulated 
fitmuies. 

ii. Regularity in the payment of 
accounts is essential to housekeeping. 
All tradesmen's bills should be paid 
weekly, for then any errors can be 
detected whilst the transactions are 
fresh in the memory. 

iii It is better to accomplish per- 
fectly a very small amount of work 
than to half do ten times as much. 

iv. See that nothing is thrown away 
which might have served to nourish 
your own family or a poorer one. 

Y. If you have children who are 
learning to write, buy coarse white 
paper by the quantity, and make it 
up into writing-booka This does not 
cost half so much as it does to buy 
them ready made at the stationer's. 

tL All Jinen rap should be saved, 
for tliey are useful in sickness. If 
tliey have become dirty and worn by 
cleaning silver, &c., wash them and 
scrape them into lint. 

vU. New iron should be very 
gradually heated at first. After it 
has become inured to the heat, it is 
not so likely to crack. 

868. CleanlineM. 
L There is not anything gained 
in economy by having very young and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OTJABD THE FOOT, AND THE HEAD WILL SELDOM HABM. 



118 



inexperienced servants at low wages ; 
the cost of what they break, waste, 
and destroy, is more than an equiva- 
lent for lugher wages, setting aside 
comfort and respectability. 

ii. An ever-dirty hearth, and a 
grate always choked with cinders and 
ashes, are infallible evidences of bad 
housekeeping. 

iii Dirty windows speak to the 
passer-by of the negligence of the 
inmates. 

It. Shaking Carpets. — The oftener 
carpets are shaken the longer they 
wear ; the dirt that collects nnder 
them grinds out the threads. 

Y. Never put away plate, knives 
and forks, &c, uncleanea, or great in- 
convenience will arise when the articles 
are wanted. 

▼L Never allow your servants to 
put wiped knives on your table, for, 
generally speaking, you may see that 
they have been wiped with a dirty 
cloth. If a knife is brightly cleaned, 
they are compelled to use a clean 
doth. 

▼ii. Do not let knives be dropped 
into hot dish-water. It is a good plan 
to have a larce tin pot to wash them 
in, just high enough to wash the 
blades without wetting the handles. 

▼iii. Charcoal powder will be found 
a very good thing to give knives a 
first-rate polish. 

iz. Scald your wooden-waro often, 
and keep your tin-ware dry. 

z. New wooden utensils should be 
first well soaked in cold, and then in 
scalding water. Wooden bowls verr 
frequently split when hot water is 
put into them ; they should be well 
greased, inside and out, and laid by 
ror a day or two, then scour them 
well for several days till clean and 
free from grease. 

zi Clean a brass kettle with salt 
and vinegar before using it for cook- 
ing. 

ziL A warming-pan full of coals, or 
a shovel of coals, held over varnished 
furniture, will take out white spots. 
Cai:e should be taken not to hold the 



pan near enough to scorch ; the place 
to which heat has thus been applied, 
should be rubbed with a flannel while 
warm. 

ziii. Sal-volatile or hartshorn will 
restore colours taken out by acid. It 
may be dropped upon any garment 
without doing harm. 

864. Health. 

i Eat slowly and you will not over- 
eat 

ii Persons very commonly com- 
plain of indigestion ; how can it be 
wondered at, when they seem, by 
their habit of swallowing their food 
wholesale, to forget for what purpose 
they are provided with teetiii ? 

iU. Keeping the feet warm will tend 
to prevent headaches. 

iy. Take pains to keep your 
children's feet dry and warm. Don't 
bury their bodies in heavy flannels 
and wools, and leave their arms and 
legs naked. 

▼. People in general are not aware 
how very essential to the health of 
the inmates, is the free admission of 
light into their houses. 

▼i For ventilation onen your 
windows both at top and bottom. 
The fresh air rushes in at the bottom, 
while the foul escapes at the top. 
This is letting in your friend and 
expelling your enemy. 

▼ii. Tni<Jk curtains, closely drawn 
round the bed, are very iiriurious, 
because they not only confine the 
exhalations thrown off from our 
bodies whilst in bed, but interrupt 
the current of pure air. 

▼iii Feather beds should be opened 
every third year, the ticking well 
dusted, soaped, and waxed, the 
feathers dressed and returned. 

iz. Blankets when not in use should 
be neatly folded and placed under 
a bed that is being slept on. If they 
are placed in drawers or cupboards, 
they should be looked at every now 
and then to free them from moths, 
which may be done by shaking them 
in the open air. 

H 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



114 



BJTTEE PAT THS COOK THJLN THB DOCTOR. 



z. There is much more injury done 
by admitting visitors to invalids than 
is generally supposed. 

zL When reading bv candle-light, 
plaoe the candle behind you» that the 
rays may pass over vour shoulder on 
to the book. This will relieve the eyes. 

xii As accidents and sudden ill- 
nesses unfortunately cannot always be 
prevented, every house should be pro- 
vided with a set of Enquire Within 

UPON EVERYTHINQ EMERGENCY 

Cards, see par. 688. 

866. Food. 

i. When you are particular in 
wishiujp^ to have precisely what you 
want m>m a butcner, go and buy it 
yourself. 

ii In cold weather a leg of mutton 
improves by being hung three or four 
weeks. 

iii When meat is hanging, change 
its position frequently, to equally du- 
tribute the iuices. 

iv. "Wilful waste makes woful 
want." — Do not cook a fresh joint 
whilst any of the last remains uneaten 
— hash it up, and with gravy and a 
little management, eke out another 
day's dinner. 

T. The shanks of mutton make a 
good stock for nearly any kind of 
gravy, and they are very cheap — 
enough may be had for a penny to 
make a quart of delicious soup. 

yi As far as possible, have pieces 
of bread eaten up before they become 
hard : spread those that are not eaten, 
and let them dry, to be pounded for 
puddings, or soaked for brewis. Do 
not let crusts accumulate in such 
quantities that thoy cannot be used. 
With proper care, there is no need of 
losing a particle of bread. 

vii. Brewis is made of crusts and 
dry pieces of bread, soaked a good 
while in hot milk, mashed up, and 
eaten with salt. 

yiii Apples intended for dumplings 
should not have the core taken out of 
them, as the pips impart a delicious 
flavour to the aumpling. 



ix. Apple and suet dumplings are 
lighter when boiled in a net than in a 
cloth. Skim the pot welL 

z. Apples and pears, cut into 
quarters and stripped of the rind, 
baked with a little water and sugar, 
and eaten with boiled rice, are capital 
food for children. 

zi A rice pudding is excellent 
without either egffs or sugar, if baked 
gently ; it keepsbetter without eggs* 

zii When you dry salt for the 
table, do not place it in the salt 
cellars until it is cold, otherwise it 
will harden into a lump. 

866. Washing. 

i If you have difficulty in getting 
soft water for washing, nil a tub or 
barrel half full of wood ashes, and fill 
it up with water, so that you may 
have ley whenever you want it. A 
gallon of strong ley, put into a copper 
of hard water, wiU make it as soft as 
rain water. Some people use pearlash, 
or potash ; but this costs something, 
and is very apt to injure the textui^e 
of the cloth. 

ii Woollen clothes should be 
washed in very hot suds, and not 
rinsed. Lukewarm water shrinks 
them. 

iii. Soapsuds form a good manure 
for bushes and young plants, there- 
fore do not throw them all down the 
sink or draina 

867. Mending. 

i. All the mending in the hou?o 
should be done once a week if possible. 

ii. Never put out sewing. If it be 
not possible to do it in your own 
family, hire some one to come to the 
house and work with them. 

iiL After washing, overlook linen 
and stitch on buttons, hooks and eyes, 
&c. ; for this purpose keep a " hc^se- 
wife's friend, full of miscellaneous 
threads, cottons, buttons, hooks, &c. 

iv. A short needle makes the most 
expedition in plain sewing. 

T. Put your balls or reels of cotton 
into little bags, leaving the ends out. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUl^OER IS THE BEST SAUCE. 



115 



71. When sheets or chamber towels 
get thin in the middle, cut them in 
two, sew the selvedges together and 
l^sm the sides. 

vii. In mending sheets and shirts, 
put in pieces sufiiciently large, or in 
the tot washing, the thin parts give 
way, and the ifrork done is of no 
%vaiL 

TiU. A flannel petticoat will wear 
neftrly a4 Ions again, if turned hind 
part Defore when the front begins to 
wear thin. 

iz. Persons of defective sight, when 
threading a needle, should hold it 
over something white, by which the 
sight will be assisted. 

E. Sitting to sew by capdle-li^ht at 
% table with a dark cloth on it is injur- 
ious to the eyesight When no oUier 
remedy presents itself, put a sheet of 
white paper before you. 

868. Olothef. 

L There is not any real economy 
in. purchasing cheap calico for night- 
shirts. Cheap calico soon wears into 
holes, and becomes discoloured in 
washing. 

ii A bonnet and trimmings may 
be worn a much longer time, if the 
dust be brushed well off after use 
before putting them away. 

iii. No article of dress tarnishes so 
readily as black crape trimmings, and 
few things ii^ure them more than 
damp ; mdies should therefore be 
earetul to protect them as much as 
possible. 

869. DOMESTIC PHAEMACOP(EIA. 

In compiling this part of our hints, 
we have endeavourea to supply that 
kind of information which is so often 
wanted in the time of need, and 
cannot be obtaine<l when a medicnl 
man or a druggist is not near. The 
doses are aU fxed for adults^ unless 
otherwise specified. The various 
remedies are arranged in sections, 
according to their uses, as being more 
easy for reference* 



870. COLLTKU OB STS 

WAgHBB. 

871. Alum. — Dissolve half-a- 
drachm of alum in eight ounces (half- 
a-pint) of water. Use as astringent 
wash. When twice as much ^um 
and onlv half the quantity of water 
are used, it acts as a discutient, but 
not ^ an eye- water. Note that this 
and the following washes are for (nU- 
ward application only. 

872. Cempoimd Aliim.— Dissolve 
alnm and white vitriol, of each one 
drachm, in one pint of water, and filter 
through paper. Use as astringent 
wash. 

878. Ordinary. — Add half-an- 
ounce of diluted acetic acid to three 
ounces of decoction of poppy heads. 
Use as anodyne wash. 

874* Zinp and Lead. — Dissolve 
white vitriol and acetate of lead, of 
each seven grains, in four ounces of 
elder -flower water ; add one drachm 
of laudanum (tincture of opium), and 
the same quantity of spirit of cam- 
phor ; then strain. Use as detergent 
wash. 

875. Acetate of Zinc— Dissolve 
half-a-drachm of white vitriol in five 
ounces of water. Dissolve two scruples 
of acetate of lead in five ounces of 
water. Mix these solutions, then set 
aside for a short time, and afterwards 
filter. Use as astringent wash ; this 
forms a most valuable coUyrium. 

876. Sulphate of Zinc— Dissolve 
twenty grains of white vitriol in a pint 
of water or rose water. Use for weak 
eyes. 

877. Zino and Camphor.— Dissolve 
a scruple of white vitriol in ten 
ounces of water ; add one drachm of 
spirit of camphor, and strain. Use 
as a stimulant. 

878. Componad Zinc — Dissolve 
fifteen grains of white vitriol in eight 
ounces of camphor water {Mistura 
camphorce), an4 ^hp S^mo quantity of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



116 



TIOLBNT PASSIONS LEAD TO OBEAT DXPRE88I0N8. 



decoction of poppy heads. Use as 
anodyne and detergent wash; it is 
useful for weak eyes. 

870. OOVFSCnOKS AHD SLBC- 
TTTASISS. 

ConfMtioBS are used as vehicles for 
the administration of more active 
medicines, and Sleotnaries are made 
for the purpose of rendering some 
remedies palatable. Both should be 
kept in closely covered jars. 

880. Almond Confeetion. — Re- 
move the outer coat from an ounce of 
sweet almonds, and pound them well 
in a mortar with one drachm of pow- 
dered gum arabic, and half-an-oonce 
of white sugar. Use to make a 
demulcent mixture known as '*almond 
emulsion." 

881. Alum Confection.— Mix two 
scruples of powdered alum with four 
scruples of treacle. Dose, half-a- 
dracnm. Use as astringent in sore 
throat, relaxed uvula, and ulcerations 
of mouth. 

882. OranM Confeetion.— Take 
one onnce of the freshly-rasped rind 
of orange, and mix it with three 
ounces of white sugar, and beat 
till perfectly incorporated. JDos«, from 
one drachm to an ounce. Use as a 
gentle stomachic and tonic, and as 
a vehicle for administering tonic 
powders. 

888. Black Pepper Confection. — 
Take of black pepper and elecampane 
root, each one ounce ; fennel seeds, 
three ounces; honey and sugar, 
of each two ounces. Rub the dry 
ingredients to a fine powder, and when 
the confection is wanted, add the 
honey, and mix well. Dose, from one 
to two drachms. Usein haemorrhoids, 
or piles. 

884. Cowhage. — Mix in treacle as 
much of the fine hairs or spiculse of 
cowhage as the treacle will teke up. 
Dose^ a teasnoonful every morning and 
evening. Use as an anthelmintic. 



885. Senna Confection. No. 1. — 
Take of senna, powdered, four ounces ; 
figs, half-a-pound, cassia pulp, tama- 
rind pulp, and the pulp of prunes, 
each four ounces ; coriander seeds, 
powdered, two ounces ; liquorice root, 
one ounce and a half; sugar, one 
pound and a quarter ; water, one pint 
and a half. Kub the senna with the 
coriander and separate, by sifting, five 
ounces of the mixture. Boil the 
water, with the figs and liquorice 
added, until it is reduced to one 
half; then press out and strain the 
liquor. Evaporate the strained liquor 
in a jar by boilinff until twelve fluid 
ounces remain ; then add the sugar, 
and make a syrup. Now mix the 
pulps with the syrup, add the sifted 
powder, and mix well. Use as a pur- 
gative. Dose^ one to two teaspoon- 
fuls, most useful in constipation. 

886. Senna Confection. No. 2.— 
A more simple confection, but equally 
efficacious, may be made in the follow- 
ing manner. Infuse an ounce of senna 
leaves in a pint of boiling water, pour- 
ing the water on the leaves in a 
covered mug or jug, or even an old 
earthenware teapot. Let the infusion 
stand till it is cold, then strain off the 
liquor, and place it in a saucepan 
or stewpan, aading to it one pouna of 

E runes. Let the pi-unes stew gently 
y the side of the fire till the liquor 
is entirely absorbed. Use as a purga- 
tive or laxative, giving half-a-tea- 
spoonful to little children, and a 
teaspoon fill to children over ten years 
of age, and from two to four teaspoon- 
fuls to adults. 

887. Castor Oil and Senna Confec- 
tion.— Take one drachm of powdered 
gum arabic, and two ounces of confec- 
tion of senna, and mix, by gradually 
rubbing together in a mortar, with 
halfan-ounce of castor oiL Dose, 
from half-a-tablespoon to two table- 
spoonfiils. Use as a purgative. 

888. Sulphur and Senna Confec- 
tion.— Take of sulphur and sulphate 



The abovi dota an for adulU, unltu othervoiH ip*e\fied. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HXALTH IS THE RBWABB OF 0LEANL1NX88. 



117 



of poUah, each half-an-ounce ; confec- 
tion of senna, two tablespoonfula ; oil 
of aniseed, twenty minims ; mix welL 
Bom^ from one to two teaspoonfdls. 
XJw as a porgatiye. 

889. Cream of Tartar Oonfeotion.— 
Take one ounce of cream of tartar, one 
drachm of jalap, and half-a-drachm of 
powdered ginger ; mix into a thick 
paste with treacle. Dau^ two tea- 
spoonfuls. U9e9A9k strong purgative. 

800. Antispasmodic Slectnary.— 
Take six diachms of powdered valerian 
and orange leaves, mixed and made 
into an electuary, with a sufficient 
Quantity of syrup of wormwood. 
i>OM, from one to two teaspoonfuls, 
to be taken two or three times a day. 

891. DSC0CTI0H8. 

These should only be made as they 
are wanted ; pipkins or tin saucepans 
should be used for the purpose ; and 
no decoction should be boued longer 
than ten minutes. 

892. Chimaphila. — Take one ounce 
of pyrola (chimaphila, or winter- 
green), and boil it in a pint and a half 
of water until the water is reduced to 
one pint; then strain. JDoit^ from 
one to two tablespoonfiils, four times 
a day. Vu in dropsies, as a diuretic 

898. Logwood.— Boil one ounce 
and a half of bruised logwood in two 
pints of water until the water is 
reduced to one pint : then add one 
drachm of bruised cassia, and strain. 
2>oM, from one to two tablespoonfuls. 
U9t as an astringent 

894. Dandelion. — Take two ounces 
of the freshly-sliced root, and boil 
in a quart of water until it comes 
to a pmt. I>o$e^ from two to four 
tablespoonfuls, that is to say, from 
an eignth of a pint to a quarter of a 
pint. Vw for sluggish state of the 
liver. 



896. EMBB00ATI0H8 AHB UVI. 
1CXHT8. 

These remedies are used externally 
as local stimulants, to relieve deep- 
seated inflammations when other 
means cannot be employed, as they 
are more easily applied locally. 

896. Anodyne and Biientient-— 
Take two drachms of scraped white 
soap, hidf-a-drachm of extract of hen* 
bane, and dissolve them by a gentle 
heat in six ounces of olive oiL Use 
for bruises and sprains but not gland- 
ular enlargements, M^hich shouldnever 
be rubbed. 

897. Strong Ammoniat6d.~Add 
one ounce of strong liquid ammonia 
to two ounces of olive ou ; shake well 
together until properly mixed. Use 
as a stimulant in rheumatic pains, par- 
alytic numbnesses, chronic glandular 
enlargements, lumbago, sciatica, and 
in bronchitis, &c. Ndte that this 
embrocation must be used with care, 
and only employed in very obstinate 
cases. 

898. Compound Ammoniated. — 
Add six drachms of oil of turpentine 
to the strong ammoniated liuiment 
above. Uit for the diseases mentioned 
in the preceding paragraph, and 
chronic affections of the knee and 
ankle joints. 

899. Lime and OiL— Take ec^ual 
parts of common linseed oil and lime 
water and shake welL Use when 
soaked on lint, for bums, scalds, sun 
peelings, &c 

400. Camphorated.— Take half-an- 
ounce of camphor and dissolve it in 
two ounces of oUve oil. Use a| a 
stimulant and soothing application 
for stubborn breasts, dropsy of the 
belly, and rheumatic pains. 

401. Soap Liniment with Spanish 
FUei.— Take three ounces and a half 
of soap liniment and half-an-ounce 
of tincture of Spanish flies ; mix and 



Tkt abav€ 4oh» art for aduUt, unUu otherwm 9PteiM$i. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



11^ 



MODB&ATIOK IS A CHEAT SAFBorARtJ. 



ahakb weiL Use bb a stimiilaiit to 
chronic bruises, spmins, rheumatic 
pains, and indolent swellings. 

401a. Tot Bhatunatitfn, lumbago, 
PaiAi, Bruiiei, andBitei of Inseott.— 
One r&w egg well beaten, half-a-pint 
of vinegar, one ounce of spirits of tur- 
pentine, a quarter of an ounce of 
spirits of wine, a quarter of an ounce 
of camphor. These ingredients to be 
beaten well together, then put in a 
bottle and shaKen for ten minutes, 
after which, to be corked down tightly 
to exclude the air. In half-an-hour 
it is fit for use. Directions, — ^To be 
well rubbed in, two, three, or four 
times a daj. For rheumatism in the 
head, to be rubbed at the back of the 
neck and behind the ears. 

402. Turpentime. — Take two 
ounces and a half of resin cerate, and 
melt it by standing the vessel in hot 
water ; then add one ounce and a 
half of oil of turpentine, and mix. 
Vse as stimulant to ulcers, burns^ 
scalds, &c. 

402a. Boohe*! Bmbrooation lor 
Hooping Oough. — Olive oil, two 
ounces ; oil of amber, one ounce ; oil 
of cloves, one drachm. Mix: to be 
rubbed on the chest at bedtime. 

408. XKXMA8. 

These are a peculiar kind of medi- 
cine, administered by injecting them 
into the rectum or outlet of the body. 
The intention is either to empty the 
bowels, kill worms, protect the lining 
membrane of the intestines from in- 
jury, restrain copious discharges, 
allay spasms in the bowels, or to 
nourish the body. These clysters, or 
glysters, are administored by means of 
an enema syringe. 

•^ 404. LazatiTO.— Take two ounces 
of Epaom salts, and dissolve in three- 
quarters of a pint of gruel, or thin 
BToth, with an ounce ofolive oiL 

405. Nutritive. — Take eight 
tablegpoonfuls of strong beef-tea and 
add tAe yolk of one egg beaten well 



up. May be given every six hours, th« 
bowel being well washed out first 
with one pint of warm water given aS 
an enema. 

406. Turpentino.— Take half-an- 
ounce of oil of turpentine, the yolk of 
one egg, and hidf-a-pint of grueL 
Mix the turpentine and egg, and 
then add the gruel. Use aa an an- 
thelmintic. 

407. Ordinary. — Dissolve two 
tablespoonfuls of salt in twelve ounces 
of grueL 

408. Castor Oil. — Mix two ounce* 
of castor oQ with one drachm of 
starch, then rub them together, and 
add fourteen ounces of thin gruel. 
Uu as a purgative. 

409. Opium. — Rub three srains of 
opium with two ounces ot starch, 
then add two ounces of warm 
water. Use as an anodyne in colic, 
spasms, and in bleeding from the 
lx>wel, kc 

410. Oil. — Mix four ounces of 
olive oil with half-an-ounce of muci- 
lage, and half-a-pint of warm water. 
Use as a demulcent. 

411. Assafoetida.— Mix one drachm 
of the tincture of assafoetida in a pint 
of barley water. Use as an antliel- 
mintic, or in convulsions from teeth- 
ing. 

412. GABGLE8. 
These are remedies used to stimu- 
late chronic sore throats, or a relaxed 
state of the swallow, or uvula. 

413. Aeidulated. — Mix one part 
of white vinegar with three parts of 
honey of roses, and twenty-four of 
barley water. Use in chronic inflam- 
mation of the throat, malignant sore 
throat, &C. 

414. Astringent. — Take two 
drachms of roses and mix with eight 
ounces of boiling water, infuse for 
one hour, strain, and add one drachm 
of alum and one ounce of honey of 
roses. Use for severe sore throat, 
relaxed nvula, ke* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHAT IS 0N1C PKISOH'b »00D 18 ANOTftlfiK P£KaON*S POISON. 119 



416. 7tr loliratioiL— Mix from 
<A» to four drachms of braised gall- 
ntits irith a pint of boiling water, and 
infuse for two hoars, then strain and 
sweeten. 

416. Tonic and Stimolant. — Mix 
six ounces of decoction of bark with 
two ounces of tincture of myrrh, and 
half-a-drachm of diluted sujphuric 
acid. Use for chronic sore throats. 

417. Alum. — Dissolve one drachm 
of alum in fifteen ounces of water, 
then add half-an-ounce of treacle, 
and one drachm of dQuted sulphuric 
add. Use as an astringent 

* 418. Kyrrh. — Add six dracbros 
of tincture of myrrh to seren ounces 
of infusion of linseed, and then add 
one drachm of diluted sulphuric acid. 
Use as a detergent. 

419. Tot Sliirht Inilammatioli of 
tlio Throat. — Aod one drachm of sul- 
phuric ether to half-an-ounce of syrup 
of marsh-mallow, and six ounces of 
barley water. This may be used fre- 
quently. 

420. lonoKs. 

Lotions are usually applied to tlie 
parts required by means of a piece of 
linen rag or piline, wetted with them, 
or by wetting the bandage itself. 
They are for outtpard application 

421. Emollient — Use decoction of 
marsh-mallow or linseed. 

422. Slder Tlowers.— Add two 
drachms and a half of elder flowers to 
one quart of boiling water, infuse for 
one hour, and stram. Use as a dis- 
cutient 

423. SedatiTB. -— Dissolve one 
drachm of extract of henbane in 
twenty-four drachms of water. 

424 O^um.— Mix two drachms 
of bruised opium with half-a-pint of 
boilinff water. Use, when eold, for 
painful ulcers, bmLses, Ice 

426. Stimulant. — Dissolve one 
drachm of caustic potash in one pint 



of water, and then gradually pour it 
upon twenty-four grains of camphot 
and one drachm of sugar, previously 
bruised together in a mortar. Use for 
ftmgoid and flabby nloera. 

420. Ordinary. — Mix one drachm 
of salt with eight ounces of water. 
Use for foul ulcers and flabby 
wounds. 

427. Cold Svaporating. — ^Addtwo 
drachms of Goulard's extract and the 
same quantity of sulphuric ether to a 
pint of cold water. Use as lotion 
for contusions, sprains, inflamed parts, 

428. Hydrochlorate of Ammonia. 
— Dissolve two drachms of sal am- 
moniac in six ounces of water, then 
add an ounce of distilled vinegar and 
the same quantity of rectified spirit 
Use as a remgerant 

429. Yollow Lotion. — Dissolve 
one grain of corrosive sublimate in an 
ounce of lime water, taking care to 
bruise the erystalr. of the salt in order 
to assist its solution. Use as a deter- 
sent Note, that corrosive sublimate 
is a violent and deadly poison. 

480. Black Wash.— Add half-a- 
drachm of calomel to four ounces of 
lime water, or eight grains to an 
ounce of lime water; shake welL 
Use as a detergent, and in bad 
ulcers. 

481. Acetate of Lead with Opiun. 
— ^Take twenty grains of acetate of 
lead, and a drachm of powdered 
opium, mix, and add an ounce of 
vinegar and four ounces of warm 
water, set aside for an hour, then 
filter. 27m as an astringent. 

482 CreofOte.— Add a drachm of 
creosote to a pint of water, and mix 
hy shaking. Use as an appUoation in 
outameous disease. 

488. 0allt. — Boil one drachm of 
bruised galls in twelve ounces^ of 
water until only half-a-pint rermains, 
then strain, and add one ounce of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A FOOL OR A PHYSICIAN AT FORTY. 



laudanum. Use as an astringent and 
sedative. 

484. 0IHT1CSHT8 AHB CSRATE8. 

These remedies are used as local 
applications to parts, generally ulcers. 
Tney are usually spread upon linen or 
other materials. 

485. Camphorated.— Mix half-an- 
ounce of camphor with one ounce of 
lard, haying, of course, previously 
powdered the camphor, by adding a 
few droj^s of spirits of wine. Use as 
a discutient and stimulant in indolent 
tumours. 

486. Ohalk.— Mix as much pre- 
pared chalk as you can into some 
lard, BO as to form a thick ointment 
Use as an application to bums and 
scalds. 

487. Tor Itch. — Mix four drachms 
of sublimed sulphur, two ounces of 
lard, and half-a-drachm of diluted 
sulphuric acid together. Use as an 
ointment to be rubbed into the body. 

488. Tor Seroftiloiii TTloorations. 
— Mix one drachm of oxide of zinc 
and one ounce of lard together. Use 
twice a day to the ulcerations. 

489. Catechu. — Mix one ounce of 
powdered catechu, two drachms and 
a half of powdered alum, one ounce of 
powderea white resin, and two ounces 
and a half of olive oil, together. Use 
for flabby and indolent ulcerations. 

440. Tartar Emetic. — Mix twenty 
grains of tartar emetic and ten grains 
of white sugar with one drachm and 
a half of lard. Use as a counter-irri- 
tant in white swellings, &c. 

440a. Boio LipialTO.— i. Oil of 
almonds, three ounces ; alkanet, half- 
an-ounce. Let them stand together 
in a warm place, then strain. Melt 
one ounce and a half of white wax 
and half -an-ounce of spermaceti with 
the oil ; stir it till it begins to thicken, 
and add twelve drops of otto of roses. 
— iL White wax, one ounce ; almond 



oil, two ounces ; alkanet, one drachm ; 
digest in a warm place, stir till suffi- 
ciently coloured, strain and stir in 
six drops of otto of roses. 

441. PILLS. 
442. Btrong PurgatiTO.— Take of 
powdered aloes, scammony, and gam- 
Doee, each fifteen grains, mix, and 
add sufficient Venice turpentine to 
make into a mass, then divide into 
twelve pills. Dose, one or two occa- 
sionally. 

448. XUdor Purgativo. — Take 
four grains of powdered scammony 
and the same quantity of compoui^ 
extract of colocynth, and two CTains 
of calomel ; mix well, and add two 
drops of oil of cloves, or thin gum- 
water, to enable the inrndients to 
combine properly, and divide into 
two pills. Dose, one or two when 
necessary. 

444. Common PurgatlTa.— -Take 
of powdered jalap and compound 
extract of colocyntn each four grains, 
of calomel two grains, mix as usual, 
and divide into two pUls. Dose, one 
or two occasionally. 

445. Tonic. — Mix twenty- four 
grains of extract of gentian and the 
same of purified green vitriol (siUphate 
Q^iron) together, and divide into twelve 
pills. Dose, one or two when neces- 
sary. Use in debility. 

446. Cough. — Mix one drachm of 
compound powder of ipecacuanha with 
one scruple of gum ammoniacum and 
one of dried squill bulb in powder. 
Make into a mass with mucilage, and 
divide into twenty pills. Dose, one 
three times a day. 

447. Astringent. — Mix sixteen 
grains of acetate of lead {sugar of lead) 
with four grains of opium, and make 
into a mass with extract of dandelion, 
so as to make eight pills. Dose, from 
one to two. Use as an astringent in 
obstinate diarrhoea, dysentery, and 
spitting of blood. 



The abovt do$a are/oradulU uiUeu othervite tpeciJUdU 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DXSPISE SCHOOL AND REMAIN A FOOL. 



121 



447a. Gout and Bbeoinatiim. — 
Acetic extract of colchicum^ two 
grains; powdered ipecacoanha, four 
grains ; compoiind extract of solo- 
cynth, half-a-drachra ; b!ne pill« four 
grains. Divide into twelve jiills; 
one to be taken night and morning. 

448. XIXTXOtES. 
448a. Acute Eheumatiim, or for 
Eheumatio Gout — Half-an-ounce of 
nitre (saltpetre), half-an -ounce of 
sulphur, half-an-ounce of flour of 
mustard, half-au-ounce of Turkey 
rhubarb, quarter of an ounce of 
powdered gum guaiacum. A tea- 
spoonful to DC taken in a wineglassful 
01 cold water, every other night for 
three nights, and omit three nights. 
The water should have been well 
boiled. 

440. FaTer, Simple.— Add three 
ounces of spirit of miudererus {Liquor 
ammonicB acetatis), three drachms of 
spirits of sweet nitre, four drachms of 
antimoniai wine, and a drachm of 
syrup of saffron, to four ounc-es of 
water, or medicated water, such as 
cinnamon, aniseed, &o. Dose^ for an 
adult, one or two tablespoonfuls every 
three hours. Use as a diaphoretio, 

450. Aromatic — Mix two drachms 
of aromatic confection with two 
drachms of compound tincture of 
cardamoms, and eight ounces of 
peppermint water. Dose^ from one 
ounce to one ounce and a halt Use 
in flatulent colic and spasms of the 
bowelsi 

461. Cathartic. — Dissolve two 
ounces of Epsom salts in six ounces of 
compound infusion of senna, then add 
two ounces of peppermint water. Dose, 
from one ana a half to two ounces. 
Use as a warm and active cathartic. 

462. Biuretio. — Dissolve one 
drachm of powdered nitre in three 
ounces of camphor mixture ; add five 
ounces of the decoction of broom, 
with six drachms of sweet spirits of 



nitre, and three drachms of tincture 
of squills ; mix. Dose, one teaspoon- 
fnl every two hours, or two table- 
spoonfuls every two hours. Use^ 
excellent in dropsies. 

463. Cough. — Dissolve three 
grains of tartar emetic and fifteen 
grains of opium in one pint of boiling 
water, then add four ounces of treacle, 
two ounces of vinegar, and one pint 
more of boiling water. Dose, from 
two teaspoonfulB to two tablespoon- 
fuls, according to circumstances, 
every three hours, or three times a 
da^. Use m common catarrh, bron- 
chitis, and irritable cough. 

468a. Bad Cold and Cough.— Solu- 
tion of acetate of ammonia, two 
ounces ; ipecacuanha wine, two 
drachms; antimony wine, two 
drachms ; solution of muriate of mor- 
phine, half-a-drachm j treacle, four 
drachms ; water, add eight ounces. 
Two tablespoonfuls to be taken three 
times a day. 

464. Cough (for Children).— -Mix 
three drachms of ipecacuanha wine 
with half-an-ounce of oxymel of 
sonills, the same quantity of balsam 
or tolu, one ounce of mucilage, and 
two ounces of water. Dose, one tea- 
spoonful for children under one year, 
two teaspoonfuls from one to five years, 
and a tablespoonful from five years, 
every time the cough is troublesome. 

466. Antispaimodic — Dissolve 
fifcy grains of camphor in two 
drachms of chloroform, and then add 
two drachms of compound tincture of 
lavender, six drachms of mucilage of 
gum arable, eight ounces of aniseed, 
cinnamon, or some other aromatic 
water, and two ounces of distilled 
water ; mix well. Dose, one table- 

rnfui every half-hour if necessary, 
in cholera in the cold stage, 
when cramps are severe, or exhaustion 
very great ; and as a general anti- 
spasmodic in doses of one dessert- 
spoonful when the spasms are severe. 



TJu abort dotu are/cr adulU unlesi othtnoiH stattd. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



122 



A TRUTH A80EBTAIN£D 18 A tiril*PEK8lON GAINED. 



466. Tonio and Stlmiilani.— Dis- 
Bolye one drachm of extract of baik^ 
and half-a-drachm of powdered gain 
arable, in six ounces of water, and 
then add one ounce of syrup of marsh- 
mallow, and the samequantity of syrup 
of tolu. Dose^ one tablespoonful every 
three hours. Use after fevers and 
catarrhs. 

467. Stomaehio. — Take twenty 
grains of powdered rhubarb, and rub 
It down in three ounces and a half of 
peppermint water, then add sal vola- 
tile and compound tincture of centian 
each one drachm and a half; mix. 
Dose, from one to one ounce and a 
half. Use this mixture as a tonic, 
stimulant, and stomachic 

467a. IndiffMtioiL— Infusion of 
calumba, six ounces ; carbonate of 
potass, one drachm ; compound tinc- 
ture of gentian, three drachms. 
Dose, two or three tabiespoonfuls 
daily at noon. 

468. BBIKXS. 

460. Tamarind No. 1.— Boil two 
ounces of the pulp of tamarinds in 
two pints of milk, then strain. Use 
as cooling drink. 

460. Tamarind No. 2. —Boil two 
ouuces of the pulp in two pints of 
warm water, ana allow it to cet cold, 
then strain. Use as cooling arink. 

461 F0WBEE8. 
462. Compound Soda. — Mix 

twenty-four grains of calomel, thirty- 
six grains of sesquicarbonate of soda, 
and one drachm of compound chalk 
powder, together. Divide into twelve 
powders. One of the powders to be 
given for a dose when required. Use 
as a mild purgative for children during 
teething. 

468. Tonio — Mix one drachm of 
powdered rhubarb with the same 
quantity of dried carbonate of soda, 
then add two drachms of powdered 
calumba root. Dose, fipom ten to 
twenty grains as a tonic after fevers. 



in all eases of debility and dyspepsia 
attended with acidity. 

464. Bhnbarb and Kagneiia.— 
Mix one drachm of powdered rhu- 
barb with two drachms of carbonate 
of magnesia, and half-a-drachm of 
ginger. Dose, from fifteen grains to 
one drachm. Use as a purgative for 
children. 

466. Snlphor and ?otaih.->Mix 
one drachm of sulphur with four 
scruples of bicarbonate of potash, and 
two scruples of nitre. Dose, from half* 
a-drachm to one drachm. Use as a 
purgative, diuretic, and refrigerant 

466. Antl-llianliofeal— Mix one 
grain of powdered ipecacuanha, and 
one grain of powderea opitmi, with the 
same quantity of camphor. Zhset one 
of these powders to be given in jam, 
treacle, Ac, once or twice a day ; but 
to adults only. 

467. Antiipatmodio.— Mix four 
grains of subnitrate of bismuth, forty- 
eight grains of carbonate of magnesia, 
and the same quantity of white sugar, 
and then divide into four equal parts. 
Dose^ one-fourth part. Use in obsti- 
nate pain in the stomach with cramps, 
unattended by inflammation. 

468. AntipenuEsal, or against 
Hooping-Cough. — Mix one drachm of 
powdered beUadonna root and two 
ounces of white sugar together. 
DosCj six grains morning and evening 
for children under one year ; nine 
grains for those under two and three 
years of ap ; fifteen grains for those 
between five and ten ; and thirty 
grains for adults. CatUtoru—Thvi 
should be prepared by a chemist, as 
the belladonna is a poison, and occa- 
sional doees of castor oil should be 
given while it is being taken. 

469. PnrgatiTe (Common).— Mix 

ten grains of calomel with one drachm 
of powdered jalap and twenty grains 
of sugar. Dose^ one half of the whole 
for adults. 



rtu abovt doHS a^rtfw ^dvAUt unieti otherwise tpeei/Ud, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MIKD tttAT YOTTK BE15D8 Att» UOT Of WBEDS. 



123 



470. SudorifiO. — Mix six grains of 
compound antimonial powder, two 
grains of ipecacuanha, and two grains 
of sugar together. Dose, as mixed, 
to be taken at bedtime. Use in 
catarrh and fever. 

471. xiscxiLAirxoirs 

. 472. Anihalmintia, or Vermifage. 
—For ridding the bowels of all forms 
of worms, an excellent medicine exists 
in the male fern — Aspidium felix 
ftuu. A decoction may be made of 
the fresh roots, or the root may be 
dried and powdered. Dose^ of the 
powdered root, from ten to thirty 
grains ; of the decoction, from a 
tablespoonful to a wineglassful, accord- 
ing to age, the bowels being cleared 
out afterwards by a purgative, such as 
one tablespoonftil of castor oil. Use 
to kill tape worm. 

478. Another Anthelmintic. —For 
thread- worms, which infest the rectum 
and especially the lower portion, near 
the onfice of the body, an injection of 
sadt and water, in the proportion of 
one ounce and a half of salt to a pint, 
or twenty ounces of water, or of 
quassia chips, will generally prove 
effectual, and obviate the necessity of 
administering medicine. 

474. Emulsion, LaxatiTe.--Rub 
down an ounce of castor oil in two 
drachms of mucilage of gum arable, 
add three ounces of dill water, and a 
drachm of tincture of jalap, gradually. 
Doset as prepared, the whole to be 
taken while fasting in the morning. 

475. Smtilaion, PurgatlTe.— Hub 
down six mins of scammony with six 
drachms oi white sugar in a mortar, 
and gradually add four ounces of al- 
mond emulsion, and two drops of oil 
of cloves. DosBf as ptepared, early in 
the morning. 

476. To preTent Pitting after 
flnukU-poJt. — Spread a sheet of thin 
leather with the ointment of ammonia- 
cum with mercury, and cut out a 



place for the mouth, eyes and nostrils. 
This forms what is called a mask, 
and, after anointing the eyelids with 
a little blue ointment, it should be 
applied to the face, and allowed to 
remain for three days for the distinct 
kind, and four days for the running 
variety. Apply before the spots fill 
with matter, although it will answer 
sometimes even sStet they have 
become pustulous. It may be applied 
to any part in the same way. 

477> Another Kethod, and one 
more reliable, is that of touching every 
pustule, or poc, on the face or bosom, 
with a camel-hair pencil dipped in a 
weak solution of lunar caustic {nitrate 
qf silver), made in the proportion of 
two grains of nitrate of silver to one 
ounce of distilled water. The time 
for application is about the seventh 
day, while each pustule is filled with 
a limpid fluid, or before suppuration 
takes place, the lotion arrestmg that 
action, and by preventing the form- 
ation of matter, saving the skin from 
being pitted ; a result that follows 
from the conversion of the adipose 
tissue into pus. 

478. A Third Kethod is to paint 
the face with ordinary collodion, 
which as it dries shrinks, and if used 
early, will effectually prevent all pit- 
ting. 

479. A Fourth Kethod is to lightly 
touch every part of the face with a 
feather dippea in sweet oil. Having 
the patient's room darkened with 
blinds giving a yellow tinge of colour 
also tends to prevent this disfigure- 
ment. 

480. Kuoilaga of Onm Arabic— 
Rub one ounce of gum arabic in a 
mortar, with four ounces of warm 
water. Use for coughs, &c. 

481. Kneila§6 of Starth.— Rub 
one drachm of starch with a little 
water, and graduallv add five ounces 
of water, then boil until it forms a 
mucilage. Use for enemas, topical 
applications, and demolcentB. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 



WANT OF VARIBTY LEADS TO SATIKTT. 



482. BISSASES. 

f7 Fifr the prnptr lUnudiei and Uuir DoMa 
Me '* PrucHpti4nu'* {par, 568). 

It should be clearly understood, 
that in all cases of dis^ise, the advice 
of a skilful physician is of the first 
importance. It is not, therefore, 
intended by the following information 
to supersede the important and neces- 
sary practice of the medical man | 
but rather, by exhibiting the treat- 
ment required, to show in what 
degree his aid is imperative. In 
cases, however, where the disorder 
may be simple and transient, or in 
which remote residence, or other cir- 
cumstances, may deny the privilege 
of medical attendance, the n>llowing 
particulars will be found of the 
utmost value. Moreover, the hints 
given upon what should be avoided 
will be of great service to the patient, 
since the pkysiologieal is no less im- 
portant than the fOedical treatment of 
disease. 

488. Aithma.— The following is 
recommended as a relief: — Two 
ounces of the best honey, and one 
ounce of castor oil, mixed. A tea- 
spoonful to be taken night and morn- 
ing. 

484. Apoplexy. — Immediate and 
large bleeding from the arm, cupping 
at the back of the neck, leeches to the 
temples, aperients Nos. 1 and 7, one 
or two drops, not m/ore^ of croton oil 
rubbed or dropped on the tongue, or 
six grains of calomel. Avoid excesses, 
intemperance, animal food. 

485. Baldness. — ^The decoction of 
boxwood, which has been found suc- 
cessful in some cases of baldness, is 
thus made :— Take of the common 
box, which grows in carden borders, 
stems and leaves four large handfuls ; 
boil in three pints of water, in a 
closely covered vessel, for a quarter of 
an hour, and let it stand in a covered 
earthenware jar for ten hours or more ; 
strain, and add an ounce and a half 



of eau de Cologne or lavender water, 
to make it keep. The head should 
be well washed with this solution 
every morning. 

486. Baldness when Caused by 
m-health or Age. — ^Bub onions fre- 
quently on the ^KtX. requiring it. The 
stimulating powers of this vegetable 
are of service in restoring the tone of 
the skin, and assisting the capillary 
vessels in sending forth new hair ; 
but it is not infallible. Should it 
succeed, however, the growth of these 
new hairs may be assisted by the 
oil of myrtle-berries, the repute of 
which, perhaps, is greater tnan its 
real efficacy. Even if they do no 
good, these applications are narraless. 

487. Bile, Bilioas, or Liver Com- 
plaints. — Abstinence from malt 
Ut^uors, cool homoeopathic cocoa for 
drmk, no tea or coffee, few v^tables, 
no broths or soups ; lean juicy meat 
not over cooked for dinner, with 
stale bread and occasionally a slice of 
toasted bacon for breakfast Nos. 44 
and 45. 

488. Boils should be brought to a 
head by warm poultices of camomile 
flowers, or boiled white lily root, or 
onion root ; by fermentation with hot 
water, or by stimulating plasters. 
When perfectly ripe and ready to 
break, they mav be discharged by a 
needle or the lancet C(rMAil\dwnjaX 
^rm/rm^;— Peruvian bark, port wine, 
and sea-bathing are desirable. 

489. Chapped Hands may be pre- 
vented by the use of camphor balls 
made as follows: — Melt three drachms 
of spermaceti, four drachms of white 
wax, with one ounce of almond oil, 
and stir in three drachms of camphor 
(previously powdered by moistening it 
with a little spirits of wine) ; pour 
small quantities into small gallipots, 
so as to turn out in the form of cakes. 

490.4niiokenPox.— Mildaperients, 
No. 4, succeeded by No. 7, and No. 



* For (A« Bmtdia ami Dom su ** PreaeriptUnu,*' page 181. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THX HSALTHIB8T VKAST COSTS THS LBA8T. 



125 



8, if much fever accompany the 
eruption. 

491. Chilblaint. — Warm, dry, 
woollen clothing to exposed parts m 
cold weather, as a preventiye. In the 
first stage, friction with No. 48, used 
cold, when ulcers form they should 
be poulticed with bread and water for 
a aay or two, and then dressed with 
calamine cerate. Or, chilblains in 
every stage, whether of simple inflam- 
mation or open ulcer, may always be 
successfully treated by Goulard's 
extract, used pure or applied on lint 
twice a day. 

402. Chilblaini, Broken, or 
Cfhapped Hands, fto. —Sweet oil, one 
pint ; Venice turpentine, three ounces ; 
nog's-lard, half-a-pound ; bees-wax, 
three ounces. Put all into a pipkin 
over a slow fire, and stir it with a 
wooden spoon till the bees-wax is all 
melted, and the ingredients simmer. 
It ia fit for use as soon as cold, but 
the longer it is kept the better it will 
be. It must be spread very thin on 
soft rag, or (for chans or cracks) 
rubbed on the hands when you go to 
bed. 

498. Common Continued Tevor. — 

Aperients in the commencement, No. 
1, followed by No. 7, then diaphor- 
etics. No. 8, and afterwards tonics. 
No. 13, in the stage of weakness. 
Avoid all excesses. 

494. Common Cough. — Thelinctus, 
No. 42, or No. 43, abstinence from 
malt liquor, and protection from cold 
damp air. Avoid cold, damp, and 
draughts. 

495. Cough, Another Bomedy. — 
Syrup of popnies, oxymel of squills, 
simple oxymel, in equal parts, mixed, 
and a toitspoonfnl taken when the 
cough is troublesome. It is best to 
have it made up by a chemist The 
cost is trifling. 

496. Constipation.— The observ- 
ance of a regnlar period of evacuating 

^^ For HU RmtiUi and Jkmt 



the bowels, which is most proper in 
the morning; after breakfast The 
use of mild aperients. No. 47, also 
porrid^ for breakfast, and brown 
bread instead of white. There should 
be an entire change in the dietary for 
a few days while taking opening 
medicine. 

497. Consumption.— The disease 
may be complicated with various 
morbid conditions of the lungs and 
heart; which require appropriate treat- 
ment To allay the cough. No. 42 
is an admirable remedy. Avoid cold, 
damp, excitement, and over-exertion. 

49a Convulsions (Children).— If 
during teething, free lancing of the 
gums, the warm bath, cold applica- 
tions to the head, leeches to the 
temples, an emetic, and a laxative 
clyster, No. 20. 

499. Convulsions. — The folFowing 
remarkable case, in which a surgeon 
saved the life of an infant in convul- 
sions, by the use of chloroform, will be 
read with interest. He commenced 
the use of it at nine o'clock one even- 
ing, at which period the child was 
rapidly sinking, numerous remedies 
having been already tried without 
eflect He dropped half-a-drachm of 
chloroform into a thin muslin hand- 
kerchief, and held it about an inch 
from the infant's face. In about two 
minutes the convulsions gave w^, 
and the child fell into a sleep. By 
sliffhtly releasing the child from the 
influence of the chloroform, he was 
able to administer food, by which the 
child was nourished and strengthened. 
The chloroform was continually ad- 
ministered, in the manner described, 
from Friday evening at nine o'clock 
until Monday morning at nine. This 
treatment lasted sixty hours, and six- 
teen ounces of chloroform were used, 
and no injurious effects, however 
trivial, followed. 

600. Cramp in the Legs.— Stretch 
out the heel of the leg as far as 
tu " Prtaeriptiiinu,** jpagt 181. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18« 



FOB THl UOHT OF THl DAT Wl'VB NOTHING TO PAT. 



possible, at the same time drawing up 
the toes as far as possible. This will 
often stop a fit of cramp after it has 
commenoed. 

501. Croup. — Leeches to the 
throat, with hot fomentations as long 
as the attack lasts ; the emetic. No. 
16, afterwards the aperient, No. 5. 
Avoid cold and damp. 

602. Deafiiefi.— It is now con- 
sidered injnrious to use water for the 
ear in cases of ear complaint. A solu- 
tion of Sodium Bicarbonate has been 
found to act most beneficially as a 
solvent. In some forms of ear com- 
plaint powdered borax, as a constituent 
of the * * drops " to be used, has been 
foand useful, and tannic acid in other 
forms. Carbolic acid mixed with 
glycerine is used when a disinfectant is 
necessary. So delicate, however, is 
the stBUcture of the internal ear that 
in all cases it is desirable to consult a 
medical practitioner. 

508. Dropsy. — Evacuate the water 
by means of No. 10, but if possible 
call in a medical man, as dropsy may 
be due to either heart or kidney com- 
plaint, and each needs different treat- 
ment 

504. Epilepsy.— During? fit put 
something between the teeth to pre- 
vent biting the tongue, and see 
patient is lying in a safe place. 
Loasen all tight clothing. If accom- 
panied or pr^uced by nilness of the 
vessels of the head, leeches to the 
temples, blisters, and No. 1 and No. 
7. If from debility or confirmed 
epilepsy, the mixture, No. 18. Avoid 
diinking and excitement. 

505. Smptions on the Faee. — 

The powder. No. 80, internally, 
sponging the face with the lotion, No. 
31. Avoid excesses in diet. 

506. Bryiipelas. — Aperients, if 
the mtient be strong, No. 1, followed 
by No. 7, then tonics, No. 27. No. 
2/ may be used from the commence- 



ment for weak subjects. Smear tha 
aflected part with vaseline to keep 
the air away. 

507. Wtftk and Sore Ijm.*- 

Sulphate of siuc, three grains ; tinc- 
ture of opium, ten drops ; water, two 
ounces. To be applied three or four 
times a day. 

508. Faintneti.— Effusion of cold 
water on the face, stimulants to the 
nostrils, pure air, and the recumbent 
position ; afterwards, avoidance of the 
exciting cause. Avoid excitement 

509. Frost- Bite and Froien 
Limbi. — No heating or stimulating 
liquors must be given. Rub the 
parts affected with ice, cold, or snow 
water, and lay the patient on a cold 
bed. 

510. Oout — The aperients No. 1, 
followed by No. 24, bathing the parts 
with very weak gin-and-water ; give 
for drink, weak tea or coffee. 
Warmth by flannels. Abstain from 
wines, spirits, and animal food. 

511. GraTel.—No. 5, followed by 
No. 7, the free use of magnesia as an 
aperient The pill No. 22. Abstain 
from fermented drinks and hard 
water. Another form of gravel must 
be treated by mineral acids, given 
three times a day. 

512. Dr. Clark's Pills for Hervous 
Headache. — Socotrine aloes, powdered 
rhubarb, of each one drachm ; com- 
pound powder of cinnamon, one 
scruple ; hard soap, half-a-drachm ; 
syrup enough to form the mass. To 
be divided into fifty pills, of which 
two will be sufficient for a dose ; to be 
taken occasionally. 

518. Hooping Congh. —Dissolve a 
scruple of salt of tartar in a quarter 
pint of water ; add to it ten gi-ains of 
fochineal ; sweeten it with sugar. 
Give to an infant a fourth part of a 
tablespoonful four times a aay ; two 
years old, half-a-spoonfid ; from four 
years, a tablespoonful. Great care 19 



' For thi Mtm^iiiM and Do$u am ** Preteriptitmft^' pa^ 111, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A SPARK MAT RAUB AX AWTHL BLA21B. 



127 



reqnirod in the adminiBtration of 
medicines to infanta. This disease 
may be complicated with congestion 
or mflanimation of the lungs, or con- 
ynlsions, and then becomes a serious 
disease. If imcomplicated, Ko. 43. 

614. Hytterici.— The fit may be 
prevented by the administration of 
thirty drops of ether. When it has 
taken place, open the windows, 
loosen the tight parts of the dress, 
sprinkle cold water on the face, &c. 
A glass of wine or cold water when 
the patient can swallow. Avoid 
excitement and tight lacing. 

615. Indigestion.— The pills No. 
2, with the mixture No. 18, or the 
mixture par. 457a, at the same time 
abstinence from veal, pork, mackerel, 
salmon, pastry, and beer ; for drink, 
homoeopathic cocoa, a glass of cold 
spring water the first thing every 
mommg. Avoid excesses. 

616. i^ORgh or HlooRp— This 
is a spasm of the diaphragm, caused 
by flatulencyi indigestion, or acidity. 
It may be relieved W the sudden 
application of oold, also by two or 
three mouthfuls of cold water, by 
eating a small piece of ice, taking a 
pinch of snuff; or anything that 
excites counteraction. 

617. Inflammation of the Bladder. 
— Bleeding, aperients Na 5 and No. 
7, the warm hip-bath, afterwards 
opium ; the pill ao, 11, three times 
a day till relieved. Avoid fermented 
liquors, &c. 

618. Inflammation of the Bowels. 
-^Leeches, blisters, fomentations, 
hot baths, iced drinks, the pills No. 
19 ; move the bowels with clysters, if 
necessary. No. 20. Avoid cold, in- 
digestible food, ko. 

610. Inflammation of the Brain. 
Application of cold to the head, 
bleeding from the temples or back of 
the neck by leeches or cupping ; 
aperients No. 1, followed by Ko. 7 ; 



mercury to salivation, No. 15. Avoid 
excitement, study, and intemperance. 

520. Inflammation of the Kidneys. 

— Apply leeches over the seat of 
pain, aperient No. 3, the warm bath. 
Avoid violent exercise, rich living. 
Adopt mainly a milk diet. 

521. Inflammation of the liyer. 
— lieeches over the right side, the 
seat of pain, blisters, aperients No. 1, 
followed by No. 7, afterwards the 
pills No. 19, till the gums are slightly 
tender. Avoid cold, damp, intemper- 
ance, and anxiety. 

622. Inflammation of the Lnngs. 
— Over painful part of chest use 
linseed meal poultices in which a 
dessertspoonful of mustard is added, 
to be changed every four hours ; the 
demulcent mixture, No. 14, to allay 
the cough, with the powders No. 15. 
Avoid cold, damp, and draughts. 

628. Inflammation of the Stom- 
ach. — Leeches to the pit of the 
stomach, followed by fomentations, 
cold iced water for arink, bowels to 
be evacuated by clysters ; abstinence 
from all food except cold gruel, milk 
and water, or tea made with milk. 
Avoid excesses and condiments. 

624. lore Throat— Those subject 
to sore throat will find the following 
preparation simple, cheap, and highly 
efficacious when used m the early 
stage. Pour a pint of boiling water 
upon twenty-five or thirty leaves of 
common sage ; let the infusion stand 
for halfan-nour. Add vinegar suffi- 
cient to make it moderately acid, and 
honey according to the taste. This 
combination of the astringent and 
the emollient principle seldom fails 
to produce the desired effect. The 
infusion must be used as a gargle 
several times a day. It is pleasant 
to the taste, and if swallowed con- 
tains nothing to render it dangerous 
in any way. 

626. Inflammatory Sore Throat. 
—Leeches and blisters externally. 



' For tJU JUmediit and Dotu ut *' Prtteriptiont,'* pofft 181. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



128 TO-DAY, MAN LIVM IN PLKASTTBB, WEALTH, AND PRIDE ; 



aperients No. 1, followed by No. 7, 
gargle to clear the throat, No. 17. 
Avoid cold, damp, and draughts. 

626. Inflamed Eyes.— The bowels 
to be regulated by No. 5, a small 
blister behind the ear or on the nape 
of the neck — the eye to be bathed 
with Na 85. 

627. InflneniaCSymptomi). — This 
infections disease is characterized by 
cenerol catarrh of the mucous mem- 
branes and accompanied by great pros- 
tration. Initial symptoms are head- 
ache, pains in the body and limbs, 
with usually fever and a small, quick, 
irregular pulse. Affections of the 
lungs are very prone to occur, especi- 
ally pneumonia ; nausea, vomiting and 
diarnioea may be present Persistent 
neuralgia and great depression of 
spirits are often experienced in the 
convalescent stage. 

628. Inflaenxa(Treatment). — Keep 
in bed, if fever is present give aperient 
No. 4. In early stage give a hot 
bath and afterwards a hot drink, and 
see that the bed is well warmed. 
Antifebrin in ten-grain doses every 
four hours for an adult may be given 
during the fever. With weak pulse 
give brandy. Lung complications 
should receive their appropnate treat- 
ment. In convalescence, a nutritious 
diet, fresh air, and take No. 27 as a 
tonic. 

629. Intermittent Fevei, or 
Ague. — Take No. 13 during the 
intermission of the paroxysm of the 
fever ; keeping the bowels free with a 
wine-glass of No. 7. Avoid bad air, 
stagnant pools, &c 

680. Itoh.— The ointment of No. 
28, or lotion No. 29. 

681. Jaundice. — One pennvworth 
of allspice, ditto of flowers or brim- 
stone, ditto of turmeric ; these to be 
well pounded together, and after- 
wards to be mixed with half-a-pound 
of treacle. Two tablespoon fuls to be 



taken every day. Or the piUs No. 
1, afterwards the mixture No. 7, 
drinking freely of dandelion tea. 

682. Looieneii of the Boweli 
(English Cholera).— One pill No. 19, 
repeated if necessary ; afterwards the 
mixtui-e No. 21. Avoid unripe 
fruits, acid drinks, ginger-beer ; wrap 
flannel round the abaomen. 

688. Keailei.— A well-ventilated 
room, aperient No. 4, with No. 14 to 
allay the cough and fever. 

684. Kenstruation (Ezoeisiva}.— 
No. 40 during the attack, with rest 
in the recumoent posirion ; in the 
intervals, No. 89. 

686. Kenstmation (Soanty).— In 
strong patients, cupping the loins, 
exercise in the open air. No. 40, the 
feet in warm water before the ex- 
pected period, the pills No. 88 ; in 
weak subjects. No. 89. Gentle and 
regular exercise. Avoid hot rooms, 
and too much sleep. In cases of this 
description it is- desirable to apply to 
a medical man for advice. It may be 
useful to many to point out that 
pennyroyal tea is a simple and useful 
medicine for inducing the desired 
result. 

687. Kenitmatioii (Fainfol).— 
No. 41 during the attack ; in the 
intervals. No. 88 twice a week, with 
No. 89. Avoid cold, mental excite- 
ment, &c. 

688. Kumpi. — Fomentation with 
a decoction of camomiles and poppy 
heads ; No. 4, as an aperient, and 
No. 9 during the stage of fever. 
Avoid cold and attend to the regular- 
ity of the bowels. 

630. Kervoosness. — Cheerful so- 
ciety, early rising, exercise in the 
open air, jjarticularly on horseback, 
and No. 12. Avoid excitement, 
study, and late meals. 

640. Falpitation of the Heart.— 
The pills No. 2, with the mixture 
No. 12. 



' For ike RemedUs and Doae$ tee *' Prticriptiont,'* page 131. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-ICORBOW, POOR — OB UFB ITSBLF DXNISD. 



129 



541. PUm.— The paste No. 84, at 
the same time a regulated diet When 
the piles are external, or can be reached, 
one or two applications of Qonlard's 
extract, with an occasional dose of 
lenitive electuary, will generaUy suc- 
ceed in curing them, bathe frequently 
with cold water. 

642. Qninsey. — Hot fomentations 
applied all round the throat; an 
emetic. No. 16, commonly succeeds 
in brMtking the abscess ; afterwards 
the gargle No. 17. Avoid cold and 
damp. 

648. B^f11^«*t^^«| — Bathe the 
affected parts with No. 23, and take 
internally No. 24, with No. 25 at 
bedtime, to ease pain, &c. Avoid 
damp and cold, wear flanneL Take 
no malt liquon, sugar or pastry, ko, 

644. Biokets.— The powder No. 
88, a diy, pure atmosphere, a nour- 
ii^ing diet. Give cod-liver oiL 

646. Biagworm.— It is best for 
the part affected, if in the hair, to be 
shaved and then apply by rubbing a 
solution of one pint of strong vinegar 
to four pints of water, and atterwards 
painting on a solution of iodine ; this 
should be done night and mominff. 
The patient should take a little 
sulphur and treacle, or some other 

fmtle aperient, every morning, 
rushes and combs should be washM 
every day. The lotion No. 82, with 
the occasional use of the powder No. 
5. Fresh air and cleanliness. 

646. Scarlet 7eTer.— Well-venti- 
lated room, sponging the body when 
hot with cold or tepid vinesar, or 
spirit and water; aperients. No. 4; 
dianhoretics. No. 8. If dropsy suc- 
oeea the disappearance of the erup- 
tion, frequent purging with No. 6, 
succeeded hj ifo. 7. If sore throat 
use gargle No. 17. 

647. teroftila.— Pure air, light 
but warm clothing, diet of fnsh 
animal food, bowels to be regulated by 



Na 6 and No. 26, taken regularly for 
a considerable time, and cod-liver oiL 

648. Sourf in the Haad.— Into a 
pint of water drop a lump of fresh 
quicklime, the siee of a walnut ; let 
it stand all night, then nonr the 
water off clear from the sediment or 
deposit, add a quarter of a pint of 
the best vinegar, and wash the head 
with the mixtUTB, which is perfectly 
harmless, and forms a simple and 
effective remedy. 

640. Senxry. — Fresh animal and 
vegetable food, and the free use of ripe 
fruits and lemon juice. Avoid cold 
and damp. 

660. Small-poz.— A well- ventilated 
apartment, mild aperients ; if fever be 
present, Na 7, succeeded by diapho- 
retics No. 8, and tonics No. 18 in the 
stage of debility, or decline of the 
eruption. 

661. Outaneous Xmptioni.— The 
following mixture is very useful in 
all cutaneous eruptions : Ipecacuanha 
wine, four drachms; flowers of sulphur, 
two drachms ; tincture of cardamoms, 
one ounce. Mix : one teaspoouM to 
be taken three times a day, in a wine- 
glassful of water. 

662. Wash for a Blotched Faee.— 
Rose water, three ounces : sulphate 
of zinc, one drachm. Mix : wet the 
hcB with it, gently dry it, and then 
touch it over with cold cream, which 
also diy gently off. 

668. Fraeklei.— To disperse them, 
take one ounce of lemon juice, a 
quarter of a drachm of powdered 
borax, and half-a-diachm of sugar ; 
mix, and let them stand a few days in 
a glass bottle till the liquor is fit for 
use, then rub it on the hands and &ce 
occasionally. 

664. To Bamore Bua FreeUM.— 
Dissolve, in half-an* ounce of lemon 
juice, one ounce of Venice soap, and add 
a quarter of an ounce each of oil of 
bitter almonds, and deliquated oil of 



' Ftr th4 Bt mt diti ami Dota tm ** Frfcr^Uoni,' pagt 181. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



180 



TODAY, LATB MANT PLANS FOR T1AR8 TO OOMI ; 



tartar. Plaoe thii mixtare in tb« 
sun tail it «oa«ir«6 the ooniUtancy of 
cintmeat When in this state add 
three drops of the oil of rhodium and 
keep it for use. Apply it to the face 
andf hands in the manner following :— 
Wash the parts at night with elder- 
flower water, then anoint with the 
ointment In the morning cleanse 
th^ skin by washing it copiously in 
rose water 

556. Wash for Smmhuni.— Take 
two drachms of borax, one drachm of 
Roman alum one drachm of camphor, 
half-an-ounce of su^car-candy, and a 
pound of ox-galL Mix and stir well 
for ten minutes or so, and repeat this, 
stirring three or four times a day for 
a fortnight, till it anpears clear and 
transparent Strain tnrough blotting- 
paper, and bottle up for use. 

656. Ointment for Sore Kipples. 
— ^Take of tincture of tolu, two 
drachms ; q>ermaoeti ointment, 
half-an-ounoe ; powdered gum, two 
drachms. Mix these materials well 
tostether to make an ointment The 
white of an egg mixed with brandy is 
the best application for sore nipples ; 
the person should at the same time 
use a nipple shield. 

667. 8t TituM'u Daaot.— The occa- 
sional use, in the commencement, of 
No. 5, followed by Ka 7, afterwards 
No. 46. 

568. Thruih. — One of the powders 
No. 6 every other night; in the 
interrals a dessertspoonful of the 
mixture Na 18 three times a day ; 
white spots to be dressed with the 
honey of borax. 

660. Tic-Doloreux.— Regulate the 
bowels with No. 8, and take in the 
interr^s of pain, No. 27. Avoid 
cold, damp, and mental anxiety. 
.A severe attack of tic-doioreux 
19 said to have been cured by the 
following simple remedy :— -take half- 
apint of rose water, add two tea- 
qpoonfuls of white vinegar, to form a 



lotioiL Apply it to the part affscted 
three or lour timos % day. It requires 
fresh linen and lotion at each appli- 
cation ; this will, ia two or three oaya, 
graduiJly take the pain away. 

660. Taethinf.—Toung children, 
whilst cutting their first set of teeth, 
often suffer severe constitutional 
disturbance. At first there is restless- 
ness and peevishness, with slight fever, 
but not unfrequently these are followed 
by convulsive fits, as they are com* 
monly called, which are caused by 
the brain becoming irritated ; and 
sometimes uuder this condition the 
child is either cut off suddenly, or the 
foundation of serious mischief to the 
brain is laid. The remedy, or rather 
the safeguard, against these frightfid 
consequences, is trifling, safe, and 
almost certain, and consists merely in 
lancing the gum. 

661. Toothache. —Use No. 8 for a 

few alternate days. Apply liquor 
ammonis to reduce the pain, and 
when that is accomplished, fill the 
decayed spots with silver sucoedaneum 
without delay, or the pain will return. 
A drop of creosote, or a few drops of 
chloroform on cotton, applied to the 
tooth, or a few grains of camphor 
placed in the decayed opening, or 
camphor moistened with turpentine, 
will often afford instint relief. 

662. Another Remedy tor Tooth- 
ache. — ^Twoor three drops of essential 
oil of cloves put upon a small piece of 
lint or cotton wool, and placed in tbe 
hollow of the tooth, will be found to 
have the aetive power of curing the 
toothache without destroying the tooth 
or injuring the gums. 

668. Sueoedaneum. — ^Take an old 
silver thimble, an old silver coin, or 
other silver article, and with a very 
fine file convert it into filings. Sift 
through gauze, to separate the coarse 
from the fine particles. Take the finer 
portion, and mix with sufficient quick- 
silver to form a stiff aroalgam,and while 



(7 ftr Vu M0m0iUm attd Dftum '* PtueripUom,** fopt ISL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-MORROW, SINKS INTO THU SILENT TOMB. 



181 



in this state, fill the cavities of decayed 
teeth. This is precisely the same as 
the metallic amalgam, used by all 
dentists. OaMtm. — ^As it turns black 
nnder the action of the acids of the 
mouth, it should be used sparingly 
iotfrwd teeth. A tooth should never 
be filled while it is aching. 

664. Typhus Fever.— Sponging 
the body with cold or tepid water, a 
well-ventilated apartment, cold ap- 
plications to the head and temples. 
Aperients Ko. 4, with refrigerants 
1^. 9, tonics No. 18 in the stage of 
debility. 

665. Water on the Bndn.— Local 
Ueeding bv means of leeches, blisters, 
aperients No. 5, and mercurial medi- 
cines, No. 15. 

666. Whites.— The mixture No. 
86, with the injection No. 87. 
Clothing light but warm, moderate 
exercise in the open air, country 
residence. 

667. Worms in the Intestines.— 
The aperient No. 6, followed by No. 7, 
afterwards the free use of lime water 
and milk in equal parts, a pint daily. 
Avoid unwholesome food. (See also 
pars. 472 and 473.) 

668. PBESCBIPTI0H8. 

To ht U9td in Vu Ccues mumeroAtd wnder the 
htad " DUeoHM " (page 124). 

The followingprescriptionsyoriginally 
derived from various prescribers* 
Pharmacopoeias, embody the favourite 
remedies employed by the most emi- 
nent physicians : — 

N3.— 1 drachm « 1 taaspoonftiL 
. 1 ounce B 2 tablespoonftili. 

1. Take of powdered aloes, nine 
grains; extract of colocynth, com- 
pound, eighteen grains ; calomel, nine 
grains; tartrate of antimony, two 
grains ; mucilage, sufficient to make a 
mass, which is to be divided into six 
pills ; two to be taken every twenty- 
four hours, till they act thoroughly on 
the bowels : in case of inflammation, 
apoplexy, Im9l 



2. Powdered rhubarb, Socotrina 
aloes, and gum mastic, each one 
scruple ; make into twelve pills : one 
before and one alter dinner. 

8. Compound extract of colocynth, 
extract of^ jalap, and Castile soap, of 
each one scruple ; make into twelve 
pills. 

4. James's powder, five grains; 
calomel, three grains : in fevers, for 
adults. For children, the following : 
— Powdered camphor one scruple; 
calomel and powdered scammouy, of 
each nine grains; James's powder, 
six grains ; mix and divide into six 
powders. Half of one powder twice 
a day for an infimt a year old ; a 
whole powder for two years : and for 
four years, the same three times a 
day. 

5. James's powder, six ([rains ; pow- 
dered ialap, ten grains; mix and divide 
into three or four powders, according 
to the child's age ; in one powder u 
for an adult. 

6. Powdered rhubarb, four grains ; 
mercury and chalk, three grains; 
ginger m powder, one grain ; an alter- 
ative aperient for children. 

7. Dried sulphate of magnesia, six 
drachms; sulphate of smU, three 
drachms ; infusion of senna, seven 
ounces ; tincture of jalap, and com- 
pound tincture of cardamoms, each 
half-an-ounoe : in acute diseases 
generally ; take two tableqxwnfals 
every four hours till it operates 
freely. 

8. Nitrate of potass, one diaekM 
and a half; spirits of nitric ether, half- 
an-ounoe ; camphor mixture, and tha 
spirit of minderems, each foor ounces: 
in fovers, kc; two tablespoonfok, 
three times a day, and for cnildren a 
dessertspoonftd every four hours. 

9. Spirit of nitric ether, three 
drachms; dilute nitric acid, two 
drachms ; S3rrup, three drachms ; cam- 
phor mixture, seven ounces ; in fevers, 
&c, with debility ; dose ss in preced- 
ing prescription. 

10. Decoctionof broom, half- a-pint; 
cream of tartar one ounce, tiactaro of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



132 



TO-DAT, HIS FOOD 18 DRESSED IS DAINTY FORMS ; 



squills, two drachms : in dropsies ; a 
third part three times a day. 

11. Pills of soap and opiiimy five 
grains for a dose as directed. 

12. Ammoniated tincture of valerian 
six drachms ; camphor mixture, seyen 
ounces ; a fourth part three times a 
day ; in spasmodic and hysterical dis- 
orders. 

18. Disulphate of equina, half-a- 
drachm; dilute sulphuric acia, twenty 
drops ; oompound infusion of roses, 
eight ounces; two tablespoonfuls every 
four hours, in intermittent and other 
fevers, during the absence of the 
paroxysm. 

14. Almond mixture seven ounces 
and a half; wine of antimony and 
ipecacuanha, of each one drachm and a 
half : a tablespoonfid every four hours; 
in cough with fever, kc 

15. Calomel, one grain ; powdered 
white sugar, two grains ; to make a 
powder to be placed on the tongue 
every two or three hours. Should 
the calomel act on the bowels, pow- 
<lered kino is to be substituted for the 
sugar. 

16. Antimony and ipecacuanha 
wines, of each an ounce; a teaspoonful 
every ten minutes for a child till 
vomiting is produced ; but for an 
adult a lai^ tablespoonfiil should be 
taken. 

17. Compound infusion of roses, 
seven ounces ; tincture of myrrh, one 
ounce. 

18. Infusion of orange peel, seven 
ounces ; tincture of hops, half-an- 
ounce ; and a drachm of carbonate of 
soda ; two tablespoonfuls twice a day. 
Or, infusion of valerian, seven ounces; 
carbonate of ammonia, two aonples ; 
compound tincture of bark, six 
dracnms; spirits of ether, two drachms: 
one tablespoonful every twenty-four 
hours. 

19. Blue pill, four grains ; opium, 
half-a-grain : to be taken three times 
a day. 

20. For a Clyster. — A pint and a 
half of gruel or fat broth, a tablespoon- 
IbI of castor oil, one of common salt. 



and a lump of butter ; mix, to b j 
ii^jectod slowly. A third of this 
quantiW is enough for an infant. 

21. Chalk mixture, seven ounces ; 
aromatic and opiate confection, of each 
one drachm ; tincture of catechu, six 
drachms ; two tablespoonfuls every 
two hours. 

22. Carbonate of soda, powdered 
rhubarb, and Castile soap, each one 
drachm ; make thirty-six pills ; three 
twice a day. 

23. Lotion. — Common salt, one 
ounce ; distilled water, seven ounces ; 
spirits of wine, one ounce : mix. 

24. Dried sulphate of magnesia, 
six drachms; neavy carbonate of 
magnesia, two drachms ; wine of col- 
chicum, two drachms ; water eight 
ounces: take two tablespoonfUls every 
four hours. 

25. Compound powder of ipecac- 
uanha, ten grains ; powdered guaia- 
cum, four grains: in a pow<kr at 
bedtime. 

26. Brandish's solution of potash ; 
thirty drops twice a day in a wmeglass 
of beer. 

27. Disulphate of quina, half-a- 
drachm ; dilute sulphuric acid, ten 
drops; compound infusion of roses, 
eight ounces : two tablespoonfuls every 
four hours, and as a tonic in the stage 
of weakness succeeding fever. 

28. Flowers of sulphur, two ounces ; 
hog's lard, four ounces; wnito hellebore 
pNowder, half-an-ounce ; oil of lavender 
sixty drops. 

29. Hydriodate of potass, two 
drachms; distilled water, eight 
ounces. 

80. Flowers of sulphur, half-a- 
drachm ; carbonate of soda, a scruple ; 
tartarized antimouy, one-eighth of a 
groin : one powder, night and mom- 
mg, in eruptions of the skin or face. 

81. Milk of bitter almonds, seven 
ounces; bichloride of mercury, four 
groins ; spirits of rosemary, one ounce: 
bathe the eruption with this lotion 
three times a oay. 

82. Sulphate of zinc, two scruples ; 
sugar of lead, fifteen grains ; distilled 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-MOBBOW, IS HIMSELF A FEAST FOR WORMS. 



188 



water, six oimces : the parts to be 
washed with the lotion two or three 
tijiiea a day. 

88. Carbonate of iron, six grains ; 
pcwdeied rhubarb, fcnr grains ; one 
powder night and morning. 

84. Elecampane powder, two ounces; 
sweet fennel - se^ powder. thi<ee 
o'JAces; black pepper powder, one 
oance; purified honey, and brown 
sugar, of each two ounces ; the size of 
a nutmeg, two or three times a day. 

35. Smphate of zinc, twelve grains ; 
wine of opium, one drachm; rose 
water, six ounces. 

86w Sulphate of magnesia, six 
drachms: sulphate of iron^ ten 
gtains ; diluted sulphuric acid, forty 
drops ; tincture of cardamoms (com- 
pound), half-an-ounoe ; water, seyen 
ounces; a fourth part night and 
morning. 

87. Decoction of oak bark, a pint ; 
dried alum, half-an-ounce: or liquor 
plnmbi subacetatis one teaspoonfui 
to a pint of water, for an iinection, 
a syrmgeful to be used night and 
morning. 

88. Compound gamlx^e pill, and a 
pill of assafoetida and ^oes, of each 
nalf'S-draohm : make twelye piUs ; 
two twice or three times a week. 

89. Griffiths' mixture— one table- 
spoonful three times a day. 

40. Ergot of rye, fiye grains ; in a 
powder, to be taken eyery four hours. 
This should only be taken under 
medical advice and sanction. 

41. Powdered opium, half-a-grain ; 
camphor, two grains in a pill ; to be 
taken every three or four hours whilst 
In pain. 

42. Syrup of balsam of tolu, two 
ounces ; the muriate of morphia^ two 
grains ; muriatic add, twenty drops : 
a teaspoonfui twice a day. 

48. Salts of tartar, two scruples, 
twenty grains of powdered cochineal ; 
i !b of honey ; -water, half-a-pint ; 
boli, and give a tablespoonful three 
times a day. 

44. Calomel, ten grains ; Castile 
soap, extract of jalap, extract of 



colocynth, of each one scrapie j oil of 
juniper, five drops : make into fifteen 
pills ; one three times a day. 

45. Infusion of orange peel, eight 
ounces; carbonate of soda, one 
drachm ; and compound tincture of 
cardamoms, half-an-ounce; take a 
tablespoon^ three times a day, 
succeedinff the pills. 

46. CartMnateofiron, three ounces; 
mup of ginger, sufficient to make an 
electuary: a teaspoonfui three times 
a day. 

47. Take of Castile soap, comnound 
extract of colocynth, compound rhu- 
barb piU, and the extract of jalap, 
each one scruple ; oil of caraway, ten 
drops ; make into twenty pills, and 
take one after dinner every day whilst 
necessary. 

48. Spirit of rosemary, five parts ; 
spirit otwine, or spirit of turpentine, 
one part. 

49. Take of thick mucilage, one 
ounce; castor oil, twelve diachms; 
make into an emulsion : add mint 
water, four ounces; spirit of nitre, 
three drachms ; laudanum, one 
drachm ; mixture of squills, one 
drachm ; and anrrup. seven drachms ; 
mix ; two tablespoonftds every six 
hours. 

660. USEFUL APEBIEHTS.— In 

the spring time of the year, the judi- 
cious use of aperient medicines is much 
to be commended. 

670. Spring Aperients for Childreiu 
L An excellent medicine is brim- 
stone and treacle, prepared by mixing 
an ounce and a half of sulphur, and 
half-an-ounce of cream of tartar, with 
eight ounces of treacle; and, according 
to tha age of the child, giving from a 
small teaspoonfid to a dessertspoon- 
ful, early in the morning, two or three 
tiroes a week. 

As this sometimes produces sick- 
ness, the following may be used : — 

IL Take of powdered Rochelle salts 
one drachm and a half, powdered 
jalap and powdered rhubarb each 
fifteen grains, ginger two grains ; mix. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IH 



to DAT HB'S CLAD IH OAUDT, RICH ARRAtT J 



Dose for a child aboTe five years, one 
small teaspoonfol ; above ten years, 
a large teasDoonfiil ; above fifteen, 
half the whole, or two teaspoonfuls : 
and for a person above twenty, three 
teaspoonfols, or the whole, as may be 
temured by the habit of the person. 

This medicine may be dissolved In 
warm water, mint, or common tea. 
The powder can be kept for nse in a 
wide-mouthed bottle, and be in readi- 
ness for any emergency. The druggist 
may be directed to treble or quadruple 
the quantities, as convenient. 

671. AMriaat Pillf.— To some 
adults all liquid medicines produce 



such nausea that pills are the onl^ 
form in which aperients can be exhi- 
bited ; the following is a useful for- 
mula: 

L Take of compound rhubarb pill a 
drachm and one scruple, of powaered 
ipecacuanha ten grains, and of extract 
of hyoscyamns one scruple ; mix, and 
beat into a mass, and divide into 
twenty-four pills ; take oife or two, or 
if of a very costive habit, three at 
bedtime. 

ii. For persons requiring a more 
powerful aperient, the same formula, 
with twen^ grains of compound ex- 
tract of colocynth, will form a good 
purgative pilL The mass receiving 
this addition must be divided into 
thirty, instead of twenty-four pills. 

672. Black Draught— The com- 
mon aperient mediane known as 
black draught is made in the following 
manner : — 

i. Take of senna leaves six drachms, 
bruised ginger half-a-drachm, sliced 
liouorice root four drachms, Epsom 
salts two and a half ounces boiling 
water half an imperial pint Keep 
this standing on the hob or near the 
fire for three hours, then strain, and 
after allowing it to grow cool, add of 
sal volatile one drachm and a half, of 
tincture of senna, and of tincture of 
cardamoms, each half-an-ounce. This 
mixture will keep a long time in a 
cool place. Dom^ a wineglassfcd for 



an adult ; and two tablespoonftils for 
young persons about fifteen years of 
age. It IB not a suitable medidne 
for children. 

673. To&ic Aperiemt —The follow- 
ing will be found a useful medidne 
for persons of all ages. Epsom salts 
one ounce, diluted sulphunc add one 
drachm, infusion of quassia chips 
half an imperial pint, compound 
tincture of rhubarb two drachms. 
Lose^ half a wineglassfhl twice a day. 

674. InfknU' Aperients.— The 
following may be used with safety for 
young children. 

i Take of rhubarb five grains, 
magnesia three grains, white sugar a 
scruple, grey ^wder five grains ; mix. 
Dose, for an infant from twelve to 
eighteen months of age, from one-third 
to one-half of the whole. 

IL A useful laxative for children is 
composed of calomel five grains, and 
sugar a scruple, made into five pow- 
ders. Dose, half of one of these lor a 
child from birth to one year, and a 
whole one from that age to three 
years. 

676. Flour of Bximttone is a rnOd 
aperient in doses of about a quarter of 
an ounce ; it is best taken in milk. 
Flour of brimstone, which is also 
called sublimed sulphur, is generally 
put up in ounce packets at 7d. ; its 
wholesale price is id, per pound. 

67a PBIPABATIOH 07 XEBI- 

cnnt. 

The following directions are of 
the utmost value in connection with 
the Domestic Pharmacopeia, Dis- 
eases, AND Prescriptions, They 
will be fouTid most important to emi' 
grants, attendants upon the sick, and 
persons who reside out of the reach 
of -rxdical aid, sailors, itc , d&c Tfiey 
contain instructions not only for the 
compounding of medicines hut most 
useful hints and cautions upon the 
application of leeches, blisters, patU' 
tices, <fe. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tO-MOBROW, SHKOTJDSD POR k fiSD OP OLAlT. 



185 



677. ArUolM required for KizilLg 
Medioines. — 7'hree glass Tneaaures, one 
to measure ounces, another to meesure 
drachms, and a measnre for minims, 
dropa, or small doses. A pestU and 
mortar^ both of glass and Wedgwood- 
ware, a glass ftinnel^ and g^lass stir- 
ring rods. A 9patula^ or flexible knife 
for spreading ointments, making pills, 
&c. A set of scales arid toeifffUs. A 
small slab qfmarblef or porcelain, for 
making pills upon, mixing ointments, 

67a MedieizLe Weigfati.— Medi- 
cines are made up by troy weight, 
although drugs are bought by aroir- 
dupois weight. In the box contain- 
ing the scales and weights, there are 
several sq^uare pieces of brass, of 
different sizes and thicknesses, and 
stamped with a variety of characters. 
These are the weights, which may 
now be explained. There are twelve 
ounces to the pound troy, which is 
marked lb. ; the ounce, which con- 
tains eig^t drachms, is marked S^ ; 
the drachm, containing three scrup- 
les, is marked ^.; ana the scruple of 
twenty grains is marked 9L The 
grain weights are marked by little 
circles, thus : — 



Five I 



LO. 



Grains. 



Sach of the grain weighty in addi- 
tion to the cireles denoting their 
several weights, bears also the stamp 
of a crown. Care must be taken not 
to mistake this for one of the numer- 
als. Besides these weights there are 
others marked d ss, which means half- 
a-scruple ; 5ss, meaning half-a- 
drachm; and 5^8, meaning half-an- 
ounce. When there are oimces, 
drachms, or scruples, the nimiber of 
them is shown oy Roman figures, 
thus: — i. iL iil iv. v., &c., and 
prescriptions are written in this 
style. 

679. XedleiiitXtMWfi.— Liquid 



medicines are always measured by the 
following table; — 

eo mlnimB..,......^ [i ihild dnchziL 

8 fluid drachms I *" ^'*^"J i fluid ounce. 

20 fluid ounces. . f *^®* 1 1 pint. 
8 pints J " (^1 gallon. 

And the signs which distinguish eaeh 
are as follows :~a meuis a gallon ; 
o a pint ; J2 5i A fluid ounce ; ^ 5» & 
fluid drachm ; and m, a minim, or 
drop. Formerly drops need to be 
ordered, but as the sise of a drop 
muse neeessarily vary, minims are 
always directed to be employed now 
for any particular medicine, although 
for such medidnea as oil of dovea, 
essence of gincer, Ac, drops are fre- 
quently orderei When proper i^aas 
measures {see par. 677) are not at 
hand, it is necessary to adopt some 
other method of determining the 

Jjuantities required, and therefore the 
oUowing table has been drawn up 
for that purpoee :— 



A tumbler ../ 

A teacup , 

A wineglass ...., 
2 tablespoons ., 
A tablespoon ., 
Adessertspoon. 
A teaspoon , 



usoally 

contains' 

about 



lOoimoes. 

« M 

S n 
I ,, 
4dncb]QB. 

1 >. 



These quantities refer to ordinary 
sized spoons and vessels. Some cups 
hold half as much more, and some 
tablespoons contain six drachms. A 
medicine glass, which is graduated so 
as to show the number of spoonfuls it 
contains, should be kept in every 
fkmily, 

680. FftOCBSS OF KAKOtB 

MSDICOrBS. 

681. To Powder Substanods.— 
Place the substance in the mortar, 
and strike it gsnilf with direct 
perpendicular blows of the peetie, 
until it separates into eevend pieces, 
tiien remove all but a smaU por» 
tion, which bmise gently at fir8t| 
Mid rub tiie pestle round and romMl 
the mortar, obaertiog that tb« drokt 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



186 



TO-DAT, BNJ0T8 HU HALLS, BUILT TO HIS MIND ; 



described by the peatle shonld gnda- 
ally decrease in diameter, and then 
increase again, becaone by this means 
every part of the powder is subjected 
to the process of pulverization. 

Some substv^coes require to be pre- 
pared in a particlar manner betbre 
thev can be jrowdered, or to be 
assisted by adding some other body. 
For example, camphor powders more 
easily when a few drops of spirits of 
wine are added to it ; mace, nutmegs, 
and such oilv aromatic substances are 
better for tne addition of a little 
white sugar; resins and gum-resins 
should be powdered in a cold place, 
and if they are intended to be dis- 
solved, a little fine well-washed white 
sand mixed with them assists ikt 

Brocess of powderinff. Toush roots, 
ke gentian and cammba, snould be 
out into thin slices ; and fibrous roots 
like ginger, cut slantiuff. otherwise 
the powder will be fnil of small 
fibres. Vegetable matter, such as 
peppermint, loosestrife, senna, Iec, 
requires to be dried before it is pow- 
dered. 

Be careftil not to pound too hard in 
glass, porcelain, or Wedgwood-ware 
mortars ; they are intended only for 
substances that pulverise easily, and 
for the purpose of mixing or incorpor- 
ating medicines^ Never use acids in 
a marble mortar, and be sure that 
you do not powder g^ls or any other 
astringent substance in any but a brass 
mortar. 

682. Sifting is frequently required 
for powdered substances, and this is 
usually done by employing a fine 
sieve, or tying the powder up in a 
piece of muslin, and striking it 
against the left hand over a piece of 
paper. 

688. lilttriBf is freanentl^ re- 
quired for the purpose of obtaining 
clear fluids, such as inftisions, eye- 
washes, and other medicines ; and it 
is, therefore, highly important to 
know how to perform tnis simple 
operation. First of all take a square 



Siece of white blotting paper, and 
ouble it over so as to form an 
angular cup. Open out this filter 
paper very carefully, and having 
placed it in a funnel, moisten it with 
a little water. Then place the funnel 
in the neck of the bottle, and pour 
the liquid gently down the side of the 
paper, otherwise the fluid is apt to 
burst the paper. 

684. Xaoeration is another pro- 
cess that is frequently required to be 
performed in making up medicines, 
and consists simply in immersing the 
medicines in cola water or spirits for 
a certain time. 

686. BigestiOB resembles macera- 
tion, except t^at the process is assisted 
by a gentle host The ingredients 
are placed in a flask, such as salad oil is 
sold in, which shonld be fitted with a 
plug of tow or wood, and have a 
piece of wire twisted round the neck. 
The flask is held by means of the 
wire over the flame of a spirit lamp, 
or else placed in some sand wanned 
in an old iron sauoepan over the fire, 
care being taken not to place more of 
the flask below the sand than the 
portion occupied by the ingredients. 

688. InfteiiOB is one of the most 
frequent operations required in mak- 
ing up medicines, its ohject being to 
extract the aromatic and volatile 
principles of substances, that would 
be lost by decoction or digestion ; 
and to extract the soluble from the 
insoluble parts of bodies. Infu- 
sions as calumba and quassia may be 
made with cold water, in which case 
they are weaker, but more pleasant. 
The ^neral method employed con- 
sists m slicing, bruising, or rasping 
the ingredients first, tnon placing 
them in a common jug (which should 
be as globular as possible), and pour* 
ing boiling water over them. Cover 
the ivLf with a cloth folded six or 
eight times, but if there be a lid to 
the jug so much the better. When 
the infusion has stood the time 
j directed, hold a piece of very coarse 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-MORBOW, IN A COFFIN 18 CONFINED. 



187 



linen OTer the spout, and poor the 
liquid through it into another jug. 

687. DeMetion, or boilinff, is em- 
ployed to extract the mucilaginous 
or gummy parts of substances, their 
bitter, astringent, or other qualities, 
and is nothing more than boiling the 
ingredients in a saucepan with the lid 
slightly raised. Be sure never to use 
an iron saucepan for astringent decoc- 
tions, such as oak-bark, galls, kc, as 
they will turn the saucepan bkck, 
and spoil the decoction. The enam- 
elled saucepans are yerr useful for 
decoctions, but an excellent plan is 
to put the ingredients into a jar and 
bon the jar, thus preparing it by a 
water bath, as it is technically 
termed ; or by using a common pin- 
kin, which answers still better. No 
decoction should be allowed to boil 
for more than ten minutes. 

688. XztrMts are made by 
eyaporating the liquors obtained by 
inrasion in decoction, but these can 
be bought much cheaper and better of 
chemists and dru^p^ts, and so can 
tinctures, confections, cerates and 
plasters, and syrups : but as every 
one is not always in the neighbour- 
hood of druggists, we shall give 
recites for those most generally use- 
fill, and the method of making them. 

680. PBECAUnOHS TO BE O B- 

8XR7BB nr GiYDTG xsDicnrxs. 

600. Bex. — Medicines for females 
should not be so strong as those for 
males, therefore it is advisable to 
reduce the doses about one-third. 
This, however, varies greatly. 

691. Temperament. — Persons of a 
phlegmatic temperament bear stimu- 
lants and purgatives better than 
those of a sanguine temperament, 
therefore the latter require smaller 
doses. 

682. HaUti.~Purgative8 never 
act so well upon persons accustomed 
to take them as upon those who are 
not, therefore it is better to change 



the form of purgative from pill to 
pKotion, powder to draught, or aroma- 
tio to saline. Purgatives should never 
be given when there is an irritable 
state of the bowels. 

698. Stimulanti and Hareotioa 
never act so quickly upon persons 
accustomed to use spirits freely as 
upon those who live abstemiously. 

694. Climate.--The action of 
medicines is modified by climate and 
seasons. In summer, certain medi- 
cines act more powerfully than in 
winter, and the same person cannot 
bear the dose in July that he could in 
December. 

696. Ctoeral Health.— Persons 
whose general health is good bear 
stronger doses than the debilitated and 
those who have suffered for a long 
time. 

696. Idios^eraiy. — By this is 
meant a peculiar temperament or dis- 
position not common to people gener- 
ally. For example, some persons 
cannot take calomel in the smallest 
dose without being salivated, or rhu- 
batb without having convulsions; 
others cannot take squiUs, opium« 
senna, &c.; and this pectdianty is 
called the patient's idiosyncrasy, 
therefore it is wrong to insist upon 
their taking these medicines. 

697. Doses of Medicine for Diilbr- 
•nt Ages. — It must be plain to every 
one that children do not require sucn 
powerful medicine as adults or old 

Eeople, and therefore it is desirable to 
ave some fixed method of determin- 
ing or regulatiti^ the administration 
of doses of medicine. Now let it be 
supposed that the dose for a full- 
grown person is one drachm, then the 
following proportions will be suitable 
for the various ages given, keeping 
in view other circumstances, such as 
sex, temperament, habits, climate, 
state of ffmeral heaUh^ and idiosyn- 
crasy. AH forms of opium should be 
avoided for a child under five years 
unless ordered by a medical man. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



1S8 



TO-BAT, m thOktB OH HOKOtm'8 LOFTT WAVE ; 



A«e. 


ProportioiL 




7ir«ek8 


one*flrteentli 


or grains 4 


7 months 


one-twelfth 


or grains 5 


UiMkr 27ean 


one-eighth 


or grains 7} 


.. S »> 


one-Bixth 


or grains 10 


n ^ ,n 


one-fourth 




M 7 n 


one-third 


or scruple 1 


.. H „ 


one-half 


or drachm ^ 


« w „ 


two-fifths 


or scruples 2 


Above21 „ 


the ftill doee 


or drachm 1 


.. W M 


The inverie 


gradation 



606. Intervals between Doiei.— 

Medicines should be given in such a 
manner that the effect of the first dose 
shall not have ceased when the next 
dose is given, therefore the intervals 
between the doses should be regulated 
aocordinglv. Fluids act quicker than 
solids, and powders sooner than pills. 

600. TO PBSVEKT THS KAV- 
8E0V8 TASTE 07 MSDIOHSS. 

Castor oil may be taken in milk, 
coffee, or spirit, such as brandy ; but 
the best method of covering the 
nauseous flavour is to put a tablespoon- 
ful of strained orange juice in a wine- 
glass, pour the castor oil into the 
centre of the juice, and then squeeze 
a few drops of lemon juice upon the 
top of the oU. The wineglass should 
first be dipped, rim downwards, into 
water, so that the interior may be 
wetted. Cod-Uver oil ma^ be taken, 
like castor oil, in orange juice. Pep- 
permint water neutralizes, to a great 
extent, the nauseous taste of Epsom 
salts ; a strong solution of extract of 
liquoiice, that of aloes ; milk, that of 
cinchona bark; and cloves, that of 
senna. 

000. Another Method is to have 
the medicine in a glass, as usual, and 
a tumbler of water by the side of it ; 
take the medicine, and retain it in 
the mouth, which should be kept 
closed, and if drinking the water be 
then commenced, the taste of the 
medicine is washed away. Even the 



bitterness of quinine and aloes may be 
prevented by this means. If the 
nostrils are firmly compressed br the 
thumb and finger of the left hand, 
while taking a nauseous draught, and 
so retained till the mouth nas been 
washed out with water, the disagree- 
able taste of the medicine wiU be 
almost imperceptible. 

601. D&V08, THXIK BOSSS AITB 
PBOPEBTnSS. 

Tlie various drugs are here arranged 
according to their properties, and the 
doses of each /or advrlts are given. 
Many, however, have been necessarily 
omitted from each class, because they 
should not be employed except by a 
medical man. 

They are divided into four grand 
classes— 1. General Stimulants; 2. 
Local Stimulants; 3. Chemical 
Bemedies; 4. Xechanical Bemedies. 

602. GXirSEAL STIKULAITTS. 

General stimulants are subdivided 
into two classes, diffusible and perma- 
nent stimulants : the first eomprbing 
Karcoiica and AntispasmodieSf and 
the second Tonic» and AstringeiUi* 

608. KABCOTIGS. 

Narcotics are medicines which 
stupefy and diminish the activity of 
the nervous system. Given in small 
dosea, they cenerally act as stimu- 
lants, but an Increased doee produces 
a sedative effect. Under this head 
are included alcohol, camphor, ether, 
the hop, and opium. 

1. Alcohol, or rectified spirit, is 
a very powerful stimulant, and is 
never used as a remedy without being 
diluted to the degree called proof 
spirit; and even tiien it is seldom 
used internally. It is used externally 
in restraining bleeding, when there is 
not any vess3 of importance wounded, 
and also for all bruises and sprains 
when diluted to one in three parts of 
water. It is also used as a lotion to 
burns, and is applied by dipping H 
piece of lint into the spirit, and lay« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tO-tCOBKOW, LSATS8 HI8 TITLt FOIl A OEAVfi. 



189 



ixig it orer the ptrt Freely dilated 
(one part to eighteen) with water, it 
forms a lueful eye-wash in the last 
stage of ophthalmia. Used irUemaUy^ 
it acts as a Tery osefUl stimulant when 
diluted and taken moderately, increas- 
ing the general excitement, and giving 
energy to the moscnlar fibres ; hence 
it becomes very nseful in certain 
cases of debility, esj)ecially in habits 
disposed to create acidity ; and in the 
low stafeofall fevers. Dose, — It is 
impossible to fix anything like a dose 
for this remedy, as mach will depend 
upon the individual ; but diluted with 
water and sweetened with sugar, ftom 
half-an-onnce to two ounces may be 
given three or four times a day. In 
cases of extreme debility, however, 
much will depend upon the disease. 
Caution, — Remember that alcohol is 
an irritant poison^ and that daily 
indulgence in its use originates dys- 
pepsia, or indigestion, and many 
other serious complaints. Of all kinds 
of spirits the best as a tonic and 
stomachic is brandy, 

2. Oamffaor is not a very steady 
stimulant, as its effect is transitory ; 
but in large doses it acts as a narcotic, 
abating pain and inducing sleep. In 
moderate doses it operates as a diapho- 
retic, diuretic, antispasmodic, increas- 
ing the heat of the body, allaying 
irritation and spasm. It is used 
externally as a liniment when dissolved 
in oil, alcohol or acetic acid, being 
emploj^ed to allay rheumatic pains ; 
and it is also useful as an embrocation 
in sprains, bruises, chilblains, and, 
when combined with opium, it has 
been advantageously employed in 
flatulent colic, and severe diarrhoea, 
being rubbed over the bowels. When 
reduced to fine powder, by the addition 
of a little spirit of wine and friction, 
it is very useful as a local stimulant 
to indolent ulcers, especially when 
they discharge a foul kind of matter ; 
a pinch is taken between the finger 
and thumb, and sprinkled into tne 
ulcer, which is then dressed as usual. 
When dissolved in oil <f turpentine, 



a few drops placed in a hollow tooth 
and covei^ with jeweller's wool, or 
scraped lint, give almost instant relief 
to toothache. Used internally^ it is 
apt to excite nausea, and even vomit- 
ing, especially when given in the 
solid form. As a stimulant it is of 
great service in all low fevers, malig- 
nant measles, malignant sore throat, 
and confluent smul-pox; and when 
combined with opium and bark, it 
is extremelv useful in checking the 
progress of malignant ulcers, and 
gangrene. As a narcotic, it is dan- 
gerous, as it may produce rapid 
depression referable to the hearl 
When powdered and sprinkled upon 
the surface of a blister, it prevents 
the cantharides acting in a peculiar 
and painful manner upon the bladder. 
Combined with senna, it increases its 
purgative properties ; and it is also 
used to correct the nausea produced 
by squills, and the irritating effects 
of di-astio purgatives and mezereon. 
Dose, from four grains to half-a- 
scruple, repeated at short intervals 
when used in small doses, and long 
intervals when employed in large 
doses. Doses qf the various prepara- 
tions, — Oamphor mixture, from half* 
an-ounce to three ounces ; compound 
tincture of camphor {paregoric uixir\ 
from fifteen minims to two drachms. 
Caution, — When given in an overdose 
it acts as a poison, producing vomit- 
ing, giddiness, delirium, convulsions, 
and sometimes death. Opium is the 
best antidote for camphor, whether in 
excess or taken as a poison. Mode of 
exhibition, — It may be rubbed up 
with almond emulsion, or mucilage, 
or the yolk of eggs, and by this means 
suspended in water, or combined with 
chloroform as a mixture, in which 
form it is a valuable stimulant in 
cholera and other diseases. {See 
MlXTURBS, pars. 448— 457a.) 

8. Bther is a diffusible stimulant^ 
narcotic and antispasmodic. 

4. Snlphurio Xther is used exter- 
nally both as a stimulant and a re* 
frigerant In the fSmrmer case iti 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



140 



TO-DAT, HIS BXAimOUS YISAOK WE EXTOL; 



evaporation ia prevented by coverinff 
a lag moistened with it with oiled 
ailk, in order to relieve headache , 
and in the latter case it is allowed to 
evaporate, and thns produce coldness ; 
hence it is applied over scalded snr- 
fiioes by means of rags dipped in it. 
As a local appHoalion^ it nas been 
found to afford almost instant relief 
in ear-ache, when combined with 
almond oil, and dropped into the ear. 
Itia nsed internally as a stimnlant 
and narcotic in low fevers and cases of 
great exhaustion. Dose from fifteen 
minims to half-a-drachm, repeated at 
short intervals, as its effects soon pass 
off. Give in a little camphor jtuep, 
or water. 

5. Hitrie Ether is a refrigerant, 
diuretic, and antispasmodic, well 
known as * ^svjeet spirU qf nitre.** Used 
externally, its evaporation relieves 
headache, and it is sometimes applied 
to bums. It is used intemaity to 
relieve nausea, flatulence, and thirst 
in fevers ; also as a diuretic. DosSf 
from ten minims to one drachm. The 
smaller dose taken in a little warm 
water or gruel is useful as a sudorific 
in cases of cold and chill, to induce 
and promote the proper action of the 
akin which has been checked. If a 
larger dose be taken, it acts as a 
diuretic and not aa a sudorific, and so 
fails to produce the desired effect. 

6. Oompound Spirit of Sulphnrie 
Ether is a very useful stimulant, 
narcotic, and antispasmodic. Used 
itUemally in cases of great exhaustion, 
attended with irritability. Dose, from 
half-a-drachm to two drachms, in 
camphor julep. When combined with 
laudanum, it prevents the nauseating 
effects of the opium, and acts more 
beneficially as a narcotic 

7. The Hop is a narcotic, tonic, and 
diuretic ; it reduces the frequency of 
the pulse, and does not affect the 
head, like most anodynes. Used ex- 
temaUy, it acts as an anodyne and 
discutient, and is useful as a foment- 
ation for painful tumours, rheumatic 
pains in the joints, and severe contu- 



sions. A pillow stuffed with hops 
acts as a narcotic. When the powder 
is mixed ¥rith lard, it acts as an 
anodyne dressing in paiuful ulcers. 
Dose, of the extmct, from five grains 
to one scruple ; of the tincture, from 
half-a-drachm to two dnushms ; of 
the pouxier, from three grains to one 
scruple ; of the infusion, half-an- 
ounce to one and a half ounces. 

8. Opium is a stimulant, narcotic, 
and anodyne. Used externally it nets 
almost as well as when taken into the 
stomach, and without affecting the 
head or causing nausea. Applied to 
irritable ulcers in the form of tincture, 
it promotes their cure, and allays 
pain. Cloths dipped in a strong 
solution, and applied over painftu 
bruises, tumours, or inflamed Joints, 
allay pain. A small piece of solid 
opium stuffed into a nollow tooth 
relieves toothache. A weak solution 
of opium forms a valuable collyrium 
in ophthalmia. Two drops of the 
wine of opium dropped into the eye 
acts as an excellent sedative in blood- 
shot eye ; or after long-continued in- 
flammation, it is nseftil in stren^en- 
ing the eye. Applied as a liniment, 
in combination with ammonia and 
oil, or with camphorated spirit, it 
relieves muscular pain. When com- 
bined with oil of tur^ntine, it is 
useful as a liniment m spasmodic 
colic Used internally, it acts as a 
very powerful stimulant ; then as a 
sedative, and finally as an anodyne 
and narcotic, allaying pain in the 
most extraordinary manner, by acting 
directlj upon the nervous system. In 
acute rheumatism it is a most excel- 
lent medicine when combined with ca- 
lomel and tartrate of antimony; but its 
exhibition requires the judicious care 
of a medical man. Doses of the various 
preparations. — Confection of opium, 
from five grains to half-a-drachm ; 
extract of opium, from one to five grains 
(this is a valuable form, as it does 
not produce so much after derange- 
ment of the nervous system as solid 
opium) ; pills of soap and opium. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-MORROW, LOATHSOME IN THE SIGHT OF ALL. 



141 



from five to ten grains ; compound 
tpecactiaiiha powder (** Dover's Pow- 
der"), from ten to fifteen grains ; 
compound kino powder, from five to 
fifteen ^ins ; Muine of opium, from 
ten minuns to one drachm. Caution, 
^)pinm is a powerfnl poison when 
taken in too large a quantity {see 
Poisons, pars. 760 — 782), and thus 
shonld be used with extreme cantion. 
It is on this account that we have 
omitted some of its preparations. The 
best antidote for opmm is camphor or 
strong coffee, ana generally stimu- 
lating the patient. Potassium perman- 
ganate in half-grain doses acts as a 
powerftil antidote. 

604. AVTISPA8X0DIC8. 

Antispasmodics are medicines which 
possess the power of overcoming the 
spasms of the muscles, or allaying 
anjr severe pain which is not attended 
by inflammation. The class includes a 
great many, but the most safe and 
serviceable are ammonia, assafoetida, 
galbanum, valerian, bark, ether, cam- 
phor, opium, and chloroform ; with 
the mmerals, oxide of zinc and 
calomel 

1. Ammonia, or Sal Tolatile, is an 
antispasmodic, antacid, stimulant, and 
diaphoretic Used exUmally, com- 
bined with oil, it forms a cheap and 
useful liniment, but it should be dis- 
solved in proof spirit before the oil is 
added. One part of this salt, and 
three parts of extract of belladonna, 
mixed and spread upon leather, makes 
an excellent plaster for relieving 
rheumatic pains. Asa local stimu- 
lant it u well known, as regards its 
effects in hysterics, faintness, and 
lassitude, when applied to the nose, 
as common smelling salts. Itisusea 
inUmaUyta an adjunct to infUsion 
of gentian in dyspepsia or indigestion, 
and in moderate doses in gout Dose, 
from five to fifteen grains. Cauiion. — 
Overdoses act as a narcotic and irritant 
poison. 

2. Biearbonate of Ammonia is used 
internally the same as sal vokUUe. 



Dose, from six to twelve grains. It 
is frequently combined with Epsom 
salts. 

8. Solution of Sesquioarbonate of 
Ammonia, used the same as sal volatile. 
Dose, from half-a- drachm to one 
drachm, combined with some milky 
fluid, like almond emulidon. 

4. Asi af fl B tida is an antispasmodic, 
expectorant, excitant, and anthel- 
mintic. Used internally, it is extremely 
useful in dyspepsia, flatulent colic, 
hysteria, and nervous diseases ; and 
wnere there are no inflammatory 
8ym})toms, it is an excellent remedy 
in hooping cough and asthma. Used 
locally as an enema, it is useful in 
flatulent colic, and convulsions that 
come on through teething. Doses qf 
various pr^paralums, — Solid gum, 
from five to ten grains as pills; 
mixture, from half-an-ounce to one 
ounce; tincture, from fifteen minims 
to one drachm ; ammcniaUd tincture, 
from twenty minims to one drachm. 
Caution, — ^ever give this drug when 
inflammation exists. 

5. Ckdbannm is stimulant, anti- 
spasmodic, expectorant, and deobstru- 
ent. Used externally, when spread 
upon leather as a plaster, it assists in 
dispelling indolent tumours and is 
useful in weakness of the legs from 
rickets, being applied as a plaster to 
the loins. Employed internally, it is 
useful in chronic or old-standing 
rheumatism and hvsteria. Doses ^ 
preparatums. — Of the gwn, from ten 
to fifteen grains as pills; tincture, 
from fifteen minims to one drachm. 
It may be made into an emulsion 
with mucilage and water. 

6. Valerian is a powerful antispas- 
modic, tonic, and excitant, acting 
chiefly on the nervous centres. Used 
internally, it is employed in hysteria, 
nervous languors, and spasmodic com- 
plaints generally. It is useful in low 
fevers. Doses ofvarumsprtparatums. 
— Powder, from ten gruns to half-a- 
drachm, three or four times a day ; 
tindwre, from two to four drachms ; 
amynumustsd imctwre, from one to two 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



142 



TO-DAT. HB HAS DBLUSIYB DBKAM8 OF HEAVEN; 



diaclims ; Mt/^ion, from two to threo 
<miie«s or more. 

7. Bark, or, as it is commonly 
^lad, PeruTian bark, is ta antispas- 
modic, tonic, astrin^^t, and itimia- 
Okie. UaaA extemmllv, it is an excel- 
knt detergent for fool ulcers, and 
those tliat heal slowly. Used inter- 
naUih it is particularly valuable in 
intermittent fever or ague, mali^^nant 
measles, dysentery, diarrhoea, wter- 
mittent rheumatism, St. Yitus*8 dance, 
indi^tion, nervous affectiona, malig- 
nant sore throat, and er3rsipelas ; its 
use being indicated in all cases of 
debility. Doses of its preparations, — 
Povjder^ from five grams to two 
drachms, mixed in wine, water, milk, 
syrup, or solution of liquorice ; infit- 
eion, from one to three ounces ; deeoc- 
lion, from one to three ounces ; tinc- 
ture and compound tincture^ each from 
one to three drachms. CatUion. — If 
it causes oppression at the stomach, 
combine it with an aromatic ; if it 
causes vomiting, give it in wine or 
soda water ; if it purges, give opium ; 
and if it constipates, give rhubub. 

8. Sulphnric Btker is given inter- 
nally as an antispasmodic in difficult 
breathing and spasmodic asthma ; also 
in hysteria, cramp of the stomach, 
hiccough, locked jaw, and cholera. 
It is useful in checking sea-sickness. 
Dose, from twenty minims to one 
drachm. CauHon, — An overdose 
produces apoplectic symptoms. 

^, Oampikor is ^ven internally as 
an antispasmodic id hysteria, cramp 
in the stomach, iatulent colic, and 
St Vitus's dance. Doesy from two to 
twenty grains. 

10. C^nm is employed internally 
in spasmodic affections, such as 
cholera, spasmodic asthxna, hooping 
cough, flatulent colic, and St. Yitus's 
dance. Doae, from one-sixth of a 
grain to two grains of the solid opium, 
according to the disease. 

11 Oxide of Zino is an antispas- 
modic, astringent, and tonic Used 
eoctemaUy, as an ointment, it forms 
aa ezoeUaot astringMit in afiections of 



the eyelids, arising from relaxation ; 
or as a powder, it is iw excellent 
detergent for unhealthy ulcers. Uesd 
tntenuUhf, it has proved efficacious in 
St. Vitus's dance, and some other 
spasmodic affections. Dose, from one 
to six grains twice a day. 

12. Calomel is an antispasmodic, 
alterative, purgative, and orrhine. 
Used internally, combined with opium, 
it acts as an antispasmodic in locked 
jaw, cholera, and many other spas- 
modic affections. As an alterative it 
has been found useful in leprosy and 
itch, when combined with antimonials 
and guaiacum, in enlargement of the 
liver and glandular affections. It acts 
beneficially in dropsies, by producing 
watery motions. In tophus it is of 
great benefit when combined with 
antimonials ; and it may be given as 
a purgative in almost any disease, 
provided there is not any inflammation 
of the bowels, irritability of the 
system, disease of kidneys, or great 
debility. Dose^ as an alterative, from 
one to five grains, daily; as a cathartic, 
from five to fifteen grains ; to produce 
ptyalism, or salivation, from one to 
two grains, in a pill, with a quarter of 
a grain of opium, night and morning. 
Cautum. — When taking calomel, ex- 
posure to cold or dampness should be 
guarded against, as such an imprudence 
would bring out an eruption of the 
skin, attended with fever. When this 
does occurj leave off the calomel, and 
give bark, wine, and purgatives ; 
take a warm bath twice a day, and 
powder the surface of the body with 
powdered starch. 

605. Tones. 

Tonics are given to improve the tone 
of the system, and restore the natural 
energies and general strength of the 
body. They consist of quassia, gentian, 
camomile, wormwood, and angostura 
bark. 

1. duassia is a simple tonic, and 
can be used with safety by any one. as 
it does not increase the animal heat, 
or quiokea the circulation* Used 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-MORBOWy 0RIS8 TOO LATE TO BE FORGIVEN. 



148 



iiUemally, in th« fonn of infusion, it 
has been found of great benefit in 
indigestion and nervous irritability, 
andis useful after bilious fevers and 
diarrhtxa. I>ose, of the infunon, 
from one and a half to two ounces, 
three times a day. 

2. Gemtian is an excellent tonic 
and stomachic ; but when given in 
large doses, it acts as an aperient. It 
is used inUmaUjf in all cases of general 
debility, and when combined with 
bark is used in intermittent fevers. It 
has also been employed in indigestion, 
and it is sometimes used, combined 
with sal volatile, in that disease ; but 
at other times alone, in the form of 
infusion. After diarrhoea, it proves a 
useful tonic. Its infusion is sometimes 
applied fiB^tfmoZ/y to foul ulcers. Dose, 
of the ii^tiaioTi, one and a half to two 
ounces ; of the tincture, one to four 
drachms ; of the extractt firom ten to 
thirty grainsL 

8. Camomile. — The flowers of the 
camomile are tonic, slightly anodyne, 
antispasmodic, and emetic. They are 
used externally as fomentations, in 
colic, face-ache, and tumours, and to 
unhealthy ulcers. They are used 
ifUemally in the form of infusion, 
with carbonate of soda, ginger, and 
other stomachic remedies, in dvspep- 
sia, flatulent colic, debility following 
dysentery and gout. Warm infusion 
of the flowers acts as an emetic ; and 
the powdered flowers are sometimes 
combined with opium or kino, and 
given in intermittent fevers. Doae, 
of the powdered flowers, from ten 
grains to one drachm, twice or thrice a 
day ; of the infusion^ from one to two 
ouncesi as a touic, three times a day : 
and from six ounces to one pint as an 
emetic ; of the extract^ from five to 
twenty grains. 

4. Wormwood is a tonic and 
anthelmintia It is used extenuUly 
as a discutient and antiseptic. It is 
used internally in long-standing cases 
of dyspepsia, in the form of Infusion, 
with or without aromatics. It has 
also been used in inteimittente. 



DoH, of the infusion, from one to two 
ounces, three times a day ; of the 
pouxUr, from one to two scruples* 

5. liigoitura Bark, or Cusparia, is 
a tonic and stimulant It expels 
flatulence, increases the appetite, and 
produces a grateful warmth in the 
stomach. It is tued internally in 
intermittent fevers, dyspepsia, hyste- 
ria, and all cases of debiiitv, where a 
stimulating tonic is desirable, particu- 
larly after bilious diarrhoea. i>oM, of 
the powder, from ten to fifteen grains, 
combined with cinnamon powder, 
magnesia, or rhubarb ; of the esUract^ 
from three to ten grains ; of the ir^u* 
stoTtf from one to two ounces. C^u- 
^ion.— This drug should never be 

given in inflammatory diseases or 
ectic fever. 

606. ASTBOreSHTS. 

Astringents are medicines given for 
the purpose of diminishing excessive 
discharges, and to act indirectly as 
tonics. This class includes catechu, 
kino, oak bark, logwood, rose leaves, 
chalk, and white vitriol. 

1. Oateohn is a most valuable 
astringent It is used esotemally, 
when powdered, to promote the con- 
traction of flabby ulcers. As a local 
astringent it is useful in relaxed 
uvula, a small piece being dissolved 
in the mouth ; small, spotty ulcera- 
tions of the mouth %na throat, and 
bleeding gums, and for these two 
affections it is used in the form of 
infusion to wash the parts. It is 
given internally in diarrhoea, dysen- 
tery, and .hemorrhage from the 
bowels. Dose, of the ii\fu8ion, from 
one to three ounces ; of the tincture, 
from one to four drachms ; of the 
powder, from ten to thirty grains. 
Caution. — It must not be given with 
soda or any alkali ; nor metallic 
salts, albumen, or gelatine, as its 
property is destroyed by this combin- 
ation. 

2. Kino is a powerful astringent. 
It is used externally to uloeis, to give 
tone to them whoi flabby, and dia« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



144 



TO-DAT, HE LIVES IN HOPES AS LIGHT AS AIB ; 



charging foal and thin matter. It is 
itscd inUmaUy in the same diseases 
as catechu. Lose, of the powder, 
from ten to fifteen grains ; of the 
tineturet finm one to two drachms; 
of the eompound pouxUr, from ten to 
twenhr grains ; of the infusion, from 
a half to one and a half ounces. Cau- 
tion, — Kino is used in combination 
with calomel, when salivation is 
intended, to prevent, by its astrin- 
gency, the action of the calomel on 
the bowels, and thereby insure its 
diecting the constitution. 

8. Oi^ Bark is an astringent and 
tonic It is u$ed exUmally in the 
form of decoction, to restrain bleeding 
from lacerated surfaces. As a local 
astrin^t, it is used in the form of 
decoction, as a gaigle in sore throat 
and relaxed uyuEl It is used inter- 
naUy in the same diseases as catechu, 
and when combined with aromatics 
and bitters, in intermittent fevers. 
Dose of the powder, from fifteen to 
thirty grains ; of the decoction, from 
two to eight drachms. 

4. Logwood is not a very satisfac- 
tory astnngent It is used intemdlly 
in diarrhoea, the last stage of dysen- 
tery, and a lax state of the intestines. 
Dose, of the extract, from ten grains 
to one drachm ; of the decoction from 
one to three ounces, three or four 
times a day. 

5. Sose Laayef are astringent and 
tonic. They are tised interncUly in 
spitting of blood, hemorrhage from 
tne stomach, intestines, &c., as a 
gargle for soro throat, and for the 
nignt sweats of consumption. The 
infusion is frequently used as a tonic 
with diluted sulphuric acid (oil of 
vitriol), after low fevers, or in com- 
bination with Epsom salts and 
sulphuric acid in certain states of the 
bowels. Dose of infusion, from two 
to four ounces. 

6. Chalk, when prepared by wash- 
ing, becomes an astringent as well as 
antacid. It is used internally in 
diarrhoea, in the form of mixture, and 
soBlsnuUly as an application to bums, 



scalds, and excoriations. Dose of the 
mixture, ttom one to two ounces. 

7. White Yitriol, or Sulphate of 
Zinc, is an astringent, tonic, and 
emetic. It is used externally as a 
coUyrium for ophthalmia {See Eye 
Washes, par. 876) ; it is also very 
efficacious as a detei^nt for scrofu- 
lous ulcers, in the proportion of three 
grains of the salt to one ounce of 
water. It is used internally in indi- 

festion, and many other diseases; 
ut it should not be given unless 
ordered by a medical man, as it is a 
poison, 

607. LOCAL smnrLAHTs. 

Local stimulants comprise Xmetiei, 
Laxatives and PurgatiTM, Diorvties, 
Diaphoretics, Izpeetoraats, Sialo- 
gogues, XpispaftieiandBttbefiMieBti. 

6oa xKsncs. 

Emetics are medicines gpLven for the 
purpose of causing vomiting, as in 
cases of poisoning. They consist of 
il)ecacuanha, camomile, antimony, 
copper, zinc, and several others. 

1. Ipecaenanha is an emetic, diaph- 
oretic, and expectorant. It is used 
internally to excite vomiUnj^ in 
doses of from ten to twenty grains of 
the powder, or one to one and a half 
ounces of the infusion, every half-hour 
until vomiting takes place. To make 
it act well and easily, the patient 
should drink half pints of warm water 
after each dose of the infusion. As a 
diaphoretic, it should be ^ven in 
doses of three grains, mixed with some 
soft substance, sucn as crumbs of 
bread, and repeated every four hours. 
In dysentery it acts like a charm, but 
must be ^ven in doses of twenty to 
thirty grains repeated every three or 
four hours. Dose of the vnne, from 
twenty minims to one drachm as a 
diaphoretic, and from one draohm to 
one and a half ounces as an emetic. 
Caution. — Do not give moro than the 
doses named above, because, although 
a safe emetic, yet it is an acnd 
narcotic poison. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO-MORKOW, DISS IN ▲NOUISH AMD DESPAIR. 



146 



2. Xmtard ib too well known to 
require describing. It is an emetic, 
diuretic, etimuUnt, and rubefacient. 
It is fJiBed externally as a poultice, 
in cases where a stimulant is re- 
quired, such as sore throats, rheu- 
matic pains in the joints, cholera, 
cramps in the extremities, diarrhoea, 
and manv other diseases. Mus- 
tard poultices are made of the 
powder, bread crumbs, and water ; or 
of one part of mustard to two of 
flour ; or, especially for children, of 
linseed meal, mixed with a little of 
the powder, or having some of the 
powder slightly sprinkled on the 
surface. Sometimes a little vine^r 
is added under the idea that it in- 
creases the strength of the poultice, but 
this is not neoessarr. When applied 
it should not be left on too long, 
as it is apt to cause ulceration 
of the part. From ten to thirty 
minutes is quite long enough. When 
used internally as an emetic, a large 
teaspoonftd mixed with a tumbler of 
warm water generally operates quickly 
and safely, freauently when other 
emetics haye failed. In dropsy it is 
sometimes given in the form of whey, 
which is made by boiling half-an- 
ounce of the bruised seeds in a pint 
of milk, and straining off the curd. 
From three to four ounces of this is 
to be taken for a dose three times a 
day. 

60a LAXATXYIS AVD 
FUBOATiySS. 

Manna, tamarinds, castor oil, sul- 
phur, and inagDesia are laxatives; 
senna, rhubarb, jalap, colocynth, 
buckthorn, aloes, cream of tartar, 
scammony, calomel, Epsom salts, 
Glauber's salts, sulphate of potash, 
a«wl Venice turpentine sxt vwrgaJtivee, 

1. Xaima is a very gentle laxative, 
and therefore used for children and 
dtJicate persons. Doee for children^ 
irom one to two drachms ; and for 
aduU$t from one to two ounces, com- 
bined with rhubarb and cinnamon 
water. 



2. Tamarinds are generally laxa- 
tive and refrigerant As it is agree- 
able, this medicine will generaUv be 
eaten by children when they wHl not 
take other medicines. Doae^ from 
half to one ounce. As a refrigerant 
beverage in fevers it is extremely 
grateful. 

8. Castor Oil is a most valuable 
medicine, as it generally operates 
quickly and mildly. It is used ex* 
temallyy combined with citron oint- 
ment, as a topical application in 
common leprosy. It u used internally 
as an ordinary purgative for infants, 
as a laxative for adults, and in diar- 
rhoea and dysentery. In colic it is 
ver^ useful and safe ; and also after 
delivery. Dose for infants, from 
forty drops to two drachms; for 
aduitSt ^^ half-an-ounce to one and 
a half ounces. 

4. Sulphur. --Sublimed sulphur is 
laxative and diaphoretic It ia used 
externally in skin diseases, especially 
itch, both in the form of ointment and 
as a vapour bath. It is used intern- 
ally in hemorrhoids, combined with 
magnesia, as a laxative for children, 
anaas a diaphoretic in rheumatisin. 
Dose, from one scruple to two drachms, 
mixed in milk or with treacle. When 
combined with an equal proportion 
of cream of tartar, it acts as a pur- 
gative. 

5. Mtgnmisk.— Calcined fnagnesia 
possesses the same properties as the 
carbonate. Dose, from ten to thirty 
grains, in milk or water. CarhoTuOe 
cf magnesia is an antacid and laxative, 
and is very useful for children when 
teething, and for heartburn in adults. 
Dose, from a half to two drachms, 
in water or milk. Fluid Magnesia is 
a useful preparation by whose use is 
avoided the grittiness that is insepar- 
able from magnesia when taken in the 
form of powder. 

6. Senna is a purgative, but is apt 
to ^pe when given alone ; therefore 
it is combined with some aromatic, 
such as cloves or ginger, and the infu- 
sion should be m^e with cold instead 

K 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



146 



OKE WATCH SET RIGHT WILL DO TO BIT MAKT BY ; 



of hot water. It usuallj acts in about 
four hours, but its action should be 
assisted by drinking warm fluids. 
Dose, of file correction, commonly 
called ** lenitive electuary,** from, one 
to three or four di-achms at bedtime ; 
of the infusion, from one to two 
ounces ; of the tincture from oue to 
two drachms ; of the tyrup (used for 
children), from one drachm to one 
ounce. Caution, — Do not give seuDS, 
in any form except con&tiou, in 
hemorrhoids, and never in irrita- 
bility of the intestines. 

7. Uhnbarb is a purgative, astring- 
ent and stomachic It is used extern' 
ally in the form of powder to ulcers, 
to promote a healthy action. It is 
given internally in diarrhoea, dyspep- 
sia, and a debilitated state of the 
bowels. Combined with a mild 
preparation of calomel, it forms an 
excellent purgative for children. 
Dose, of the infiision, from one to two 
ounces ; of the powder, from one 
scruple to half-a-drachm as a purga- 
tive, and from six to ten grains as a 
stomachic ; of the tincture and com- 
pound tincture, from one to four 
drachms ; of the compound pUl, from 
ten to twenty grains. 

8. Jalap is a powerful cathartic and 
hjrdrogoffue, and is therefore apt to 
gripe. Vose, of i^t powder, from ten 
to thirty grains, combined with a drop 
or two or aromatic oil ; of the com- 
pound powder, from fifteen to forty 
ffrains ; of the tincture, from one to 
Uiree drachms ; of the extract, from 
ten to twenty wains. The watery 
extract is better Uian the alcoholic. 

9. Colooynth is a powerful drastic 
cathartic, and should never be given 
alone, unless ordered by a medical 
man, as its action is too violent for 
some constitutions. Dose, of the 
extract, from five to fifteen grains ; of 
the compound extract, from five to 
fifteen grains ; of the compo^ind colo- 
cynihpill, the best of all its prepara- 
tions, from ten to twentjr grams. 

10. Buokthom is a brisk purgative 
for children in the form of syrup. 



Dose of the tyrup, from one to six 
drachms. 

^ 11. AloM is a purgative and cathar- 
tic in lai^ge, and tonic in smaller 
doses. Dose, of powder, from two to 
ten grains, combined with soap, bitter 
extracts or other purgative meclicines, 
and given in the form of pills ; of the 
compound pill, from five to twenty 
grains ; of the pHl <^ aloes vnd myrrfh, 
from five to twenty grains; of the 
tincture from four diachms to one 
ounce ; of the compound tincture, 
from one to four drachms; of the 
extract, from six to ten grains ; of the 
compound decoction, from four drachms 
to two ounces. 

12. Cream of Tartar is a purgative 
and refrigerant. It is used internally 
in dropsv, especially of the belly, in 
doses of from one scruple to one 
drachm. As a refrigerant drink it is 
dissolved in hot water, and sweetened 
with sugar, and is used in febrile 
diseases, care being taken not to allow 
it to rest too much upon the bowels. 
Dose, as a purgative, from two to four 
drachms, as a hydrogogue, from four 
to six drachms, mixed with honey or 
treacle. Caution, — Its use should be 
followed by tonics, especially gentian 
and angostura. 

18. Soainmonj is a drastic purga- 
tive, ffenerally acting quickly and 
powerfully ; sometimes proaucing 
nausea, and even vomiting, and being 
very apt to gripe. It is used intern- 
ally, to produce watery evacuations^ 
in dropsy, to remove intestinal worms 
and correct the slimy motions of 
children. Dose, of the pouter, from 
five to sixteen grains, given in liquor- 
ice water, treacle, or honey ; of the 
confection, from twenty to thirty 
grains. Caution. — Do not give it in 
an irritable or inflamed state of the 
bowels. 

14. Epsom Salti is a purgative and 
diuretic. This medicine generally 
operates quickly, and therefore is ex- 
tremely useful in acute diseases. It 
is found to be beneficial in dyspepsia 
when combined with infusion of gen- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OKS TfiAt OOltS WHONG ICAt lltSL^Al) A WHOLE KElGtiBOtrkfiOOb. l47 



tian and a little gmeer. It forms an 
excellent enema wi£ olive oil. 2>0M, 
from a half to two ouncea, dissolved 
in warn^ tea or water. Infusion of 
roses partially covers its taste and 
assists its action. Kote^ that with 
regard to Epsom salts, the larg^ in 
reason is tlie amount of water in which 
they are taken, the smaller the dose 
of salts required : thus, half-an-ounce 
properly aissolved may be made a 
stroDg dose. The action and eflScacy 
of Epsom salts may be greatly in- 
creased by addins one grain of tartar 
emetic to a dose oi salts. 

15. Glauber's Salt is a very good 
purgative. Dose^ from a half to two 
ounces, dissolved in warm water. 

16. 3alphat6 of Potash is a cathar- 
tic and deobetruent It is used intern- 
ally, combined with aloes or rhubarb, 
in obstructions of the bowels, and is 
an excellent saline purgative in dys- 
pepsia and jaundice. Dose, from ten 
grains to one drachm. 

17. Venice Tuzpentiae is cathartic, 
diuretic, stimulant, and anthelmintic 
It is used externally as a rubefacient, 
and is given inlemally in flatulent 
colic, in tapeworm, rheumatism, and 
other diseases. Dose, as a diuretic, 
from ten grains to one drachm ; as a 
cathartic, from ten to twelve drachms ; 
as an anthelmintic, from one to two 
ounces every eight hours, till the 
worm be ejected. 

610. BltTBSTlCS. 

Diuretics are medicines which pro- 
mote an increased secretion of unne. 
They consist of nitre, acetate of po- 
tassa, squills, juniper, oil of tur- 
pentine, and others, vegetable and 
mineral 

1. Hitre is a diuretic and refriger- 
ant It is used externally as a deter- 
gent when dissolved in water, and as 
a lotion to inflamed and painful 
rheumatic joints. It is given intern- 
eUly in doses of from ten grains to 
half-a-drachm. or even one drachm ; 
in spitting blood it is given, in one 
drachm diMes with great oenefit. It 



is beneficial in sore throat, a few 
grains being allowed to dissolve in the 
mouth. 

2. Acetate of Potassa is diuretic 
and cAthartic It is given internally 
as a diuretic, in combination with 
infusion of quassia; in dropsy, in 
doses of from one scruple to one 
drachm, every three or four hours. 
Dose, as a oatharlic, from two to three 
drachms. 

8. Squills is diuretic and expectorani 
when given in small doses; and 
emetic and pui^tive when given in 
large doses. It is used internally in 
dropsy, in combination with calomel 
ana opium; in asthma, with ammo-; 
niacum ; in catarrh, in the form of 
oxymeL Dose, of the dried hulhpow* 
dered, from one to two grains eveiy 
six hours ; of the compound pill, from 
ten to fifteen grains ; of the tincture^ 
from ten minims to half-a-drachm ; of 
the oxymel, from a half to two 
drachms ; of th« vinegar, from twenty 
minims to two drachms. 

4. Jnniperisdiureticandstomachic. 
It is given internally in dropsy. Dose^ 
of the infusion, from two to three 
ounces every four hours ; of the oil^ 
from one to five minims. 

5. Oil of Turpentine is a diuretic, 
anthelmintic, and rubefacient. It is 
used externally in flatulent colic, 
sprinkled over flannels dipped in hot 
water and wrung out dry. It is used 
internally in the same disease as Venice 
turpentine. Dose, from five minims 
to two drachms. 

611. BIAPHOBETICS. 

Diaphoretics are medicines given to 
increase the secretion from the skin by 
sweating. They com]:)rise acetate of 
ammonia, calomel, antimony, opium, 
camphor, sarsaparilla. 

1. Solution of Acetate of Ammonia 
is a most useful diaphoretic. It is 
used externally as a discutient, as a 
lotion to inflamed milk-breasts, as an 
eye-wash, and a lotion in scald head. 
It is ^ven internally to promote per- 
spiration in febrile diseases, whicn ii 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



148 



THX LOVELIEST BIBD HAS NO 90KO ; 



does most efftjctually, especially when 
combined with camphor mixture. This 
is the article so frequently met with 
in prescriptions, and called spirits of 
mindererus. Dosc^ from a half to one 
and a half ounces eYery three or four 
hours. 

2. AntimoB J in the form of Tartar 
Xmatie is diaphoretic, emetic, exjtect- 
orant, alterative, and rubefacivnt. 
It is u$ed externally as an irritant in 
white swellings and deep-seated in- 
flammations, in the form of an oint- 
ment. It is given internally in 
pleurisv, bilious fevers, and many 
other diseases, but its exhibition re- 
quires the skill of a medical man, to 
watch its effects. Dose^ from one-sixth 
of a grain to four sprains. Caution, — 
It is a poison^ ana therefore requires 
great care in its administration. 

8. Antimonial Powder is a diaph- 
oretic, emetic, and alterative. It is 
given internally in febrile diseases, to 
produce determination to the skin, and 
IS useful in rheumatism, when com- 
bined with opium or calomel Dose, 
from three to ten grains every four 
hours, taking plen^ of warm fluids 
between each dose. 

4. Sanaparilla is diaphoretic, 
alterative, diuretic, and tonic. It is 
given internally in cutaneous diseases, 
old-stnndingrheumatism, scrofula, and 
debility. Doset of the decoction^ from 
four to eight ounces ; of the compound 
decoction, from four to eight ounces ; 
of the extract^ from five grains to one 
drachm. 

612. EXPECTOBAKTS. 

Expcrtorants are medicinos given to 
proraoto the secretion from the wind- 
pil»e, &c. They consist of antimony, 
ipecacuanha, squills, ammoniacum, 
and tolu. 

1. Ammoniaonm is an expectorant, 
antispasmodic, diuretic, and deob- 
struent. It is ^i9cd externally as a 
discutient, and is given internally, 
with great benefit in asthma, hysteria, 
and cnronio catarrh. Dose, from ten 
to twenty grains. 



2. Tolu is an excellent expectorant, 
when there are no inflammatory symp- 
toms. It is given internally in 
asthma and chronic catarrh. Dose, of 
the balsam, from five to thirty grains, 
combined with mucilage and suspended 
in water ; of the tincture, from a half 
to one drachm ; of the syrup, from a 
half to four drachms. 

618. SIALOGOOirSS. 

Tliese are given to increase the 
flow of saliva or spittle. They consist 
of ^nger and calomel, pelletory of 
S]>ain, tobacco, the acids, and some 
others. 

Oin^r is a sialogogue, carminative, 
and stimulant. It is used inlemally 
in flatulent colic, dyspepsia, and to 
prevent the griping ot medicines. 
When chewed, it acts as a sialogogue, 
and is therefore useful in relaxed uvula. 
Dosey from ten to twenty grains of the 
powder; of the tinetwre, from ten 
minims to one drachm. 

614. SPI8PA8TIC8 AHD 
BUBEFACXSKTS. 

These are remedies which are ap- 
plied to blister and cause redness of 
the surface. They consist of cantha- 
rides, ammonia. Burgundy pitch, and 
mustard. 

1. Cantharides, or 8panith Fliet, 
when used internally, are dinretic and 
stimulant ; and epispastic and rube- 
facient when applied externally. Mode 
of application. — A portion of the 
blistenng plaster is spread with the 
thumb ujwn brown paper, linen, or 
leather, to tho size required ; its 
surface then slightly moistened with 
olive oil and sprinkled with camphor, 
and the plaster applied by a light 
bandage : or it is spread on adhesive 
plaster, and attached to the skin by 
the adhesive margin of the plaster. 
Caution, — If a blister is to be applied 
to the head, shave it at least ten 
hours before it is put on ; it is better 
to nlace a thin piece of gauze wetted 
witii vinegar between the skin and 
the blister. If a distressing feeling be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



80 THE LOVELIEST WOMAN MAT LACK VIKTUE. 



149 



experienced about the bladder, give 
warm and copious draughts of Jinseed 
tea, milk, or decoction of (quince seeds, 
and apply warm fomentations of milk 
and water to the blistered surface. The 
period required for a UiUer to rem lin 
on Taries from eight to ten hours for 
adults, and from twenty minutes to 
two hours for children: as soon as it is 
removed, if the blister is not raised, 
apol^ a ** spongio-piline " poultice, 
ana it will then rise properly. When 
it is required to act as a rubefacient, 
the blister should remain on from one 
to three hours for adults, and from 
fifteen to forty minutes for children. 
To dress a blister. — Cut the bag of 
cuticle containing the serum at the 
lowest part, by snipping it with the 
scissors, so as to form an opening like 
this — V ; and then apply a piece of 
calico, spread with spermaceti or some 
other dressing. Such is the ordinary 
method ; but a much better and more 
expeditious plan,and one that prevents 
all pain and inconvenience in the heal- 
ing, is, after cutting the blister as 
directed above, to immediatelv cover 
it with a warm bread and water 
poultice for about an hour and s half, 
and on the removal of the poultice to 
dust the raw surface with violet 
powder; apply a handkerchief to 
retain the powder, and lastly dust 
the part every two hours. It will be 
healed in twelve hours. Caution. — 
Never attempt to take cantharides 
internally, except under the advice 
of a medical man, as it is a poison, 
and requires extreme caution in its 
use. 

2. Burgundy Pitoh is warmed and 
spread upon linen or leather and 
applied over the chest in cases of 
catarrh, difficult breathing, and hoop- 
ing cough ; over the loins in debility 
or lum^go ; and over any part that it 
is desirable to excite a mild degree of 
inflammation in. 

615. CHSiaCAL EEMSDISS. 

These comprise Befrigerants, Ant- j 
a^idf, Antalkaliet, andBKharotios. I 



616. BBFBIQBRABT8. 

These are medicines given for the 
purpose of suppressing an unnatural 
neat of the body. They are Seville 
oranges, lemons, tamarinds, nitre, 
and cream of tartar. 

1. Seville Oraa^i and sweet 
oranges are formed mto a refrigerant 
bevera^^, which is extremely grateful 
in febrile diseases. The rind is an 
agreeable mild tonic, carminative, and 
stomachic. Dose, of the tincture, from 
one to four drachms ; of the infusion^ 
from one to two ounces. 

2. Lemons are used to form a 
refrigerant beverage, which is given 
to quench thirst in febrile and inflam- 
matory diseases. Lemon juice given 
with carbonate of pota^ (half-an- 
ounoe of the juice to twenty grains of 
the salt), and taken while effervescing, 
allays vomiting ; a tablaspoonful, 
taken occasionally, allays hysterical 
palpitations of the heart It is useful 
m scurvy caused by eating too much 
salt food, but requires to be taken 
with sugar. The rind forms a nice 
mild tonic and stomachic in certain 
forms of dyspepsia. Dose of Uie 
illusion (made the same as from orange 
peel), from one to two ounces. 

617. AHTACID8. 

These are given to correct acidity 
in the system. They are soda, am- 
monia, chalk and magnesia. 

Soda, Carbonate of, and Seiqui- 
earbonate of Soda, are antacids and 
dpobstruents. They are used intern^ 
ally in acidity of the stomach and 
dyspepsia. Dose of both preparations, 
from 10 grains to half-a-drachm. 

618. AHTALKAUBS. 

These ai« given to neutralize an 
alkaline state of the system. They 
are citric acid, lemon juice, and tar- 
taric acid. 

1. Citric Aoid is used to check 
profuse sweating, and as a substitute 
for lemon juice when it cannot be 
procured. Dose, from ten to thirty 
graina. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



150 



DEEP RIVERS VLOW WITH SILENT MAJESTY ; 



2. TarUrie Add, when largely 
dilated, forms an excellent refrigerant 
beverage and antalkali. It enters 
into the composition of extemporane* 
COS soda and Seidlitz waters. Dose, 
from ten to thirty grains. 

610. VCUAJUmCB. 

These are remedies nsed to destroy 
the vitality of a part They comprine 
bhiestoue, lunar caustic, and solution 
of chloride of zinc. 

1. Blnestone, or Sulphate of Copper, 
is nsed in a solution offrom foor to 
fifteen grains to the ounce of water, 
and applied to foul and indolent 
ulcers, by means of rag dipped in it 
It is rubbed in substance on fungous 
growths, warts, &c, to destroy them. 
Caution, — It is a poison. 

2. Lnnar Canstio, or Hitrate of 
SUver, is an excellent remedy in 
erysipelas when applied in solution 
(o6e drachm of the salt to one ounce 
of water), which should be brushed 
all over the inflamed part, and for an 
inch beyond it. This blackens the 
skin, but it soon peels ofl*. To 
destroy warts, proud flesh, and un- 
healthy edges of ulcers, &c., it is 
invaluable ; and as an application to 
bed sores, pencilled over with a 
solution of the same strength, and in 
the ftame manner as for erysipelas. 
Caution, — It is a poison. 

8. Bolntion of Chloride of Zino, 
more commonly known as Sir Wifliahi 
Burnett's ** Disinfecting Fluid," is a 
valuable esoharotic in destroying the 
parts of poisoned wounds, such as the 
bite of a mad dog. It is also very 
useful in restoring the hair after the 
scalp has been attacked with ring- 
worm ; but its use requires extreme 
caution, as it is a powerful escharo- 
tic. In itch, diluted (one part to 
thirty-two) with water, it appears to 
answer very well. Caution, — It is a 
most powerful poison. 

620. XECHAHICAI BSMSDIE8. 

These comprise Anthelmintios, De- 
Q^uloentSj Bilnents, and Xmollieiits. 



621. AHTHSLKDTTICS. 

These are medicines given for the 
purpose of expelling or destroying 
worms. They are cowhage, scanr- 
mony, male fern root, calomel, gam- 
boge, santonin, and turpentine. 

1. Cowhage is used to expel the 
round worm, which it does by wound- 
ing it with the fine prickles. Dose of 
the con/eclum, for a child three or 
four vears old, a teaspoouful early, 
for three mominss, followed by a 
dose of castor oil. (See par. 491.) 
The mechanical anthelmintics' are 
strictly confined to those agents 
which kill the worm in the body by 
piercing its cuticle with the sharp 
darts or spiculee of the cowhage hairs, 
or the fine metallic points of powdered 
tin (jnilvis stanni). When these droi»a 
are employed, they should be given 
in honey or treacle for ten or fifteen 
days, and an ai»erient ponder evory 
fourth morning, to expel the killed 
worma This remedy should only be 
adopted under the advice of a medi- 
cal man, as it is liable to cause some 
inflammation of the bowel if given in 
excess. 

2. l^ale Fern Boot is a powerful 
anthelmintic, and 'an astringent It 
is used to kill tapeworm. Dose, 
three drachms of the powdered root 
mixed in a teacupful of water, to be 
taken in the morning whtle in bed, 
and followed by a brisk purgative two 
hours afterwards ; or from a table- 
spoonful to a wineglassful, according 
to age, to be taken early in the morn- 
ing. (-S««par. 472.) 

8. Gamboffe is a powerful drastic 
and anthelmintic. It is used intern- 
ally in dropsy, and for the expulsion 
of tapeworm ; but its use requires 
caution, as it is an irritant poison. 
Dose, from two to six grains," in the 
form of pills, combined with colocynth, 
soap, rhubarb, or bread-crumbs. 

4. Santonin in doses of one to two 
grains for a child, and two to six 
grains for an adult If given over- 
night and followed by castor oil ii{ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SHALLOW BROOKS ARE N0I8T. 



151 



the momiBg, is fatal to the round 
worm. 

622. DEXULCEKTB. 

These are used to diminish irrita- 
tion and soften parts by protecting 
them with a viscid matter. They are 
traflMcanth, linseed, marsh-mallow, 
maUow, liqnorice, arrowroot, isinglass, 
suet, wax, and almonds. 

1. Tra^^aoanth is used to allay 
tickling cough, and lubricate abraded 
parts. It IS usually given in the 
form of mucilage. Dose, from ten 
grains to one drachm, or more. 

2. Linseed is emollient and demul- 
cent. It is used exteniaUy, in the 
form of powder or ** meal," as a poul- 
tice ; and tlie oil, combined with lime 
water, is applied to burns and scalds. 
It is used internally as an infusion in 
diarrhoea, dysentery, and irritation of 
the intestines after cert^n poisons, 
and in catarrh. The best form of 
linseed meal is that which is obtained 
from seed from which the oil has not 
been extracted. Dose, of the vrfusion, 
as much as the patient pleases. 

3. ICsrsh-Xallow iauaed internally 
in the same diseases as linseed. The 
leaves are used externally aa a foment- 
ation, and the boiled roots are 
bruised and applied as an emollient 
poultice. Dim, the same as for 
linseed. 

4. ICallow is used externally as a 
fomentation and poultice in inflam- 
mation, and the infusion is tised 
inlemaUy in dysentery, diseases of 
the kidneys, and the same diseases as 
marsh-mallow and linseed. It is also 
used as an enema. Dose, same as for 
linseed and marsh-mallow. 

5. Idquorioe is an agreeable de- 
mulcent, and is given in the form of 
decoction in catarrh, and some forms 
of dyspepsia, and the extract is used 
in catarrn. Dose, of the extract, from 
ten grains to one drachm ; of the 
deeodtion, from two to four ounces. 

6. Arrowroot, isinglass, almonds, 
•net, and wax, are too well-known to 
^oire descriptions. {See par. 880, 



for " Almond Confection " for prepar- 
ations.) 

628. BILUIHTS. 

These are chiefly watery compounds, 
such as weak tea, water, thin broth, 
srud, weak infusions of balm, hore- 
hound, pennyroyal, ground-ivy, mint, 
and sage. 

624. SXOLLISirTS. 

These consist of unctuous remedies, 
such as cerates and ointments,' ^nd 
any materials that combine heat with 
moisture, — poultices of bread, bian, 
linseed meal, carrots, and turnips. 
(5c«par. 701.) 

625. TZBMB USED fO E ySff S 
THE PItOPE$TIS8 OE flEBlCnn^S. 

1. Absorbents are medicines which 
destroy acidity in the stomach and 
bowels, such as magnesia, prepared 
chalk, kc, 

2. Altenttives are medicines which 
restore health to the constitution, 
without producing any sensible effect, 
such as sarsapariUa, sulphur, &c. 

8. Analeptios are medicines that 
restore the strength which has been 
lost by sickness, such as gentian, bark, 
&c. 

4. Anodynes are medicines which 
relieve pain, and they are divided into 
three kinds, sedatvocs, hypnotics, and 
narcotics (See these terms) ; camphor 
is anodyne as well as narcotic. 

5. ibitaoids are medicines which 
destroy acidity, such as lime, mag- 
D&Hia, soda, &c. 

6. Antalkalies are medicines given 
to neutralize alkalies in the system, 
such as citric, nitric, and sulphuric 
acids, &c. 

7. Anthelmintios are medicines 
used to expel and destroy worms 
from the stomach and intestines, 
such as turpentine, cowhage, male 
fern, &c. 

8. Antibiliooi are medicines which 
are useful in bilious affections, such 
as calomel, &c. 

9. AntirhenmatiQt are medicin«q 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



162 



LKT HOPS BB OTTR HAKDXAID, 



Qued for the core of rheumatism, such 
as colchicom, iodide of potash, ke, 

10. Antiieorbutiei are medicines 
against scurvy, such as citric acid, ko, 

11. Antiieptlet are substances 
used to correct putrefaction, such as 
bark, camphor, charcoal, vinegar, and 
creosote. 

12. Antifpaimodiai are medicines 
which possess the power of overcoming 
spasms of the muscles, or allaying 
severe pain from any cause uncon- 
nected with inflammation, such 
as valerian, ammonia, opium, and 
camphor. 

13. Aperients are medicines which 
move the bowels gently, such as rhu- 
barb, manna, and grey powder. 

14. Aromatiea are cordial, spicy, 
and agreeably-flavouretl medicmes, 
such as cardamoms, cinnamon, &c. 

15. Aftringenti are medicines 
which contract the fibres of the body, 
diminish excessive discharges, and act 
indirectly as tonics, such as oak bark, 
galls, &C. 

16. Attanuantt are medicines which 
are suppomd to thin the blood, such 
as ammoniated iron, &c 

17. Balsamioi are medicines of a 
soothing kind, such as tolu, Peruvian 
balsam, &c. 

18. OarminatiTM are medicines 
which allay pain in the stomach and 
bowels, and expel flatulence, such as 
aniseed water, &c 

19. Cathartics are strong purgative 
medicines, such as jalap, kc 

20. Ooxdials are exnilarating and 
warming medicines, such as aromatic 
confection, kc 

21. Oorroboranti are medicines and 
food which increase the stren^h, such 
as iron, gentian, meat, and wine. 

22. Demuloentt correct acrimony, 
diminish irritation, and soften parts 
by covering their surfaces with a mild 
and viscid matter, such as linseed- tea, 
gum, mucilage, honey, and marsh- 
mallow. 

28. Beobstments are medicines 
which remove obstructions, such as 
iodide of potash, kc 



24. Battmiiti clean the suriaoca 
over which they pass, such as soap; 
kc 

26. Biaphorttief produce perspiim- 
tion, such as tartrate of antimony, 
James's tiowder, and camphor. 

26. DigestlTatare remedies applied 
to ulcers or wounds, to promote the 
formation of matter, such as resin, 
ointments, warm poultices, &c 

27. Difoutientt possess the power 
of repelling or resolving tumours, such 
as gaibanum, mercury, and iodine. 

28. Diuretles act upon the kidneya 
and bladder, and increase the flow of 
urine, such as nitre, squills, canthar- 
ides, camphor, antimony, and juni- 
per. 

29. Draatiof are violent purga- 
tives, such as gamboge, kc 

80. Xmatioi produce vomiting, or 
the discharge of the contents or the 
stomach, such as mustard and hot 
water, tartar-emetic, ipecacuanha, 
sulphate of rinc, and sulphate of 
copper. 

81. XmmenagOfniLat are medicines 
which exercise a direct action on the 
uterus or womb, provoking the 
natural periodical secretion, such as 
castor, assafoetida, ffldbanum, iron, 
mercury, aloes, hellebore, savine, 
eigot of rye, juniper, and penny- 
royal 

82. Smollientt are remedies used 
externally to soften the parts they are 
applied to, such as spermaceti, palm 
oil, kc, 

88. Spiipastioi are medicines which 
blister or cause effusion of serum 
under the cuticle, such as Spanish 
flies. Burgundy pitch, rosin, and 
gaibanum. 

84. Errhinai are medicines which 
produce sneering, such as tobacco, 
kc, 

86. Zfoharotioi are medicines which 
corrode or destroy the vitality of the 
part to which they are applied, such 
as limar caustic, &c 

86. Xzpectoraati are medicines 
which Increase expectoration, or the 
discharge ^m the bronchisd tubes. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AND FAITH BE OUR STAFF. 



153 



Buch as ipecacuanlia, squills, opium, 
ammoniAOttin. 

87. 7ebrifkigea are remedies used 
in feTers, such as all the antimonials, 
bark, quinine, mineral acids, arsenic 

88. HTdragoguM are medicines 
which have the effect of removing the 
fluid of dropsy, by producing watery 
evacuations, such as gamboge, calomel, 
kc, 

89. Hjrpnotics are medicines that 
relieve pain by procuring sleep, 
such as hops, henbane, morphia, 
poppy. 

40. LaxatiTei are medicines which 
cause the bowels to act rather more 
than is natural, such as manna, kc 

41. Harootiea are medicines which 
cause sleep or stupor, and allay pain, 
such as opium, kc, 

42. Hutriantt are remedies that 
nourish the body, such as sugar, 
sago, kc 

48. Paregorioa are medicines which 
actually assuage pain, such as com- 
pound tincture of camphor, henbane, 
nops, opium. 

44. Prophjlaetloi are remedies 
employed to prevent the attack of 
any particular disease, such as quin- 
ine, kc 

45. PorgatlTei are medicines that 
promote the evacuation of the bowels, 
such as senna, aloes, jalap, salts. 

46. Befrigerants are medicines 
which suppress an unusual heat of the 
body, such as wood-sorrel, tamarind, 
kc 

47. Bubefaeients are medicaments 
which cause redness of the skin, such 
at mustard, kc 

48. SedatlTM are medicines which 
depress the nervous enei^gy, and 
destroy sensation, so as to compose, 
moh as foxglove. {See Parboorich.) 

49. SialogOffuet are medicineswhich 
promote tl^ flow of saliva, or spittle, 
such as salt, calomel, kc 

50. Soporifiet are medicines which 
Induce sleep, such as hops, kc 

51. Stimolantt are remedies which 
increase the action of the heart and 
arteries, or the energy of the part to 



which they are applied, such as food, 
wine, spirits, ether, sassafra, which 
is an internal stimulant, and savine, 
which is an external one. 

52. Stomaehici restore the tone of 
the stomacb, such as gentian, kc 

53. Styptiei are medicines which 
constrict the surface of a part, and 
prevent the eflusion of blood, such as 
kino. Friar's balsam, extract of lead, 
and ice. 

54. Sudoriflcs promote profuse 
perspiration or sweating, such as 
ipecacuanha, antimony, James's pow- 
der, ammonia. 

55. Tonios ^ive general strength 
to the constitution, restore the natural 
enei^es, and improve the tone of the 
s^tem, such as all the vegetable 
bitters, most of the minends, also 
some kinds of food, wine, and beer. 

56. Vesicants are medicines which 
blister, such as strong liquid ammo- 
nia, kc 

626. BTTLES FOB THE PBS- 
SBBYATIOH 07 ESALTH. 

627. Pure Atmospheric Air is 
composed of nitrogen, oxygen, and a 
very small proportion of carbonic acid 
gas. Air once breathed has lost the 
chief part of its oxygen, and acquired 
a proportionate increase of carbonic 
acid gas. Therefore, health requires 
that we breathe the same air once 
only. 

€K28. Pood. — The solid part of our 
bodies is continually wasting, and 
requires to be repaired by fresh sub- 
stances. Therrfore, food which is to 
repair the loss, should be taken vritU 
due regard to the exercise and wasto 
of the body. 

629. Pure Water.— The fluid part 
of our bodies also wastes constantly ; 
there is but one fluid in animals, 
which is water. Therefore, water only 
is necessary, and no artifice can pro- 
duce a better drink. 

680. Proportion of Fluid Beqoired. 
— The fluid of our bodies is to the 
solid in proportion as nine to one. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 



UTTLB DBED8 ARK LIKE LITTLB 8KEDB- 



TJiere/ore, a like proportion should 
prevail in the total amount of food 
taken. 

631. Light exercises an important 
influence upon the growth and vigour 
of animals and plants. Ther^ore, our 
dwellings shoula freely admit the solar 
rays, 

682. Kozioai Oases. — Decomposing 
animal and vegetable substances yield 
various noxious gases which enter the 
lungs and corrupt the blood. There- 
fore, all impunties should be kept 
away from our abodes, and every pre- 
caution be observed to secure a pure 
atmosphere. 

633. Tfrarmtli is essential to all 
the bodilv functious. Therefore, an 
equal bodily temperature should be 
maintained by exercise, by clothing, 
or by fire. 

684. Xzfrcisa warms, invigorates, 
and purifies the body ; clothing pre- 
serves the warmth the body generates; 
fire imparts warmth externally. 
Therefore, to obtain and preserve 
warnith, exercise and clothing are 
preferable to fire. 

§36. Ventilation. — Fire consumes 
the oxygen of the air, and produces 
noxious gases. Therefore, the air is 
less pure in the presence of candles, 
f[na, or coal fire, than otherwise, and 
the deterioration should be repaired 
by increased ventilation. 

Q86. The Skin is a highly-organized 
membrane, full of minute pores, cells, 
bloodvessels, and nerves ; it imbibes 
moisture or throws it off, according to 
the state of the atmosphere and the 
temperature of the body. It also 
*' breathes," as do the lungs (though 
less actively). All the internal organs 
sympathize with the skin. Hier^ore, 
it should be repeatedly cleansed. 

687. Best. — Late hours and anxious 
pursuits exhaust the nervous system, 
and produce disease and premature 
death. Ther^ore, the hours of labour 
^|)d Study should be short. 



63a ICtntol and BodUr Bxeroite 
are equally essential to the general 
health and happiness. Therefore, 
labour and study should succeed each 
other. 

688. 9adden Changes of Tempera- 
ture.— Sudden alternations of heat and 
cold are dangerous (especially to the 
young and the a^). Therrfore, 
clothine, in quantity and quality, 
should be adapted to thealtemations of 
night and day, and of the seasons ; 
and drinking cold water when the 
body is hot, and hot tea and soups 
when cold, are productive of many 
evils. 

640. Indnlgeneet.— Man willlive 
most healthily upon simple solids and 
fluids, of which a sufficient but tem- 
perate quantity should be taken. 
Therefore, over indulgence in strong 
drink, tobacco, snuff, opium, and all 
mere indulgences, should be avoided. 

641. HoderatioB in eating and 
drinking, short hours of labour and 
study, regularity in exercise, recrea- 
tion, and rest, cleanliness, equanimity 
of temi>er and equality of temperature, 
— these are the great essentials to that 
which suri)asses all wealth, heaUh of 
miTui and oody. 

642. SPECIAL BTTLIS FOB THE 
PBEVXVnOK OF CHOLBBA. 

i. It is impossible to ni^ too 
strongly the necessity, in all cases of 
cholera, of instant recourse to medical 
aid, and also in every form and 
variety of indisposition ; for all dis- 
orders are found to merge in the 
dominant disease. 

ii. Let immediate relief be sought 
under disorder of the bowels especi- 
ally, however slight. The invasion 
of cholera may thus be readily pre- 
vented. 

iii. Let every impurity, animal 
and vegetable, be quicxljr removed to 
a distance from the habitation, such 
asslaughterhouses, nig-sties, cesspools, 
necAssaries, and all other domestic 
nuisances. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THEY GROW TO FL0WSB8, OR TO WEEDS. 



155 



iy. Let all unooyered drains be 
earefullj and frequently cleansed. 

y. Let the grounds in and around 
the habitation be drained, so as effect- 
ually to carry off moisture of every 
kind. 

yl. T-.et all partitions be remoyed 
from within and without habitations, 
which unnecessarily impede yentila- 
tion. 

yii. Let every room be daily thrown 
op^n for the admission of fresh air ; 
this should be done about noon, when 
the atmosphere is most likely to be 
dry. 

yiiL Let dry scrubbing be used in 
domestic cleansing in place of water 
cleansing. 

ix. Let excessive fatigue, and ex* 
poshre to damp and com, especially 
during the night, be avoided. 

X. Let the use of cold drinks and 
acid liquors, especially under fatigue, 
be avoided, or when the body is 
heated. 

xl. Let the use of cold add fruits 
and vegetables be avoided. 

zii. Xet excess in the lise of ardent 
and fermented liquors and tobacco be 
avoided. 

ziii Let a poor diet, and the use of 
impure water in cooking, or for drink- 
ing, be avoided. 

xly. Let the wearing of wet and 
insufficient clothes be avoided. 

zy. Let a flannel or woollen belt be 
worn round the belly. 

zyi. Let personal cleanliness be 
cat'efiilly observed. 

xvii Lot every cause tending to 
de{)ress the moral and physical ener- 
gies be carefully avoidea. Let expos- 
ure to extremes of heat and cold be 
avoided. 

xyiiL Let crowding of persons with- 
in houses and apartments be avoided. 

ziz. Let sleeping in low or damp 
rooms be avoided. ' 

zz. Let fires be kept up during the 
ni^t in sleeping or adjoining apart- 
ments, the night being the period of 
most danger n:om attack, especially 
undpr expo9aro to cold or damp. 



zzL Let all bedding and clothing 
be daily exposed durug winter and 
spring to the fire, and in summer to 
the heat of the sun. 

zzii. Let the dead be buried in 
places remote from tlie habitations of 
the living. By the timely adoption 
of simple means such as these, 'cholera, 
or other epidemic, will be made to lose 
its venom« 

648. LAWS WITH BSOASD TO 
IMtEtmOVB DISEA^S. 

L HotifltatioiL of Infectiouf 
D^eaaea. — By a recent enactment 
{S^ and 68 vie. c. 72) it 18 made 
compulsory that notice of infections 
disense shall i^ all cases be given to 
the local authority. By section 3 
this duty is im|>osed on the head of 
the family, or, failing him, the nearest 
relative of the patient. The notice 
must be in writing or print, in an 
approved form, and must be sent to the 
medical officer of health of the dis*rirt. 
In addition to this, the medical man 
attending the patient must send a 
certificate, with all particulars, to the 
same official Omitting to send either 
the notice or the certificate, renders 
tjie legally responsible person liable to 
a find not exceeding £2. ^ch local 
authority should publish a list of the 
diseases to which the act applies in its 
district. 

11. Cleansing of Infected Premlfei. 
— The Infectious Disealses (Prevention) 
Act, 1890, is supplemental to the Act 
of 1889. By its provisions Local 
Authorities may inspect dairies in 
cases of infection ascribed to milk ; 
may require the cleansing and disin- 
fecting of infected premises, bedding, 
&c. Penalties are imposed on persons 
ceasing to occupy infected houses 
without previous aiBinfection,or giving 
notice to owner ; and the retention 
for more than forty-eight hours, except 
in a mortuary or other suitable place, 
of the body of a person who has died 
from an infectious disease, is pro- 
hibited except under medical' sang- 
tion. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



156 



GOOD-XATURE COLLECTS HONEY FROM EVERY HERB; 



644. DISnrPBCTAVTS. 
646. FOB 8ICS BOOKS. 

1. Diiin^Mting Liquid.— In a wine 
bottle of cold water, dissolYe two 
ounces acetate of lead (suffar of lead), 
and then add two (fluid) ounces of 
strong nitric acid (aquafortis). Shake 
the mixture, and it will be ready for 
use. — A very small quantity ot* the 
liquid, in its stron^t form, should 
be used for cleansing all kinds of 
chamber utensils. In order to re- 
move offensive odours, clean cloths 
thorouffhl^ moistened with the liquid, 
diluted with eight or ten parts of 
water, should be suspended in various 
parts of the room. — In this case the 
offensive and deleterious f^ases are 
neutralized by chemical action. Fu- 
migation in the usual way is only 
the substitution of one odour for 
another. In using the above, or any 
other disinfectant, let it never l>e 
forgotten that fri»k air, and Dlenty 
of it, is cheaper and more enective 
than any other material. 

2. Chjureoal. — Any room, however 
offensive it may be, can be per- 
fectively deodorized by means of a 
few trays filled with a thin layer of 
freshly-heated wood charcoal. The 
efficiency of the charcoal may be 
greatly increased by making it red-hot 
before using it. This can easily be 
done by heating it in an iron saucepan 
covered with an iron lid. When the 
charcoal is to be applied to inflam- 
mable substances, such as wooden 
floors, &c., of course it must be 
allowed to cool in close vessels before 
being used. 

3. Chloride of Lime.— This sub- 
stance, which is well known for its 
bleacliing properties, is a useful dis- 
infectant. It will neutralize the foul 
sniell arising from drains, closets, &c., 
when mixea with water and thrown 
down the pipes whence the smell pro» 
ceeds. A little dissolved in a bucket 
of water, when used in scrubbing 
rooms and passages, will purify them 
and render them wholesome, and also 



whiten the boards. It is sold by oil- 
men, &c., at 3d or Ad. per lb. — a 
much lower rate than that at which it 
is sold by chemists. 

4. CarboUe Powder and Fluid. — 
Carbolic acid in a fluid state is a 
highly concentrated disinfectant, and 
a strong irritant poison. Care should 
be taken in its use and storage, as 
many lives have been lost through 
taking carbolic acid under the im- 
pression that it was some medicine or 
beverage. It is far safer when in the 
form of powder which has been im- 
pregnated with the acid. The pow- 
der has a pink colour, and is sold at 
the rate of 2d, per pound by oilmen, 

6. CoiEBe a Disinfectant.— Numer- 
ous experiments with roasted coffee 
prove that it is the most powerful 
means, not only of rendering animal 
and vegetable effluvia innocuous, but 
of actually destroyiog them. A room 
in whi^h meat in an advanced degree 
of deoomposition had been kept for 
some time, was instantly deprived of 
all smell on an open coffee-roaster 
being carried through it, containing 
a pound of coffee newly roasted. In 
another room, exposed to the effluvium 
occasioned by the clearing out of the 
dung-pit, so that sulphuretted hydro- 
gen and ammonia in great quantities 
could be chemically detected, the 
stench was completely removed in 
half-a-minute, on the employment of 
three ounces of fresh- roasted coffee, 
whilst the other paits of the house 
were permanently cleared of the same 
smell by being simply traversed with 
the coffee-roaster, although the 
cleansing of the dung-pit continued 
for several hours after. The best 
mode of using the coffee as a disinfect- 
ant is to dry the raw bean, pound it 
in a mortar, and then roast tlie pow- 
der on a moderately-heated iron plate, 
until it assumes a dark brown tint, 
when it is fit for use. Then sprinkle 
it on sinks or cess-pools, or lay it on 
a plate in the room which you wish 
to have purified. Coffee acid or coffee 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ILL-KATiniB SU0K8 POISON FROM THE SWEETEST FLOWSB. 



167 



oil acts more readily in minute ^quan- 
tities. 

6. Sanitas in its yarious forms is 
highly esteemed by many persons as 
a valuable disinfectant. 

646. FOB DBADTS. 

1. Flush them frequently and wash 
down with chloride of lime, half 
pound to a gallon of water, or carbolic 

Sowder in same proportion ; or Condy's 
uid, two tablespoonfuls to a gallon 
of water. 

2. Boraz. — Alone or dissolved in 
water, and used freely to pour down 
closets, sinks, &c., it removes all 
noisome smells, acting as a purifier, 
and rendering even impure water 
wholesome. It should be used fre- 
quently where sewer gas is suspected. 

8. Permanganate of Potash is a 
most convenient and useful disinfect- 
ant. It is cheap, and a small bottle 
of the crystals should alwa3rs be kept 
in the house. For general purposes, 
one teaspoonful of the crj^stals dis- 
solved in a gallon of water is the best 
strength. 

647. TO DISDTF ECT BO OMS AFIXB 
CASES OF FEVEB, fto. 

All articles of furniture, floors, &c., 
should be washed well with a solution 
of carbolic add of a strength of two 
teaspoonfuls to a quart of water. 
Afterwards effectually close all open- 
ings in rooms bv pssting paper over 
windows, kc Place in centre of room 
on a large iron trav, half-a-pound of 
ordinary sulphur, for every 500 cubic 
feet of space in room, set fire to the 
sulphur and leave to bum for two 
hours. Then open all windows for 
twenty-four hours. The walls should 
be stripped and re-papered, ceilings 
whitewashed, and all woodwork 
freshly painted. 

648. TO DISHTFECT CXOTHDIO. 
— All old things should be burnt ; soak 
all linen, &c, in cold water for one 
hour, and afterwards in boilin|5 water 
for ten minutes. Articles which can- 
not be boiled should be exposed to 



the sun's rays, or to a dry heat of a 
temp, of 212^ 

649. TO DISniFBOT PBBSOHS 
AFTBB IHFBGTIOUS DISBASBS.^ 

Give frequent warm baths and after- 
wards ruD the body all over with 
ordinary sweet oil or carbolic oil, 
strength of one in forty. Or give 
bath of sanitas, eight tablespoon- 
fuls to gallon of water, after well 
soaping with soft soap. In cases of 
death, the corpse may be kept per- 
fectly sweet by dusting powdered 
boraz into ears, nose, mouth, under 
arm-pits, feet, Ac, or when any 
moisture exudes. It will preserve 
features and skin fresh as in ufe, and 
the corpse free from decomposition 
for a considerable time. 

650. HOXCBOPATET ABB ALLO- 
PATHY. 
661. HomoBopathj is now 
practised so widely and, indeed, in 
many families, preferred to the older 
system, that the Domestic Pharma- 
copoeia could scarcely be considered 
complete without a brief mention of 
the principal remedies used and re- 
commended by homoeopathic practi- 
tioners, and the disorders for which 
these remedies are specially applica- 
ble. The principle of homoeopathy 
is set forth in the Latin words 
** simUia nmilibus curantur," the 
meaning of which is " likes are cured 
by likes." The meaning of this is 
simply that the homoeopathist in order 
to cure a disease administers a medi- 
cine which would produce in a per- 
fectly healthy subject, symptoms 
like, but not identical with or the 
same as, the symptoms to counteract 
which the meaicme is given. The 
homoeopathic practitioner therefore, 
first makes himself thoroughly ac* 
qnainted with the symptoms that are 
exhibited by the sufferer; having 
ascertained these, in order to neutral- 
ize them and restore the state of the 
Eatient's health to a state of etjuili- 
rium, so to speak, he administers 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



158 



TEA SSLDOtt 8t>0ttS WHIN WATER BOtUS. 



preparauous that would produce symp* 
tonifl of a like chaiacter in persons in 
good health. It is not said, be it 
remembered, that the dma can pro- 
duce in a healthy person the disease 
from which the patient is suffering : 
it is only advanced by homoeopathists 
that the drug given has the power of 
producing in a person in health, 
symptoms similar to those of the 
disease under which the patient is 
languishing, and that the correct 
mode of treatment is to counteract 
the disease symptoms by the artificial 
production of similar symptoms by 
medicinal means. 

662. Allopathj is the name given 
to the older treatment of disorders, 
and the name is obtained from the 
fact that the drugs given do not 
produce symptoms corresponding to 
those of the disease for whose relief 
they are administered as in homoeo- 
pathy. The introduction of the term 
IS contemporary with homoeopathy 
itself. It was merely given to aefine 
briefly the distinction that exists 
between the rival modes of treatment, 
and it has been accepted and adopted 
by all medical men who have no raith 
in homoeopathy, and the treatment 
that its followers prescribe. 

668. The Treatmentt Contrasted. 

— Allopathic treatment is said to be ex- 
perimental, while Homoeopathic treat- 
ment is based on certainty, resulting 
from experience. The allopathist 
tries various drugs, and if one medi- 
cine or one combination of drugs fails, 
tries another ; but the homoeopathist 
administers only such medicaments 
as may be indicated by the symptoms 
of the patient If two drugs are 
given, as is freqnentljr, and perhaps 
generally, the case, it is because the 
symptoms exhibited are of such a 
character that they cannot be pro- 
duced in a healthy person by the 
action of one and the same drug, ancL 
consequently, cannot be ooimteracted 
or neutndized by the action of a single 
drug. 



664. fiolKEoc^THic rkkii- 

XSHT OF AIL][SfT8,~Great stress 
b laid by homooopathists on attention 
to diet, but not so much so in the 
present day as when the system was 
first introduced. The reader will find 
a list of articles of food that may and 
may not be taken in par. 686. For 
complete direction on thi9 point, and 
on diseases and their treatment and 
remedies, he roust be referred to various 
standard works on this subject. All 
that can be done here is to give briefly 
a few of the more common lilments 
"that flesh is heir to," with the 
symptoms by which they are indicated, 
and the medicines by which they may 
be alleviated and eventually cured. 

658. Asthma, an ailment which 
should be referred in all cases to the 
medical practitioner. Symptoms, 
DiflBculty of breathing, with cough, 
either spasmodic and without expect- 
oration, or accompanied with much 
expectoration. Medicines. Aconitum 
napellus, especially with congestion 
or slight spitting of blood ; Antimon- 
ium tartaricum for wheezing and 
rattling in the chest ; Arsenicum for 
chronic asthma ; ipecacuanha ; Nuz 
vomica ; Lobelia, or Stramonium. 

656. Biliont Attacks if attended 
with diarrhoea and copious evacuations 
of a bright yellow colour. Medicines, 
Bryonia, if arising from sedentary 
occupations, or from eating and 
drinking too freely ; or Nux vomica 
and Mercurius in alternation, tJie 
former correctinff constipation and the 
latter nausea, fulness at the pit of the 
stomach, and a foul tongue. 

667. Bronohitif. — Symptoms. Ca- 
tarrh accompanied with fever, expect- 
oration dark, thick and sometimes 
streaked with blood ; urine dark, 
thick, and scanty. Medicines. Aconi- 
tum napellus, especially in earlier 
stages ; Bnronia for pain in coughing 
and difficulty of breatning ; Antimon- 
ium tartaricunit loose cough with 
much expectoration and a feeling of, 
and tendency to, suffocation ; Ipecacu- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AN 2VI1 CONSCIENCE IS THE GREATEST PLAGtTE. 



15d 



anha, accumulation of phle^ in 
bronchial tubes, and also for children. 

658. BniiMi and Woiiadi.— For 
all bruises, black eyes, &c., apply 
Arnica lotion, or Spirit lotion, viz. 
one of spirit to three of water ; for 
slight wounds, after washing well with 
cold water, apply Arnica plaster ; 
when ordinary means fail to stop 
bleeding, and for larger wounds, apply 
concentrated tincture of Calendula. 

659. Cold in the Head or Ca- 
tarrh. — Symptoms, Feverish feeling 
generally, and especially about the 
head, eyes, and nose, running from, 
and obstruction of, nose ; soreness and 
irritation of the throat and bronchial 
tubes. Medicines. Aconitum napel- 
Ins for feverish symptoms; Belladonna 
for sore throat and headache with 
inclination to cough ; Mercurius for 
running from nose and sneezing; 
Nnx vomica for stoppage of nostrils ; 
Chamomilla for chilaren and women, 
for whom Pulsatilla is also useful in 
such cases. 

680. CbilbitanM. —Symptoms. Irri- 
tation and itching of the skin, which 
assumes a bluish red colour. Medi- 
cines, Arnica montana, taken intern- 
ally or used as outward application, 
unless the chilblain be broken, when 
arsenicum should be used. If the 
swelling and irritation do not yield to 
these remedies use Belladonna and 
Rhus toxicodendron. 

661. Cholera. — i. Bilious or 
English Cholera. Symptoms. Nausea, 
proceeding to vomiting, griping of the 
bowels, watery and offenfdve evacua- 
tions, in which much bile is present, 
accompanied with weakness and 
depression. Medicines. Bryonia, with 
ipecactiauha at commencement of 
attack. 

iL Malignant or Asiatic Cholera. 
Symptoms as in English cholera, but 
in a more aggravated form, followed 
by what is called the **cold stage,'* 
marked by great severity of griping 
pain ini the stomach, accompanied 
with fre<juent and copious wateiy 



evacuations, aud presently with 
cramps in all parts of the body : after 
which the extremities become chilled, 
the pulse scarcely discernible, the 
result of which is stupor and ultim- 
ately death. Medicines. Camphor, 
in the form of tincture, in frequent 
doses, until the sufferer b^ns to feel 
warmth returning to the body, and 

ferspiration ensues. (See par. (J62.) 
n the later stages. Cuprum and Vera- 
trum ; give brandy hourly. 

662. Tinotnre of Camphior is one 
of the most useful of the homoeopathic 
remedies in all cases of colic, diarrhoea, 
&c In ordinary cases fifteen drops 
on sugar may be taken every quarter 
of an hour until the pain is allf^ed. 
In more aggravated cases, and in 
cases of cholera, a few drops may be 
taken at intervals of from two to five 
minutes. A dose of fifteen drops of 
camphor on sugar tends to counteract 
a chill if taken soon after premonitory 
symptoms fihow themselves, and act 
as a prophylactic against cold. 

668. Colio or 8tomaoh-jiLohe.— 
This disorder is indicated by griping 
pains in the bowels, which sometimes 
extend upwards into and over the 
re^on of the chest. Sometimes the 
pam is attended with vomiting and 
cold perspiration. A warm bath is 
useful, and hot flannels, or a jar or 
bottle filled with hot water should be 
applied to the abdomen. Afedicines, 
Aconitum napellus, especially when 
the abdomen is tender to the touch, 
and the patient is feverish ; Belladonna 
for severe griping and spasmodic pains ; 
Bryonia for bilious colic and diarrhcea ; 
Chamomilla for children. 

664. Constipation. — Women are 
more subject than men to this confined 
state of the bowels, which will, in 
many cases, yield to exercise, plain 
nutritious diet, with vegetables and 
cooked fruit, and but little bread, and 
an enema of milk and water, or thin 
cruel if it is some time since there has 
been any action of the bowels. Medi* 
cities, Biyonia, especially for rheu- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IfJO 



SLEEP FAXLS SWEETLY UPON THE VIRTUOUS, 



matio patients, and disturbed state of 
the stomach ; Nnx Yomica, for persona 
of sedentary habits, especiaUy nudes ; 
Pulsatilla, for women ; Snlphur, or 
Oascara Sagrada are most useful for 
constipation that is habitual or of long 
continuance. 

606. ConTuliions. — Arising from 
whatever cause, a warm bath is desir- 
able, and a milk and water enema, if 
the child's bowels are confined. Medi- 
eines. Belladonna, Chamomilla, and 
Potassium bromide, if the convulsions 
are caused by teething, with Aconitum 
napellus, if the little patient be fever- 
ish ; Aconitum napellus, Cina, and 
BeUadonna, for convulsions caused by 
worms; Aconite and Coffoea, when 
thev arise from fright; Ipecacuanha 
and Nuz vomics, when they have 
been caused by repletion, or food that 
is difficult of dig(»tion. 

600. Cough. — For this disorder, a 
light farinaceous diet is desirable, 
with plenty of out-door exercise and 
constant use of the sponging-bath. 
Medicines, Aconitum napellus, for a 
hard, dry, hacking cough, and a com- 
bination of ammonium carbonate and 
ipecacuanha wine. Antimonium, for 
cough with wheezing and difficulty of 
expectoration ; Belliidonna, for spas- 
modic coughyWith tickling in the throat, 
or sore throat ; Bryonia, for hard, dry 
oough, with expectorations streaked 
with blood; ipecacuanha, for children. 

007. Croup. — As this disorder fre- 
quently and quickly terminates fatally 
recourse should be had to a duly 
t|ualified practitioner as soon as possi- 
ble. The diftease lies chiefly in the 
larynx and bronchial tubes, and is 
easily recognisable by the sharp, 
l)arking sound of the cough. A warm 
bath and mustard poultice will often 
tend to give relief. Medicines. Aco- 
nitum napellus, in the earlier stages 
of the disorder, and spongia and 
Hepar sulphurLs, in the more idvanced 
stages, the latter medicine being de- 
sirable when the cough is not so 
violent and the breathing easier. 



008. DiairhoM. — The medicinea 
to be used in this disorder are those 
which are mentioned under colic and 
bilious attacks. 

009. DyiaatarT is somewhat simi- 
lar to diarrhoea, but the symptoms 
are more aggravated in character, and 
the evacuations are chiefly mucus 
streaked with blood. As a local 
remedy hot flannels or a stone jar 
filled with hot water and wrapped in 
flannel, should be applied to the 
abdomen. Medicines, Cfolocynth and 
Mercurius in alternation. Ipecacuan- 
ha in thirty to forty grain powders acta 
like a charm. 

070. Dyspepsia or Indi^astioa 
arises from weakness of the digestive 
organs. SymjpUmu, Chief among 
these are habitual costiveness, heart- 
bum and nausea, disinclination to eat, 
listlessuess and weakness, accompanied 
with fatigue after walking, kc, rest- 
lessness and disturbed sleep at night, 
bad taste in the mouth, with white 
tongue, especially in the morning, 
accompanied at times with fulness m 
the region of the stomach, and flatu- 
lence which causes disturbance of the 
heart The causes of indigestion are 
too numerous to be mentioned here, 
but they may be inferred when it is 
said that scrupulous attention must 
be paid to diet {^e€ par. 686); that 
meals should be taken at regular and 
not too long intervals ; that warm 
drinks, stimulants, and tobacco should 
be avoided ; that early and regular 
hours should be kept, with a cold or 
chilled sponge batli every morning; 
and that measures should be taken to 
obtain a fair amount of exercise, and 
to provide suitable occupation for 
both body and mind during the day. 
Medicines, Arnica montana for per- 
sons who are nervous and irritaule, 
and suffer much from headache ; 
Brvonia for persons who are bilious 
and subject to rheumatism, and those 
who are listless, disinclined to eat, 
and hare an unpleasant bitter taste 
•in the mouth; Hepar sulphuris for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MOHNINO IS WXLOOICX TO THX IKDTTSTEIOITS. 



161 



chronio indigestion and oostiyeneai, 
attended wiui tendency to vomit in 
the morning; Meronrius in cases of 
flatnlence, combined with costive- 
ness; ^nx vomica for indigestion 
that makes itself felt from 2 a.m. to 
4 a.m., or thereabouts, with loss of 
appetite and nansea in the morning, 
wd for persons with a tendency to 
piles, ana those who are engaged in 
sedentary occupations ; Pulsatilla for 
women generally, and Chamomilla for 
children. 

671. PtTtri.— For all fevers of a 
serious character, such as scarlet 
fever, typhus fever, typhoid fever, 
gastric fever, intermittent fever, or 
ague, &C., it is better to send at once 
for a medical man. In cases of 
ordinary fever, indicated by alternate 
flushes and shivering, a hot dry 
skin, rapid pulse, and dry foul 
tongue, the patient should have a 
warm bath, lake but little nourish- 
ment, and drink cold water. Medv' 
dne, Aconitum napellus. 

672. TUtoleney.— This disorder, 
which arises fhnn, and is a symptom 
of, indigestion, frequently affects 
respiration, and causes disturbance 
ana quickened action of the heart. 
The patient should ])ay attention to 
diet, as for dyspepsia. Medicines, 
China ; Nux vomica ; Charcoal ; Pul- 
satilla for women, and Chamomilla for 
children. {See Dtspkpsia, par. 670.) 

673. Haadaohe. — This disorder 
proceeds from so many various 
causes, which rec^uire different treat- 
ment, that it is wiser to apply at once 
to a regular homoeopathic practitioner, 
and especiaUy in headache of frequent 
occurrence. Medicines, Nux vomica 
when headache is caused by indiges- 
tion; Pulsatilla being useful for 
women ; Belladonna and Tgnatia, for 
sick headache; Aconitum napellus 
and Arsenicum for nervous headache. 

674. Eaartbnm. — For this un- 
pleasant sensation of heat, arising 
from the stomach, accompanied by a 



bitter taste, and sometimes by nausea, 
Nux vomica is a good medicine. 
Pulsatilla may be taken by won^en. 

676. IndiffSftion.— (iSM Dyspep- 
sia, par. 670.) 

676. ICeasles.— This complaint, 
which seldom attacks adults, is indi- 
cated in its early sta^e by the usual 
accompaniments and signs of a severe 
cold in the head — namely, sneezing, 
running frt)m the nose and eyelids, 
which are swollen. The sufferer also 
coughs, does not care to eat, and feels 
sick and restless. About four days 
after the first appearance of these 
premonitory symptoms, a red rash 
comes out over the face, neck, and 
body, which dies away, and finally 
disappears in about five days. The 
patient should be kept warm, and 
remain in one room dunng the contin- 
uance of the disorder, and especially 
while the rash is out, lest, through 
exposure to cold in an v way, the rash 
may be checked and ariven inwards. 
Medicines, Aconitum napellus, and 
Pulsatilla, which are sufficient for all 
ordinuy cases. If there be much 
fever, Belladonna ; and if the rash be 
driven in by a chiU, Bryonia. 

677. ICnmpt. — This disorder is 
sometimes consequent on measles. 
It is indicated by the swelling of the 

f lands under the ears and lower jaw. 
t is far more painfril than dangerous. 
Fomenting with warm water is nse- 
fril. Medtdnes, Mercurius generally ; 
Belladonna mav be used when mumps 
follow an attack of measles. 

678. Hottlerash.— This rash, so 
called because in appearance it resem- 
bles the swelling and redness caused 
by the sting of a nettle, is generally 
producod by a disordered state of the 
stomach. Medicines, Aconitum na- 
pellus, Nux vomica, or Pulsatilla, in 
ordinary cases; Arsenicum is usefril 
if there be much fever ; Belladonna if 
the rash is accompanied with head- 
ache. Tar lotions at once stop the 
irritation of skin. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ftstM WATit ts sirrtu tttxK fotTL wnrt. 



— Applj to the part 
a of one part of 



07O> PllM. — Tb« ordinaiy bomoB- 
opaUiie remedks forthia painful eom- 
plaint are Nux Toniioa and Solphur. 

68a Wm 

affected a lotion fonne( 
tincture of Arnica to two of 'water. 
For persons who cannot use Arnica, 
in consequence of the irritation pro- 
duced bv it, a lotion of tincture of 
Calendula niaj be used in the propor- 
tion of one part of the tincture to four 
of water. 

681. Taathinff. — Infanta and very 
young children frequently experience 
much pain in the mouth during dent- 
ition, and especiaUy when tlie tooth 
is making iti way through tlie gum. 
The child is often feverish, the mouth 
and gums hot and tender, and the 
face flushed. There is also much 
running from the mouth, and the 
bowels are disturlied, being in some 
cases confined, and in others relaxed, 
approaching to diarrhoea. Medicines. 
Tnese are Aconitum na^iellus, in ordi- 
nary cases; Nux vomica, when the 
bowels are confined ; Chamomilla, 
when the bowels are relaxed ; Mer- 
cttrius, if the relaxed state of the 
bowels has deepened into diarrhoea ; 
Belladonna, if there be symptoms of 
disturbance of the brain. 

682. Whooplng-Cough.— This dis- 
ease is sometimes of long duration, for 
if it shows itself in the autumn or 
winter months, the little patient win 
frequently retain the cough until Mav 
or even June, when it disappears with 
the return of warmer weather. Change 
of air when practicable is desirable, 
especially when the cough has been of 
long continuance. In this cough 
there are three stages. In the first 
the symptoms are those of an ordinary 
cold m the head and cough. In the 
second the cough becomes hard, dry 
and rapid, and the inhalation of the 
air, after or during the paroxysm of 
coughing, produces the peculiar sound 
from wmch the disease is named. In 
tke finalstage thseoogh occurs at longer 
intervals, and the paroxysms an £ms 



violent and ultimately disappear. In 
this stage the disease is subjsei to 
fluctoation, the congh again increasing 
in frequency of occurrence and intens* 
ity if the patient has been undnly 
exposed to cold or damp, or if tfaia 
weatlier is very chanf^eable. Children 
suffering from whooping-cough should 
have a Hght nourishing diet and only 
go out when the weather is mild and 
warm. Medicints, Aconitum napellus 
in the very commencement of the dis- 
order, followed by Ipecacuanha and 
Nux vomica when the second stage is 
just approaching and during its con- 
tinuance. These medicines may be 
continued if necessary during the third 
stage. 



Worms. — The presen.ce of 
worms is indicated by irritation of 
the membrane of the nose, causing 
the child to thrust its finger into the 
nostrils ; by irritation of the lower 
part of the body; by thinness, ex- 
cessive appetite and restlessness in 
sleep. Children suffering from worms 
sliould eat meat freely and not take 
so much bread, vegetables, and 
farinaceous food as children generally 
do. They should have as much 
exercise as possible in the open air, 
and be sponged with cold water 
eve?y morning. The worms that 
mostly trouble children are the thread 
worms, which are present chiefly in 
the lower portions of the intestines, 
and the round worm. Medidnes^ d-c. 
Administer an injection of weak salt- 
and-water,andgiYe Aconitum napellus, 
to be followed by Ignatia and Sulphur 
in the order in which they are here 
given. These are the usual remedies 
for thread worms. For round worms, 
whose presence in the stomach is indi* 
cated by great thinness, sickness and 
discomfort, and pain in the stomach, 
Aconitum na{)el1us, Cina, Ignatta and 
Sulphur are given. 

684. SOXeOPAIHIC KXDIOISSS. 

These are given in the (orm of 

globules, piluet or tiMtores, tho 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THS OATttd Of rBX PASfltOKATB &AVB 1^0 ItSAl^b^a. 



m 



latter bein^ generally preferred by 
homoeopathic practitioners. When 
contrasted with the doaee of drugs 
given bj allopathists, the small doses 
administered oy homoeopathists most 
at first sight appear wholly inadequate 
to the purpose for whidi they are 

S'ven ; but hom(BO|>athists, whose 
lution and trituration diffuse the 
drag given throughout the vehicle in 
which it is administered, argue that by 
this externum qf il» swrface the active 
power of the drug is greatly increased; 
and that there is reason in this argu- 
ment is shown by the fact that large 
doses of certain dru^ administered 
for certain purposes will pass through 
the system witnout in any wav affect- 
ing uiose organs, which will be acted 
on most powerfully by the very same 
drufls when administered in much 
smidler doses. Thus a small dose of 
sweet snirit of nitre will act on the 
skin ana promote perspiration, but a 
large dose will act as a diuretic only, 
and exert no influence on the skin. 
Small cases of the principal medicines 
used in homoeopathy can be procured 
from most chemists, and with each 
case a little book showing thesymptoms 
and treatment of all ordinary com- 
plaints is usually given. 

685. Doses in HomoBopathy. 
The proper quantity for a dose is 
• always given in books and manuals 
for the homoeopathic treatment of 
disease, but the average doses for 
adults are from half a drop to one drop 
of the tincture given in a tablespoonf lu 
of water, from two to four pilules, 
or from three to six globules. In using 
the tincture it is usual to measure 
out a few tablespoonfiils of water and 
to add to it a certain number of drops 
regulated bv the quantity of water 
that is usea. For children medicine 
is mixed at the same stsreng^, but a 
less quantity is given. 

686. Diet in HomoMpathy. 
The arttoles of food that are chiefly 
recommended when aiitention to diet 



is necessary are stale bread, beef, 
mutton, ponltiT, fresh game, fish, 
chiefly cod and flat fish (avoiding 
mackerel), &c,eggs and oysters. Eioe, 
sago, tapioca, and arrowroot are 
permitted, as are also potatoes, carrots, 
turnips, broccoli, cauliflower, aspara- 
gus, French beans, and broad beaas. 
Water, milk, cocoa, and chocolate may 
be drunk. It is desirable to avoid Hx 
things that are not specified in the 
foregoing list * Ripe fruit may be 
eaten, but unripe fruit, unless cooked, 
should be scrupulously avoided. 

687. D0KE8TI0 StmaSBT. 

This will comprise such hints and 
advice as will enable any one to act on 
an emergency, or in otdinaiy trivial 
accidents reauiring simple treatment : 
and also to (ustinguish between seriois 
and simple accidents, and the best 
means to adopt in all oases that are 
likely to fall under a person's notice. 
These hints will be of tne utmost value 
to heads of families, to emigrants, and 
to persons who are frequently called 
upon to attend the sick. We strongly 
recommend the Parent, Emigmnt, imd 
Nurse, to read over these directions occa- 
aioruUly, — to regard it as a duty to do so 
at least three or four times a year, so as 
to be prepared for emergencies when- 
ever tney may arise. When accidents 
occur, people are too excited to aoquive 
immediately a knowled^ of what they 
should do ; and many hves have been 
lost for want of this knowledge. 
Study, therefore, at moderate intervals, 
the Domestic Surgery, TrecUmerU of 
Poisons, Rxdes for the Prevention of 
Accidents, How to Escape from Fires, 
the Domestic Pharmacopeeia, Ac, 
which will be found in various pages 
of Enquire Within, And let it be 
impressed upon your mind that THE 
INDEX will enable you to refer to 
anything you may require in a mo- 
ment. Don't trouble to hunt through 
the pages; but when you wish to 
Enc^ui&r Within, remember that the 
Indsx is the knocker, by which tha 
door of knowledge may be opened. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



164 BREATH MAY BLOW OUT A CANDLE, AN EXTINGUISHER PREVENT FIRE. 



68a EMmenrcT caedb. 

Messrs. Hoolston and Sons, the 
publishers of this volume, have issued 
under the title of Enquire Within 

UPON EVERTTHINO EmEROENOT 

Cards a series of cards containing 
in clear bold type coudse and lucid 
instructions as to the best course 
to pursue in cases of the sudden acci- 
dents which will occur even in the 
best-regulated families. Instructions 
are given for immediate treatment of 
Poisonings, Bleedings in various parts 
of the body, Swallowing Pins, Ac, 
Bites of Dog or Snake, Matters in the 
Eye,Chokii^;, Suffocation. Convulsions 
or Fits, Whooping Cough, Teething, 
Ooup, Fainting, Lamp Upsetting, 
Bums, Scalds, FaUs, Broken Bones, 
Dislocations, Person on Fire, House on 
Fire, Drowning, &c, also Listof Requi- 
sites to be kept at himd. The cards are 
contained in a pretty ornamental case 
(10 in. X 6i in.) intended for hanging 
permanently on the wall of room so as 
to be always at hand, A book is apt 
to be mislaid, and in sudden accidents 
people are so frightened, that, even if 
they know what should be done, thev 
cannot remember. As the set of caros 
costs but Chie Shilling they should be 
purchased by every one, for probably 
they might be the means of saving 
life and alleviating suffering in many 
instances. 

689. STJBOICAL DBE88IV08. 

These are substances usually applied 
to parts for the purpose of soothing, 
promoting their reunion when divided, 
protecting them from external injuries, 
absorbing discharges, protecting the 
Burrouniung parts, insuring cleanliness, 
and as a means of applying various 
medicines. 

690. DrSTRXnOEirTB BEQUIBED. 

Scissors, a pair of tweezers or simple 
forceps, a knife, needles and thread, a 
razor, a lancet, a piece of lunar caustic 
in a quill, and a sponge. 



691. MATERIALS FOB 
SVBeiCAL DBS88IHG8. 

These consist of lint, scraped linen, 
carded cotton, tow, ointment spread 
on calico, adhesive plaster, compresses, 
pads, bandages, poultices, old rags of 
linen or calico, and water. 

692. BULBS IV APPLTIVO 
DBESSnrGS. 

L Always prepare the new dressing 
before removing the old one. 

iL Always have hot and cold water 
at hand, and a vessel to place the foul 
dressing in. 

iii Have one or more persons at 
hand ready to assist, and, to prevent 
confusion, tell each person what they 
are to do before you commence ; thus, 
one is to wash out and hand thesponges, 
another to heat the adhesive i>laster, or 
hand the bandages and dressings, and 
if requisite, a third to support the 
limb, kc. 

iv. Always stand on the outside of a 
limb to dress it. 

▼. Place the jMitient in as easy a 
position as possible, so as not to 
fatigue him. 

vl Arrange the bed qfter changing 
the dressings ; but in some cases you 
will have to do so before the patient is 
placed on it. 

vii Never be in a huny when ap- 
plying dressings, do it (quietly. 

viii. When a patient requires 
moving from one bed to another, the 
best way is for one person to stand on 
each side of the patient, and each to 
place an arm behind his back, while he 
passes his arms over their necks, then 
let their other arms be passed under 
his thighs, and by holding each other's 
hands, the patient can be raised with 
ease, and removed to another bed. If 
the leg is injured, a third person should 
steady it ; and if the arm, the same 
precaution should be adopted. Some- 
times a stout sheet is passed under the 
patient, and by several people holding 
the sides, he is lifted without any 
fatigue or much disturbance. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TAKE OABB OF PBNCE, POUNDS WILL TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES. 



165 



608. UHT, HOW XABE. 

This may be quickly made by 
sailing a piece of old linen on a 
board, and scrapinig its surface with 
a knife. It is used either alone or 
spread with ointment Scraped lint is 
the fine filaments from ordmary lint, 
and is used to stimulate ulcers and 
absorb discharges; it is what the French 
callcharpie, 

604. irSES OF SCRAPED LIHT. 

This is made into various shapes for 
particular purposes. When it is 
screwed up mto a conical or wedge- 
like shape, it is called a tent, and is 
used to dilate fistulous openings, so 
as to allow the matter to escape 
freely, and to plug wounds so as 
to promote the formation of a clot 
of blood, and thus arrest bleeding. 
When rolled into little balls, called 
houUUes, it is used for absorbing matter 
in cavities, or blood in woundsTAnother 
usefhl form is made by rolling a mass 
of scraped lint into a long roll, and 
then tying it in the middle with a 

Siece of thread ; the middle is then 
oubled and pushed into a deep-seated 
wound, so as to press upon the bleed- 
ing vessel, while the ends remain 
loose and assist in formiuff a clot ; or 
it is used in deep-seated ulcers to 
absorb the matter and keep the edges 
apart. This form is called 8ie 
baurdannet. Another form is called 
the pelote, which is merely a ball of 
scraped lint tied up in a piece of linen 
rag, commonly called a dabber. This 
is used in the treatment of protrusion 
of the navel in children. 

606. CABDXB C0TT09 is used as 
a dressmg for superficial bums, and 
care should be taken to free it from 
specks, as flies are apt to lay their 
eggs there, and generate maggots. 

606. TOW is chiefly employed as 
a padding for splints, as a compress, 
and also as an outer dressing where 
there is much discharge from a 
sur&ce. 



607. OHmCEirTS are spread on 
calicoes, lint, or even thin layers of 
tow, by means of a knife; they 
should not be spread too thick. 
Sometimes ointment is applied to 
discharging surfaces on a piece of 
linen, folded over on itself several 
times, and then cut at the comers 
with scissors, in order to make small 
holes in it The matter discharged 
passes through these holes, and is 
received in a layer of tow spread over 
the linen. 

606. ADHE8IVX PLA8TBB is cut 

into strips, ranging in width, accord- 
ing to the nature of the wound, &c, 
but the usual width is about three- 
quarters of an inch. Isinglass plaster 
IS not so irritating as diachylon, and 
is more easily removed. 

600. COKPBESSES are made of 

Sieces of linen, calico, lint, or tow, 
oubled or cut into various shapes, 
according to the purposes for which 
they are required. They are used to 
confine dressings in their places, and 
to apply an equal pressure on parts. 
They should be free from dams, hems 
and knots. Ordinary compresses are 
square, oblong, and triangular. Com- 
presses are also ffraduated by placing 
square pieces of folded cloth on one 
another, so arranged that they 
decrease in size each time. They are 
used for keeping up pressure upon 
certain parts. 

700. PAB8 are made by sewing 
tow inside pieces of linen, or folding 
linen and sewing the pieces together. 
They ^re used to keep off pressure 
from parts such as that caused by 
splints in fractures. 

701. POULTIOES are usually made 
of linseed meal, oatmeal, or bread, 
either combined with water or other 
fluids ; sometimes they are made of 
carrots, charcoal, potatoes, yeast, and 
linseed meal, mustard, &c., but the 
best and most economical method of 
preparing them is with a fabric called 
" Spongto Piline,*' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IM 



IF YOU AKX IN DMT, SOMEBODY OWNS PAET OF YOU. 



708. fprni^o PiliiM for poultices. 
^This matenal is made of sponge 
■nd wool felted together, and 
backed by India rubber. The method 
of using is as follows: — A piece of 
the material of the reauired form 
and size is cut of^ and the edges are 
pared or bevelled off with a pair 
of scissors, so that the caoutchouc 
may come in contact with the sur- 
rounding skin, in order to prevent 
evaporation of the fluid used ; for, as 
it only forms the vehicle, the various 
poultiocs gefteimllj' used can be em- 
ployed witn much less expenditure of 
time and money, and increased cleanli- 
ness. For example, — a vinegar poultice 
is made by moistening the fabric with 
distilled vinegar ; an alum poultice, 
by using a strong solution of alum ; 
a ehaixoal poultice, by sprinkling 
powdered charcoal on tne moistenea 
lurfbce of the material ; a yea$t poul- 
tice, by using warmed yeast, and 
moistening the fabric with hot water, 
which is to be well squeezed out pre- 
vious to the absorption of the yeast ; 
a beer poultice, by employing warm 
porter-ctrwjs or strong beer as the 
fluid ; and a earroe poultice, by using 
the expressed and evaporated liquor 
of boiled carrots. Spongio puine 
costs about one farthing a square inch 
and may be obtained of the chemist. 
As a fomentation it is most invalu- 
able, and by moistening the material 
with compound camphor liniment or 
hartshorn, it acts the same as a mus- 
tard poultice. 

TOa Mustard Poultioes.— These 
may be made of the mustard powder 
alone, or in combination with bread 
crumbs, or linseed meal. When 
mustard only is used, the powder 
should be moistened with water, and 
the paste thus produced spread on a 
piece of linen, and covered with mus- 
lin to intervene between the mustard 
and the skin. When mixed with lin- 
seed the powder and the meal may be 
incorporated before water is added, or 
the meal may be moistened and spread 



on linen for application^ and the 
mustard be then strewn on the 
surface, more or leas thickly according 
to the age of the patient. BigoUot's 
Mustard leaves, which can be procured 
from any chemist, are now much used 
in the place of mustard poultioea. 
They only require wetting before 
application, and they are both clean 
and economical 

704. BAHBAOXS. 

Bandages are stripe of calico, linen, 
flannel, muslin, elastic webbing, bunt- 
ing, or some other substance, of 
various lengths, and from one to six 
inches wide, free from hems or dams, 
soft and unglazed. They are better 
after they have been wa^ed. Their 
uses are to retain dressings, apparatus, 
or parts of the body in their proper 
positions, support the soft parts, and 
maintain equal pressure. 

706. BaadAget, Simpls and 0«m- 
pound. — ^The former are single slips 
rolled up ti^tly like a roll of ribbon. 
Sometimes it is rolled from both ends 
and is called a double-headed band- 
age. The compound bandages are 
formed of many pieces. 

706. tties of BaBdagst. --Those 
for the Head should be two inches 
wide and Ave yards long; for the 
Neck, two inches wide and three 
yuds long ; for the Ann, two inches 
wide and seven yards long ; for the 
Leg, two inches and a half wide and 
seven yards long ; for the Thigh, 
three inches wide and eight y^rds 
long ; and for the Body, four or six 
inches wide and ten or twelve yards 
long. 

707. To Apply a SiAglo-Hsaded 
Bandage, lay the ouisids qf tfu end 
near to the part to be bandaged, and 
hold the roll between the little, ring, 
and middle fingers and the palm of 
the left hand, using the thumb sjid 
forefinger of the same hand to guide 
it, and the right hand to keep it firm, 
and pass the bandage partly round 
the leg towards the feft hand. It is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



sooiroMT n thx bast chair of old age. 



m 



sometimes necessary to reverse this 
order, and therefore it is well to be 
able to use both hands. Partioular 
parts reqnire a different method of 
ai^lying Dandages, and therefore it is 
necessary to describe the most nseftil 
separatelj; and there are differeut 
ways of puttinj^ on the same bandage, 
which consist m the manner the folds 
or turns are made. For example, the 
dreular bandage is formed by hori- 
zontal turns, each of which overlaps 
the one made before it ; the spiral 
ooamsts of spiral turns ; the oblique 
follows a course oblique or slanting to 
the eentre of the limb ; and the 
recurreni folds back again to the part 
whence it started. 

708. Cironlar Bandages are tised 
for the neckf to retain dressings on 
any part of it, or for blisters, setons, 
&c. ; for the h^ad^ to keep dressings 
on the forehead or any part contained 
within a circle passing round the 
head ; for the arm, previous to bleed- 
ing ; for the leg, above the knee ; and 
for the Jtnffers, ko, 

709. To Confine the Sndi of Band- 
ages some persons use pins, others 
sht the end for a short distance, and 
tie the two strips into a knot, and 
some use a strip of adhesive plaster. 
Always place tne point of a pin in 
such a position that it cannot prick 
the patient, or the person dressing 
the Umb, or be liable to be drawn out 
by using the limb ; therefore, as a 
general rule, turn the head of the pin 
from the free end of the bandage, or 
towards the upper part of the limb. 
The best mode is to s^w the bandage 
on. A few stitches will hold it more 
securely than pins can. 

710. The Oblique BandSge is 
generally used for arms and legs, to 
retain dressings. 

711. The Spiral Bandage is gener- 
ally applied to the trunk and extrem- 
ities, but is apt to fall off even 
when very carerally applied ; there- 
fore the recurrent bandsi^, which 
folds back a^in, is generally used. 



712. Ths Bavarsiajf or BsenrrsAt 
Bandage is the best kind of bandage 
that we can employ for general pur- 
poses. The method of putting it on 
the leg is as follows : — Apply the end 
of the bandage that is free, with the 
outside of it next the skin, and hold 
this end with the finger and thumb 
of the left hand, while some one sup- 
ports the heel of the patient ; then 
with the ri|^ht hand pass the bandage 
over the piece you are holding, and 
keep it crossed thus, untQ you can 
place your right forefinger upon the 
spot where it crosses the other band- 
age, where it must be kept firm. 
Now hold the roll of the bandage in 
your left hand, with the palm turned 
upwards, and taking care to keep that 
part of ike baruUige between your right 
forefinger and the roll in yofwr Irft 
hand quite slack ; turn your left hand 
over, and bring the bandage down 
upon the leg; then pass the roll 
under the leg towards your right 
hand, and repeat this until the leg is 
bandaged up to the knee, taking care 
not to draa the bandage at any time 
during the process of bancUging. 
When you arrive at the knee, pass 
the bandage round the leg in circles 
just below the knee, and pin it as 
usuaL Bandaging is very easy, and 
if you once see any one apply a band- 
age properly, ana attend to these 
rules, there will not be any difficulty ; 
but boar one thing in mind, without 
which you will never put on a hind- 
age oven decently : and that is, 
never to drag or pull at a bandage, 
but make the turns while it is slack, 
and you have your right forefinger 
placed upon the point where it is to 
be folded down. When a limb is 
properly bandaged, the folds should 
run in a line corresponding to the 
shin-bone. Use, to retain dressings, 
and for varicose veins. 

718. A Bandage for the Chest is 
always placed upon the patient in a 
sitting posture ; and it may be put on 
in circles, or spirally, use, in ta^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



198 LITTLB STICKS KINDLE THE FIRE, BUT GREAT ONES PUT IT OUT. 



tared of the ribs, to retain dressings, 
and after severe oontosioDS. 

714. A Bandaj^ for the BeUy is 
placed on the patient as directed for 
the chest, carfjring it spirally from 
above downwards. Uae, to compress 
belly after dropsy, or retain dressings. 

716. Ths Hand ii Bandaeed by 

crossing the bandage over the back of 
the hand. Uae^ to retain dressings. 

716. ABandagsfior the Head may 
be circular, or spiral, or both ; in the 
latter case, commence bv placing one 
circular turn just over the ears ; then 
bring down from left to right, and 
round the head again, so as to alter- 
nate a spiral with a circular turn. 
Uae^ to retain dressings on the head 
or over the eve ; but this form soon 
gets slack. The circular bandage is 
the best, crossing it over both eyes. 

717. Banda^ for the Foot— 
Place the end just above the outer 
ankle, and make two circular turns, 
to prevent its slipning ; then bring it 
down from the inside of the foot over 
the instep towards the outer part ; 
pass it under the sole of the foot, and 
upwards and inwards over the instep 
towards the inner ankle, then round 
the ankle and repeat again. 27m, to 
retain dressings to the instep, heel, or 
ankle. 

718. Bandage fm Leg and Foot 
^—Commence and proceed as directed 
in the preceding paragraph ; then 
contiauo it up the leg as ordered in 
the Recurrent Bandage (par. 712). 



719. 



A8 



HAHDKEBCU1EF8 
BAHDA0E8. 

As it sometimes happens that it is 
necessary to at)ply a bandage at once, 
and the materials are not at hand, it 
is desirable to know how to substitute 
something else thai any one may apply 
ttnih eate. This can be readily done 
with handkerchiefa Any ordinary 
handkerchief will do ; but a square of 
linen folded into various shapes 
answers better. The shapes gener^ly 



required are as follows: — ^The Tri- 
anffle, the Long Square, the Cravat, 
and the Cord. 

1. The Triangular Sa&dkeroldef 
is made by folding it from corner to 
corner, use, as a bandage for the 
head. AppHcaiion, — Place the base 
round the head, and the short part 
hanging down behind, then tie the 
long ends over it 

2. The Long Square is made by 
folding the handkerchief in three. 
Ua»i as a bandage to the ribs, belly, 
&c. If one handkerchief is not long 
enough, sew two together. 

8. The OraTat is folded as usual 
with cravats. U»e^ as a bandage for 
the head, arms, legs, feet, neck, kc 

4. The Cord is used to compress 
vessels, when a knot is made in it, 
and placed over the vessel to be com- 
pressed. It is merely a handkerchief 
twisted in its diagonal. 

720. Two or more Haiidkerehieft 

must sometimes be applied, as in a 
broken collar-bone, or when it is ne- 
cessary to keep dressings under the 
arm. * The bandage is applied by 
knotting the opposite comers of one 
handkerchief together, and passing 
the left arm through it, then passing 
another handkerchief under the right 
arm, and tying it By this means 
we can brace the shoulders well back, 
and the handkerchief will press firmly 
over the broken collar-bone : besides, 
this form of bandage does not readily 
slip or get slack, but it requires to m 
combined with the sling, m order to 
keep the arm steady. 

721. For an Inflamed Breast that 
requires support, or dressings to be 
kept to it, pass one comer over tl.e 
shoulder, bring the body of it over 
the breast, and poss it upwards and 
backwards under the arm of that 
side, and tie the opposite comers 
together. 

722. An Xzeellent Bliiif is formed 
by placinff one handkerchief around 
the neck, and knotting opposite 
comers over the breast bone, then 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHAT THOU CAK8T DO THTSXLP, COMMIT NOT TO AKOTHSE. 



169 



ulacing the other in trUngle under 
the arm to be supported, with the 
base near to the nand; tie the ends 
oyer the handkerchief, and pin the 
top to the other part, after passing it 
around the elbow. 

728. APPAXATirS TO XEUSTB 
PKESSTTBE 07 BSD0L0TH18. 

When a person receives a seyere 
contusion of the leg or foot, or breaks 
his leg, or has painful ulcers over the 
leg, or is unable from some cause to 
bMT the pressure of the bed-clothes, 
it is advisable to know how to keep 
them from hurting the leg. This 
majbe done bv bending up a fire- 
gum, or placing a chair, resting 
upon the edge of its back and front of 
the seat, over the leg, or putting a 
box on each side of it, and placing a 
plank over them, or using a band- 
box minus its lid and bottom ; but 
the best way is to make a cradlef as 
it is called. This is done by getting 
three pieces of wood and three pieces 
of iron wire, and passing the wire or 
hoop through the wood. This can 
. be placed to any height, and is very 
useful in all cases where pressure 
cannot be borne. Wooden hoops out 
in halves answer better than the wire. 

724. XXTIMPOBIZID SPLDm. 

When a person breaks his leg or arm 
and tplifUs cannot be had directly, 
get bunches of straw or twigs, roll 
tnem up in handkerchiefs, and placing 
one on each side of the Ic^ or arm, 
bind another handkerchief firmly 
around them ; or make a long bag 
about three inches in diameter, or 
even more, of coarse linen duck, or 
carpet, and stuff this fuU of bran, 
sawdust, or sand, sew up the endsi, and 
use this the same as the twigs. It 
forms an excellent extemporaneous 
splint Another good plan is to get 
a hat-box made of chip, and cut it 
into suitable lengths ; or for want of 
all these, take some bones otit of a 
pair of stays, and run them through 
a stout piece of rug, protecting the 



leg with a fold of rug, linen, &c. A 
stall better splint or set of splints can 
be extemporised by cutting a sheet of 
thick pasteboard into proper sized 
slips, then passing each piece through 
a basin of not water to soften it It 
is then applied to the fractured limb 
like an ordinary splint, when it 
hardens as it dries, taking the exact 
shape of the part to which it is ap- 
plied. 

725. TO APPLY DBY WABXTH 

to any part of the body. Warm some 
sand or bran and place in the patient's 
socks, and lay it to the part ; salt put 
into a paper bajg does as well; or 
warm water put into a stone jar, and 
rolled up in flannel. 

726. BLEBDHrO is sometimes 
necessary at once in certain accidents, 
such as concuKsiou, and therefore it is 
well to know how to do this. First of 
all, bind up the arm above the elbow 
with a piece of bandage or a handker- 
chief pretty firmly, then place your 
finger over one of the veins at the 
bend of the arm, and feel if there is 
anv pulsation ; if there is try another 
vein, and if it does not pulsate or 
beat, choose that one. Now rub the 
arm from the wrist towards the elbow, 
place the left thumb upon the vein, 
and hold the lancet as you would a 
pen, and nearly at right angles to the 
vein, taking care to prevent its going 
in too far, by keeping the thumb near 
to the point, and resting the hand 
upon the UtUe finger. Now place the 
point of the lancet on the vein, push 
it suddenly inwards, depress the 
elbow, and raise the hana upwards 
and outwits, so as to eu< obliquely 
across the vein. When sufBdent 
blood is drawn off, which is known by 
feeling the pulse at the wrist and 
n<»ar the thumb, bandafre the arm. 
If the pulse feel like a piece of cord, 
more blood should be taken away, but 
if it is soft snd can be easily pressed, 
the bleeding should be stopped. 
When you bandage the arm, place a 
piece of lint over the opening made 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



170 A CHILD 18 THB BKiaHTEST BAT IX THB SITNSHIHX OF A PA&ENT's HBABT. 



bj the lancet, and pass a bandage 
lightly but firmly around the arm, so 
as to cross it over the bend of the 
elbow, in form of a figure 8. 

727. BBY ClTPPniO is performed 
by throwing a piece of paper dipped 
into spirit of wine, and ignited, into a 
wine-glass, and inverting it over the 

Fart, such as the neck, temples, kc. 
t thus draws the flesh into tne glass, 
and causes a determination of blood 
to the part, which is useful in head- 
ache, and many other complaints. 
This is an excellent method of extract- 
ing the poison from wounds made by 
adders, mad dogs, fisk, &o. 

728. OSDIHABY C17PPIV0 is 

performed the same as dry cupping, 
with this exoeption, that the part is 
scarified or scratched with a lancet, 
so as to cause the blood to flow ; or 
by the application of a scarificator, 
which makes by one action from 
seven to twenty-one light superficial 
cuts. Then the glass^ with the 
lil^ted paper in it, is placed over it, 
and when suflScient blood has been 
taken away, the parts are sponged, 
and a pieoe of sticking-plaster placed 
over them. 

720. Ll^SCHXS AHB THSIE 
AFPUCATIOV. 

The leech used for medical pur- 
poses is called the hirudomtdicinoUis^ 
to distinguish it from other varieties, 
such as the horse-leech and the Lisbon 
leech. It varies from two to four 
inohes in length, and is of a blackish 
brown colour, marked on the back 
with six yellow spots, and edged with 
a yellow line on each mde. Formerly 
leeches were supplied by Lincolnshire, 
Yorkshire, and other fenny countries, 
but latterly most of the leeches are 
procured from France. 

780. To Appl:^ Iieeehes hold them 
over the part with a piece of linen 
clot^, or by means or an inverted 
glass, under which they must be 
placed. The part should first be 
thorou^hljr freed from down or hair 



by shaving, and all liniments, Ito., 
carefully and effectually cleaned away 
by washing. If the leech is hungry 
it will soon bite, but sometimes great 
difficulty is experienced in getting 
them to fasten. When this is the 
case, roll the leech into a little porter, 
or moisten the surface with a little 
blood, or milk, or sugar and water. 

When applied to the gums, care 
should be taken to use a leech glass, 
as they are apt to creep down the 
patient's throat : a large swan's quill 
will answer the purpose of a leech 
glass. 

781. Aaovat of Blotd Brawn \j 
aLeeeh. 

Each leech is supposed to abstract 
about two drachms of blood, or six 
leeches draw about an ounce; but 
this is independent of the bleeding 
after they have come off, and more 
blood jgenerally flows then than during 
the time they are sucking. The 
total amount of blood drawn and 
subsequently lost by each leech-bite, 
is nearly haIf>an-ounce. 

788. To Bmova LeetKM.— When 

leeches are goi^ged they will drop off 
themselves ; never tea/r them off from 
a person, but just dip the point of a 
moistened finger into some salt and 
touch them with it After leeches 
come away, encourage the bleeding by 
flannels dipped in hot water ana 
wrung out dry, and then apply a 
warm spongio-piline poultice. If the 
bleeding is not to be wcouraffed, 
cover the bites with a rag dipped in 
olive oil, or spread with spermaceti 
ointment, having previously sponged 
the parts cleaa. 

788. To Stop Continued Bleedh^ 
from Leeoh-Bites apply pressure with 
the fingers over the part, or dip a rag 
in strong solution of alum and lay 
over them, or use the tincture of 
sesquichloride of iron, or apply a leaf 
of matico to them, placing tne under 
surffice of the leaf next to the skin, or 
touch each bite with a finely-pointed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO OBTAIN OOFFBB HOT, WELL WABM THE POT. 



171 



piece of lunar caustic, or lay a piece of 
unt soaked in the extract of 1^ over 
the bites ; and if all these tried in 
succession fail, pass a fine needle 
through a fold of the skin so as to 
include the bite, and twist a piece of 
thread round it. Be sure never to 
allow any one to go to sleep with 
leech-bites bleeding, without watch- 
ing thera carefully. 

784. nrefttment ef Laeelies aftet 

Place them in water containing 
sixteen per cent of salt, which facili- 
tates the removal of the blood they 
ooutain ; and they should afterwards 
be placed one by one in warm water, 
and the blood forced out by gentle 
pressure. The leeches should then be 
thrown into fresh water, which is to 
be renewed every twenty-four hours : 
they may then be re-applied after an 
interval of eight or ten days, and be 
disgoraed a second time. The best 
plan, however, is to empty the leech 
by drawing the thumb and forefinger 
of the right hand along its body from 
the tail to the mouth, the leech being 
firmly held at the suckinc extremity 
by the fingers of the left hand. By 
this means, with a few minutes* rest 
between each application, the same 
leech may be useld four or five times in 
suecessioB. 

785. If a L6Mk U McidentaUy 
nrallowed, or by any means should 
get into the body, employ an emetic, 
or enema of salt and water. 

736. SCAEITICATIOH is useful in 

severe contusions and inflammation 
of parts. It is performed by scratch- 
ing or slightly cutting through the 
slmi with a lancet, hofiing the lancet 
as you would a pen when you are 
ruling lines on paper. 

787. AGOIDEHTS. 

Always send/or a Surgeon imTtudi- 
aidy cm accident occurs, but treat as 
directed untU Tie arrives, Svery 
Iwu^eMdfr should have (f s^ of the 



Enquire Within Emerobnot Oardb 
{See par. 688) hariffinff perrnanerUly on 
a tccUl in his ?unise. The instructions 
in the /ollounng pages are there giwn 
in a greaUy condensed form, 

*72&. ITiefkil ArtiolM to have 
always at hand, kept in a dry place 
and renewed when stale — 

Sticking Plaster. 

Bandages (old linen). 

Safety Pins. 

Whitening (in a tin). 

Carbonate of Soda (in a tin). 

Carron Oil (a pint bottle made of 
equal parts linseed Oil and Lime 
Water ; shake when usin^. 

Lime Water (made of unslacked 
lime, a piece the size of an egg, in 
wine bottle of cold water). 

Ipecacuanha Wine (well corked) or 

Ipecacuanha Powder. 

Salad Oa 

789. S0ALD8 AIT]) BUBVa 

We cannot too firmly impress on 
the mind of the reader, that in either 
of these accidents the firslj lest, and 
often the only remedies requirrd, are 
sheets of wadding, or cotton wool, and 
in default of these, violet powder, 
flour, magnesia, chalk, pure lard, or 
oil The reason these several articles 
are employed is the same in each 
instance ; namely, to exclude the air 
from the injured part ; for if the air 
can be efTectunlly shut out from the 
raw surface, and care is taken not to 
expose the tender part till the new 
cuticle is formed, the cure may be 
safely left to nature. The moment a 
person is called to a case of scald or 
bum, he should cover the part with 
a sheet, or a portion of a sheet, of 
wadding, taking care not to break any 
blister that may have formed, or stay 
to remove any burnt clothes that may 
adhere to the surface, but as quickly 
as possible envelope every part of the 
injury from all access of the air, lay- 
ing one or two more pieces of wadding 
on the first, so as eflectually to guard 
the bum or scald from the irri&tion 
of ^e atmosphere ; and if the art|e]e 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



172 



HEAD KOT BOOKS ALONE, BTTT BCXN ; 



used is wool or cotton, the same 
precaution, of adding more material 
where the sur&ce is thinly oovered* 
most be adopted ; a lisht bandage 
finally securing all in uieir places. 
Any of the popular remedies recom- 
mended below may be employed when 
neither wool, cotton^ nor wadding are 
to be procured, it being always 
remembered that that article which 
will best exclude the air from a bum 
or sodd is the best, quickest, and 
least painful mode of treatment 
And in this respect nothing has sur> 
passed cotton wool, or wadding. 

1. If the skin is much injured in 
burns, spread some linen pretty 
thickly with chalk ointment, and lay 
over the part, and give the patient 
some brandy and water if much ex- 
hausted ; then send for a medical 
man. If not much injured, and yeiy 
painiy, use the same ointment, or 
apply carded cotton dipped in carron 
oil, or you may lay clotns dipped in 
ether over the parts, or cold lotions. 
Treat scalds in the same manner, or 
cover with scraped raw potato; but 
the ohalk ointment is the best In 
the absence of all these, cover the 
iigured part with treacle, and dust it 
thickly over with flour. Lime water 
beaten up with sweet oil is also an 
excellent application for bums. 

2. Another Bemedy.— Take chalk 
and linseed, or common olive oil, 
and mix them in such proportions as 
will produce a compound as thick as 
thin honey ; then add vinegar so as 
to reduce it to the thickness of treacle ; 
apply with a soft brash or feather, 
and renew the application from time 
to time. Each renewal brings fresh 
relief, and a roost grateful coolness. 
If the injury is severe, especially if it 
involve the chest, give ten drops of 
laudanum to an adult, and repeat it 
in an hour, and again a thira time. 
To a child of ten years give, in like 
manner, only three drops, but beware 
of giving any to an infant This 
plan with an internal stimulant, 
according to age, as brandy, or sal 



volatile, or both, should be at once 
adopted, until the arrival of the 
doctor. 

740. DIBT Hr THE XTS. 

Place your forefinger upon the 
cheek-bone, having the patient before 
you ; then slightly bend the finger, 
this will draw down the lower lid of 
the eye, and you will probably be 
able to remove the dirt ; but if this 
will not enable you to get at it, 
repeat this operation while you have 
a netting-needle or bodkin placed 
over the upper lid, ask patient to look 
down, and then turn the lid upwards 
over the bodkin, this will turn it inside 
out, and enable you to remove the 
sand, or eyelash, so., with the comer 
of a fine silk handkerchief. As soon 
as the substance is removed, bathe 
the eye with cold water, drop in one 
drop of castor oil, and exclude the 
light for a day. If the inflammation 
is severe, let the patient take a pur- 
gative, and use a refHgerant lotion. 

741. LIXS DT THE XTS. 

Syringe it well with warm vinegar 
and water in the proportion of one 
ounce of vinegar to eight ounces of 
water, and afterwards drop in castor 
oil, take a purgative, and exclude 
li^t 

742. ntO V OB STEEL SPICmUB 
Hr THE STE. 

These occur while turning iron or 
steel in a lathe, and are best remedied 
by doubling back the upper or lower 
eyelid, according to the situation of the 
substance, and with the flat edge of a 
silver probe, taking up the metallic 
particle, using a lotion made by 
dissolving six grains of sugar of lead, 
and the same of white vitriol, in six 
ounces of water, and bathing the eye 
three times a day till the inflamma- 
tion subsides. Another plan is — 
Drop a solution of sulphate of copper 
(from one to three grains of the salt 
to one ounce of water) into the eye, 
or keep the eye open in a wineglassfid 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AND, ABOVE ALL, READ THYSELF. 



178 



of the solution. Take a pux^gative, 
bathe with cold lotion, and exclude 
light to keep down inflammation. 

748. DISLOCATED THUMB. 

This is frequently produced by a 
fall. Make a clove hitch, by passing 
two loops of cord over the thumb, 
placing a ]^ieoe of rag under the cord 
to prevent it cutting the thumb ; then 
-j^m iu the same Bne as the thumb. 
Afterwaids apply a cold lotion of one 
part spirit to three parts water. 

744. CUTS AVB WOVnS. 

Clean-cut wounds, whether deep or 
superficial, and likely to heal by the 
first intention, should never be 
washed or cleaned, but at once evenlv 
and smoothly dosed by bringing both 
edges close together, and securing 
them in that position by adhesive 
plaster. Out thin strips of sticking- 
plaster, and bring the parts together ; 
or if large and deep, cut two brood 
pieces, so as to look like the teeth of 
a comb, and place one on each side of 
the wound, which must be cleaned 
previously. These pieces must be 
arranged so that they shall interlace 
one another ; then, by laying hold of 
the pieces on the right side with one 
hand, and those on the other side 
with the other hand, and pulling 
them from one another, the edges of 
the wound are brought together with- 
out any difficulty. 

Ordinary Outs are dressed by thin 
strips, applied by pressing down the 
plaster on one side of the wound, and 
keeping it there and pulling in the 
opposite direction; tnen suddenly 
depressing the hand when the edges 
of the wound are brought together. 

746. COHTUSIOKS. 

Thene are best healed by laving a 
piece of folded lint, well wetted with 
extract of lead, on the part, and, 
if there is much pain, placing a hot 
bran poultice over the dressing, 
repeating both, if necessary, every 
two hours. When the injuries are 



verv severe, lay a cloth over the part, 
and suspend a basin over it filled 
with cola lotion. Put a piece of cotton 
into the basin, so that it shall act as 
a syphon and allow the lotion to drop 
on tne cloth, and thus keep it always 
wet 

746. EJBXOBBHAOE OB 
BLEBDIVO. 

When caused by an artery being 
divided or torn, may be known by 
the blood issuing out of the wound 
in leaps or jerks, and being of a 
bright scarlet colour. If a vein is 
injured, the blood is darker and 
flows continuously. To arrest the 
latter, apply pressure by means of a 
compress and bandage. To arrest 
arterial bleeding, get a piece of wood 
(part of a broom luindle will do), and 
tie a piece of tape to one end of it ; 
then tie a piece of tape loosely over 
the arm, and pass the other end of 
the wood under it ; twist the stick 
round and round until the tape com- 
presses the arm sufficiently to arrest 
the bleeding, and then confine the 
other end by tying the string round 
the arm. A compress made by en- 
folding a penny piece in several folds 
of lint or linen should, however, be 
first placed under the tape and over 
the artery. If the bleeoing is very 
obstinate, and it occurs in the arm, 
place a cork underneath the string, 
on the inside of the fleshy part, where 
the artery may be felt bating by any 
one ; if in the leg, place the cork in 
the direction of a line drawn from the 
inner part of the knee towards the 
outer part of the groin. It is an 
excellent thing to accustom yourself 
to find out the position of these 
arteries, or, indeed, any that are 
superficial, and to explain to every 
person in your house where they are, 
and how to stop bleeding. If a stick 
cannot be cot, take a handkerchief, 
make a cord bandage of it, and tie a 
knot in the middle ; the Imot acts as 
a compress, and shcmld be placed over 
the artery, while the two ends are to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



174 



ntOOimx NOT mtKKDS tK ttAsn, 



b« tied around the thumb. Observe 
dlway$ to place ike ligature bettoten 
the wound and the heart, PuttiiLg 
your fin^r into a bleeding woundj 
and making prestare until a surgeon 
arrives, will generally stop yiolent 
bleeding. 

747. ILDBDra FXOK THE 

von. 

This may generally be stopped by 
putting a plug of lint into the 
nostrils. If this does not do, apply a 
oold lotion to the forehead, raise the 
head, and place over it both arms, so 
that it will rest on the hands ; dip 
the lint plug, slightly moistened, into 
some powdered g[um arabic, and plug 
the nostrils again ; or dip the plug 
into equal parts of powdered gum 
arabic and alum, and plug the nose. 
Or the plug may be dipped in Friar's 
balsam, or tincture of kino. Heat 
should be applied to the feet ; and, 
in obstinate cases, the sudden shock 
of a cold ke^, or cold water poured 
down the ^ine, will often instantly 
•top the bleeding. If the bowels are 
conined, take a purgatiye. 

748. TIOLSn 8M0CU. 

These will sometimes stun a person, 
and he will remain unconscious. 
Untie strings, collars, &c. ; loosen 
anything that is tight, and interferes 
with the breathing ; raise the head ; 
see if there is bleeoing from any part : 
apply smelling-salts to the nose, ana 
hot Dottles to the feet. 

74d. ooKctrsnoH. 

The surlaoe of the bodv is cold and 
pale, and the pulse weak and small, 
the breathing slow and gentle, and the 
pupil of the eye generally contracted 
or small. You can get an answer by 
speaking loud, so as to arouse the 
patient. Give a little brandy and 
Urater, keep the place quiet, apply 
warmth, and do not raise the head too 
high. If you tickle the hot, the 
patieat feels it. 



760. COKPUSBIOV 07 THS 
BKADT. 

This from any cause, such as apo- 
plezjr, or a piece of fractured bone 
pressing on it, involves loss of sensa- 
tion. Tf you tickle the feet of tha 
injured person he does not feel it 
You cannot arouse him so as to get 
an answer. The pulse is slow and 
laboured; the oreathing deep, 
laboured, and snortirig, the pupua 
enlarged or unequal. Raise the head, 
loosen strings or tight things, and 
send for a surgeon, if one cannot be 
got at once, apply mustard poultices 
to the feet and thighs, leeches to the 
temples, and hot water to the feet, and 
puige the bowels. 

761. cHOKnro noK fish Bon. 

When a person has a fish bone in 
the throat, insert the forefinger, press 
upon the root of the tongue, so as to 
induce vomiting ; if tbis does not do, 
let him swallow a larqe piece of potato 
or soft bread ; and if tnese faij^ give 
a mustard emetic. 

762. rAivrnro, ht8teiic8, ao. 

Lay patient down or bend head 
between knees while seated. Loosen 
the garments, bathe the temples with 
water or eau-de-Cologne ; open the 
window, admit plenty of fresh air, 
dash cold water on the face, apply 
hot bricks to the feet, and avoid 
bustle and excessive sympathy. 

768. DBommro. 

Attend to the following essential 
rules: — 

i. Lose no time. 

li Handle the body gently. 

ill. Cany the body fkce downwards, 
with the head gently raised, and 
never hold it up by the feet 

It. Send for medical assistance 
immediately, and in the meantime act 
as follows : — 

▼. Strip the body, rub it dry ; then 
wrap it in hot bluikets, and pl|u^ it 
in a warm bed in a wann room. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ITOft tlttAK THl TtSt Of yElBKDSm^ ITBBDLIMLY. 



175 



Vi. Cleftnse away the froth and 
macoa from the nose and mouth. 

Tii Apply warm bricks, bottles, 
bags of sand, ^c., to the armpits, 
between the thighs, and to the soles of 
the feet. 

Till. Rub the surface of the body 
with the hands enclosed in warm dry 
worsted socks. 

ix. If possible, put the body into a 
warm bath. 

X. To restore breathing, lay patient 
on his back, raisinff head and shoulders 
by placing a folded coat or other gar- 
ment under him, put the pipe of a 
common bellows into one nostril, care- 
fully dosing the other, and the 
month ; at the same time drawing 
downwards, and pushing gently back- 
wards, the upper part of the windpipe, 
to allow a more free admission of air ; 
blow the bellows gently, in order to 
inflate the lungs, till the bresst be 
raised a little ; then set the mouth 
and nostrils free, and press gently on 
the chest : repeat this until signs of 
life appear. 

zL Or induce artificial respiration 
by Silvestbk's Method, viz., stand 
at head of patient, ^rasp both arms 
abore elbows and raise them slowly 
above the patient's head, keeping them 
there for two seconds (this expands 
the chest and air is admitted to the 
lungs), the feet being held; then 
quickly lower arms and press into sides 
of chest and repeat this movement about 
every five seconds until the patient 
shows signs of returning respiration. 
This is usually denoted by a flush of 
colour in the Mce. 

The body should be covered the 
moment it is placed on the table, 
except the face, and all the rubbing 
carried on under the sheet or blanket. 
When they can be obtained, a number 
of tiles or bricks should be made tol- 
erably hot in the fire, laid in a row on 
the table, covered with a blanket, and 
the body plaoed in such a manner on 
them, that their heat may enter the 
•pine. When the patieMi revives, 
apply smellhig salts to ^e iMt*, give 



warm wine or brandy and water. 
Cott^ioM.— Never rub the body with 
salt or spirits. Never roll the body 
on casks. Continue the remedies for 
twelve hours without ceasing. 

754. HAVODTO. 

Loosen the cord, or whatever it may 
be by which the person has been sus- 
pended. Open the temporal artery 
or jugular vein, or bleed from the 
arm ; employ electricity, if at hand, 
and proceed as for drowning, taking 
the additional precaution to apply 
eight or ten leeches to the temples. 

755. APPABEKT DXATE FBOM 

DBinrKxinrEss. 

Raise the head, loosen the clothes, 
maintain warmth of surface, and give 
a mustard emetic as soon as the per- 
son can swallow, or if possible use 
stomach-pump. 

750. APOPLBXTAHDfm 
eSHERAXLY. 

Raise the head ; loosen all tight 
clothes, strines, &c ; put a cork or 
roll of paper between teeth to prevent 
tongue being bitten ; apply cold 
lotions to the head, which shotld be 
shaved ; apply leeches to thetemplee, 
bleed, and send for a surgeon. No 
stimulants should be given in cases of 
apoplexy or sun-stroke. 

757. SVITOCATIOH nOM KOX- 
lOVn GA8S8, *a. 

Remove to the fresh air ; dash cold 
vinegar and water in the hoe, neck, 
and breast ; keep up the warmth of the 
body ; if necessary, apply mustard 
ponlticee to the soles of the feet and 
spine, and try artificial respirations as 
in drowning, with electricity. 

75a uoHTvnro avd gtm- 

8TB0KS. 
Treat the same as apoplexy. 

750. poiBOvnra. 

7%e abbreviatimi§ used ar$ at/bllmcs : 
— ^., Effect vr Sympiomi, J\, Trmi- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



176 



WHXK AKQ&T, 001TNT TIN BETOEX TOV STEAK ; 



ffMMi. A,t AfUidoies or dmiUtr 
Pciaaiii. D.A,, Danfferout AfUidoU$. 

TOO. imoTs or pouovs. 

A poiion is a substanoe which is 
. capaole of altering or destroying some 
or all of the functions necessary to 
life. When a perron is in sood 
health, and is snddenly attacked, 
after having taken some food or drink, 
with riolent pain, cramp in the 
stomach, feeling of ^ckness or nausea, 
vomiting, oonvaLdye twitchings, and 
a sense of suffocation; or if he be 
seized, under the same circumstances, 
with giddiness, delirium, or unusual 
sleepiness, it may be supposed that he 
has oeen poisoned. 

761. P0I80V8 CLASSmiD. 

Poisons have been divided into four 



L Those causing local symptoms. 

ii. Those producing spasmodic 
symptoms. 

iiL Narcotic or sleepy symptoms ; 
and 

iv. Paralytic symptoms. Poisons 
may be mineral, animal, or vegetable. 

782. HnrTsnroAfBsoFPOuov. 

DIG. 

L Always send immediately for a 
medical man. 

ii« Save sll fluids vomited, and 
articles of food, cups, glasses, &c, used 
by the patient before being taken ill, 
and lock them up. 

iU. Examine tne cups to ffuide you 
in your treatment : that Is, smell 
them, and look at them. 

iv. As a rule give emetics after 
poisons that cause sleepiness and 
raving;— give chalk, milk, eggs, 
butter, and warm water, or oil, idfter 
poisons that cause vomiting and pain 
m the stomach and bowels, with puig- 
ing ; and when there is no inflamma- 
tion about the throat, tickle it with a 
feather to excite vomiting. 

V. Do not give emetics in cases of 
poisoning by violent adds. 



768. ABmnO. (HTUie arsenic; 
orpifnenif or ffellow arsenic ; realgar, 
red arsenic ; SchceUs green, or arsen- 
iU 1^ copper; Kiw^s yeUovs ; ague 
drops; and arsenical paste,) ^S. 
Little or no taste^ WiUiin an hour, 
heat and pain in the stomach, followed 
bv vomiting of green, yellow, and 
bloody matter, burning, and Wolent 
thirst ; purging and twirting about 
the navel ; pulse small, qu&, and 
irregular, breathing laboured, voice 
hoarse, speaking painful ; skin cold 
and clammy. Sometimes there are 
cramps and convulsions, followed by 
death. — T. Give plenty of warm 
water, new milk in large quantities, 
lime water, white of egg, mixed with 
gruel or honey, gruel, linseed tea; 
apply leeches to the bowels, foment, 
and give starch or gruel enemas. 
Scrape the iron rust ofi" anything you 
can get at, mix it with plenty of 
water, and give in large draughts fre- 
quently, and give an emetic of mus- 
tard or ipecacuanha. The chief 
dependence, however, must be placed 
on the use of the stomach-pump. 
Ckiution, — Never give larae draughts 
of fluid until those given before have 
been vomited, because the stomach 
will not contract propwly if filled with 
fluid, and the object is to get rid of 
the poison as speedily as possible. 

764L OOPPXB. (Blue vOriol, or 
UuesUme; verdigris; verditer; verdi- 
gris crystals.) — B, An acid, rough, 
disagreeable taste in the mouth ; a dry, 
parched tongue, with senseof strangling 
in the throat ; coppery eructations ; 
fretjuent spitting; nausea; frequent 
desire and efibrt to vomit or copious 
vomiting ; severe darting pains in the 
stomach ; griping ; frequent purging; 
belly swollen and painful ; sidn hot, 
and violent burning thirst ; breathing 
difficult ; intense headache and giddi- 
ness, followed by cold sweats, cramps 
in the legs, convulsions, and death. — 
A. White of eggs mixed with water 
(twelve to one pint), to be given in 
winegUssftils every two minutes ; iron 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IF VERT ANORY, A HUNDRED. 



177 



filings mixed with water, or very strong 
coffee, accompanied bf small and re- 
peated doses of castor oil — D, A, Vine- 
gar, bark, alkalies, gall nuts. — T, If 
there is much pain in the belly or 
stomach, appljr leeches. Give large 
draughts of milk and water, to en- 
courage vomiting. 

765. KERCITBT. (Corrotive iMi- 
$niUe ; ealotnel ; red preeipitaU ; ver- 
milion : iurbeth mineral ; prussiate of 
mercury.)^B, Acid metallic taste ; 
tightness and burning in the throat ; 
pain in the back part of the mouth, 
stomach, and bowels ; anxiety of coun- 
tenance ; nausea ; and vomiting of 
bloody and bilious fluids ; profuse 
puiging and difficulty of making 
Winter ; pulse small, hard, and quick ; 
skin clammy, icy coldness of the nands 
and feet ; and death in 24 or 86 
hours. — A, White of eggs mixed with 
water, given as above ; milk ; flour 
and water, mixed pretty thick ; lin- 
seed tea ; and barley water. — T. Give 
large draughts of warm water, if you 
cannot get anything else ; strong 
emetic of ipecacuanha, the stomach- 
pump, a dose of castor oil and lauda- 
num. Apply poppy-head fomenta- 
tions to bowels, and leeches if the 
belly is very tender. 

768. AVTDCO VT. ( Tartar emetic; 
buUer of; Kermee* mineral,) — B, A 
rough metallic taste in the mouth, 
nausea, copious vomiting, sudden 
hiccough, purging of bilious and 
bloodv stools, pains resembling those 
caused by colic, frequent and violent 
cramps, sense of choking;, severe 
heartoum, pain at the pit of the 
stomach, dimcult breathing, wildness 
of speech, cramp in the legs, and 
detith. — A, Decoction 6r tincture of 
galls ; strong tea ; decoction or pow- 
der of Peruvian bark. D,A. White 
vitriol, ipecacuanha, as emetics. — T. 
Give large draughts of water, or sugar 
and water, to promote vomiting; 
applv leeches to the throat and stom- 
ach if painful ; and give one grain of 
extract of opium dissolved in a wine- 



glassful of sugar and water, as soon as 
the vomiting ceases, and repeat three 
times at intervals of a quarter of an 
hour ; and finally, one grain, in a 
little castor oil emulsion, every six 
hours. 

767. TDT. {BuUer of tin ; putty 
powder.) — R Colic and purging. — A, 
Milk. — 7*. Give warm or cold water 
to promote vomiting, or tickle the 
throat with a feather. 

76a ZUrO. (JFhiU vitriol; 
flowers qf; chloride of.) — JE, An astrin- 
gent taste, sensation of choking, 
nausea, vomiting, purging, pain and 
burning in the throat and stomach, 
difficult breathing, pallor and coldness 
of the surface, pinched face, cramps of 
the extremities, but, with the excep- 
tion of the chloride, seldom death. — 



for the third, carbonate of soda, and 
warm water in frequent draughts, with 
the same as for the other compounds., 
— T, Relievo urgent symptoms by 
leeching and fomentations, and after 
the vomiting give castor oiL For the 
chloride, use friction and warmth. 

769. 8ILVXB. {Lvnar caustic; 
flowers of silver); Gold (Chloride of); 
and Bismuth {Nitrate; flowers qf ; 
pearl white), are not frequently met 
with as poisons. — E, Bnminf; pain in 
the throat, mouth, aocompamed with 
the usual symptoms, of corrosive 
poisons. — A, For silver, common salt 
and water ; for gold and bismuth, no 
antidotes are known. — T, Give milk 
and mucilaginous fluids, and castor 
oil. 

770. A0ID8. {Hydrochloric, or 
spirit of salt ; nitric, or aquqfortis ; 
ivUphwric, ot oU qf vitriol,)-— E, Acid 
burning taste acute pain in the gullet 
and throat, vomiting of bloody fluid, 
which effervesces when chalk is added 
to it; hiccough, tenderness of the belly, 
cold sweats, pinched face, convulsions, 
and death. — A. Give ecUeined magne- 
sia, chalk, soap and water. Admin* 

M 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



178 NEVER BUT WHAT TOU DO NOT WANT BECAUSE IT 18 CHEAP. 



is^er freqaent draughts of water to 
we^en the acid, with carbonate of 
soda, potass, or magnesia, to neutralize 
it; thick soap-suds made with common 
soap ; chalK, or in default of the 
alkalies and chalk, break down the 
plaster of the wall or ceiling, mix in 
water, and give the sufferer. Then a 
quarter of a pint of salad oil, white of 
eggs in water, barley water or linseed 
tea. 

771. CHLOBnrE {ga9),—E, Vio- 
lent coughing, tightness of the chest, 
debility, inability to stand. — A. The 
vapour of caustic ammonia to be in- 
haled, or ten drops of liquid ammonia 
to one ounce of water to be taken. — 7*. 
Dash cold water over the face, and 
relieve urgent symptoms. 

772. LEAD {Sugar of; red lead ; 
vnne sweetened hy ; atid toater impreg- 
nated wUh,)^i, Sugary astringent 
metallic taste, ti^tness of the throat, 
pains as if caused by colic, violent 
vomiting, hiccough, convulsions, and 
death. — A, Epsom or Qlauber's salt ; 
plaster of Paris ; or phosphate of 
soda. — T, An emetic of sulphate of zinc 
(twenty-four grains to half-a-pint of 
water); leeches to belly; fomentations 
if necessaiv ; and a dose of castor oil 
mixed with laudanum. 

778. PH08PH0BV8.— ^. Intense 
buminff and pain in the throat and 
stomach. — ^.Magnesia and carbonate 
of soda. — T. Lar^ draughts of chalk 
and water, and tickle the throat with 
a feather. CatUi(m, Do not give oiL 

774. LDIE.— ^. Burning in the 
throat and stomach, cramps in the 
bellj, hiccough, vomitiug, and paralysis 
of limbs. — A. Vinegar or lemon juice. 
— T, Thin starch water to be drunk 
frequently. 

776. AT.ir47.rBfl (Caustic potash ; 
soda; ammonia.)— E. Acrid, hot, dis- 
agreeable taste; burning in the throat, 
nausea, and vomiting bloody matter; 
profuse purging, pain in the stomach, 
ooUc, convnlsions, and death. — A. 
Vinegar and vegetable acids. — T. 



Give linseed tea, milk, almond or 
olive oil, and excite vomiting. 

776. BABTTA {CarboTuUe, pure, 
and muriate), {See Lime, par. 774.) 

777. HITEB.--jE. Heartburn, nau- 
sea, violent vomiting, purging, convul- 
sions, difficult breathing, violent pain 
in the bowels, kidneys, and bladder, 
with bloody urine. — T, Emetics, 
freouent draughts of barley water, 
witn castor oil and laudanum. 

778. VAXCOnC P0I80V8. {Bane 

berries ; fooVs parsley ; deadly wight- 
shade; uxUer hemlock ; thorn apple; 
opium, or laudanum ; camphor, Jke.) — 
£, Giddiness, faintness, nausea, vomit- 
ing, stupor, delirium, and death. — 7*. 
Give emetics, large draughts of fluids, 
tickle the throat, applv smelling salts 
to the nose, dash cold water over the 
face and chest,applvmustard poultices, 
and, above all, enaeavour to rouse the 
patient by forced walking about 
between two persons ; and, if possible, 
by electricity ; and give forty drops of 
sal volatile in strong coffee every naif- 
hour. 

779. YBGETABLE IBBITATIHO 
POISONS. {Mezereon; monk^s-hood ; 
bitter apple ; gamboge ; white hellebore, 
<frc.) — E. Acrid, biting, bitter taste, 
choking sensation, dryness of the 
throat, retching, vomiting, purging, 
pains in the stomach and bowels, 
breathing difficult, and death.— 7*. 
Give emetics of camomile, mustard, or 
sulphate of zinc ; large draughts of 
warm milk, or other bland fluids ; fomen t 
and leech tiie belly if necessary, and 
give strong infusion of coflee. 

780. OXALIC ACID.— J?. Vomit- 
ing and acute pain in the stomsch, 
general debilil^, cramps, and death. — 
A, Chalk.— r. Give large draughts of 
lime water or magnesia. 

781. SPANISH FLIES. —.^. Acrid 

taste, burning heat in the throat, 
stomach, and belly, bloody vomitings, 
colic, purging, retention of urine, 
convulsions, death. — T, Largo 
draughts of olive oil ; thin gruel, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



NIVER SPEND YOUR MONEY BEFORE YOU HAVE IT. 



179 



milk, starch enemas, linseed tea, Ian- 
dannm, and camphorated water. 

782. P0I80H0VS FI8H. {Old- 
ttn/e; sea-lobsUr ; mussel; tunny; 
blmoer; rock-fish, <fcc.) — & Intense 
pain in the stomach after swallowing 
the fish, vomiting, purging, and 
sometimes cramps. — T, Give an eme- 
tic ; excite vomiting bv tickling the 
throat, and plenty of warm water. 
Follow emetics by active purgatives, 
particularly of castor oil and lauda- 
num, oi opium and calomel, and 
abate inflammation by the usual 
remedies. 

788. P0I80K0V8 BITES AKB 
8TIHG8. 

784. 8KAKE BITE8. (Viper; 
black viper ; Indian serprnis ; rattle- 
snake.y-'E. Violent and quick in- 
flammation of the part, extending 
towards the body, soon becoming 
livid ; nausea, vomiting, convulsions, 
difficult breathing, mortification, cold 
sweats, and death. — T, SuppNOse that 
the wrist has been bitten : immedi- 
ately tie a tape between the wound 
and the heart, scarify the parts with 
a penknife, razor, or lancet, and 
apply a cupping-glass over the bite, 
frequently removing it and bathing 
the wound with volatile alkali, or 
heat a poker and bum the wound 
well, or drop some disinfecting fluid 
into the wound, or cauterize the bite 
fireely with lunar caustic, but not till 
the part has been well sucked with 
the mouth, or frequently washed and 
cupped. The strength is to be sup- 
ported by brandy, ammonia, ether, 
and opium. Give plenty of warm 
drinks, and cover up in bed. 

785. BITE8 OF MAD AKI1CAL8. 
— E. Hydrophobia, or a fear of 
fluids. — T, Tie a string tightly over 
the part, cut out the bite, and cauter- 
ize the wound with a red-hot poker, 
lunar caustic, or disinfecting fluid. 
Then apply a piece of **spongio 
piline," give a purgative, and plenty 
of warm drink. Whenever cnloro- 



form can be procured, sprinkle a few 
drops upon a handkerchief, and apply 
to the nose and mouth of the patient 
before cauterizing the wound. When 
the breathing appears difficult, cease 
the application of the chloroform. 
A physician, writing in the Tiines, 
strongly urged this course, and stated, 
many years ago, that there is no 
danger, with ordinarv care, in the 
application of the chloroform, while 
tne cauterization may be more efiect- 
ively performed. 

786. INSECT 8TIKGS. (Wasp, 
bee, gnat, hornet, gadfly, scorpion,) — 
E. Swelling, nausea, and fever. — T, 
Press the barrel of a watch-key over 
the part, so as to expose the sting, 
whicn must be removed. Give fif- 
teen drops of hartshorn or sal volatile 
in half a wine-glassful of camomile 
tea, and cover the part stung with a 
piece of lint soaked in extract of lead. 

The sting of a bee is genei-ally more 
vinileot than that of a wasp, and 
with some people attended with very 
violent effects. The sting of a bee is 
barbed at the end, and is consequently 
always left in the wound ; that of a 
wasp is pointed only, so that the 
latter insect can sting more than 
once, which a bee cannot do. When 
stung by a bee, let the sting be 
instantly pulled out ; for the long(« 
it remams in the wound, the deeper 
it will pierce, owing to its peculiar 
form, and emit more of the poison, 
which is the sole cause of the pain 
and inflammation. The pulling out 
of the sting should be done carefully, 
and with a steady hand, to avoid 
breaking it When the sting is 
extracted, suck the wounded part, if 
possible, and very little inflammation, 
if any, wil 1 ensue. If hartshorn drops 
are immediately afterwards rubbed on 
the part, the^urewillbemorecoraplete. 
Among other simple remedies for this 
purpose, rubbing the part afiected 
with sweet oil, the juice of onion, or 
the blue-bag used in washing, slightly 
moistened, will be found efficacious. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



180 NBYEB TROUBLB AKOTHBB FOR WHAT TOU CAN DO TOUBSBLF. 



787. THB SmrG OF A VRTLI 

may be cared by rabbing the part 
with rosemaiy, mint, or sage leaves. 
Dock leaves are also said to supply an 
eflfectoal remedy. 

78a oAimon fob thi pbs- 
ynmov of AociDsirTs. 

The following regulations should be 
engraved on the memory of all : — 

i Look clojiely after children, 
whether they are up or in bed ; and 
particularly when tney are near the 
fire, an element with which they are 
verv ant to amuite themselvea 

ii Leave nothing poisonous open 
or accessible ; and never omit to write 
the word ** Poison " in Urge letters 
upon it, wherever it may be placed. 

iii Never point a ffun or pistol at 
any one in jest, whether it la loaded 
or unloaded. A loaded gun should never 
be brought into the hotme. 

Iv. Never meddle with gunpowder 
by candle-light 

y. In trimming a lamp with naphtha, 
never fill it Leave space for the 
spirit to expand with wurmth. 

tL Keep lucifer matches in their 
cases, and never let them be strewed 
about. 

▼ii Never quit a room leaving the 
poker in the fire. 

▼iii Do not rake out fires at bed- 
time, as hot cinders are apt to be 
scattered about ; it is better to let the 
fire bum itself out. 

iz. Never sleep near charcoal ; if 
drowsy at any work where charcoal 
fires are u^d, take the fresh air. 

z. Avoid reading in l)ed at night, 
as besides the danger of nn accident, 
the practice is very injurious to the 
eyes. 

zi Beware of damp clothes. 

zii When benumbed with cold be- 
ware of sleeping out of doors ; rub 
yourself, if you have it in your power, 
with snow, and do not hastily approach 
the fire. 

ziii Always air vaults, and damp, 
confined places, by letting them re- 
main open some time before you enter 



or scattering powdered lime in them. 
Where a lighted candle will not bum, 
animal life cannot exist ; it is there- 
fore an excellent caution to use thia 
simple test before entering. 

zi^. Do not stand near a tree, or 
any leaden spout, iron gate, or pdi- 
sade, in times of lightning. 

z^. In walking in the streets, keep 
out of the line of the cellars, and never 
look one way and walk another. 

rvi Never throw pieces of orange- 
peel, or broken glass bottles, into the 
streets, but kick into the gutter any 
that you may see on the pavement or 
the roadway. By so doing you may 
save many from meeting with danger- 
ous accidents. 

zvii Quit ^our house with care on 
a frosty momiug. 

ZTliL Have your horses' shoes 
roughed directly there are indications 
of froet 

ziz. Never leave saddle or draught 
horses, while in use, by themselves ; 
nor go immediately behind a led 
hor8i>, as he is apt to kick. When 
crossing a roadway always go behind 
a cart or carnage, never in front of if. 

zz. Do not lide on footwava 

zzi When the brass rod of the 
stair-carpet becomes loose, fasten it im- 
mediately. 

zzii Never allow your servants to 
leave brocms, brushes, slop-pails, 
water-cans, &c., in outside door- 
ways, or at the head of a flight of 
stairs when engaged in housework. 

zziii Should an infant lay hold of 
a knife or razor, do not try to pull it 
away, or to force open the nand ; but, 
holding the child's hand that is 
empty, offer to its other hand anything 
nice or pretty, and it will immediately 
open the hand, and let the dangerous 
instrument fall 

789. CABBIAOI ACCIDSirTS.— 
It is safer, as a general mle, to keep 
your nlaoe than to jump out Getting 
out of a gig over the oack, provided 
you can hold on a little while, and 
run, ii safer than springing from the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



NEVER PUT OFF TILL TO-MORROW WHAT YOU CAN DO TO-PAY. 181 



side. But it is best to keep your 
place, and hold fast. In accidents 
people act not so much from reason as 
from excitement : but good rules, 
firmly impressed upon the mind, 
generally nse uppermost, even in the 
midst of fear. 

790. OAXmOKS IN YISITIHG 
TKB 8ICX. — Do not visit the sick 
when you are fati^ed, or when in a 
state of perspiration, or with the 
Btomach empty — for in such conditions 
yon are liable to take the infection. 
When the disease is veiy contagious, 
place yourself at the side of the 

Sitient which is nearest the window, 
o not enter the room the first thing 
in the mominff, before it has been 
aired ; and when you come away, 
take some food, change your clothing 
immediately, and expose the latter to 
the air for some days. Tobacco smoke 
is a preventive of malaria. 

791. PSIOAimOKS IN CA8X8 
OF TDtS. 

The following precautions should 
be impressed upon the memory of all 
our readers : — 

L Should a Fire break out, send off 
to the nearest engine or police station. 

ii. Fill BuekeU with Water, carry 
them as near the fire as possible, and 
throw the water in showers on the 
fire xdth a garden syringe or a mop 
until assistance arrives. 

iii. If a Fire is violent, wet a 
blanket, and throw it on the part 
which is in flames. 

iy. Should the Bed or Window 
Curtains catch fire, lay hold of any 
woollen garment, and beat it on the 
flames until extinguished. 

y. Bo not leaye the Window or 
Boor open in the room where the 
fire has broken out, as the current of 
air increases the force of the fire. 

yi Should the Staircase be burn- 
ing, so as to cut off* all communica- 
tion, endeavour to escape by means of 
n trap-door in the roof, a ladder leading 
to wnich should always be at hand. 



yiL Avoid Hurry and Confusion; 
no person except a fireman, frit- ud, or 
neighbour, should be admitted. 

viii. If a Lady's Brest takes Fire, 
she should endeavour to roll herself 
in a rug, carpet, or the first woollen 
garment she meets with. 

iz. ItisaOoodFreeautiontohave 
always at hand a larce piece of baize, 
to throw over a femiue whose dress is 
burning, or to be wetted and thrown 
over a fire that has recently broken 
out. 

z. A Solution of Pearlash in 
Water, thrown upon a fire, ex- 
tinguishes it instantly. The propor- 
tion is a quarter of a pound, dissolved 
in some hot water, and then poured 
into a bucket of common water. 

xi. All Houioholderi, but pnrticu- 
larly hotel, tavern, and inn-keepers, 
should exercise a wise precaution by 
directing that the last person up 
should look over the premises pre- 
vious to going to rest, to ascertain 
that all fires are safe and lights ex- 
tinguished. 

jdL In Bsoaping from a Fire, creep 
or crawl along the room with your 
face close to the ground. Children 
should be early taught how to press 
out a spark when it happens to reach 
any part of their dress, and also that 
running into the air will cause it to 
blaze immediately. 

792. TO BEKBEB CHILBRSITS 
HBBSSES UiriKFLAlCKABLS. 
The followinc simple suggestions 
are worthy of observation : — Add one 
ounce of alum to the last water used 
to rinse children's dresses, and they 
will be rendered uninfiammable, or so 
slightly combustible that in event of 
coming into contact with fire, they 
would only smoulder away veiy 
slowljr, and not burst into flame. 
This is a simple precaution, which • 
should be adopted in families. Bed 
curtains, and linen in general, may 
also be treated in the Hame way. 
Tungstate of soda and chloride of 
zinc have been recommended for the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



182 



ALL THINGS HAVE A BEOINNINO, OOD EXCKPTKD. 



purpose of rendering any article of 
female dress incouibostible. Any 
chemist will intimate to the purchaser 
the manner in which the tungstate of 
soda should be employed. 

708. TO SXTIKGtnSH A FEELS IH 
A CHIinrSY. 

So many serious fires have been 
caused by chimneys catching fire, 
and not being quickly extinguished, 
that the following method of doing 
this should be made generally known. 
Throw some salt or powdered brim- 
stone on the fire in the grate, or 
ignite some on the hob, and then put 
a board or something in the front of 
the fire-place, to prevent the fumes 
descending into the room. The va- 
pour of the brimstone, ascending the 
ihimney, will then effectually ex- 
tinguish the fire. Keep all the doors 
and windows tightly shut, and hold 
before the fireplace a wetted blanket, 
or some woollen article, to exclude 
the air. 

794. 8W1MMIM0. 

Every person should endeavour to 
acquire the power of swimming. The 
fact that the exercise is a healthful 
accompaniment of bathing, and that 
lives may be saved by it, even when 
least expected, is a sufficient argument 
for the recommendation. The art of 
swimming is, in reality, very easy. 
Tlie first consideration is not to 
attempt to learn to swim too hastily. 
That IS to say, you must not expect 
to succeed in your efibrts to swim, 
until you have become accustomed to 
the water, and have overcome your 
repugnance to the coldness and 
novelty of bathing. Every attempt 
will fai^ until you have acquired a 
certain confidence in the water, and 
then the difficulty will soon vanish. 
It should be kept in mind that the 
human body only weighs one pound 
in the water, and a chair, a small 
stool, or a box will suffice to keep a 
roan's head out of water ! 

Those who prefer the aid of belts 



will find it very easy and safe to make 
belts upon the plan explained in the 
next two paragraphs; and by gradually 
reducing the floating power of the 
belts from day to day, they will gain 
confidence, and speedily acquire the 
art of swimming. 

705. TO MAKE LIFS BELTS. 

An excellent and cheap life belt, 
for persons proceeding to sea, bathing 
in dangerous places, or learning to 
swim, may be thus made : — Take a 
yard and three-quarters of strong 
jean, double, and divide into nine 
compartments. Let there be a space 
of two inches after each third com- 
partment Fill the compartments 
with very fine cutting of cork, which 
may be made by cutting up old corks, 
or (still better) purchased at the cork- 
cutter's. Wort eyelet-holes at the 
bottom of each compartment, to let 
the water drain out. Attach a neck- 
band and waist-strings of stout boot- 
web, and sew them on strongly. 

Another Method.— Cut open an old 
boa, or victorine, and line it with fine 
cork-cuttings instead of wooL For 
ladies going to sea these are excellent, 
as they may be worn in stormy weather, 
without giving appearance of alarm in 
danger. They may be fastened to the 
body by ribands or tapes, of the colour 
of the fur. Gentlemen's waistcoats 
may be lined the same way. 

796. DB . FRAVEinrB ASTKOB TO 
SWIKKBB8.— " The only obetacle to im- 
provement in this necessary and life-pre- 
serving art is fear : and it is only by over- 
coming this timidity that you can exi>ect 
to become a master of the following ac- 
quirements. It is very common for novices 
in the art of swimming to make use of cork 
or bladders to assist in keeping the body 
above water ; some have utterly condemned 
the use of them ; however, they may be of 
service for supporting the body while one is 
learning what is called the stroke, or that 
manner of drawing in and striking out the 
hands and feet that is necessary to produce 
progressive motion. But you will be no 
swimmer till you can place confidence In the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CK)D IS tftE FIRST OP ALL. 



188 



power of the water to support you ; I would, 
therefore, advise the aoquiring that confi- 
dence In the first place ; especially as I have 
knoms several who, by a little practice, 
necessary fbr thtt purpose, have insensibly 
acquired the stroke, taught, as it were, by 
nature. The practice I mean is this : choos- 
ing a place where the water deepens gradu- 
ally, walk coolly into it till it is up to your 
breast ; then turn round your face to the 
shore, and throw an egg into the water 
between you and the shore ; it will sink to 
the bottom and be easily seen there if the 
water be clear. It must lie in the water so 
deep that you cannot reach to take it up but 
by diving for it. To encoun^e yourself in 
order to do this, reflect that your progress 
will be fh)m deep to shallow water, and 
that at any time you may, by bringing your 
legs under you, and standing on the bottom, 
raise your head for above the water ; then 
plunge under it with your eyes open, which 
m wit be kept open on going under, as you 
cannot open the eyelids for the weight of 
water above you ; throwing yourself toward 
the egg, and endeavouring by the action of 
your hands and feet against the water to get 
forward, till within reach of it. In this 
attempt you will find that the water buoys 
you up against your inclination ; that it is 
not so easy to sink as you imagine, and that 
you cannot, but by active force, get down 
to the egg. Thus you feel the power of 
water to support you, and learn to confide 
in that power, while your endeavours to 
overcome it, and reach the egg, teach you 
the manner of acting on the water with your 
feet and hands, which action is afterwards 
used in swimming to support your head 
higher above the water, or to go forward 
through it. 

*' I would the more earnestly press you to 
the trial of this method, because I think I 
shall satisfy you that your body is lighter 
than water, and that you might float in it a 
long time with your mouth tree for breathing, 
if you would put yourself into a proper pos- 
ture, and would be still, and forbear strug- 
gling^ yet, till you h»ve obtained this expe- 
rimental confidence in the water, I cannot 
depend upon your having the necessary 
presence of mind to recollect the pcwture, 
and the directions I give jrou relating to it. 
The surprise may put all out of your mind. 



** Though tbk Lsob, Arms, and Head of 
a human body, beinft solid parts, are speci- 
fically somewhat heavier than fresh water, 
as the trunk, particularly the upper part, 
fh>m its hoUowness, is so much lighter than 
water, so the whole of the body, taken 
altogether. Is too light to sink wholl^ under 
water, but some part will remain above 
until the lungs become filled with water, 
wliich happens when a person, in the fright, 
attempts breathing while the mouth and 
nostrils are under water. 

*\ThB LboS AMD ABSCS ARK SPECIFICALLY 

LIGHTER than salt water, and will be sup- 
ported by it, so that a human body cannot 
sink in salt water, though the lungs were 
filled as above, but ftt>m the greater specific 
gravity of the head. Therefore a person 
throwing himself on hts back in salt water, 
and extending his arms, may easily lie so as 
to keep his mouth and nostrils tree for 
breathing ; and, by a slight motion of his 
hand, may prevent turning if he should 
perceive any tendency to It. 

" In Fresh Water if a Mam throw him- 
self OM his back near the surfkce, be cannot 
long continue in that situation, but by 
proper action of his hands on the water ; if 
he use no such action, the legs and lower 
part of the body will gradually sink till he 
come into an upright position, in which he 
will continue suspended, the hollow of his 
breast keeping the head uppermost. 

" But if im this Brect Positiom the 
head be kept upright above the shoulders, 
as when we stand on the ground, the immer- 
sion will, by the weight of that part of the 
head that is out of the water, reach above 
the mouth and nostrils, perhaps a little 
above the eyes, so that a man cannot long 
remain suspended in water with his head in 
that position. 

"The Body contimuimg suspended as 
before, and upright, if the head be leaned 
quite back, so that the lace look upward, 
all the back part of the head being under 
water, and its weight consequently in a great 
measure supported by it, the ftice will remain 
above water quite free for breathing, will 
rise an inch higher every inspiration, and 
sink as much every expiration, but never so 
low as tiiat the water may come over the 
mouth. 

*• If therefore a person unacquainted 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



184 



VUtTUS IS THS PAIRBST OP ALL, 



wira SwiXMiMO and fldlingaccidenUlly iuto 
the water, could bavo prwenoe of mind 
■uffldent to avoid struggling and plunging, 
and to let the body take thii natural position 
he mi|^t continue long aafe from drowning, 
till, perfaape, help should come ; fbr, as to 
the clothes, their additional weight when 
immersed is Tery inconsiderable, the water 
supporting it ; thou^ when he comes out of 
the water, he will find them very heavy 
indeed. 
"But I WOULD not adviss aity omi to 

DBPIND OSr HAVIVO THIS PRBUWOI OF MlITD 

on such an occasion, but learn lUrly to 
swim, as I wish all men were taught to do in 
their youth ; they would on many occasions 
be the salbr Ibr having that skill ; and on 
many more, the happier, as free trom pain* 
ftil apprehensions of danger, to sfty nothing 
of the ei^ymeQt in so deli^tfhl and whole* 
some an exercise. Soldiers particularly 
should, methlnks, all be taught to swim ; it 
might be of frequent use, either in surprising 
an raemy or saving themselves ; and if I had 
now boye to educate, I should prefoi those 
schools (other things being equal) where an 
opportunity was afforded for acquiring so 
advantageous an art, which, once learned, is 
never forgotten. 

** I KMOW BY sxpmtxMGB that it is a great 
comfort to a swimmer, who has a consider* 
able distance to go, to turn himself some- 
times on his back, and to varr, in other 
respects, the means of procuring a progres- 
sive motion. 

*' Whxn hi is ssizxd wrrH trb Cramp in 
the leg, the method of driving it away is to 
give the parts affected a sudden, vigorous, 
and violent shook ; which he may do In the 
air as he swims on his back. 

** DuRmo THS Orxat Hsatb m Suxxsr 
there is no dsnger in bathing, however warm 
we may be, in rivers which have been 
thoroughly wanned by the sun. But to 
throw one's self into cold spring water, when 
the body has been heated by exercise in the 
sun, is an imprudence which may prove 
fktal. I once knew an instance of four 
young men who, having worked at harvest in 
the heat of the day, with a view of refreshing 
themselves, plunged into a spring of cold 
water ; two died upon the spot, a third next 
morning, and the fourth recovered with great 
difficulty. A oopioua draught of cold water. 



in similar circumstances, is frequently at- 
tended with th* same effect in Noftb 
America. 

" The iziRoiBi or.SwniMnro ts om or tbb 
MOST HSALTHY and agreeable in the world. 
After having swum for an hour ortwo in the 
evening one aleeps coolly the whole night, 
even during the most ardent heat of summer. 
Perhaps the pores being cleansed, the in- 
sensible perspiration increases, and occa- 
sions this coolness. It is certain that much 
swimming is the means of stopping diarrhcea 
andevenofprodudngaoonstii«tion. With 
respect to those who do not know how to 
swim, or who are affected with diarrhoea at 
a season which does not permit them to use 
that exercise, a warm bath, by cleansing snd 
purifying the skin, is found very mlutary, 
and often effects a radical cure. I speak 
from my own experience, fluently re- 
peated, and that of others, to whom I have 
reoommended this. 

*' Whxh I WA5 A nor I amused myself one 
day with flying a paper kite ; snd approach- 
ing the banks of the lake, which was nearly 
a mile broad, I tied the string to a stake, 
and the kite ascended to a very considersble 
height above the pond, while I was swim- 
ming. In a little time, being desirous of 
amusing myself with my kite, and enjoying 
at the same time the pleasture of swimming, 
I returned, and loosening fh>m the stake tlie 
string, with the little stick which was 
fastened to it, went again into the water, 
where I found that lying on my back, and 
holding the stick in my hand, I was drawn 
along the surfkce of the water in a very 
agreeable manner. Having then engiged 
another boy to cany my clothes round the 
pond to a place which I pointed out to 
him on the other side, I began to cross the 
pond with my kite, which carried me quite 
over without the least fktigue, and with the 
greatest pleasure imaginable. I was only 
obliged occasionally to halt a little in my 
course, and resist its progress, when it sp« 
peered that by following too quickly, I 
lowered the kite too much ; by doing which 
occasionally I made It rise sgain. I have 
never since that time practised this singular 
mode of swimming, and I think it not im- 
possible to cross, in this manner, fhtm Dover 
to Calais." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



VICB 18 THB MOST HTRTWrL OF ALL. 



185 



797. 8IGV8 OF THI WXATHBB. 

L Dew. — If the dew lies plentifally 
OQ the grass after a fair day, it is a 
sign of another fair day. If not, and 
there is no wind, rain moat follow. 
A red evening porteuds fine weather ; 
but if the r^ness spread too far up- 
wards from the horizon in the even- 
ing, and especially in the morning, it 
foretells wind or rain, or both. 

IL Colour of Sky. —When the sky, 
in rainy weather, is tinged with sea 
green, the rain will increase ; if with 
aeep blue, it will be showery. 

iu. Oloudf. — If you wish to know 
what sort of weather you msy expect, 
go out and choose the smallest cloud 
you can see. Watch it, and if it 
grows smaller and finally disappears 
you maybe pretty sure of tine weather ; 
or the opposite, if the cloud grows 
largjer. The reason is that when the 
air is becoming charged with electric- 
ity each cloud attracts smaller ones, 
until it passes off in rain ; but if rain 
is diffusmg itself, a laige cloud breaks 
up and dissolves. Previous to much 
rain Calling, the clouds grow bigger, 
and increase vciv fiut, especially be- 
fore thunder. Avhen the clouds are 
formed like fleeces, but dense in the 
middle and bright towards the edges, 
with the sky brijght, they are signs of 
a frost, with hail, snow, or rain. If 
clouds form high in the air, in thin 
white trains like locks of wool, they 
portend wind, and probably rain. 
When a general cloudiness covers the 
sky, and small black fragments of 
clouds fly underneath, they are a sure 
sign of rain, and probably will be 
lasting. Two currents of clouds always 
portend rain, and. in summer, thunder. 

It. Heavenly Bodies. — ^A haziness 
in the air, which dims the sun*s light, 
and makes the orb appear whitish, or 
ill-defined — or at night, if the moon 
and stars grow dim, and a rine en- 
circles the former, rain will follow. 
If the sun's rays appear like Moses' 
horns — if white at setting or shorn of 
his rays, or if he goes down into a 



bank of clouds in the horizon, bad 
weather is to be expected. If the 
moon looks pale and dim, we expect 
rain ; if red, wind ; and if of her 
natural colour, with a clear sky, fair 
weather. If the moon is rainy through- 
out, it will clear at the change, and, 
perhaps, the rain return a few days 
after. If fair throughout, and rain at 
the change, the fair weather will pro- 
bably return on the fourth or fifth 
day. 

708. A EAIHY DAT. 

The day it cold, and dark, and dreary ; 
It rains, and the wind is never weary ; 
The vine stiU clings to the mouldering wall. 
Bat at every gust the dead leaves lUl, 
And the day is dork and dreary. 

My life is cold, and dork, and dreary ; 
It rains, and the wind is never weary ; 
My thooghts still cling to the mouldering 

Post, 
But the hopes of youth ftdl thick in the 

blast, 
And the days are dork and dreary. 

Be still, sad heart, and cease repining ; 
Behind the clouds is the sun still shining ; 
Thy fkte is the common fkte of all. 
Into eoeh life some' rain must fldl, 
Some days must be dork and dreary. 

LOMOFCLLOW. 

799. BAB01CSTEB8. 

These instruments are most usefUl 
for indicating a]iproaching changm in 
the weather, according to variations 
in the pressure of the atmosphere. 
There are several kinds, the mercurial 
is generally considered the best. 

800. XSBOTTBIAL BABOICETEB. 

This consists of a narrow gbss tube 
upwards of thirty inches in lengtn, 
open at one end and closed at the 
other. This tube contains quick- 
silver which rises and falls as the 
pressure of air on the open surface 
mcreases or decreases ; the variations 
being shown by an index hand on a 
dial plate engraved with the words 
"Fair, Change, Rain," &c Fair 
weather is usually indicated by a rise 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



l8d 



THOrOHT 18 trtt MOST 8WIPT Of ALt, 



in the mercury, and bad weather by a 
fall. 

These barometers should be hung 
securely on the wall where they are 
neither exposed to draughts nor vary- 
ing heat ; a sheltered nook in a pass- 
age is the best position. 

801. AHEBOIB BABOXETEE. 

This, if well made, is an excellent 
wt>ather glass, and has the advantage 
of being extremely portable, as it is 
made in a compact circular form in 
sizes varying from one inch in dia- 
meter. Excellent instruments are 
made about the size of a watch admir- 
ably adapted for tourists, and enabling 
them to measure the heights of moun- 
tains, buildings, &c 

In these instruments the variations 
of the atmosphere cause the expansion 
and contraction of two discs or corru- 
pted metal, soldered together, form- 
ing a vacuum chamber, the action of 
these discs boine indicated on the dial 
plates by a neeale very similar to the 
hand of a watch. 

802. LSSCH BABOXETSB. 

Take a two-ounce phial three-parts 
filled with pure water, and place in it 
a healthy leech, cover the mouth of 
the bottle with a piece of muslin, and 
it will most accurately prognosticate 
the weather. If the weather is to be 
fine, the leech lies motionless at the 
bottom of the glass, and coiled to- 
gether in a spiral form ; if rain may 
be expected, it will creep up to the 
top of its lodgings, and remain tliere 
till the weather is settled ; if we are 
to have wind, it will move through 
its habitation with amazing swiftness, 
and seldom goes to rest till it begins 
to blow hard ; if a remarkable storm 
of thunder and rain is to succeed, it 
will lodge for some days before almost 
continually out of the water, and dis- 
cover great uneasiness in violent throes 
and convulsive-like motions ; in frost 
as in clear summer-like weather it lies 
constantly at the bottom ; and in 
snow as in rainy weather it pitches its 



dwelling in the very mouth of the 
phial. The water should be changed 
weekly in summer and fortnightly in 
winter. 

80S. CHEMICAL BABOXETEB. 

Take a lon^ narrow bottle, such as 
an old- fashioned £au - de - Cologne 
bottle, and Dut into it two and a half 
drachms or camphor and eleven 
drachms of spirit of wine ; when the 
camphor is aissolved, which it will 
readily do b^ slight agitation, add the 
following mixture : — ^Take water, nine 
drachms ; nitrate of potash (saltpetre), 
thirty-eight grains ; and muriate of 
ammonia (sal ammoniac), thirty-eight 
grains. Dissolve these salts in the 
water prior to mixing with the cam- 
phorated spirit ; then shake the whole 
well together. Cork the bottle well, 
and wax the top, but afterwards make 
a very small aperture in the cork with 
a red-hot needle. The bottle may 
then be hung up, or placed in any 
stationary position. By observing 
the different appearances which the 
materials assume, as the weather 
changes, it becomes an excellent prog- 
nosticator of a coming storm or of fine 
weather. In fine weather the solid 
part will collect at the bottom and 
the liquid be quite clear ; at the ap- 
proach of rain the solid matter will 
gradually rise, and small crystalline 
stars wiU float about Wind is indi- 
cated by flakes of the composition, in 
the form of leaves or feathers, appear- 
ing on the surface, and the whole 
seeming thick and in a state of fer- 
mentation. The quarter from which 
the wind blows is shown by the par- 
ticles lying more closely to the glass 
on the opposite side from which the 
tempest is coming. 

804. PHIAL BABOXETEB. 

Cut off with a file the rim and part 
of the neck of an ordinary glass phiaL 
Then fill it three parts full of water, 
pure or coloured as may be desired, 
place a finger over the mouth of the 
phial and turn it upside down ; hang 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HOPE IS TBS MOST COMltON OF Att. 



187 



it up by means of wire or string, and 
take yoiir finger away. In fair weather 
the water remains level with the neck 
of the phial ; but in damp weather a 
drop forms at the mouth and enlarges 
until it falls, to be followed by others. 

805 KOTESOKTHEBABOKSTEB.^ 

L Why is a Barometer called also 
a'* Weather Glass"! 

Because changes in the weather are 
generally preceded by alterations in 
the atmospheric pressure. But we 
cannot perceive those changes as they 

gradually occur ; the alteration in the 
eight of the column of mercury, 
therefore, enables us to know that 
atmospheric changes are taking place, 
and by observation we are enabled to 
determine certain rules by which the 
state of the weather may be foretold 
with considerable probability. 

iL Why does the Hand of the 
Weather Dial change its position 
when the Column of Keroory rises or 
fkllsl 

Because a weight which floats upon 
the open surface of the mercury is 
attached to a string, having a nearly 
equal weight at the other extremity ; 
the string is laid over a revolving 
pivot, to which the hand is fixed, and 
the friction of the string turns the 
hand as the mercury rises or falls. 

iii. Why does Tapping the Face of 
the Barometer sometimes caose the 
Hand to Koto 1 

Because the weight on the surface 
of the mercury frequently leans against 
the side of the tube, and does not 
move freelv. And, also, the mercury 
clings to the sides of the tube by ca- 
pillary attraction ; therefore, tapping 
on the face of the barometer sets the 
weight free, and overcomes the attrac- 
tion which impedes the rise or fall of 
the mercury. 

iy. Why does the Fall of the Baro- 
meter denote the Approach of Bain 1 



1 Taken flrom " The Reason Why—Oeneral 
Seienee," containing 1,400 Reftsons for things 
generally believed but imperfectly under- 
stood. London : Hoolstou and Sons. 



Because it shows that as the air 
cannot support the full weight of the 
column of merctuy, the atmosphere 
must be thin with watery vapours. 

y. Why does the Bise of tue Baro- 
meter denote the Approach of Fine 
Weather T 

Because the external air, becoming 
dense, and free from highly elastic 
vapours, presses with increased force 
upon the mercury upon which the 
weight floats : that weight, therefore, 
sinks in the short tube as the mercury 
rises in the long one, and in sinking, 
turns the hand to Change, Fair, &c. 

yi. When does the Barometer 
* * stand highest T 

When there is a duration of frost, 
or when north-easterly winds prevuL 

yii. Why does the Barometeritand 
hiffhest at these times 1 

Because the atmosphere is exceed^ 
ingly dry and dense, and fully balances 
the weight of the column of mercury. 

yiii. When does the Barometer 
stand lowest 1 

When a thaw follows a long frost, 
or when south-west winds prevail. 

iz. Why does the Barometer stand 
lowest at these times T 

Because much moisture exists in 
the air, by which it is rendered less 
dense and heavy. 

80& SIOKIFICATIOir OF 
CHBI8TIAH KAXSS OF ICEH. 

Aaron, Hebrtv^ a moontain, or lofty. 

Abel, Hdrtrew, vanity. 

Abraham, Hebrew, the Ikther of many. 

Absalom, Hebrew, the fkther of peace. 

Adam, Hebrew, red earth. 

Adolphus, Saxon, happiness and help. 

Adrian, Latin, one who helps. 

Alan, Celtic, ^harmony; or Slavonie, a 

hound. 
Alaric, Saxon, king or ruler. 
Albert, Saxon, all bright. 
Alexander, Oreek, a helper of men. 
Alfred, Saxon, all peace. 
Algernon, French, bearded. 
Alonzo, form of Alphonao, q.v. 
Alphonso, Qertnan, ready or willing. 
Ambrose, Qrtekf immortal. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



188 



A 8CRAPSB AT THl DOOR KBEPB DIRT FROM THB FLOOR. 





Elisha, HArtw, the salTatfton of God. 




Emmanuel, Htbrao, God with us. 




Enoch, Ud/rew, dedicated. 


AnthoDj, LaUn, flourishing. 


Ephraim, Hebrew, fruitAiL 




Eiasuius, Qroek, lovely, worth)' to bo loved. 


Arnold, Oerman, a maintainer of honour. 


Eric Anglo-Saxon, kingly. 


Arthur, BritUk, a strong man. 


Ernest Qrtde, earnest, serious. 


IS^'}^' '"«"•• p"^ 


Esau, Htbrew, haliy. 

Eugene, Orttk, nobly descended. 




Eustace, Orttk, standing Arm. 


Bardulph, (Termon, a fkmons helper. 


Evan, or Ivan, Brititk, the same as John. 


Bamaby, Btbrtit, a prophet's son. 


Everan), Otrman, well reported. 


Bartholomew, ifcftrew, the son of him who 


Ezekiel, Htbrtv, the strength of God. 


made the waters to rise. 


Felix, Latin, happy. 


Basil, Ontk, kingly. 


Ferdinand, Oennan, pure peace. 


Beaumont, Freiich, a pretty mount 


Fergus, Saxon, manly strength. 


Bede, Saxon, prayer. 


PrancU, Otrman, free. 


Benedict, Latin, blessed. 


' Frederic. Oerman, rich peace. 


Benjamin, Htbnw, the son of a right hand. 


Gabriel. Htbrtw, the strength of God. 


Bennet, Latin, blessed. 


Geof&ey, Oerman, JoyftiL 


Bernard, German, bear's heart 


George, Orttk, a husbandman. 






Bertraad, Otrman, bright raven. 


Gideon, Hebrew, a breaker. 


Bonilkoe, Latin, a well-doer. 


Gilbert Saxon, bright as gokL 




Giles, Orttk, a little goat 




Godaid, Oerman,9^ godly dispodUon. 


Cssar, Latin, adorned with hair. 


Godfrey, Oerman, God's peace. 


Caleb, Hdnrttf, a dog. 


Godwin. OerTMM, victorious in God. 


Cecil, Latin, dim-sighted. 


Gregory, Otrman, watehfUL 


Charles, Otrman, noble-spirited. 


Griffith, Brititk, having great faith. 


Christopher, Ortde, bearing Christ 


Gustavus, Swtdiik, a warrior. 


Clarence, Latin, ilhistrious. 


Guy, FrenOi, a leader. 


Claude, Latin, lame. 


Hannibal, Pvnic, a gracious lord. 


Clement Latin, mild-tempered. 


Harold, Saxon, a champion. 


Conrad, Otrman, able counsel. 


Hector, Orttk, a stout defender. 


Constantine, Latin, resolute. 


Henry, Oennan, a rich lord. 


Cornelius, Latin, meaning uncertain. 


Herbert Oerman, a bright lord. 


Crispin, Latin, having curled locks. 


Heroules, Oruk, the glory of Hera, or Juna 


Cuthbert Saxon, known famously. 


Herman, Saxon, a valiant soldier. 


Cyril, Ortek, commanding. 


Hezekiah, Htbrtw, cleaving to the Lord. 


Dan, Htbrtw, Judgment 


Horace, Xotin. 


Daniel, HArtw, God is Judge. 


HoraUo, Italian, worthy to be beheld. 


David, Hebrtv, well-beloved. 


Howel, Brititk, sound or whole. 


Dennis, Orttk, belonging to the god of wine. 


Hubert Otrman, a bright colour. 


Donald, Cdtie, proud. 


Hugh, IhUck, high, lofty. 


Douglas, Oadie, dark grey. 


Humphrey, Oerman, domestic peace. 


Duncan, Saxon, brown chiet 


Ignatius, Latin, fiery. 


Dunstan, Saxon, most high. 


Ingram, Oerman, of angelic purity. 


Edgar, Saxon, happy honour. ^ 


Isaao, HO^rew, Uoghter. 


Edmund, Saxon, happy peace. 


Ivan, Russian for Jc^n, 


Edward, Saxon, happy keeper. 


Jabex, Hebrew, one who causes pain. 


Edwin, Saxon, happy conqueror. 


Jacob, Hd»rew, a supplanter. 


Egbert Saxon, ever bright. 


James or Jacques, beguiling. 


Elijah, Hebrew, God the Lord. 


Jasper, Pmion, radiant 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A LETTER BOX SAVES MANY KNOOKS. 



189 



Jerome, Ortek, holy name. 

JoAb, /TediKW, fktherhood. 

Job, Htbrtw, sorrowing. 

Joel, HibrtWt acquiescing. 

John, Betrtw, the grace of the Lord. 

Jonah, Htbfew, a dove. 

Jonathan, Htbrew, the gift of the Lord. 

Joeoelin, aervunHf Jast. 

Joseph, HtbrtWf addition. 

Joshua, Hebnwt a Savionr. 

Josiah or Josiaa, Htbrtw, the fire of the Lord. 

Jolian and Jolius, latin, soft-haired. 

Kenneth, OatUe, leader of men. 

Lambert, Saxon, a fMr lamb. 

Lancelot, Spanisht a little lance. 

Laorence, LcUin, crowned with lanrels. 

Laianis, Hebrew^ destitute of help. 

Leonard, OtrmoH, like a lion. 

Leopold, Oermant defending the people. 

Lewis or Louis, Frenehf tiie defender of the 

people. 
Lionel, laUn, a little lion. 
Llewellin, BHtith, like a lion. 
LleweUyn, Cettie, lightning. 
Lnbln, Anglo-Saxon, Mend. 
Lucius, Latin, shining. 
Luke, Orttk, a wood or grove. 
Manftred, Otrnutn, great peace. 
Mark, Latin, a hammer. 
Marmadnke, Saxon, noble and poweriUl. 
Martin, Latin, martial. 
Matthew, He'/rew, a gift or present. 
Maurice, Latin, sprung of a Moor. 
Meredith, Britiik, the roaring of the sea. 
Michael, Hebrew, who is like Qorl T 
Morgan, Briti$h, a mariner. 
Moses, Hebrew, drawn out 
Nathaniel, Hebrew, the gift of God. 
Neal, French, somewhat black. 
Nicholas, Oreek, victorious over the peojle. 
Noah, Hebrew, consolation. 
Noel, French, belonging to one's nativity. 
Norman, French, one bom in Normandy. 
Obadiah, Hebrew, the servant of the Lord. 
Octavius, Latin, eighth bom. 
Oliver, Latin, an olive. 
Orlando, Italian, counsel for the land. 
Orson, Latin, a bear. 
Oscar, Celtic, eager to flghl 
Osmund, Seaon, house peace. 
Oswald, Saxon, raler of a house. 
Owen, Britieh, well-descended. 
Patrick, Latin, a nobleman. 
Paul, Latiji, small, little. 



PanlinuB, Latin, little Paul. 

Perdval, French, a place in France. 

Percy, Bngliih, adaptation of " piei-ce eye." 

Peregrine, Latin, outlandish. 

Peter, Oreek, a rock or stone. 

Philip, Chreek, a lover of liorses. 

Phineas, Hebrew, of bold countenance. 

Ralph, contracted firum Randolph, or 

Randal, or Ranulph, Saxon, pure help. 

Raymond, Oerman, quiet peace. 

Reginakl, Saxon, ruler. 

Reuben, Hebrew, the son of vision. 

Reynold, Oerman, a lover of purity. 

Richard, Saxon, powerful. 

Robert, Otrman, fiimous in counsel. 

Roderick, Oerman, rich in fiune. 

Roger, oitrman, strong counsel. 

Roland or Rowland, Oerman, counsel for the 

land. 
Rollo, form of Roland, q,v, 
Rufus, Latin, reddish. 
Rupert, form of Robert 
Samson, Hebrew, a little son. 
Samuel, Hebrew, heard by God. 
Saul, Hebrew, desired. 
Sebastian, Oreek, to be reverenced. 
Seth, Hebrew, appointed. 
Sigismund, Saxon, one who conquers. 
Silas, Latin, sylvan or living in the woods. 
Silvester, Latin, bora in the woods. 
Simeon, Hebrew, hearing. 
Simon, Hebrew, obedient. 
Solomon, Hebrew, peaceable. 
Stephen, Oreek, a crown or garland. 
Swithin, Saxon, veiy high. 
Thaddens, Syrian, wise and prudent. 
Theobald, Saxon, bold over the people. 
Theodore, Oreek, the gift of God. 
Theodosius, Oreek, given of God. 
Theophilus, Oreek, a lover of God. 
Thomas, HArew, a twin. 
Timothy, Oreek, a fearer of God. 
Titus, Oretk, meaning uncertain. 
Tbbias, Hebrew, the goodness of the Lord. 
Tristram, Latin, grave, sad. 
Uriah, Xofin, light of God. 
Valentine, Latin, powerftU. 
Victor, LaJtin, conqueror. 
Vincent, Latin, conquering. 
Vivian, LaHn, living. 
Walter, Otrman, a conqueror. 
Walwin, OerrMn, a conqueror. 
Wilfred, Saxon, bold and peaceful. 
WUliam, Oenncni, defending many. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



190 A BELL HUKO WELL 


ITS TALE WILL TELL. 


Zaocbena, SyriaCt innooent. 


Christine and Christiana, Greek, belonging 


ZaobuT. Hdntw, ramembering the LonL 


to Christ 


Zebedee, Striae, having an inheritance. 


Cicely, a corruption <i^ Cecilia, q.v. 


Zechariah, Hebrew, remembered of the 


Clara, Latin, dear or bright 


Lord. 


Clariasa, Latin, clear or bright 


Zedekiah, Bebrew, the jurtice of the Lord. 


Claudia, Latin, lame. 


807. sioHincAnoH or 


Constance, Latin, oonstant 
Cora, Greek, a girL 


CHEI8TIAH HAMKfl OF WOWOr. 


ComeUa, Latin, steadiSut 


Abigail, BKbrew, fkther'8 deUght 


Dagmar, German, Joy of tlie Danes. 


Ada, Otrmajit same aa Bdith, q,v. 


Deborsh, Hebrtto, a bee. 


Adela, Gennan, same aa Adeline, q.v. 


Diana, Greek, Jupiter's daughter. 


Adelaide, Oerman, aame as Adeline, q.v. 


Dinah, Hebrew, Judged. 


Adeline, Otrman, a princesa. 


Dorcas, Gruk, a wild rose. 


Agatha, Oreek, good. 


Dorothea or Dora, Dorothy, Greek, the gift 


Agnes, Otrnuin, chaste. 


of God. 


Alberta, Saxon, iUustrioui. 


Edith, Saxon, happiness. 






Alexandra, Qrtek, defender of men. 


Eleanor, Saxon, all ituitfUI. 


Alice, Alicia, Qernum, noble. 


Eliza, Elizabeth, Hebrew, the oath of God. 


Alma, LcUrn, benignant 


Ellen, another Jbrm of Re\tn, q.v. 


Althea, Greek, honUng. 


Elviia, Arabic, white. 


Amabel. Latin, loveable. 


EmOy, corrupted fhm AmeUa. 


Amanda, Latin, worthy of love. 


Emma, German, a nurse. 


Amelia, Saxon, indostrious. 


Esther, Hesther, Hebrew, secret 


Amy, Amelia, French, a beloved. 


Ethel, Saxon, of noble birth. 


Angelina, Greek, lovely, angelic. 


Eudoia, Greek, prospering in the way. 




Eudora, Greek, good gift. 


Antoinette, Latin, invAluable. 


Eudosia, Gretk, good gift or well-given. 


Arabella, Latin, a fiur altar. 


Eugenia, French, well-bom. 


Aurelia and Aureola, Latin, like gold. 


Eunice, Greek, fair victory. 


Aurora, Latin, morning brightness. 


Euphemia, Greek, of good report 


Barbara, Latin, foreign or strange. 


Eva or Eve, Hebrew, causing life. 


Beatrice, Latin, making happy. 


Evangeline, Greek, bearer of good tidings. 


Belinda, Latin, useful. 


Fanny, diminutive qfPranceA, q.v. 


Bella, Italian, beautifuL 


Felicia, Latin, happiness. 


Benedicta, Latin, blessed. 


Fenella, Greek, bright to look on. 


Bemioe, Greek, bringing victory. 


Flora, Latin, flowers. 


Bertha, Greek, bright or fkmous. 


Florence, Latin, blooming, flourishing. 


Bessie, ahortform qf Elizabeth, q.v. 


Frances, German, tne. 


Blanche, French, fair. 


Frederica, Saxon, abounding in pesce. 


Bona, Latin, good. 


Oeorgina, Greek, a tiller of the ground. 


Bridget, IriMh, shining bright 


Geraldinc, Saxon, strong. 


Camilla, Latin, attendant at a sacrifice. 


Gertrude, German, sll truth. 


Carlotta, Italian, same as Charlotte, q.v. 


Gladys, WeUh, a fair maiden. 


Caroline, feminine qf Carolus, the Latin qf 


Grace, Latin, fiivour. 


Charles, noble-spirited. 


Grieelda, Teutonic, patient and firm. 


Cassandra, Greek, a reformer of men. 


Hadassah, Hebrew, form q^BsUier, q.v. 


Catherine, Greek, pure or clean. 


Hagar, Hebrew, a stranger. 


Cecilia, Latin, from Cecil. 


Hannah, Hebrew, gracious. 


Celestine, LeOin, heavenly. 


Harriet German, head of the house. 


Charity, Greek, love, bounty. 


Helen or Helena, Greek, alluring. 


Charlotte, French, all noble. 


Henrietta, /m. and dim. qf Henry, q.v. 


Chloe, Greek, a green herb. 


Hephxibah, Hebrew, my delight is in her. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AN ILL-FIXED BLIND 


NO ONE CAN WIND. 191 


Hilda, Oerman, warrior maiden. 


Oi^elia, Greik, a serpent 


Honora or Honoria, Latin^ honourable. 


Pamell. or Petronilla. little Peter. 




Patience, Latin, bearbig patiently. 


Hnldah, Hebrevf, a weazoL 


Paulina, Latin, feminine (i^Paulinus. 


Ida, Saxon, like a goddess. 


Penelope, Greek, a weaver. 


Irene, Gretk, peacefiiL 


Persia, Greek, destroying. 


IsabeUa, Spanish, fiiir Eliza. 


Philadelphia, Greek, brotherly love. 


Jane or Jeanne, /em»nin< c^^John. q.v. 


Philippa, Greek, feminine <tr Philip. 


Janet, Jeannette, little Jane. 


Phoebe, Greek, the light of lile. 


Jemima, ffebreto, a dove. 


Phyllis, Greek, a green bough. 


Joan, Htbrewt/em. of John, q.v. 


Polly, variaHon <^ MoUy, dim. o/Mary, q.v. 


Joanna or Johanna, form qfJom, q,v. 


PriscUIa, Latin, somewhat old. 


Josepha, Hebrew, addition. 


Prudence, LaHn, discretion. 


Joyce, French, pleasant 


Psyche, ©m*, the souL 


Jndith, Hebrew, praising. 


Rachel, Hebrew, a Umb. 


Jnlia, Juliana, /eminin« q^ Julius, q.v. 


Rebecca, Hebrew, fkt or plump. 


Justina, Latin, honourable. 


Rhoda, Greek, a rose. 


Katharine, /orm 0/ Catherine, q.v. 


Rosa or Rose, LaHn, a rose. 


Ketnrah, Hebrew, inoense. 


Rosalie or Ro8alin^ Latin little rose. 


Keiiah, Hebrew, cassia. 


Rosalind, LaUn, beauttfkU as a rose. 


Laura, Latin, a laurel. 


Rosabella, Italian, a fkir rose. 


Larinia, LaHn, of Latiuro. 


Rosamond, Saxon, rose of peace. 


Letitia, Latin, Joy of gladness. 


Roxana, Persian, dawn of day. 


LQian, Lily, LaHn, a lily. 


Ruth, Hebrew, trembling, or beauty. 


Lois, Greek, better. 


Babina, loem, sprung firom the Sabines. 


Louisa, Oerman, fern. (^^ Louis, q.v. 


Salome, Hebrew, perfect 


Lucretia, Latin, a chaste Roman lady. 


Sapphira, Greek, like a sapphire sti no. 


Lucy, Latin, feminine q^ Lucius. 


Sarah, Hebrew, a princess. 


Lydia, Greek, descended ftom Lud. 


Seliua, (Uracil;, the moon. 


Mabel, LaHn, lovely or loveable. 


Sibylla, Gred:, a prophetess. 


Madeline, form (tT Magdalen, q.v. 


Sophia, Greek, wisdom. 


Magdalen, Syriac, magniflcent 


Sophronia, Greek, of a sound mind. 


Margaret, Greek, a pearl. 


Stella, LaHn, a star. 


Maria, Marie, /omu o/Maiy, q.v. 


Susan, Susanna, Hebrew, a lUy. 


Martha, Hebrew, btttemess. 


Tabitha, Syriac, a roe. 


Mary, Hebrew, bitter. 


Temperance, LaHn, moderation. 


Matilda, German, a lady of honour. 


Teresa, Greek, a gleaner. 


Maud, Oerman, /am <ir Matilda, q.v. 


Theodora or Theodoeia, Greek, given ly God. 


May, r^Hn, month of May, or dim. qf Mary, 


Thomasine, Hebrew, a twin. 


q.v. 


Tryphena, Greek, delicate. 


Melissa, Greek, a honey bee. 


Tryphosa, Greek, delicious. 


Mercy, Bnglieh, compassion. 


Ulrica, Saxon, very rich. 


MQdred, Saxon, speaking mild. 


Ursula, Latin, a she bear. 


Millieent, Latin, a sweet singer. 


Valeria, LaHn, strong and powerfbL 


Minnie, dim. 0/ Margaret, q.v. 


)^ctoria, LaHn, all conquering. 


Miranda, Latin, admirable. 


Vida, Hebrew, beloved. 


Miriam, Hebrew, exalted. 


Viola, LaHn, a violet 


Myra, Greek, grieving. 


Virginia, Latin, chaste. 


Nancy, a form of Anne. 


Vivien, LaHn, lively. 


Naomi, Hebrew, bitterness. 


Walburga, Saxon, gracious. 


Nest, British, the same as Agnes. 


Wilhelmina, Saxon, helmet of defence. 


Nicola, Greek, feminiTU of Nicolas. 


Winifred, Saxon, winning peace. 


OUve, Olivia, LaHn, an oUve. 


Zenobia, Greek, the life of Jupiter. 


Olympic, Greek, heavenly. 


Zoe, Greek, lively. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



192 



KXSP TOUR KITS AND BE AT EASE. 



Preoioos Stones and th«ir Langnago. 
Among the ancients, preciooi stones 
were symbolical of certain qoalities, 
and they were also sacred to certain 
months of the year. 

The Oamtt, Bignifying fkithfVilneas, was 

•sored to January. 
Ametkgtt, peaoe-making, to February. 
Btoodatone, ooorage and wisdom, to March. 
Sapphirtf repentance, to AprU. 
Smertdd^ true love, to May. 
AgaU, health and longevi^, to June. 
itM6y, trae tkiendahip, to July. 
Sardonpxt conjugal happiness, to August. 
ChtytoliU, freedom from evil, September. 
Opal, hope, October. 
Totpoc, friendship, November. 
TurquoiH, happiness in love, December. 

8oa icovoxT OF fvhu 

There is no part of domestic eco- 
nomy which eveiy body professes to 
understand better than the manage- 
ment of a fire, and yet there is no 
branch in the household arrangement 
where there is a greater proportional 
and unnecessary wsste than arises 
from ignorance and mismanagement 
in this article. 

L To Light a Firo.— Before liffht- 
ingthe fire in the rooming, thoroughly 
clean out the grate ; lay a piece of 
thick paper, cut to the form and size 
of the grate, at the bottom ; pile up 
fresh cosl, nearly as high as the level 
of tlu top bar ; the pieces should be 
about tne size of small potatoes or 
Walnuts, but this is not absolutely 
necessanr ; the larger lumps should he 
laid in n'ont, the smaller ones behind ; 
then put a liberal supply of paper, or 
shavinffi, and sticks, on the top, and 
cover the whole with yesterday s cin- 
ders, adding a very litUe coal. Thus, 
it will be seen, the fire is to be lighted 
ai the top. The results will b« not 
onty satisfactory, but astonishing. 
The fire lights upat once, without 
further txouble. The centre of the 
fuel soon catches, and the inferior 
strata of coal ignite. The fire spreads 
downwards, nnd the smoke is forced 



to pass through the upper layers of 
burning coal ; the consequence is, 
there is perfect combustion, the great 
volume of gas and smoke usuidly sent 
off from fires, and which consists of 
the most combustible part of coal, 
being thoroughly consumed, and 
yielding heat A fire so made will go 
on burning for six, eight, or even ten 
hours, without poking, without add- 
ing fresh coal, or any attention what- 
ever. There b little or no smoke, 
and the fire gives out a pleasant and 
uniform glow. One finir trial of this 
system will satisfy eveiy body ; and 
the servant will soon find that it will 
not only save her master an incredible 
quantity of coals, but that it will also 
save her a vast amount of trouble ; 
the coal-scuttle will require filling less 
fret^uently, the hearth will not require 
sweeping so often ; and the services of 
the sweep will seldom be needed. It 
will sometimes be necessary to loosen, 
or stir slightly the upper part of the 
fire, if it begins to cake ; but the 
lower part must not be touched, other- 
wise it will bum away too soon. The 
above method is best adapted for 
rooms, and offices, where the fires are 
not required for cookery, immediately 
after being lit, as the heat is developed 
more gradually tJhan in the old 
method of under- lighting. Deep 
grates are best suited for the new 
system. 

11, Begulation of Fires. — Fires 
upon this plan may be regulated to 
the temperature of the weather, and 
to the number of hours they are re- 
quired to bum. For instance : — 
When the weather is very cold, and 
the fire requires to be lit early, and 
kept up until late, put a much deeper 
layer of coal in the oottom — quite up 
to the top bar ; when the weather is 
mild, &C., then lay the coals only up 
to the second bar from the top, and so 
on. When you have tried this experi- 
ment a few times, and are fully satis- 
fied with it, have pieces of Sheet Irtm^ 
cut to fit the bottom of your grates, 
instead of the paper. Tms wifi save 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A OHAIB UNSOUND SOON FINDS THB GROUND. 



193 



the troable of cnttmg the papers daily, 
and the sheet iron will last an inde- 
finite time. 

iii. Clear Fires for Cooking. —After 
making your fire as directed in par. i, 
replenish it with bits of coke and you 
will save half the cost of coal fires. 

It. The Use of the Poker should be 
confined to two particular points — the 
opening of a dyine fire, so as to admit 
the free passage of the air into it, and 
sometimes, but not always through 
it ; or else, drawing together the re- 
mains of a half-burned fire, so as to 
concentrate the heat, whilst the parts 
still ignited are opened to the atmo- 
sphere. 

▼. When using a pair of Bellows 
to a fire only partially ignited, or 
partially extinguished, blow, at first, 
not into the part that is still alight, 
but into the dead coals close to i^ so 
that the air may partly extend to the 
burning ooaL After a few bksts blow 
into the burning fuel, directing the 
stream partly towards the dead coal, 
when it will be found that the igni- 
tion will extend much more rapidly 
than under the common method of 
blowing furiously into the flame at 
random. 

tL Preserre the Coal Ashes which 
are usually thrown away as worthless. 
When you have a sufficient quantity, 
add to them an equal amount of small 
coal from your cellar, and then pour 
on a little water, and mix with a 
shoYel. Use this compost for placing 
on the top or the back of the fire. It 
will bum brightly and pleasantly and 
only a little dust will remain uncon- 
sumed. 

Yii Fill up your Coal Cellars in 
the middle of Summer when coal is 
cheapest, instead of waiting for the 
winter, when it gets dearer. 

▼ilL Slow Combustion Fire Orates. 
Many of the modem grates construct- 
ed on this principle will be found to 
effect a great savmg in the consump- 
tion of fiiel, and at the same time 
throw out greater heat into the room 
than the om-fashioned yarieties. 



809. A CHEAP FXTEL. 

One bushel of small coal or sawdust, 
or both mixed together, two bushels 
of sand, one bushel and a half of clay. 
Let these be mixed together with 
common water, like ordinary mortar ; 
the more they are stirred and mixed 
together the better ; then make them 
into balls, or, with a small mould, in 
the shape of bricks, pile them in a dry 
place, and use when hard and suffici- 
ently dry. A fire cannot be lighted 
with them, but when the fire is 
lighted, put two or three on behind 
with some coals in front, and the fire 
will be found to last longer than if 
made up in the ordinary way. 

810. 0A8 STOVES. 

These are very useful, and the sim- 
pler the stove the better. Theyare 
cleanly and very little trouble. With 
even a cheap stove, costing only a few 
shillings, one oan bake, fry', and boil. 
With the terra-cotta circles sometimes 
supplied with the stove, one can warm 
a Ded, or by wrapping them in flannel, 
make foot-warmers. 

Some stoves cook by hidden gas, in 
others the food is exposed to the jets. 
In the case of the circles of jets used 
in boiling, care must be exercised in 
selecting a stove in which the top 
plate does not come down too close 
on the jets, as then a sufficient quan- 
tity of gas cannot be turned on with- 
out causing a flattening of the flame 
by the bottom of the saucepan, and 
thus spread an unpleasant smell in 
the house. 

If the stove is properly regulated, 
and the fi»s turned off when not in 
use, it wiU be quite as cheap as using 
coal, and much dirt and trouble wiU 
be avoided. 

811. OAS LIGHTS. 

Gas, as every one is aware, is the 
most general source of artificial light 
It has its advantages, and, computed 
with the electric light, its disaavan- 
tages. It makes a room hot, it occa« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IH 



svnT mscsiFT is the basts or mant othcas. 



sionally declines to prodnoe a good 
light, and it certainly makes ceilings, 
AcL, dirty. 

The following art tome of the best 
methods of preserving the parity of 
the air in a room while using light 
snpplied by ordinary gas : — 

L The incandescent ns-bnmers. 

it The globe light, by which the 
elements ansing fW>m combostion are 
removed without coming into contact 
with the air in the room. 

iU. The sun burner, which has the 
■tme object 

812. Knrrs oir na vn ov 
eis. 

L When gas is laid on to a house, 
it is very important to have all the 
pipes tested, m order to see if there is 



Before turning off the gas at 
the main at night, it should be seen 
that each light has previously been 
turned off, as otherwise when the gas 
is again turned on at the main, it 
will escape from the unturned taps, 
often to a dangerous extent, 
iii Don't look for an bscapb 

OF OAS WITH A LIOHT I Oo without 

a light, and open the doors and win- 
dows for a quarter of an hour before 
bringing a flame near. 

iT. Sometimes a small leak makes 
itself evident, and there may not be a 
gas-fitteravailable. Getapiece of yellow 
soap and rub it on the place of escape. 
This will do until you can replace the 
soap with some wmte lead and oil. 

T. Some gasaliers have a sliding 
tube, and where this is the case the gas 
sometimes escapes. This is remedied 
by slowly pounng a small quantity of 
water down the tube. 

tL If the gas in burning makes a 
hissing sound, it shows that it is turned 
on too fully at the main, and means 
so much unconsumed gas to be paid for. 

818. HOW TO UAD TOUB OAS 
MSTSB. 
It is remarkable how few house- 
holders know bow to raad their gas 



meters. Tou will see that then an 
three dials, about the size of a half* 
crown, and over these is sometimes a 
fourth, which is only an indicAtor of 
any gas entering the meter. 

The figures on the right-hand dial 
show the number of hundreds of feet 
consumed, up to 1000. The centre 
dial shows the number of thouminds up 
to 10,000 ; and the left-hand dial the 
number of ten-Uummnds up to 
100,000. 

The quantity of gas which has passed 
through the meter since the last 
date is ascertained by reading from the 
dials the total amount registered, and 
deducting from that total the quantify 
shown by the dial at the former observ- 
ation, thus : — 

The total registered by the 8 dials is 50,000 
Amoant st previous observation a 52,500 

Amount since last observation a f,MO 

814. XLICmC LIOST. 

This illuminant is fast coining into 
general use, and is in many re^>eot8 
superior to gas-lighting. It is cooler, 
cleaner, and in every respect handier. 
If we come home kte at night from 
the theatre or elsewhere, and have 
an electrie light in the hall, we have 
merely to press the button and there 
is a light at once. 

The same thing in the dining-room, 
wine (or coal) cellar, and the bedrooms. 
What a saving of matches struck with 
frozen fingers on a cold winter's night, 
and avoidance of bad temper conse- 
quent on the matches going out 

816. The Ineandsseant Lamps are 

the most suitable for lighting interiors 
of houses and other buildings, and aro 
made in a variety of sizes and degrees 
of power, and combined with innu- 
merable styles and designs of fittings, 
from quite plain to extremely orna- 
mental and artistic. 

Sometimes the lamps fail in light- 
giving power, by reason of having an 
imperfect vacuum (the globes of the 
incandescent light ar« ezhatisted of 
air). This may be detected by fetl- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A OOOD 8U00S8TI0N IB OFTBN nrVALVABLE. 



196 



ing the globe. If the vacaum is 
&ulty it gets quite hot. 

816. Great Care is required in 
fitting up Electric Lights to avoid 
danger from fire— none but the best 
insmated wire should be used, and 
only thoroughly skilled workmen 
should be entrusted with the work. 

817. SLECTBIC BXLIS. 

Ko house of any pretensions is now 
considered comi)lete without being 
fitted with electric bells, the wires <h 
which are carried in tubes concealed 
hr the skirtings, &c., of the walls. 
Ttie ordinary electric bell is a vibrat- 
ing contact breaker carrying a tiny 
haiumer on its spring which strikes a 
bell ; the force being supplied by a 
galvanic battery. The old-fashioned 
troublesome system of crank bells is 
rapidly becoming supplanted by its 
electric rival 

How convenient it is to have an 
electric bell in one's study ; one has 
no need to get up and interrupt one's 
work. A^n, how useful at the 
dinner table to summon a servant 
without leaving one's seat. In (act, it 
is a most useful addition, in a thou- 
sand ways, to the comforts of life. 

818. THE TXIJBPHOHI. 

* The object of this instrument is to 
make sounds audible at a distance by 
means of electricity. It is very largely 
«sed for business and other public pur- 
poses, and is also extensivelv fitted to 
modem private houses. The master 
can firom his study give verbal in- 
itmctions to his servants in the 
stables, or other offices, although they 
may be some considerable distance 
from the house. 

The limit of liie capabilities of this 
wonderful instrument cannot yet be 
ganged, vast strides having of late 
years been made in its adaptation. 
At the present time most of the prin- 
cipal cities in Europe are connected 
by telephone wires, and merchants 
and others are thus enaUed to carry 



on andiUe cooTersatioB with pencils 
in distant mercantile centres. It is 
even possible for friends situate in 
London and Paris respectively^ to 
indulge in a chat 

819. THE MICEOPHOES. 

This instrument was invented by 
Professor Hughes in 1878. By its 
means the very £untest sounds, such 
as the fall of a feather, or a very 
delicate piece of paper or tissue, may 
be distinctly hoara. 

820. THE PHOEOGBAPH. 

This marvellous contrivance was 
invented by Mr. Edison of America 
about the year 1877. By this instru- 
ment the human voice, singing, and 
other sounds are mechanically recorded 
and reproduced. It is about the 
same size as an ordinary sewing 
machine. 

When sounds pass into the receiver, 
a very fine steel or jewel point, influ- 
enced by the pressure of the sound 
waves, produces almost invisible cuts 
on a cylinder of wax, which can be 
removed and preserved. Having thus 
established the record, when the point 
again passes over tiie cylinder, the dia- 
phragm on the instrument naturally 
produces the same vibrations as before, 
and reproduces the same sounds. 

The instrument is extensivdy used 
by musicians, reciters, actors, clergy- 
men, lie, to improve their powers of 
singing or docution. There are now 
many places where it can be lieaid for 
a few pence. 

821. THE CnrEXATOaBAPH, 
AKB THE KINET08C0PE. 

These wonderful instruments repro- 
duce actual scenes of life and motion. 
Thus a railway train travelling at 
express speed is photcgrapbed on a 
succession of films, whilst they rotate 
very rapidly. The pictures are tiien 
developed, and are thrown, by means 
of an optical or other lantern, on to 
tlie screen, when the train is again 
presented to us mshing along at foU 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



196 



A GOOD BXOnmiNO MAKES A GOOD KNBINO. 



speed, snd appsrently actoally in 
motion. 

822. on. FOB LieHTDre. 

Whenever oil, whether animal, 
vegetable or mineral, is used for the 
mirpose of artificial light, it should 
be kept free from all exposure to atmo- 
spheric air ; as it is apt to absorb con- 
siderable (quantities of oxygen. If 
animal oil is very coarse or tenacious, 
a very small quantity of oil of turpen- 
tine may be sdded. 

82a CAVDLSS. 

These improve by keeping a few 
months. If wax candles become dis- 
coloured or soiled, they may be restored 
by rubbing them over with a clean 
flannel slightly dipped in spirits of 
wine. In ughting candles always hold 
the match to the side of the wick, and 
not over the top of it, as is generally 
done. 

824. VIOST LIGHTS. 

In cases where the manufactured 
articles are not easily obtainable, the 
waste of candles may be thus applied. 
Make a fiM cotton, and wax it with 
white wax. Then cut into the requi- 
site lengths. Melt the grease and 
pour into pill boxes, previously either 
nxing the cotton in the centre, or 
droppinff it in just before the grease 
sets. If a little white wax be melted 
with the grease, all the better. In 
this manner, the ends and drippings 
of candles mav be used up. When 
set to bum, place in a saucer, with 
sufficient water to rise to the extent of 
the 16th of an inch around the base of 
the night light 

826. BSSAD MAKIVG. 

828. TO VATTe PLADf BBEAD. 

To one quartern of flour (three 
pounds and a half)i sdd a dessert- 
spoonful of salt, and mix them well ; 
mix about two tablespoonfuls of good 
fresh yeast with half-a-pint of water 
a little warm, but not not ; make a 
hole with your hand in the middle of 



the flour, but not quite touching the 
bottom of the pan; pour the water 
and yeast into this hole, and stir it 
with a spoon till you have made a 
thin batter; sprinkle this over with 
flour, cover the pan over with a dry 
cloth, and let it stand in a warm 
room for an hour ; not near the fire, 
except in cold weather, and then not 
too close ; then add a pint of water 
a little warm, and knead the whole 
well together, till the dough comes 
clean through the hand (some flour 
will rcKjuire a little more water ; but 
in this, experience must be your 
^de) ; make it into loaves, then let 
it stand again for about a quarter of 
an hour, and bake in a hot oven for 
about one and a half hours ; small 
loaves take less time ; when sufficiently 
baked they sound hollow. 

827. TO XAis BEIAD WITH 
OSBMAH TEA8T. 

To one quartern of flour add a 
dessertspoonral of salt as before ; 
dissolve one ounce of dried German 
yeast in about three tablespoonfuls of 
cold water ; add to this one pint and a 
half of water a little warm, and pour 
the whole into the flour ; knead it 
well immediately, and let it stand as 
before directed for one hour: then 
bake at pleasure. It will not hurt if 
you make up a p^k of flour at once 
and bake three or four loaves in suc- 
cession, provided you do not keep the 
dough too warm. German yeast may 
be obtained at almost anj^ corn- 
chandler's. In winter it will keep 
good for a week in a dry place, and in 
summer it should be kept in cold 
water, and the water changed every 
day. Wheat meal requires a little 
more yeast than fine flour, or a longer 
time to stand in the dough for rising. 

828. TnffFEBHBHTEB BBSAD. 

Three pounds wheat meal, or four 
pounds of white flour, two heaped 
tablespoonfuls of baking powder, a 
tablespoonfnl of salt, and about two 
and a naif pints of lukewarm water, or 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TBT ALL THINGS, HOLD FAST THAT WHICH IS GOOD. 



197 



just sufficient to bring the flour to a 
proper consistency for bread-making ; 
tbe way to make it is as follows : — 
First mix the baking powder, salt, 
and about three-fourUis of the flour 
well together by rubbing in a pan ; 
then pour the water over the flour, 
and mix well by stirring. Then add 
most of the remainder of the flour, and 
work up the dough with the hand to 
the reauired consistency, which is indi- 
cated Dy the smoothness of the dough, 
and its not sticking to the hands or 
the sides of the pan when kneaded. 
The rest of the flour must then be 
added to stiffen the dough, which may 
then be i>laced in tins or formed by 
the hand into any shape that may be 
preferred and placed on flat tins for 
oaking. The tins should be well 
floured. Put the loaves at once in a 
well-heated oven. After they have 
been in the oven about a quarter of 
an hour open the ventilator to slacken 
the heat and allow the steam to escai>e. 
In an hour the process of baking will 
be completed. Bread made in this 
way keeps moist longer than bread 
made with yeast, and is far more 
sweet and digestible. This is especi- 
ally recommended to persons who suffer 
from indigestion, wno will find the 
brown bread invaluable. 

829. PXTBE AHD CHEAP BEIAD. 

Whole-meal bread may be made bv 
any one who possesses a small hand- 
mill that will grind about twenty 
pounds of wheat at a time. This 
Dread is far more nutritious than ordi- 
nary bread made from flour from which 
the bran has been entirely separated. 
The meal thus obtained may be used 
for puddinffs, &c. There are mills 
whicn grind and dress the wheat at 
one operation. Such mills may be 
obtained at any ironmonger's. The 
saving in the cost of bread amounts 
to nearly one-third, which would soon 
cover the cost of the miU, and effect a 
most important saving, besides pro- 
moting nealth by avoiding the evil 
effects of adulterated flour. 



890. BREAD XAOI WITH UMS 
WATEB. 

It has been found that water satur- 
ated with lime produces in bread the 
same whiteness, softness, and capacity 
of retaining moisture, as results from 
the use of fJum ; while the former re- 
moves all acidity from the dough, and 
supplies an ingredient needed in the 
structure of the bones, but which is 
deficient in com. The best proportion 
to use is, five pounds of water satur- 
ated with lime, to every nineteen 
pounds of flour. No change is required 
in the process of baking. The lime 
most effectuallv coa^ates the gluten, 
and the bread weighs well ; oakers 
roust therefore approve of its introduc* 
tion, which is not injurious to the 
system, like alum, Ac 

881. BBEAD HADE WITH BBAH 

WATEB. 

A great increase on home-made 
bread, even equal to one-fifth, may be 
produced by using bran water for 
kneading the dough. The proportion 
is three pounds of bran for every 
twenty-eight pounds of flour, to be 
boiled for an nonr, and then strained 
through a hair sieve. 

882. HTDIA H COBH FLOITB AHD 

WHEATEH BBEAD. 

The peculiarity of this bread con- 
sists in its being composed in part of 
Indian com flour, which may be seen 
by the following analysis to be much 
richer in gluten and fatty matter than 
the flour of wheat, to which droum- 
stance it owes its highly nutritive 
character: — 

BDgUsh Fine Indian Com 
Wheaten'Flonr. Floor. 
Water . . 10 . . U 
OlQten . . 10 . . 12 
Fat 2 . . 8 

Starch, fte. . 72 . . 66 

"ioo loo" 

Take of Indian com flour seven pounds, 
pour upon it four quarts of boiling 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ltd 



VI LKAMM 0MOtTIICKa« IVBlff IT 01TB rAlLVILai. 



water, starring it all th« time ; let it 
stand till abont new-milk warm, then 
mix it with fourteen pounds of fine 
wheaten floor, to which a quarter of a 
pound of salt has been preriously 
added. Make a depression on the 
surface of this mixture, and nour into 
it two quarts of yeast, whicn should 
be thickened to the consistence of 
cream with some of the flour ; let it 
stand all night; on the following 
mominff the whole should be well 
kneaded, and allowed to stand for 
three hours; then diride it into 
loaves, which are better baked in tins, 
in which they should stand for half- 
an-hour, then bake. It is of import- 
ance that the flour of Indian com 
should be procured, as Indian com 
meal is that which is commonly met 
with at the shops, and the coarseness 
of the husk in tne meal might to some 
peiBons be prejudicial. 

888. BTB AHB WHEAT FLOITB, in 

equal quantities, make an excellent 
and economical bread. 

884. UCS nr BBIAD. 

Take one pound and a half of rice, 
and boil it gently over a slow fire in 
three quarts of water about five hours, 
stirring it, and afterwards beating it 
UD into a smooth paste. Mix this, 
wnile warm, into two gdlons or four 
pounds of flour, adding at the same 
time the usual quantity of yeast. 
Allow the dough to work a certain 
time near the me, after which divide 
it into loaves. When baked it is 
excellent white bread. 

886. POTATOIS nr BBIAD.— 

Place in a dish three pounds of flour 
near the fire to warm ; take one pound 
of good potatoes, those of a meal^ 
kind beins preferable, peel and boil 
them as if for the table, mash them 
fine, and then mix with them as much 
cold water as will allow all except 
small lumps to pass through a coarse 
sieve into the flour, which will now be 
ready to receive them ; add yeast, tc, 
and mix for brea4 in the usual way. 



This plan will be found eeonomictlf 
particmarly when flour is dear. 

886. APPLIf nr ISSAB. 

A very light, pleasant bread is made 
in France by a mixture of apples and 
flour, in the proportion of one of the 
former to two of the latter. The 
usual quantity of yeast is employed, 
as in making common bread, and is 
beaten with flour and warm pulp of 
the apples after they have Doued, 
and tne dough is then considered as 
set ; it is then put in a proper vessel, 
and allowed to rise for eight or twelve 
hours, and then baked in long loaves. 
Very little water is requisite. 

887. PULLSD BBIAB. 

Take from the oven an ordinary 
loaf when it is about half baked, and 
with the fingers, while the bread is 
yet hot, dexterously pull the half-set 
dough into pieces of irregular shape, 
about the size of an egg. Don't at- 
tempt to smooth or flatten them — tht» 
rougher theii* shapes the better. Set 
upon tins, place in a very slow oven, 
and bake to a rich brown. This forms 
a deliciously crisp crust for eating with 
cheese, and is also very nice with wine 
instead of biscuits. If you do not 
bake at home, your baker will prepare 
it for yon, if ordered. 

888. FBSHCEBBEABAHD BOLLS. 

Take a ])int and a half of milk ; 
make it quite warm ; half-a-pint of 
small-beer yeast ; add suifficient flour 
to make it as thick as batter ; put it 
into a pan ; cover it over, and keep it 
warm : when it has risen as high as it 
will, add a quarter of a pint of warm 
water and half-an-ounce of salt, — 
mix them will together, — rub into a 
little flour two ounces of butter ; then 
make your dough, not quite so stiff as 
for your bread ; let it stand for three- 
quarters of an hour, and it will be 
ready to make into rolls, kc, : — let 
them stand till they have risen, and 
bake them in a quick oven« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHEN WB THUm WB FAIL, WX ASM OfTXH KXAR SUCCESS. 



IM 



899. VAVCT mOLLS. 

With one poand of flour rub in two 
ounces of butter. Add one teaspoonful 
of salt and two teas]K)onfals of baking 
powder ; then make into a light dough 
with half-a-piut of milk. Divide into 
small portions and form into crescents, 
rings, or any other fancy shape. Glaze 
by washing over with milk, and bake 
for fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick 
OTen. 

840. 8ALLT LVVH TEA OAXBS. 

Take one pint of milk quite warm, 
a quarter of a pint of thick small beer 
yeast ; put them into a pan with flour 
sufficient to make it as thick as 
batter, — cover it over, and let it 
stand till it has risen as high as it 
will, i.$. about two hours : add two 
ounces of lump sugar, dissolved in a 
quarter of a pint of warm milk, a 
quarter of a pound of butter rubbed 
into the flour very fine — then make 
the dough the same as for French 
rolls, &c ; let it stand half-an-honr ; 
then make up the cakes, and put 
them on tins : — when they have stood 
to rise, bake them in a quick oven. 
Care should be taken never to mix 
tiie yeast with water or milk too hot 
or too cold, as either extreme will 
destroy the fermentation. In sum- 
mer ft should be lukewarm, — in 
winter a little warmer, — and in very 
cold weather^ warmer still. When 
it has first nsen, if you are not pre- 
pared, it will not harm if it stand an 
hour. 

841. ''Ai Hot M an OreiL^'—A 
gentleman having occasion to call on 
a solicitor found him in his office, 
which was very hot. He remarked 
the great heat, and said the room 
**was as hot as an oven." — **So it 
ought to be," replied the lawyer, 
'' for it is here I make my bread," 

842. TO XAKX YSA8T. 

Boil, say on Monday morning, two 
(mBces of the beet hops in four quarts 
of water for half-an-hour ; strain the 



liquor, and 1st it oool to new-milk 
warmth } then put in a amall handful 
of salt, and half-a-pouud of sugar; 
beat up one pound of the best floor 
with some of the liquor, and then mix 
well all together in a bowL On Wed- 
nesday add three pounds of potato^ 
boiled, and then mashed, to stand till 
Thursday ; then strain it and put into 
bottles, and it is ready for use. Ji 
must be aiirred frequmdy while U is 
making^ and kept near the fire. Be< 
fore using, shake the bottle up well. 
It will keep in a cool place for two 
months, aud is best at the latter part 
of the time. This yeast ferments 
spontaneously, not requiring the aid 
of other yeast ; and if care be taken 
to let it ferment well in the earthen 
bowl in which it is made, you may 
cork it up tight when bottled. The 
quantity above given will fill four 
seltzer-water bottles. 

84a U8I 07 BAXnrO POWDSBa 

These usefid preparations are now 
much used in making bread and pastry 
of all kinds, and have the merit of 
being both cheap and wholesome. By 
the action of these substances, carbonio 
acid is generated in the dough, which 
causes it to rise in the same manner as 
the so-called "aerated bread" made 
on Dr. Dauglish's system, by which 
carbonic acid is forced into the dough 
before baking. 

844. BBCIPI FOB A BAXDIO 
POWBXS. 

Tartaric acid, eight ounces; rice 
flour, twelve ounces ; bi-carbonate of 
sodium, ten ounces. 

846. HOW TO V8S BAXDIO 
FOWBSB. 

This may be used instead of veastin 
making all kinds of bread, cake, tea- 
cakes, Ac, and for biscuits and pastry, 
either without or in combination with 
butter, suet, Ac. Bread, Ac, made 
with baking powder is never placed be- 
fore the fire to rise, as when made with 
yeasty but the dough may be shaped 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



200 



SECOND TRIALS OFHCN SVCOIBD. 



and pat into the OYens aa soon as it 
is made. The chief points to bear in 
remembrance are that in making bread 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
should be used to every pound of 
floor, bat for pastry, cakes, bans, &c., 
three teaspoonfols should be used. 
The ingredients should always be 
thoroughly incorporated by mixing ; 
the tins on which or in which me 
dough is placed to bake should be 
well floured, and not greased; and 
the oven should always be very hot, so 
that the baking may be efiected as 
rapidly as possible. 

846. oooxnro nrsiBincsirTs. 



847. 



THI8A£CSPAV AHB 
8TSWPAV. 



When we come to speak of the 
Saucepan, we have to consider the 
claims of a very laige, ancient, and 
useful familv. There are large sauce- 
pans, dignified with the name of 
Boilers, and small saucepans, which 
come under the denomination of Stew 
pans. There are few kinds of meat 
or fish which the Saucepan will not 
receive, and dispose of in a satisfactory 
manner ; and few vegetables for which 
it is not adapted. When rightly 
used, it is a very economical servant, 
allowing nothing to be lost ; that 
which escapes from the meat while in 
its char^ forms broth, or may be made 
the Itasis of soups. Fat rises upon 
the surface of the water, and may be 
skimmed off ; while in various stews 
it combines, in an eminent degree, 
what we may t/*rm the fragrance of 
cookery, and the piquancy of taste. 
The French are perfect masters of the 
use of the Stewpan. And we shall 
find that, as all cookery is but an aid 
to digestion, the operations of the 
Stewpan resemble tne action of the 
stomach very closely. The stomach 
is a close sac, in which solids and 
fluids are mixed together, macerated 
in the gastric juice, and dissolved by 
the aid of heat and motion, occasioned 
by the continual contractions and re- 



laxations of the coats of the stomach 
during the action of digestion. This 
is more closely resembl^ by the pro« 
cess of stewing than by any other of 
oar culinary methods. 

848. THE OBIDIBOV. 

This, although the simplest of cook- 
ing instruments, is by no means to be 
despised. In common with all cook- 
ing utensils, the Gridiron should be 
kept scrupulously clean ; and when it 
is used, the bars should be allowed to 
p;et warm before the meat is placed upon 
it, otherwise the parts crossed by the 
bars will be insufficiently dressed. 
The fire should be sharp, clear, and 
free from smoke. The heat soon 
forms a film upon the surface of the 
meat, by which the juices are retained. 
There is a description of gridiron in 
which the bars are grooved to catch 
the juice of the meat, but a much 
better invention is the upright grid- 
iron, which is attached to the front of 
the grate, and has a pan at the 
bottom to catch the gravy. Kid- 
neys, rashers, &c., dressed in this 
manner will be found delicious. 

849. THE FRTIKO-PAV. 

This noisy and greasy servant 
requires much watchfulness. Like 
the Gridiron, the Frying-pan requires 
a clear but not a large fire, and the 
pan should be allowwi to get thor- 
oughly hot, and be well covered with 
fat, before meat is put into it. The 
excellence of frying veiy much de- 
pends upon the sweetness of the oil, 
butter, lard, or fat that may be 
employed. The Frying-pan is very 
useful for warming up cold vege- 
tables and other kinds of food, and 
in this respect may be considered 
a real friend of economy. All know 
the relish afforded by a pancake, 
eggs, and various kindLs of fried fish 
for which, as they require that 
which is the essence of fiying, boil- 
ing and hrcwning in faJL, both the 
Saucepan and Gndiron are quite un- 
suited. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8E00in> THOrOHTS ABX OFTEN BEST. 



201 



850. THE SPIT. 

A veiy ancient and useful imple- 
ment for the process of roasting, it 
has. however, Men superseded in most 
miadle class families by the Meat 
Hook and Roasting Jack. 

851. THI HEAT HOOK AVD JACK. 

These have taken the place of the 
Spit for roasting. The joint or arti- 
cle to be cooked is suspended before 
the fire. For roasting in this manner 
the lintel of the mantelpiece is fur- 
nished with a brass or iron arm, 
turning on pivots in a plate fastened 
to the lintel, and notcned alon^ its 
upper edge. From this arm, which 
is turned back against the lintel when 
not in use, the meat is hung and 
turned by means of a Jack, an instru- 
ment containing a spring, which when 
wound u|> keeps the joint revolving 
or a skein of worsted, knotted m 
three or four places, which answers 
the same purpose, and may be re- 
placed by a new one when required, 
at a merely nominal cost. Meat 
roasted in this manner should be 
turned occasionally, the hook being 
inserted first at one end and then at 
the other. 

852. THE OYEH. 

The old-fashioned kitchoi^ range 
was usually furnished with an oven 
at the side of the fire grate, and was 
suitable for baking purposes only. 
The ovens attached to the modern 
kitchen ranges, or kitcheners as they 
are called, whether heated by coal 
fires or gas, are constructed in such a 
manner that a current of air may be 
allowed to circulate through them, in 
this way enabling a joint to be 
roasted in the oven almost as satisfac- 
torily as before the fire. 

858. THE DXrrCH OYEH. 

A miniature roasting and toasting 
apparatus designed for cooking small 
things, which could not well be 
cooked by means of the Spit, or 
the ordixuuy oven; they are sus- 



pended to the bars of the grate, and 
the hooks with which they are fur- 
nished are movable, so that what is 
being cooked may be readily turned. 

854. UTILITY OF THE KITCHEH. 

** In the hands of an expert cook," 
says Majendie, ''alimentary sub- 
stances are made almost entirely to 
change their nature, their form, con* 
sistence, odour, savour, colour, chem- 
ical composition, &c ; everything is 
so modified, that it is often impossible 
for the most exquisite sense of taste 
to recognize the substance that makes 
up the basis of certain dishes. The 
greatest utility of the kitchen consists 
in making the food agreeable to the 
senses, ana rendering it easy of diges- 
tion." 

" Hey — what I " said a gay Mar- 
quess to Descartes, ** d<>you Philoso- 
phers cat dainties?" The latter re- 
plied, ** Do you think that God made 
ffood things only for Fools I "— (Z)r. 
Kitehiner,) 

85 5. SE VEJi HEEDS FOB A 
WELL-COOKED JODTT. 

1. The meat must be ffood. 

2. Must have been kept a ffood 
time. 

8. Must be roasted at a good fire. 
4. By a good cook. 
6. Who must be in a good tern* 
per. 

6. With all this felicitous combina- 
tion, you must have good luck, and 

7. Good apjwtite. — (Dr. Kitchiner,) 

856. DB. SAMTTEL J0HH80H 

OH FOOD. 

''Some neople have a foolish way 
of not minaing, or pretending not to 
mind, what they eat ; for my part I 
mind my belly very studiously and 
very carefully, and I look upon it, 
that he who does not mind his belly, 
will hardly mind anything else." 

857. THEOBT OF COOKIHG. 

To some extent the claims of either 
process of cooking depend npon the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ao9 



IIXAB rRBQVSVTLt THB MEDICAL BIXT8 ; 



Uste of tbe individoal. Some panons 
may esteem the pecolifti flayoor of 
fried meats, while others will prefer 
broils or stews. It is important, 
however, to understand the theory of 
eaoh method of cookhig, so that 
whiehever may be adopted may be 
dons welL Bad cooking, thoogh by 
a good method, is far inferior to good 
cooking by a bad method. 

858. Boftitimg, by causing the 
contraction of the ceUnlar substance 
which contains the fat, expels more 
fat than boiling. The free escape of 
watery particles in the form of vapour 
so necessary to produce flavour, must 
be regulated by frequent basting with 
the nt which has exuded from the 
meat, combined with a little salt and 
water — otherwise the meat would 
bum, and become hard and taste- 
less. 

860. Boiliiig extracts a portion of 
the juice of the meat, which mixes 
with the water, and also dissolves 
some of its solids ; the more fusible 
parts of the fst melt out, combine 
with the water, and form soup or 
broUi. The meat loses its red colour, 
becomes more savoury in taste and 
smell, and more firm and digestible. 
If the process is continued too long, 
the meat becomes indigestible, less 
succulent, and tough. 

860. The Lois by Boasting is said 
to vary from 14|ths to nearly double 
that rate per cent. The average loss 
on roasting butcher's meat is 22 per 
cent ; and on domestic poultry, is 
20i 

861. The Lots by Bsiling varies 
from 6J to 16 per cent The average 
loss on boiling butcher's meat, pork, 
hams, and bs^n, is 12 ; and on do- 
mestic poultry, is 14j. 

So that it will be seen by compari- 
son with the percentage given of the 
loss by boiling, that roasting is not so 
economical ; especially when we take 
into aoeouDt that the loss of weight 
by boiling' is not actual loss of econo- 
mie materials, for we than poaseis tha 



principal ingredients for soups, where- 
as, siter roastiog, the fat only 
remains. 

862. nooxssis OF cooxnre. 

868. BOASmiG. 

The Suoceas of every branch of 
cookery depends upon the good man- 
agement of the kitchen fire ; roastinff 
especially, requires a brisk, dear, ana 
steady &>e. In stirring the fire, be 
careful to remove the drinping-pan, 
else dust and ashes may fall into it ; 
on no account let the fire get dull and 
low, as a strong heat is requisite to 
brown the meat. Paper should be 
placed round meat that is not verv 
ut, to prevent it from being scorched. 
When steam rises from the meet it is 
done. 

^.^. — Soyer recommends that all 
dark meats, such as beef and mutton, 
should be put down to a sharp fire for 
at least fifteen minutes, until the out* 
side has acquired a coating of con- 
densed gravy, and then put back, and 
allowed to cook gently. Lamb, veal, 
and pork, if young and tender, should 
be cooked with a moderate fire. 

868a. Sirloin of Beef of about fif- 
teen pounds will require to be before 
the fire about three and a half or four 
hours. Take care to spit it evenly, 
liiat it may not be heavier on one 
side than the other ; tie a sheet of 
paper over the fat to preserve it, and 
having put a little clean dripping into 
the dripping-pan, baste it well as soon 
as it is put down, and every quarter 
of an hour all the time it is roasting, 
till the last half-hour ; then take off 
the paper and make some gravy for 
it, stir the fire and make it clear ; to 
brown and froth it, oprinkle a little 
salt over it, baste it with butter, and 
dredge it with flour ; let it go a few 
minutes longer, till the froth rises, 
take it up, put it on the dish, &c. 
Garnish it with horseradish, scraped 
as fine as possible with a very aharp 
knife. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AND STUDY ALL TfiS PE1CAUTI0N8. 



aos 



864. BibftfBael— The first thiM 
ribfl, of fifteen or twenty poandB, will 
take three hours, or three and a half ; 
the fourth and fifth ribs will take as 
long, managed in the same way aa the 
sirlmn. Paper the iat and the thin 
part, or it will be done too much, 
before the thick part is done enough. 
A3 a rule, beef, mutton, and veal tflJce 
about a quarter of an hour per lb. to 
roast. Lamb and poultry only take 
twelve to thirteen minutes per lb., 
but veal takes quite fifteen minutes, 
and pork twenty minutes, to cook. 

865. Elba of Beef boned and 
rollsd. — Keep two or three ribs of beef 
till quite tender, take out the bones, 
and skewer the meat as round as pos- 
sible, like a fillet of veaL Some 
cooks egg it, and sorinkle it with veal 
stuffing before rolling it. As the 
meat is in a solid mass, it will require 
more time at the fire than ribs of beef 
with the bones : a piece of ten or 
twelve pounds weight will not be well 
and thoroughly roasted in less than 
four and a half or five hours. For the 
first half-hour it should not be less 
than twelve inches from the fire, that 
it may get gradually warm to the 
centre, the last half-hour before it is 
finished, sprinkle a little salt over it, 
and, if you like, flour It, to troth it 

866. SoMtiiig Mutton. —As beef 
requires a large sound fire, mutton 
must have a brisk and sharp one. If 
you wish to have mutton tender it 
should be hung as long as it will 
keep, and then good eight-tooth (i. e. 
four years old) mutton is as good 
eating as venison. 

867. The Lag of eight pounds will 
take a little over two hours ; let it be 
well basted. 

868. A Ohins or Bsddle— i. e. the 
two loins, of ten or eleven pounds — 
two hours and a half. It is the busi- 
ness of the butcher to take off the 
skin and skewer it on again, to defend 
the meat from extreme heat, and pre- 
serve its succulence. If this is neg- 
leotedy tie a sheet of paper over it ; 



baste the strings you tie it on with 
directly, or they will bum. About a 
(quarter of an hour before you think 
it will be done, take off the skin or 
paper, that it may get a pale brown 
colour, and then baste it, and flour it 
lightly to troth it 

869. A Shouldsr, of seven pounds, 
an hour and three-auarters. if a spit 
is used, put it in close to the shank- 
bone, and run it along the blade- 
bone. 

870. A Loia of Mutton, of six 
pounds, from an hour and a half to 
an hour and three-quarters. A choice 
way of carving this is to cut it length- 
wise, as you do a saddle. A neck 
takes about the same time as a loin. 
It must be carefully jointed to pre- 
vent any difficulty in carving. 

871. The Keok and Breast are, in 
small families, commonly roasted to- 
gether. The cook should crack the 
bones across the middle before they 
are put down to roast If this is not 
done carefully, the joint is very trou- 
blesome to carve. Time for a breast, 
an hour and a quarter. The breast, 
when eaten by itself, is better stewed. 
It may be boned, rolled, and then 
roasted. 

872. A Haunch— i. «. the leg and 
part of the loin of mutton, generally 
weighs about fifteen pounds, and re- 
quires about three hours and a half to 
roast it Send up two sauce-boats 
with it; one of rich-drawn mutton 
gravy, made without spice or herbs, 
and the other of sweet sauce. 

878. Mutton as Moek Tenison.— 
Take a neck of good four or five-year- 
old Southdown wether mutton, ait 
long in the bones ; let it hang in mild 
weather, at least a week. Two days 
before you dress it, take allspice and 
black pepper, ground and pounded 
fine, a quarter of an ounce each, rub 
them together and then rub your 
mutton well with this mixture twice 
a day. When you dress it, wash off 
the spice with warm water, and roast 
it in paste. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



904 



8TUDY THE PEWJAXTTIONB BISPEOTINO FIRE. 



874. DIAV SWIFT'S BICIPI 
FOB BOASTUrO MIJTTOV. 

" Qentlx ttir and blow the flie. 
Lay the matton down to roast, 
Dreta it quicHp I deaire, 
In the dripping put a toaat. 
That I hanger may remove, 
Mutton is the meat I love. 

** On the dreaaer see it lie ; 
Oh ! the charming white and red ; 
Finer meat ne'er met the eye, 
On the sweetest grass it fed. 
Let the Jack go swiftly round. 
Let me have it nicely brown'dl 

* ** On the table spread the cloth, 
Let the knives be sharp and clean ; 
Pickles get and salad both. 
Let them each be ft'esh and green ; 
With small beer, good ale, and w^ 
O ye gods ! how I shall dine." 

875. BoMting TeaL —This meat re- 
qnires particalar care to roast it a nice 
brown. Let the fire be the same as 
for beef; a sonnd large fire for a lai^ge 
joint, and a brisker for a smaller ; put 
it at some distance from the fire to 
soak thoroughly, and then draw it 
nearer to finish it brown. When first 
laid down it is to be basted ; baste it 
again occasionally. When the veal is 
on the dish, pour over it half-a-pint 
of melted butter ; if you have a little 
brown gravy by you, add that to the 
butter. With those joints which are 
not stufied, send up forcemeat in balls, 
as garnish to the dish, or fried pork 
sausages. Bacon is always eaten with 
veal. 

876. Pillet of Veal, of from twelve 
to sixteen pounds, will require from 
four to five hours at a good tire : make 
some stuffing or forcemeat, and put it 
under the flap, that there may be some 
left to eat cold, or to season a hash : 
brown it, and pour good melted butter 
over it. Garnish with thin slices of 
lemon, and cakes or balls of stuffing, 
or duck stuffing, or fried pork saus- 
ages, curry sauce, bacon, &c. 

877. Loin of Teal is the best part 
of the calf, ana will take about three 



hours' roasting. Paper the kidney fat, 
and the back : some cooks send the 
fat up on a toast, to be eaten with the 
kidney ; it is more delicate than any 
marrow. If there is more of it than 
you think will be eaten with the veal, 
cat it out before roasting, it will make 
an excellent suet pudding. 

878. Shoulder of Veal takes from 
three hours to three hours and a half : 
stufi" it with the forcemeat ordered for 
the fillet of veal, in the under side. 

879. Veek of Veal, best end, will 
take two hours. The scrag part is 
best made into a pie or broth. 

880. Breast of Veal requires from 
an hour and a half to two hours. Let 
the caul remain till it is almost done, 
then take it off to brown the meat; 
baste, flour, and froth it 

881. Veal Sweetbread. —Trim a 
fine sweetbread — it cannot be too 
fresh ; parboil it for five minutes, and 
throw it into a basin of cold water ; 
roast it plain, or beat up the yolk of 
an egg, and prepare some fine bread- 
crumra. Or when the sweetbread is 
cold, dry it thoroughly in a cloth, 
run a lark spit or a skewer through it, 
and tie it on the ordinary spit ; egg it 
with a paste brush, powder it well 
with bread-crumbs, ana roast it For 
sauce, put fried bread-crumbs round 
it, and melted butter with a little 
mushroom ketchup and lemon juice, 
or serve on butterod toast, garmshed 
with egg sauce, or with gravy. 

882. Boaitiiig Lamb.— This is a 
delicate, and commonly considered 
tender meat ; but those who talk of 
tender lamb, while they are thinking 
of the age of the animal, foiget that 
even a chicken must be kept a proper 
time after it has been killed, or it will 
be tough eating. Grass-lamb is in 
season from Easter to Michaelmas. 
House-lamb from Christmas to Lady- 
day. To the usual accompaniments 
of roast meat, green mint sauce or a 
salad is commonly added : and some 
cooks, about five minutes before it is 
done, sprinkle it with a little minced 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RXAD THB HINTS TO BVSBAITDS AND WIVX8. 



806 



pualey. When green mint oannot be 
got, mint vinegar is an acceptable 
snbetitate for it. 

888. Hind-quurtor of eight pounds 
will take from an hour and three- 

J quarters to two hours; baste and 
roth it 

884. Fore-quarter of ten pounds, 
about two hours. It is usual, when 
you tdce off the shoulder from the 
rihi, to rub them with a lump of 
butter, and then to squeeze a lemon 
or Seville orange over them, and 
sprinkle them with a little pepper 
and salt 

885. Leg of Lamb of five pounds 
takes from an hour to an hour and a 
half to roast 

886. Shoulder of Lamb requires, 
with a quick fire, an hour to an hour 
and ten minutes. 

887. Bibi of Lamb, about an hour 
to an hour and a quarter ; joint it 
nicely; crack the ribs across, and 
bend them up to make it easy for the 
carver. 

888. Loin of Lamb of five pounds, 
an hour and a quarter. Neck, an 
hour. Breast, three-quarters of an 
hour. 

880. Boasting; Leg of Pork. This 
requires about twenty minutes for each 
pound. When partly cooked score 
the rind with a sharp Wnife at distances 
of half-an-inch. Sage and onions and 
apple sauce are served with it. 

800. Loinof Pork.— Score the rind 
and have it well jointed before cookine, 
then roast in the usual way. Sprinkle 
with dried sace and serve with sage 
and onions ana apple sauce. 

801. Spare-rib of Pork.— Joint it 
nicely before roasting, and crack the 
ribs across as ]amh. Take care not to 
have the fire too fierce. The joint 
should be basted with very little butter 
and fiour and may be sprinkled with 
fine dried sage. It takes from two to 
three hours. Apple sauce, mashed 
potatoes, and greens are the proper 
accompaniments. 



802. Boasting Tiirk67.--After the 
sinews have been drawn from the legs 
and thighs, and the bird carefully 
trussed, stuff with sausage meat and 
veal stuffing. Pin a well-greased 

Eaper over the breast to nrevent it 
urning. Baste well, and be careful 
to keep up a good fire. A good-sized 
turkey wdl take from two to three 
hours. Serve with gravy and bread 
sauce. 



Boaftins[ Goom.— When a 
goose is well picked, sin^, and 
cleaned, make the stuffing, with about 
two ounces of onion — if you think the 
flavour of raw onions too strong, cut 
them in slices, and lav them in cold 
water for a couple of hours, add as 
much apple or potato as you have of 
onion, and half as much ffreen sage, 
chop them very fine, aading four 
ounces, i.e. about a large breakfast- 
cupful, of stale bread-crumbs, a bit of 
butter about as big as a walnut, and a 
very little pepper and salt, the yolk of 
an egg or two, and incorporatmg the 
whole well together, stuff the goose ; 
do not quite fill it, but leave a little 
room for the stuffing to swell. From 
an hour and a half to an hour and 
three-quarters will roast a fine full- 
grown goose. Send up giavy and 
apple sauce with it. 

804. Boasting Fowls. — Singe, 
dust with flour, put down before a good 
fire, and baste well. Make a gravy 
of the necks and gizzards, froth uem, 
and send to table garnished with 
bacon or saTisage meat oalls. 

806. Boast Dnok.— Put into the 
body of the bird a seasoning of par- 
boiled onions mixed with finely- 
chopped sage, salt^ pepper, and a slice 
of butter. Place it before a brisk fire, 
but not sufficiently near to be scorched ; 
baste it constantly, and when the 
breast is well plumped, and the steam 
from it draws towards the fire, dish 
and serve it quickly, with a little good 
brown gravy poured round it, and 
also some in a gravy tureen. Young 
ducks will take about half-an-honr to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



too 



warn B ▲ <iooD tiRTAirr but a bad mastib. 



roast ; fuU-nitd ohm from ttir69<^iiar- 
ten of an hour to an liour. 

806. BoMt Partridfft.— Let the 
bird hang as long as it can be kept 
without being offensive. Pick it care- 
fully, and sinee it ; wipe the inside 
thoroughly with a clean cloth, truss it 
with the head turned under the wing, 
and the leas drawn close together, but 
notcr(Msed. Flour nartridges prepared 
in this manner wnen first laid to 
the fire, and baste them plentifully 
with butter. Senre them with bread 
sauce. 

807. To TroN iat l^ast a Pheas- 
Mit.— The following— which applies 
equally to partridges, grouse, Ac., and 
to fowls, guinea-fowls, kc. — is pre- 
scribed by Francatelli in his Cook^s 
Ouide :—** Knb the scaly cuticle off 
the legs with a cloth ; trim away the 
claws and spurs ; cut off the neck 
close up to the back, leaving the skin 
of the breast entire ; wipe thepheasant 
clean and trass it in the following 
manner, vis. : — Plaoe the pheasant 
upon its breast, ran a trussing needle 
and string throng the left pinion (the 
wings being removed) ; then turn the 
bira over on its back, and place the 
thumb and forefinger of the left hand 
across the breast, holding the less 
erect ; thrust the needle through the 
middle joint of both thighs, draw it 
out and then pass it through the other 
pinion, and fasten the strings at the 
CMtck ; next pass the needle through 
the hollow of the back, just below the 
thighs, thrast it a^ain through the 
legs and body, and tie the strings 
tightly ; this will give It an appear- 
ance of plumpness.' Boast and send 
to taUe in tne same manner and with 
the same aocompaniments as directed 
for Roast Partridge {see par. 896). 

808. Boast Oronsa. — Trass the 
birds in the same manner as pheasants, 
and set down before a brisk fire. 
When nearly ready— they will be done 
in from twenty to twenty-five minutes 
—baste well with butty and sprinkle 



witii flonr in order to froth them, and 
send to taUe with some good brown 
gravy and some fried bKad-crnmbs 
and bread sauce. These accompani- 
ments should be ssrved in different 
sauce tureens. 

800. BoMt Ptarmigan. — The 
ptarmi^^ (which is either a variety 
of grouse or grouse in its winter plu- 
mage) and Uack game, when roasted, 
are cooked in precisely the snme 
manner as grouse. 

000. BoMt QMils.— Pluck, draw, 
and truss, cover the breast with a vine 
leaf, and over that a thin slice of fat 
bacon. Put the birds on a long skewer 
and roast for ten to fifteen minutes. 

001. Boast Woodoook.— Take out 
the gizzard, truss the bird and tie a 
piece of bacon round it Boast in 
front of a brisk fire and baste unceas- 
ingly with butter. A piece of toast 
should be placed under the bird to 
catch the trail, and the bird is served 
up on this toast. Ten to fifteen min- 
utes will suffice to roast the bird, and 
it should be served up with plain white 
sauce. (Of course the bird is not 
drawn.) 

002. Boast Snipe.— The birds are 
treated in the same way as woodcocks. 
Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 

008. TABLE OF TIMES FOB 

BOAsmro. 

B.11. 

A smell oapon, fbwl, or okicken re- 
quires ai 

A]ai«eft>wl 4S 

A oapoB, ftill sixe , . 36 

Agoose 10 

Wild ducks, sad grouse 16 

Pheasants, and turkey poults ... 90 

A modente-sixed turkey, stuffed . . 1 16 

Partridges 86 

Quail 10 

A hare, or rabbit about 1 

Leg of pork, } hour ft>r eadi pound, 

and above that allowance . . . . flO 

Chine of pork, as for lag, and ... 90 

A neck of mutton 1 90 

A haunch of venison . . . aboot 8 90 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TBXHB tS Mt> tAtM TOB EYlAT WOtmS. 



W 



004. TnO-TASIB 70E HAVOIHO 


GAMS, POULTBT, fto. 


The average times are as follows : — 




MUd Weather 


ColdWtatker 


capon . . 


. 3 days 


6 days 


Ciaekent . 


• * »» 


4 II 


Dock^gooM 


• * »i 


« 11 


Hwo. . . 


• • • u 


e » 


Ptttrfdge . 


• * II 


etoStefB 


PheMut . 


* 4 11 


10 days 


Figtotm, y«un( 


S . « 11 


4 11 


Ptillei, do. 


♦ «f 


10 .. 


Babbit . . 


• * »» 


4 ., 


l^u'key . . 




« » 


Venison. . 


• • II 


lOtolSdays 


Wild dock. 


* 8 II 


r„ 8 ,1 



00& HOW TO OOOK FSOZEH 
MEAT. 

In the first instance it is necessary 
to thaw the j(Hnt, in order that it may 
be cooked right through. If the meat 
ware boiled or roasted before being 
pttfeetlr thawed, it would be raw in 
the middle. The proper way to roast 
a shonlder of New Zealand mutton is 
•• follows :— First cut two or three 
ounces of fat off the joint and throw 
it on the fire, but take care that the 
fire does not become smoky. Then, 
with the tongs, hold the lean side of 
the meat in the flame till the meat 
becomes seared and the fibre closed 
u]>. Or the joint may be placed on a 
gridiron and treated as described. 

In roasting a leg of frozen mntton 
the abore process should be applied to 
the thick end. 

If it is required to boU the leg. the 
water must boil very quickly, and the 
thick end just laid in the water so as 
to be immersed lor about an inch or 
so, and no more, for ten minutes or 
a quarter of an hour. If the whole 
leg were placed in the water, it would 
stop boiling, and the flesh would not 
be sealed up. To boil a neck of 
mutton, haug the lean end in the 
water, while it is quickly boiling, and 
afterwards put the whole joint in, 
the water being kept at the boiling 
point 



dOQ. Bonnro. 

This most simple of culinary pro- 
sses is not often performed in per- 
fsetion ; it does not require quite so 
much nicety and attendance as roast- 
ing ; to skun your pot well, and keep 
it boiling, or rather simmering, all 
the while, to know how long h re- 
quired for doing the joint, &c., and to 
take it up at the critical moment when 
it is done enough, oomprehends almost 
the whole art and mystery. This, 
howeTer, demands a patient and per- 
petual yi^ance, of which, unhappily, 
few persons are capable. The cook 
must take especial care that the water 
boils gently all the while she is cook- 
ing, or she will be deceived in the 
time. A sufficient fire should be made 
up at first, to last all the time, with- 
out much mending or stirring, and 
thereby save much trouble. When 
the pot is coming to a boil, there will 
always, from the cleanest meat and 
clearest water, rise a scum to the 
top of it ; proceeding partly from the 
foulness of the meat, and partly from 
the water: this must be earefhlly 
taken off, as soon as it rises. When 
you have skimmed well, put in some 
cold water, which will throw up the 
rest of the scum. The oftener it is 
skimmed, and the clearer the surface 
of the water is kept, the cleaner will 
be the meat, u let alone, it soon 
boils down and sticks to the meat, 
which, instead of looking delicately 
white and nice, will have that coarse 
ap|)earance we have too often to com- 
plain of. Others wrap it up in a cloth ; 
but these are needless precautions ; if 
the scum be attentively removed, meat 
will have a much more delicate colour 
and finer flavour than it has when 
muffled up. This may give rather 
more trouble — but those who wish to 
excel in their art must only consider 
how the processes of it can be most 
perfectly performed : a cook who has 
a proper pride and fjleasure in her busi- 
ness will make this her maxim and 
rale <m all ooci8ionB.--Fkit your meat 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



208 



BOOKS AID THOUORT,-<TOEY SHOULD NOT SUPBBSIDS IT. 



into cold water, in the proportion of 
about a quart of water to a j^und of 
meat ; it should be covered with water 
during the whole of the process of 
boiling, but not drowned in it ; the 
less water, provided the meat be 
covered with it, the more savoury will 
be the meat, and the better will be 
the broth in every respect. The water 
should be heated gradually, according 
to the thicknees, kc^ of the article 
boiled ; for instance, a lea of mutton 
of ten pounds weight should be placed 
over a moderate fire, which will gradu- 
ally make the water hot without caus- 
ing it to boil, for about forty minutes ; 
if the water boils much sooner, the 
meat will be hardened, and shrink up 
as if it was scorched, but by keeping 
the water a certain time heating with- 
out boiling, its fibres are dilated, and 
it yields a quantity of scum, which 
must be taken oft* as soon as it rises, 
for the reasons already mentioned. 
''If a vessel containing water be 
placed over a steadv fire, the water 
will grow continually hotter, till it 
reaches the limit of boiling; after 
which, the regular accessions of heat 
are whoUv spent in converting it into 
steam ; the water remains at the same 
pitch of temperature, however fiercely 
it boils. The only difference is, that 
with a strong fire it sooner comes to 
boil, and more quickly boils away, 
and is converted into steam." Such 
are the opinions stated by Buchanan 
in his £e<momy of FueL A ther- 
mometer was placed in water in that 
state which cooks call gentle simmering 
— ^the heat was 212°, t. e, the same 
degree as the strongest boilinc. Two 
mutton chops were covered with cold 
water, and one boiled fiercely, and 
the other simmered gently, for three- 
quarters of an hour ; the flavour of the 
cnop which was simmered was de- 
cidedly superior to that which was 
boiled ; the liquor which boiled fast 
was in like proportion more savoury, 
and, when cola, had much more &t 
on its surface; this explains why 
quick boiling renders meat hard, &c 



—because its juices are extracted in a 
greater degree. 

L Beokon the Time from the water 
first coming to a boiL The old rule, 
of fifteen minutes to a pound of meat, 
is, perhaps, rather too little ; the 
slower the meat boils, the tenderer, 
the plumper, and whiter it will 
be. For tnose who like their food 
thoron^y cooked (which all will who 
have any regard for their stomachs), 
twenty minutes to a pound will not 
be found too much for gentle simmer- 
ing by the side of the fire ; allowing 
more or less time, according to the 
thickness of the joint and the coldness 
of the weather. Without some prac- 
tice it is difficult to teach any art ; 
and cooks seem to suppose they must 
be right, if they put meat into a pot, 
and set it over the fire for a certain 
time — making no allowance whether 
it simmers, or boils at a gallop. 

ii. Fresh-killed Xeat wiU take 
much longer time boiling than that 
which has been kept till it is what the 
butchers call ripe, and lon^r in cold 
than in warm weather. If it be frozen 
it must be thawed before boiling as 
before roasting. In cold weather, the 
night before you dress it, bring it into 
a place of which the temperature is 
not less than forty-five degrees Fahren- 
heit. 

iii The siss of the boiling-pots 
should be adapted to what they are 
to contain ; the larger the saucepan 
the more room it takes upon the fiire ; 
and a larger quantity of water requires 
a proportionate increase of fire to boil 
it. in small families block tin sauce- 
pans are best, as being lightest and 
safest : moreover, if proper care is 
taken of them, and they are well 
dried after they are cleansed, they are 
by far the cheapest ; the purchase of 
a new tin saucepan Veing little more 
than the expense of tinning a copper 
one. Take care that the covers of 
your boiling-pots fit close, not only to 
prevent unnecessary evaporation of 
the water, but that the smoke may 
not insinuate itself under the edge of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TUERB IS SOMBTHINO TO BE LEARNED FROM THE MEREST TRIFLE. 209 



the lid, and give the meat a bad 
taste. 

007. BoilinR Bound of Salt Beel 
— Skewer it tight and round, and tie 
a fillet of brood tape about it Put it 
into plenty of cold water, and care- 
fully remove the scum ; let it boil till 
aU the scum is removed, and then 
put the boiler on one side of the fire, 
to continue simmering slowly till it is 
done. Half a round may be boiled 
for a small family. When you take 
it up, wash the scum off with a paste- 
brush — garnish with carrots ana tur- 
nips. 

006. Aitehbone of Bsel— Manage 
in the same way as the round. The 
soft, marrow-like fat which lies on 
the back is best when hot, and the 
hard fiett of the upper comer is best 
cold. 

000. Boiling Leg of Xntton.— 
Soak the joint previously for an hour 
or so in cold water, then place in pot 
with just sufficient boiling water to 
cover it — follow the instructions given 
for boiling. When done serve with 
caper sauce, mashed turnips, &c 

. 010. Veok of Xntton.— This is 
boiled in a similar way, but special 
care must be taken to cook it slowly. 

Oil. BoilinffHa|iL— Soak the ham 
in cold water the night before, scrape 
it clean, put it in water just warm, 
skim the liquor while boiUng, do not 
let it boil fast, but simmer only, and 
add a little cold occasionally to check 
it. When done {)eel the skm off care- 
fuUv and dust with bread raspings — 
set before the fire for a few minutes — 
dress the knuckle bone with a fhll of 
white paper. 

012. Boiling Tnrkey.— Make a 
stuffing with grated bread, lemon 
peel, chopped oysters, pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, about four ounces of butter 
or chopped suet, a little cream and 
yolk or egg to make it bind ; fill the 
craw — ^if there is any left make it into 
balls. Boil the turkey in a floured 
cloth ; put it into cold water and let 



it boil gently; serve with oyster or 
white sauce. 

018. Boiling Fowls. — These 
should be trussed especially for boil- 
ing, and may have an onion and a 
little butter placed inside them. Boil 
slowly for sMut an hour with carrots, 
parsley, celery or other flavouring 
vegetable — serve with parsley and 
butter, or onion sauce. 

014. Boiling Baoon.— Dr. Kit- 
chiner very justly says ; — " The 
boiling of bacon is a very simple sub- 
ject to comment upon ; but our main 
object is to teach common cooks the 
art of dressing common food in the 
best manner. Cover a pound of nice 
streaked bacon with cold water, let it 
l>oil gently for three-quarters of an 
hour; take it up, scrape the under 
side well, and cut off the rind : grate 
a crust of bread not only on the top, 
but all over it, as you would ham, 
put it before the fire for a few minutes, 
not too long, or it will dry and spoil 
it. Bacon is sometimes as salt as salt 
can make it, therefore before it is 
boiled it must be soaked in warm 
water for an hour or two, changing 
the water once ; then pare off the 
rusty and smoked part, trim it nicely 
on the under side, and scrape the rind 
as clean as possible." 

016. TABLE OF TIXES FOB 
BOILIHG. 

H. M. 

A ham, 20 lbs. weight, reqaires . 6 30 

A tongue (if dryX after soaking . 4 

A tongue oat of pickle . . 2ito 3 

A neck of mutton 1 SO 

A chicken 80 

A large fowl 45 

A capon 35 

A pigeon 15 

016. Hiirrs ABoirr boilihg. 

L If you let meat or poultry remain 
in the water after it is done enough, 
it will become sodden and lose its 
flavour. 

ii Beef and mutton is preferred by 
some people a little onderaone. Very 
o 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



m 



STRIVS TO LmARH VBOH ALL THINOfi. 



Urffo joints if slightly uoderdone will 
make the better hash or broil. Lamb, 
pork, aud veal are uoeatable if not. 
thoroqgbly boiled— but these meats 
should uot be overdone. 

iii. A trivet, a fish-drainer, or an 
American contrivance called a ** spider" 
— which is nothing more than a wire 
dish raised on three or four short legs — 
put on the bottom of a boUinff-pot, 
raising the contents about an inch and 
a half from the bottom, will prevent 
that side of the meat which comes 
next the bottom being done too much ; 
and the lower part will be as delicately 
done as the upper ; and this will en- 
able you to take out the meat without 
inserting a fork, &c., into it. If you 
have not a trivet, a drainer, or a 
''spider," use a soup-plate laid the 
wrong side upwards. 

It. Take care of the liquor you 
have boiled poultry or meat in, as it 
is useful for making soup. The good 
housewife never boils a joint without 
converting the broth into some sort 
of soup. 

▼. If the liquor be too salt, use 
only half the quantity, and add some 
water ; wash salted meat well with 
cold water before you put it into the 
b«iler. 

017. BAKING. 

By this process articles of food are 
cooked entirely in the oven. The old 
close oven was the least advantageous 
mode of cookery for meat, as it lost 
about one-third of its weight, but 
owing to the many improvements now 
made in kitchen ranges, the heat and 
ventilation can be so regulated that 
an endless variety of articles may thus 
be cooked. 

?19. Baking Xeat and Ponltrr. 
or these it is best to use a double 
tin, one fitting into the other, the 
bottom one being filled with hot 
water to prevent tne gravy from dry- 
ing up; the upper one should be 
fitted with a low grid to stand the 
joint on. Baste the joint with drip- 
ping occasionally as in roasting. 



Baked pigs, geese, and ducks eat 
almost equal to roasted ones, as doe9 
a hare also, when well basted with 
raw milk and butter. Many persons 
prefer a baked ham to a boiled one. 

010. Baking Pies, Cakei, fto.— 
These require a hot oven. Custards 
or any egg puddings cook bettor in a 
cooler one, but experience will prove 
the best guide in these matters. 

020. sTxwnre. 

This is a most economical, conveni- 
ent, and wholesome mode of cookery, 
as nothing is wasted, the cheapen 
kinds of meat can be utilized, and 
less fire is required to sustain the 
gentle degree of ebullition necessary. 
The articles to be cooked are placed 
with ^vy or water, vegetables, &c., 
if desired, and flavouring, in a stew- 
pan, saucepan, or even a covered jar 
set in a saucepan of water ; covered 
down tightly, and cooked slowly either 
in the oven or over the fire. 

It is advisable to put a small 
grid or an inverted plate under the 
meat to prevent it sticking to the 
bottom of the vessel. 

Vegetables, if old, should be par- 
boiled before being added to the 
stew. 

021. How to Stew Fresh Beef, 
Pork, Xutton, and Veal.— Cut or 
chop two pounds of fresh beef into 
ten or twelve pieces ; put these into 
a saucepan, with one and a half tea- 
spoonfuis of salt, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
two middle-sized onions sliced, half-a- 
pint of water. Set on the fire for ten 
minutes until forming a thick gravy. 
Add a good teaspoonful of flour, sttr 
on the fire a few minutes ; add a 
quart and a lialf of water ; let the 
whole simmer until the meat is 
tender. Beef will take from two 
hours and a half to three hours ; 
mutton and pork about two hours ; veal, 
one hour aud a quarter to one hour 
and a half. Onions, if not to be had, 
may be omitted ; it will even then 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OBSBBVATION 18 THB BIST TBAOHf B. 



fill 



mako a good dish ; half-a^poimd of 
sliced potatoes, or two ounces of pre- 
served potatoes ; either fresh or pre- 
served vegetables may be addea if 
they can be obtained, also a small 
dumpling. 

922. Stewed Brisket of Beef.— 
Stew in sufficient water to cover the 
meat ; when tender, take out the 
bones, and skim off the fet ; add to 
the gravy, when strained, a glare of 
wine, and a little spice tied up in a 
muslin bag. (This can be omitted if 
preferred.) Have ready either mush- 
rooms, truffles, or vegetables boiled, 
and cut into shapes. Lay them on 
and around the beef ; reduce part of 
the gravy to glaae, lay it on the top, 
and pour the remainder into the dish. 

928. Stev0d O^-Cheek- — Prepare 
the day before it is to be eaten ; clean 
the cheek and put it into soft water, 

1'ust warm ; let it lie for three or four 
lonrs, then put it into cold water, to 
soak all night ; next day wipe it 
clean, put it into a stewpan, and just 
cover It with water ; skim it well 
when it is coming to the boil, then add 
two whole onions with two or three 
eloves stuck into each, three turnips 
quartered, a couple of carrots sliced, 
two bay-leaves, and twenty-four corns 
of allspice, a head of celery, and a 
bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and 
salt ; lastly, add a little cayenne and 
^rlic, if liked. Let it stew gently 
till perfectly tender, about three 
hours; then take out the cheek, 
divide into pieces fit to help at table ; 
skim and strain the gravy ; melt an 
ounce and a half of butter in a stew- 
pan ; stir into it as much flour as it 
will take up ; mix with it by degrees 
a pint and a half of the gravy ; add 
a teaspoonful of mushroom or walnut 
ketchup, or port wine, and boil a short 
time. Serve up in a soup or ragout 
dish, or make it into barley broth. 
This is a very economical, nonrishing, 
and savoury meal. 

024. Irish Sttw. — Tike two 
pounds of potatoes ; peel and sUoe 



them ; cut rather more than two 
pounds of mutton chops, either from 
the loin or neck ; part of the fat 
should be taken off ; beef, two pounds, 
six large onions sliced, a slice of ham, 
or lean bacon, a spoonful of pepper, 
and two of salt. First put a layer of 
potatoes, then a layer of meat and 
onions ; sprinkle the aeasouing, then 
a layer of potatoes and again the 
meat and onions and seasoning ; the 
top layer should be potatoes, and the 
vessel should be quite full. Then put in 
half-a-pint of good gravy, and a spoon- 
ful of mushroom ketchup. Let the 
whole stew for au hour and a half ; be 
very careful it does not bum. 

925. Palatable Stew.~Cut pieces 
of salt beef and pork into dice, put 
them into a stewpan with six whole 
peppercorns, two blades of mace, a 
few cloves, a teaspoonful of celery 
seeds, and a finggot of dried sweet 
herbs; cover with water, and stew 
gently for an hour ; then add fragments 
of carrots, turnips, parsley, or any 
other vegetables at hand, with two 
sliced onions, and some vinegar to 
flavour ; thicken with flour or rice, 
remove the herbs, and pour into the 
dish with toasted breao, or freshly 
baked biscuit, broken small, «na 
serve hot. Wlien they can be pro- 
cured, a few potatoes improve it very 
much. 

926. SteveA Hare.— Prepare the 
hare as for jugging ; put it into the 
stewpan with a few sweet herbs, half- 
a-dozen cloves, the same of allspice 
and black pepper, two large onions, 
and a roll of lemon peel ; cover it 
with water: when it boils, skim it 
clean, and let it simmer gently till 
tender (about two hours) ; then take 
the meat up with a slice, set it by a 
fire to keep hot while yon thicken the 
gravy; take three ounces of butter 
and some flour, rub together, put in 
the gravy, stir it well, and let it boil 
for about ten minutes; straia it 
throuffh a sieve over the meat, and it 
is ready. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



212 



SMALL BEGIKKINOS ICAT LEAD TO LABOK IND8. 



927. BBOmHG OB GBUXIHG. 

This process is to small joints, &c., 
what roasting is to lai]ge ; all the 
apparatus required is a^idiron placed 
over the fire, or one with channelled 
bars leading to a trough beneath, 
placed before the fire. Broiling re- 
quires a brisk bright fire, the surface 
being modified by the sprinkling of 
salt The rapid heat produces a 
greater degree of change in the affini- 
ties of the raw meat than roasting, 
and thus generates a higher flavour, 
80 that broiled meat is more 
savoury than roast The surface be- 
comes charred, a dark-coloured crust 
is formed, which retards the evapora- 
tion of the juices ; and, therefore, if 
properly done, broiled meat may be 
as tender and Juicy as roasted meat 
As the p;reat art in broiling is to keep 
the juice in the meat, it should 
always be turned with tongs. If, 
however, there are no tongs to turn 
the meat over, stick the fork into the 
fiftt, and avoid making holes in the meat 

928. How to Broil a Steak or 
Chop. — ^A steak must be cooked very 
quickly. Put the gridiron on the 
nre, and when it is hot rub it first 
with paper and then with a clean dish- 
cloth. Tut it on the fire again, and 
rub the bars with a small piece of 
suet in order to prevent the meat 
sticking to them. Put the dish in 
which tne steak is to be served in front 
of the fire. Put the steak on the grid- 
iron, and let it ffrill for two minutes. 
Then turn it, ana keep on turning it 
eveiy two minutes till half-cooked, 
then ^ut it on the dish, press it on 
both sides with a knife, smear a little 
butter over it, add a little i>epper, 
and again pkce it on the grioiron, 
turning it only once. When done, 
add a little more butter and serve at 
once. It is excellent served up with 
onion sauce {see par. 999). 

929. Maobeth's recipe for cooking 
a steak is the best — 

** When 'tis done, then 'twere well 
It were done quickly." (Kitchiner,) 



980. erilled FowL— Take the re- 
mains of cold fowls, and skin them or 
not, at choice ; pepper and salt them, 
and sprinkle over them a little lemon 
juice, and let them stand an hour ; 
wipe them dry, dip them in clarified 
butter, and then into fine bread- 
crumbs, and broil gently over a clear 
fire. A little finely-miuced lean of 
ham or grated lemon peel, with a sea- 
soning of cayenne, salt, and mace, 
mixed with the crumbs, will vary this 
dish aCTeeably. When fried instead 
of broiled, the fowls may be dipped 
into yolk of egg instead of butter. 

981. Broiled Ooote.— 7^ legs qf 
geese, &c, broiled, and laid on a bed 
of apple sauce, form an appetizing 
dish for luncheon or supper. 

982. 7BTIHG. 

This is of all methods the most 
objectionable, because food is less 
digestible when thus prepared, as the 
fat employed undergoes chemical 
changes. An iron frying-pan, and not 
a tin one, should be used for frying ; 
and a panful of oil can be used several 
times. Lard is the worst fat for 
frying, as it imparts an unpleasant 
taste to the food. Olive oil is the 
best. The crackling noise which 
accompanies the process of frying 
meat in a pan is occasioned by the 
explosions of steam formed in fat, the 
temperature of which is much above 
212 degrees. If the meat is very 
luicy it will not fry well, because it 
becomes sodden before the water is 
evaporated ; and it will not brown, 
because the temperature is too low to 
scorch it 

988. To fry fiih well the fat 
should be boiling hot (600 degrees) — 
when the fat boils it ceases to hiss — 
and the fish well dried in a cloth ; 
otherwise, owing to the generation of 
steam, the temperatufe will fall so 
low that it will oe boiled in its own 
steam, and not be browned. Meat, 
or indeed any article, should be fre- 
quently turned and agitated during 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ly NONE BNDBAVOXrR, THBRE WOULD BE AN END TO DMOOVEKY. 213 



flying to promote the evaporation of 
the watery particles. To make Med 
things look well, they shonld be done 
oyer tvnee with egg and stale bread- 
crumbs. 

084. TO ECOKOXIZE FAT. 

In most families many members are 
not fond of fat— servants seldom like 
it : consequently there is frequently 
much wasted ; to avoid which, take 
off bits of suet fat from beefsteaks, 
&c, previous to cooking ; they can 
be used for puddings. With good 
management there need be no waste 
in any shape or form. 

035. BA8TIKGS. 

L Fresh butter. 

it Clarified suet. 

liL Minced sweet herbs, butter, 
and claret, especially for mutton and 
lamb. 

iv. Water and salt. 

▼. Cream and melted butter, espe- 
cially for a flayed pig. 

▼1. Yolks of eggs, grated biscuit 
and juice of oranges. 

086. DREDQIKGS. 

i. Flour mixed with grated bread. 

a Sweet herbs dried and powdered, 
and mixed with grated bread. 

iii Lemon peel dried and pounded, 
or orange peel mixed with flour. 

iv. Sugar flnelv powdered, and 
mixed with pounded cinnamon, and 
flour or grated bread. 

V. Fennel seeds, corianders, cinna- 
mon, and sugar, finely beaten and 
mixed with grated bread or flour. 

vL For young pigs, grated bread or 
flour, mixed with beaten nutmeg, 
ginger, pepper, sugar, and yolks of 



vii. Sugar, bread, and salt mixed. 

087. CHABCOAL IK COOKING. 

Cooks should be cautioned against 
the use of charcoal in any quantity, 
except where there is a free current of 
air ; for charcoal is highly prejudicial 
in a state of ignition, although it may 



be rendered even actively beneficial 
when boiled, as a small quantity of it, 
if boiled with meat on the turn, will 
effectually cure the unpleasant taint, 

088. HIHTS ABOirr VEGE- 
TABLES. 

There is nothing in which the 
difierence between au elegant and an 
ordinary table is more seen than in 
the dressing of vegetables, more espe- 
cially of greens : they may be equally 
as flue, at first, at one place as at 
another, but their look and taste are 
afterwards very dilfei*ent, resulting 
from the way in which they have 
been cooked. They are in greatest 
perfection when in greatest plenty, 
{. e. when in full season. By season, 
we do not mean those early days, 
when luxurious tastes induce the 
growers to force the various vege- 
tables, but the time of the year in 
which, by nature and common cul- 
ture, and the mere operation of the 
sun and climate, they are most plen- 
teous and in perfection. 

L New potatoes and green peas, 
unless sent to us from warmer latitudes 
than our own, are seldom worth eating 
before Whitsuntide. 

ii Unripe vegetables are as 
insipid and unwholesome as tmripe 
fruits. 

iii. If vegetables are a minute or 
two too long over the fire, thev lose 
all their b^uty and flavour, but if 
not thoroughly boiled tender, they are 
very indigestible, and 'much more 
troublesome during their residence in 
the stomach than underdone meats. 

iv. Quality of vegetables. The mid- 
dle size are preferable to the largest 
or the smallest; they are more tender, 
juicy, and full of flavour just before 
they are quite full-grown: freshness 
is their chief value and excellence. 
The eye easily discovers if they have 
been kept too long ; they soon lose 
their beauty in all respects. 

y. Take care to wash and cleanse 
vegetables thoroughly from dust, 
dirt, and insectSj^this requires great 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



214 



TME STBAM ENGINE 18 A MIOHTT AGENT OF GOOD. 



attention. Pick off tiie outside leaded, 
trim them nicely, and if they are not 
quite fresh-gathered and have become 
flaccid, it is absoiu^ly necessarr to 
restore their crispness before cooking 
them, or they will be tough and un- 
pleauant. To do this, lay them in a 
pan of clean water, with a handful of 
salt in it, for an hour before you dress 
them. Moat vegetables being more 
or less succulent, it is necessaij that 
they possess their full proportion of 
fluids in order to retain that state of 
crispness and plumpness which they 
have when growing. 

▼L On being cut or gathered, the 
exhalation from their surface contin- 
ues, while from the open vessels of 
the cut surface there is often great 
exudation or eraporation, and thus 
their natural moisture is diminished ; 
the tender leaves become flaccid, and 
the thicker masses or roots lose their 
plumpness. This is not only less 
pleasant to the eye, but is a serious 
injury to the nutritiouft powers of the 
vegetable ; for in this flaccid and 
shrivelled fltate its fibres are less 
easily divided in chewing, and the 
water which exists in the form of 
their respective natural juices is less 
directly nutritious. 

viL Roots, greens, salads, &c., and 
the various productions of the garden, 
when first gathered, are plump and 
firm, and have a fragrant freshness no 
art can give them again ; though it 
will refr^ them a little to put them 
into cold spring water for some time 
before they are dressed. 

080. TO BOIL YEOETABLES. 

Soft water will best preserve the 
colour of such as are gi-een ; if you 
have only hard water, put to it a tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of potash. 
They should always be boiled in a 
saucepan by themselves, and have 
plenty of water: if meat is boiled 
with them in the same pot, the one 
will spoil the look and taste of the 
other. 

949* T« Pr^A^rrv the Colour ft 



Gteen Tefottlblw.— Put on your pot, 
make it boil, t>ut a little salt in, and 
skim it perfectly clean before you put 
in the greens, Ac, which should not 
be put in till the water boils briskly ; 
the quicker they boil the greener they 
will be. When the vegetables duk, 
they are generallv done enough, if the 
water has been kept constantly boil- 
ing. Take them up immediately, or 
they will lose their colour and good- 
ness. Be careful to tkormighly drain 
the water from them before you send 
them to table. 

041. To Prepare a Cabbage for 
Boiling. — Take off all the outside 
leaves, which are thick and useless. 
Cut the leaves into shreds across the 
fibres, in the same way as a red cab- 
bage is prepared for pickling. Wash 
the pieces first in hot water and then 
in cold, and then leave them in col4 
water for ten minutes or so ; and 
before cooking let them drain for half- 
an-hour. 

042. TO BOIL CABB0T8. 

Some people place carrots into cold 
water, but this takes all the flavour 
out of them. They should be put 
into boiling water, with a little salt, 
and a piece of fat or dripping, and 
boiled for two hours. Young carrots 
should not be pared or scraped, but 
merely washed and put into boiling 
water with a little salt 

043. CABDOOVS, TO BOIL. 

Cut the stalks into lengths as 
required, taking off the prickles, and 
parboil them in salted water for a 
quarter of an hour ; then drain them 
and scrape off the outer skin, and put 
them in cold water; cook them as 
artichokes. 

044. CSLEBT, TO BOO. 

Peel, and cut into slices or quarters, 
throw them into boiling water with a 
little salt in it, boil till done, drain, 
and serve with white sauce. 

laliil^, boiled« — Scrape aad cut 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE STEAM FROM A KETTLE SUGGESTED THE STEAM ENGINE. 



215 



into lengths, and put into vinegar 
ftnd water. Boil in salted water until 
tender, drain, and put in a saucepan 
with a little butter, lemon juice, 
minced parsley, and salt. 

946. POTATOES. 

Most people esteem potatoes beyond 
any other vegetable, yet few persons 
know how to cook them. The follow- 
ing will be found to be excellent 
methods of cooking this delicious 
esculent. 

948, To Boil Potatoes.— having 
washed them put them into a sauce- 
pan with scarcely sufficient cold water 
to cover them. Boil them slowly, and 
directly the skins begin to break, lift 
them m>m the fire, and as rapidly as 
possible pour off every drop of the 
water. Then place a cosirse (we need 
not say clean) towel over them, and 
return them to the fire again until 
they are thoroughly done, and quite 
dry. A little salt, to flavour, should 
be added to the water before boiling. 

947. To Peel Potatoei.— The above 
recipe is for boiling potatoes in their 
jackets, as the phrase goes. "When 
potatoes are to be peeled prior to 
cooking, they should first be well 
washed and put in a bowl of clean 
water. As each potato is taken out 
of this receptacle and peeled, it should 
be thrown mto another bowl of cold 
water, close at hand to receive them. 
This prevents undue discolouration of 
the potatoes. 

948. To Boil Peeled Potatoes.— 
Having pared and washed them, put 
them into a saucepan. Pottr in 
sufficient boiling water to just cover 
them, and add about an ounce of salt. 
Put the lid on the saucepan, and let 
the potatoes boil slowly for twenty 
minutes. At the end of that time 
drain off nearly all the water, put the 
saucepan down by the side of the fire 
^th just a little water in it, and let 
the potatoes remain in the stf am until 
the^ become soft and floury. Then 



drain all the water off, turn the pota- 
toes into the cover of the ssucep&n, 
then back into the pan, and again 
on to the lid, and they tae t&kdy 
to dish up. 

949. tSkBbh for Bbiliiig 816V1^— 
If the potatoes were boiled fast the 
outsides would be broken before the 
insides were done, and the pota- 
toes would be watery outside and 
lumpy inside. When done they should 
not be covered over, as the steam would 
then be pressed down into them again. 

9d0. to Stealn Pototbek. — Some 
kinds of potatoes a!^ better steamed 
than boiled. Whether dressed with 
the skins on or off, a careful eye must 
be kept on them, and when tney are 
nearly done the steamer should be 
removed, the water in the saucepan 
thrown off, and the steamer then re- 
placed, in order to allow the process of 
cooking to be completed. Some people 
shake tne steamer when potatoes are 
somewhat close and heavy, under the 
idea that it renders them floury, and 
in many cases the shaking has this 
eflect. 

961. Pdtatoes Boasted under Xeat. 
— Half boil large, peeled potatoes j 
drain them and put them into an 
earthen dish, or small tin pan, under 
meat roasting before the fire ; baste 
them with the dripping. Turn them 
to brown on all sides ; send up in a 
separate dish. 

962. Potatoes Fried with Pith.— 
Take cold fish and cold potatoes. Pick 
all the bones from the former and mash 
the fish and the potatoes together: 
form into rolls, and fry with lamimtil 
the outsides are brown and crisp. For 
this purpose, the drier kinds of fish, 
such as cod, hake, &c., are preferable ; 
turbot, solos, eels, &c., are not so 
good. This is an economioal and 
excellent relish. 

968. Potatoes Xathed with 
Onioni. — Prepare some boiled onions, 
by putting them through a sieve, and 
mix them with potatoes. Rc'galate 
the proportions according to taste, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



216 



BE BOLD SNOUOR TO BXPSRIlfBNT. 



064. Potato Cheeioeakef. — One 
pound of mashed potatoes, quarter of a 
pound of currants, quarter of a pound 
of sugar and butter, and four c^^gs, to 
be well mixed toother ; bake tnem in 
patty-pans, having first lined them 
with puff paste. 

066. Potato Coleanon. — Boil po- 
tatoes and ereens (or spinach) separ- 
ately ; mash the potatoes ; squeeze 
the greens dry ; chop them quite fine, 
and mix them with the potatoes with 
a little butter, pepper, and salt. Put 
into a mould, buttering it well first ; 
let it stand in a hot oven for ten 
minutes. 

066. Pototo Balls Bagout.— Add 
to a pound of potatoes a quarter of a 
pound of grated ham, or some sweet 
nerbe, or chopped parsley, an onion or 
shallot, salt, pepper, and a little srated 
nutmeg, ana other spice, with the 
yolk of a couple of eggs ; then dress 
as Potatoes JSsoalloped (see par. 
960). 

067. Potato Snow.— Pick out the 
whitest potatoes, put them on in cold 
water ; when they begin to crack, 
strain, and put them in a clean stew- 
pan before tne fire until they are ouite 
diy, and fall to pieces ; rub uiem 
through a wire sieve upon the dish 
they are to be sent up on, and do not 
disturb them afterwf^ds. 

068. Pototoes Pried Whole.— 
When nearly boiled enough, put them 
into a stewpan with a bit of butter, or 
some clean beef dripping ; shake them 
about often, to prevent burning, till 
they are brown and crisp ; drain them 
from the fat. It will be an improve- 
ment *if they are floured and clipped 
into the yolk of an eg^, and then 
rolled in finely-sifted br^-crumbs. 

060. Potatoei Fried in Slices.— 
Peel large potatoes, slice them about 
a quarter of an inch thick, or cut them 
into shavings, as you would peel a 
lemon ; dry them well in a clean cloth, 
and fry them in lard or dripping. 
Take care that the fat and fryine-pan I 
are quite clean ; put it on aquicknre, ' 



and as soon as the lard boils, and is 
still, put in the slices of potato, and 
keep movinc them until they are 
crisp ; take them up, and lay them to 
dram on a sieve. Send to table with 
a little salt sprinkled over them. 

OeO. Pototoes EMaUoped.— Mash 
Dotatoes in the usual way ; then 
butter some nice clean scallop-shells, 
patty-pans, or tea*cups or saucers ; put 
m your potatoes ; make them smooth 
at the top ; cross a knife over them ; 
strew a few fine broad-crumbs on 
them; sprinkle them with a paste- 
brush with a few drops of melted 
butter, and set them in a Dutch oven. 
When nicely browned on the top, take 
them carefully out of the shells, and 
brown on the other side. Cold pota- 
toes may be warmM up this way. 

061. Pototo Soones. — Mash boiled 
pototoes till they are quite smooth, 
adding a little salt ; then knead out 
the flour, or barley-meal, to the thick- 
ness required ; toast on the girdle, 
prickine them with a fork to prevent 
them blistering. When eaten with 
fresh or salt butter they are equal to 
crumijBts — even superior, and very 
nutritious. 

062. Pototo Pio.— Peel and slice 
your pototoes very thinly into a pie- 
dish ; between each layer of pototoes 
put a little chopped onion, and sprinkle 
a little pepper and salt ; put in a little 
water, ana cut about two ounces of 
fresh butter into bito and lay them 
on the top ; cover it close with paste. 
The yolks of four eggs may be added ; 
and when baked, a toblespoonful of 
good mushroom ketchup poured in 
Uirough a funnel. Another method is 
to put between the layers small bits of 
mutton, beef, or pork. In Cornwall, 
turnips are added, constituting a cheap 
and satisfactory dish for famuies. 

068. ICashed Pototoes and Spinach 
or Cabba^. — Moisten cold mashed 
pototoes with a little white sauce : toke 
cold cabbage or spinach, and chop it 
veiy finely. Moisten with a brown 
gravy. FiU a tin mould with layers 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HE IS UNPORTUNATE WHO CANXOT BEAR MISFORTTNE. 



217 



of potatoes and cabbage ; cover the 
top, and put it into a stewpan of boil- 
ing water. Let it remain long enough 
to warm the vegetables ; then turn the 
vegetables out and serve them. Pre- 
pare by boiling the vegetables separ- 
ately, and put them into the mould in 
layers, to be turned out when wanted. 
It forms a very pretty dish for an 
entree. 

064. To Utilize Cold Potatoes.— 
There are few articles in families more 
subject to waste, whether in paring, 
boiung, or being actually wasted, than 

Sotatoes ; and there are few cooks who 
not boil twice as many potatoes 
every day as are wanted, and fewer 
still who do not throw the residue 
away as being totally unfit in an^ 
shape for the next day's meal ; yet if 
they would take the trouble to beat 
up the despised cold potatoes with an 
equal quantity of flour, they would 
find them produce a much lighter 
dumpling or pudding than they can 
make with flour alone : and by the 
aid of a few spoonfuls of good gravy, 
they will provide a cheap and agreeable 
appendage to the dinner-table. 

066. Cold Carrots and Turnips. — 
These mav be added to soups, if they 
have not oeen mixed with gravies : or 
if warmed up separately, and put into 
moulds in layers, they may be turned 
out, and served the same as the pota- 
toes and cabbage described above. 

066. To Boil Frenoh Beans.— Cut 
away the stalk-end, and strip ofl* the 
strings, then cut them into shreds. 
If not quite fresh, have a basin of 
spring water, with a little salt dissolved 
in it, and as the beans are cleaned and 
stringed throw them in ; put them on 
the fire in boiling water, with some 
salt in it; after they have boiled 
fifteen or twenty minutes, take one 
out and taste it ; as soon as they are 
tender take them up, throw them into 
a colander or sieve to drain. Send 
up the beans whole when they are 
very young, A piece of butter mixed 
with the beans when placed in the 



dish is a great improvement to 
them. 

067. Boiled Turnip Badiihes.— 
Boil in plenty of salted water, and in 
about twenty-five minutes they will 
be tender ; <utun well, and send them 
to table with melted butter. Common 
radishes, whenyoun^, tied in bunches, 
boiled for twenty mmutes and served 
on a toast are excellent. 

068. Harieot Beans, to boil.— 
Wash the beans, put them into a 
calico bag, and throw them into a 
saucepan filled with quite boiling 
water, with half-a-teaspoonful of salt 
and some dripping. Boil quickly for 
three and a naif hours, dmin them, 
and turn into a basin full of nice 
gravy. 

060. Asparagus (often miscalled 
** ospatio^ross "). —Scrape the stalks till 
they are clean ; throw them into a van 
of cold water, tie them up in bunales 
of about a quarter of a hundred each ; 
cut off the stalks at the bottom to a 
uniform length, leaving enough to 
serve as a handle for the green part ; 
put them into a stewpan of boiling 
water, with a handful of salt in it. 
Let it boil, and skim it. When they 
are tender at the stalk, which will be 
in from twenty to thirty minutes, they 
are done enough. Watch the exact 
time of their liecoming tender ; take 
them up that instant. While the 
asparagus is boiling, toast a round of 
a quartern loaf, about half-an-inck 
thick ; brown it delicately on both 
sides ; dip it lightly in the liquor the 
asparagus was boiled in, and lay it in 
the middle of a dish ; melt some 
butter, do not put it over them, but 
serve in a butter-boat 

070. Artichokes. — Soak them in 
cold water, wash them well ; put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a 
handful of salt, and let them boil 

gently for an hour and a half or two 
outs: trim them and drain on a 
sieve ; send up melted butter with 
them, which some put into small cups, 
one for each guest. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



218 FAL8EB00D, LIKE A HETTLB, STINGS THOSE WHO MEDDLE WITH IT. 



071. Stowed Wtt«r-ereit.~Lay 
the cress in strong salt and water, to 
clear it from insects. Pick and wash 
nicely, and stew it in water for about 
ten minutes ; drain and chop, season 
with pspper and salt, add a little 
butter, and return it to the stewpan 
until well heated. Add a little vine* 
gar previously to serving ; put round 
it sippets of toast or fried bread. The 
above, made thin, as a substitute for 
parsley and butter, will be found an 
excellent sauce for a boiled fowl. 
There should be considerably more of 
the cress than of the parsley, as the 
flavour is much milder. 

972. Stswed Xiitliro<mis.— Cut 
off the ends of the stalks, and pare 
neatly some' middle-sized or button 
mushrooms, and put them into a basin 
of water with the juice of a lemon as 
they are done. When all are prepared, 
take them from the water with the 
hands to avoid the sediment, and put 
them into a stewpan with a little fresh 
butter, white pepper, salt, and a little 
lemon juice ; cover the pan close, and 
let them stew gently for twenty min- 
utes or half-an-hour ; then thicken the 
butter with a spoonful of flour, and 
add gradually sufficient cream, or 
cream and milk, to make the same 
about the thickness of good cream. 
Season the sauce to palate, adding a 
little pounded mace or grated nutmeg. 
Let the whole stew gently until the 
mushrooms are tender. Remove every 
particle of butter which may be float- 
ing on the top, before serving. 

978. Indieations of Wholesome 
llushrooms. — Whenever a fungus is 
pleasant in flavour and odour, it m^y 
oe considered wholesome. If, on tlie 
contrary, it have an oflensive smell, 
a bitter, astringent, or styptic taste, 
or even if it leave an unpleasant 
flavour in the mouth, it should not be 
considered fit for food. The colour, 
figure, and texture of these vegetables 
do not afford anv characters on which 
we can safely rely ; yet it may be re- 
marked that in colout the pure yellow, 



fold colour, bluish pale, dark or lustre 
rown, wine red, or the violet, belcmg 
to many that are eatable ; whilst the 
pale or sulphur yellow, bright or blood- 
red, and the greenish belong to few 
but the poisonous. The safe kinds 
have most frequently a compact, brittle 
texture ; the flesh is white; theysrow 
more readily in open places, such as 
dry pastures and waste lands, than in 
places humid or shaded by wood. In 
general, those should l^e suspected 
which grow in caverns and subterra- 
nean passages, on animal matter under- 
going putrefaction, as well as those 
whose flesh is soft or watery. 

974. To Distinguish MoshrooBU 
fh>m Poisonous FungL 

L Sprinkle a little salt on the spon^ 
parts or gills of the sample to be tri^f. 
If they turn yellow, they are ix)isonous, 
— if black, they nre wholesome. Allow 
the salt to act before you decide on the 
question. 

IL False mushrooms have a warty 
cap, or else fragments of membrane, 
adhering to the upper surface, are 
heavy, and emerge from a vulva or 
bag ; they grow in tufts or clusters in 
woods, on the stumps of trees, Ac, 
whereas the pure mushrooms grow in 
pastures. 

iii. False mushrooms have an as- 
tringent, styptic, and disagreeable 
taste. When cut they turn blue* 
They are moist on the surface, and 
generally of a rose or orange colour. 

iv. The gills of the true mushroom 
are of a pinky rod, changing to a liver 
colour. The flesh is white. The 
stem is white, solid, and cylindrical 

975. COOKSEY FOR SOLDIEHS, 

SAILOBS, TBAVSLLSB8, AHD 

EKIQBAKTS. 

The following recipes are due to 
the inventive genius of the late Alexis 
Soyer, who at one time was chief cook 
of the Reform Club : — 

976. Stewed Salt Beef and Fork. 
— Put into a saucepan about two 
pounds of well-soaked beef, cut in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LET TRTTTH BE OUR OTTIDE. 



219 



eight pitees; hUf-ft-poond of s&lt 

gork, divided in two, and also soaked ; 
alf-a-pound of rice, or six tablespoon- 
ftils ; a qaarter of a pound of onions, 
or fonr middle-sized ones, peeled and 
sliced ; two ounces of brown sugar, or 
a large tablespoonful ; a quarter of an 
ounce of pepper, and nre pints of 
water ; simmer gent] j for three hours, 
remote the fat from the top, and 
serve. This dish is enough for six 
people, and it cannot fail to be excel- 
lent if the recipe be closely followed. 
Butchers' salt meat will require only 
four hours' soaking, having been but 
lightly pickled- 

977. Mttttoil Botip.--Put into a 
pan— half-a-pound of mutton will 
make a pint of good family soup — six 
pounds of mutton, cut in four or six 
pieces ; three-ouarters of a pound of 
mixed vegetables, or three ounces of 
preserved, throe and a half toaspoon- 
fuls of salt, one teaspoonful of sugar, 
and half a teaspoonful of pepper, if 
handy ; five tablespoonfuls of l)arley or 
rice ; eight pints of water ; let it 
simmer gently for three hours and a 
half, remove the fat, and serve. 
Bread and biscuit may be added in 
small quantities. 

978. Plain Pea Boup.— Put in a 
pan six pounds of pork, well soaked 
and cut into eight ]iieces ; pour six 
quarts of water over ; one pound of 
split peas ; one teaspoonful of sugar ; 
half a teaspoonful of pepper ; four 
ounces of fresh vegetables, or two 
ounces of preserved, if handy ; lot it 
boil gently for two hours, or until the 
peas are tender. When the pork is 
rather fat, as is generally the case, 
wash it only. A quarter of a pound of 
broken biscuit may be used for the 
soup. Salt beef, when rather fat and 
well soaked, may be used for pea soup. 

979. Ttenoh. Beef Soup, or Pot au 
fOtt (Catnp ^aihion).— Put into the 
kettle six pounds of beef, cut into two 
ct threfe pieces, bones included ; one 
pound of mixed green yejgetables, or 
4alf-a-p3Und of preserved^ iu d^ked ; 



four teaspoonfhls of salt ; if handy, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one of 
sugar, and three cloves ; and eight 
pints of water. Let it boll gently 
three hours ; remove some of the fkt, 
and serve. The addition of a pound 
and a half of bread, cut into slices, or 
one pound of broken biscuits, well 
soaked, will make a yety nutritious 
soup. Skimming is not required. 

%0. ^lainBoiledBeel— Putina 
saucepan, six pounds of well-soaked 
beef, cut in two, with three quarts of 
cold water; simmer gently three 
hours, and serve. About a pound of 
either carrots, turnips, parsnips, 
greens, or cabbage, as well as dump- 
lings, may be boiled with it. 

981. Cossack's ^Itim Pudding.— 
Put into a basin one pound of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of raisins 
(stooed, if time be allowed), three- 
quarters of a pound of the fat of salt 
pork (Well washed, cut into small 
squares, or chopped), two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar or treacle ; and half-a- 
pint of water; mix all together: 
put into a cloth tied lightly ; boil 
for four hours, and serve. If time 
will not admit, boil only t^o hours, 
though four are preferable. How to 
spoil the above : — Add anything to it. 

982. MI8CELLAVE0IT8 COOXEftT. 

988. Beef Xinced. — Chit into 
small dice remaius of cold beef: the 
gtavy preserved from it on the first 
day Of it being served should be put 
in the stewpan, with the addition of 
warm water, some mace, sliced shallot, 
salt, and black pepper. Let the 
whole simmer gently fbr an hour. A 
few minutes before it is served, take 
out the meat and dish it ; add to the 
gravy some waluut ketchup, and a 
little lemon juice or walnut pickle. 
Boil up the gravy once more, and 
when hot, pour it over the meat. 
Serve it with bread sippets. 

984. Beef With Xctghed Pototooi. 
— Mash some potatoed with hot milk, 
the ^olk of an egg, some butter anj 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



230 



THB FALL OF THE LEAF 18 A WHISPER TO THE UVINO. 



nit Slice the cold beef and lay it 
at the bottom of a pie-dish, adding to 
it some sliced shallot, pepper, salt, 
and a little beef gravy ; cover the 
whole with a thick paste of potatoes, 
making the crust to rise in tne centre 
above the edges of the dish. Score 
the potato crust with the point of a 
knife in squares of equal sues. Put 
the dish before a fire in a Dutch oven, 
and brown it on all sides ; by the time 
it is coloured, the meat ana potatoes 
will be sufficiently done. 

085. Beef Babble and Squeak.— 
Cut into pieces convenient for frpng, 
cold roasted or broiled beef ; pepper, 
salt, and fry them; when done, lay 
them on a hot drainer, and while the 
meat is draining from the fat used in 
frying them, have in readiness a cab- 
bage alreadv boiled in two waters ; 
chop it small, and put it in the fryinR- 
pan with some butter, add a littTe 
pepper and keep stirrinff it, that all 
of it may be equally done. When 
taken from the fire, sprinkle over the 
cabbage a very little vinegar, only 
enough to give it a slightly acid 
taste. Place the cabbage m the 
centre of the dish, and arrange the 
sliees of meat neatly round it. 

986. BeeforXuttonLobfCOute.— 
Mince, not too finely, some cold roasted 
beef or mutton. Chop the bones, and 
put them in a saucepan with six po- 
tatoes peeled and sliced, one onion, 
also sliced, some pepper and salt ; of 
these make a gravy. When the pota- 
toes are completely incorporated with 
the gravy, take out the bones and 
put in the meat ; stew the whole to- 
gether for an hour before it is to be 
served. 

987. Beef Biftoles.— Mince and 
season cold beef, and flavour it with 
mushroom or walnut ketchup. Make 
of beef dripping a very thin paste, 
roll it out m thm pieces, about four 
inches square ; enclose in each piece 
some of the mince, in the same way 
as for puffs, cutting each neatly all 
round ; fry them in dripping to a very 



light brown. The paste can scarcely 
be rolled out too thin. 

9ea Veal Xinoed.— Cut veal from 
the fillet or shoulder into very small 
dice ; put into veal or mutton broth 
with a little mace, white pepper, salt, 
some lemon peel grated, ana a table- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, or 
mushroom powder rubbed smooth into 
the gravy. Take out some of the 
gravy when nearly done, and when 
cool enouffh thicken it with flour, cream, 
and a little butter ; boil it up with the 
rest of the gravy, and pour it over the 
meat when done. Garnish with bread 
sippets. A little lemon juice added to 
the gravy improves its flavour. 

989. Veal dressed with White 
Sauee. — Boil milk or cream with a 
thickening of flour and butter ; put 
into it thin slices of cold veal, and 
simmer it in the mvy till it is made 
hot without boiling. When nearly 
done, beat up the yolk of an egg, with 
a little anchovy and white sauce ; pom- 
it gently to the rest, stirring it all the 
time; simmeragain the whole together, 
and serve it with sippets of br^ and 
curled bacon alternately. 

990. Veal Bissoles.— Mince and 
pound veal extremely fine ; grate into 
it some remains of cooked ham. Mix 
these well toother with white sauce, 
flavoured with mushrooms : form this 
mixture into balls, and enclose each 
in pastry. Fry them in butter to a 
light brown. The same mince may 
be fried in balls without pastry, beins 
first cemented together with egg and 
bread-crumbs. 

991. Hashed Xutton or Beef — 
Slice the meat fimall, trim off the 
brown edges, and stew down the trim- 
mings with the bones, well broken, an 
onion, a bunch of thyme and parsley, 
a carrot cut into slices, a few pepper- 
corns, cloves, salt, and Apint and a 
half of water or stock. "V^en this is 
reduced to little more than three-quar- 
ters of a pint, strain it, clear it irom 
the fat, thicken it with a large dessert- 
spoonful of flour or arrowroot, add salt 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THB HOPE 18 STTRB WHICH HAS TTS FOUNDATION IN VIKTUB. 221 



and pepper, boil the whole for a few 
minutes, then lay in the meat and 
boat it well. Boiled potatoes are some- 
times sliced hot into the hash. 

092. Haricot XnttoiL — Cut small 
pieces from the neck, or loin, put them 
into boiling gravy (previously skim- 
ming the fat off)f and boil gently for 
an hour and a half, adding some sliced 
fried onions, a few carrots, and some 
salt and pepper to taste. 

008. Lamb Cntleti.— Fry slices or 
chops of lamb in butter till they are 
slightly browned. Serve them on a 
pur^ of cucumbers, or on a dish of 
spinach ; or dip the slices in bread- 
crumbs, chopped parsley, and yolk of 
an egg ; some srated lemon and a little 
nutmeg may oe added. Fry them, 
and pour a Uttle nice gravy over them 
when served. 

004. Pork Eiasoles. — Cold boiled 
pork minced very fine and seasoned 
judiciously may be made into rissoles 
with egs and bread-crumbs and fried. 
Slices of cold pork fried and laid on 
fipple sauce ako form an excellent side 
or comer dish. 

w 005. Baked Brisket of Beef: —The 
bones being removed, fill the holes 
with oysters, fiett bacon, parsley, or all 
three in separate holes ; these stuffings 
being chopped and seasoned to taste. 
Dredge it well with flour, pour upon 
it half-a-pint of broth, ba^e for three 
hours, skim off the fat, strain the 
gravy over the meat, and garnish with 
cut pickles. 

006. Lamb Stove or Lamb Stew. 
— ^Take a lamb's head and lights, open 
the jaws of the head, and wash them 
thoroughlv ; put them in a pot with 
some beef stock, made with three 
quarts of water and two pounds of shin 
of beef, strained ; boil very slowly for 
an hour ; wash and string two or three 
good handfuls of spinach ; put it in 
twenty minutes before serving ; add a 
little parsley, and one or two onions, 
a short time before it comes off the 
fire ; season with ^pper and salt, and 
aerve all together in a tureen. 



007. Boait Beef Bonei furnish a 
very relishing luncheon or supper, 
prepared with poached or fried eg^ 
and mashed potatoes as accompani- 
ments. Divide the bones, having eood 
pickings of meat on each ; score them 
in squares, pour a little melted butter 
over, and sprinkle with pepper and 
salt ; put them on a dish ; set in a 
Dutch oven for half or three-quarters 
of an hour, according to the thickness 
of the meat ; keep turning till they 
arc quite hot and brown : or broil them 
on the gridiron. Brown but do not 
bum them. Serve with piquant sauce. 

008. Harrow Bonea. — Saw the 

bones evenly, so that they will stand 
steadily ; put a piece of paste into the 
ends ; set them upright m a saucepan, 
and boil till they are done enough — a 
beef marrow bone will reouire from an 
hour and a half to two nours ; serve 
fresh-toasted bread with them. 

000. Bump Steak and Onion Sanoe. 
— Peel and slice two large onions, put 
them into a quart stewpan, with two 
tablespoonfuls of water ; cover the pan 
close, and set on a slow fire till the 
water has boiled away, and the onions 
have become a little browned ; then 
add half-a-pint of good broth, and boil 
the onions till they are tender ; strain 
the broth, and chop very fine ; season 
with mushroom ketchup, pepper, and 
salt ; put in the onions then, and let 
them boil gently for five minutes, j>our 
into the dish, and lay over it a broiled 
ramp steak. If instead of broth you 
use good beef gravy, it will be de- 
licious. 

1000. Beef or Veal Alamode.— 
Take about eleven pounds of the 
mouse buttock, — or clod of beef, — or 
blade bone,^-or the sticking-piece, or 
the like weight of the breast of veal ; 
— cut it into pieces of throe or four 
ounces each ; put in throe or four 
ounces of beef dripping, and mince a 
couple of larffe onions, and lay them 
into a lar^ deep stewpan. As soon 
as it is ouite hot, flour the meat, put 
it into tne stewpan, continue stimng 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CARS IK 8V1CICBR, OOHFOBT Itf WIHTIUI. 



with a wooden spooa ; when it kas 
been on aboat ten minutes, dredge 
with flour, and keep doing so till ^ou 
have stirred in as much as you think 
will thicken it ; then add by decrees 
about a gallon of boiling water ; Keep 
stirring it together ; skim it when it 
boils, and then put in one drachm of 
ground black pepper, two of allspice, 
and two bay-leaves ; set the pan by 
the side of the fire, or at a oistance 
over it, and let it stew very slowly for 
about three hours ; when you find the 
meat sufficiently tender, put it into a 
tureen, and it is ready for table. 

1001. Eaffovt of Cold TeaL— 

Either a necK, loin, or fillet of veal 
will furnish this excellent ragout with 
a very little expense or trouble. Cut 
the veal into handsome cutlets ; put a 
piece of butter, or clean dripping, into 
a frying-pan ; as soon as it is not, flour 
and fry the veal of a light brown ; 
take it out, and if you have no gravy 
readv, put a pint of boiling water into 
the frying-pan, ^ve it a boil-up for a 
minute, and strain it in a basin while 
YOU make some thickening in the fol- 
lowing manner : — Put an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan ; as soon as It 
melts, mix as mucn flour as will dry 
it up ; stir it over the fire for a few 
minutes, and gradually add the gravy 
you made in the frying-pan : let them 
simmer together for ten minutes ; 
season with pepper, salt, a little 
mace, and a winegtassful of mushroom 
ketchup or wine ; strain it through a 
tammy, or fine sieve, over the meat, 
and stew very gently till the meat is 
thoroughly wanned. If you have any 
ready-boUed bacon, cut it in slices, 
and put it to warm with the meat 

1002. KMk 0o«s« (being a leg 
of pork skinned, roasted, and stuffed 
goose fashion).— Parboil the leg ; take 
off the skin, and then put it down to 
roast ; baste it with butter, and make 
a sawmry powder of flnely-minced or 
dried or powdered sage, ground black 
pepper, salt, and some In^ead-crumbs, 
mbbed together thn^ugh a colander ; 



add to this a little very finely minced 
onion ; sprinkle it with this when it 
is almost roasted ; put half-a-pint of 
made gravy iuto the dish, and gooas 
stuffing under the knuckle skin ; or 
garnish the dish with balls of it fried 
or boiled. 

1008. Jugged Hare.— Wash it 

very nicely, cut it up in pieces proper 
to help at table, and put them into a 
jugging-pot, or into a stone jar, just 
sufficiently large to hold it well ; put 
in some sweet herbs, a roll or two of 
rind of a lemon, and a fine large onion 
with five cloves stuck in it ; and, if 
you wish to preserve the flavour of the 
hare, a (|uarter of a pint of water ; but 
if yon wish to make a ragout, a quarter 
of a pint of claret or port wine, and the 
juice of a lemon. Tie the jar down 
closely with a bladder, so that no steam 
can escape ; put a little hay in the 
bottom of the saucepan, in which place 
the jar ; let the water boil for about 
three hours, according to the age and 
size of the hare, keeping it boiling all 
the time, and fill up the pot as it boils 
away. Care, however, must be taken 
that it is not overdone, which is the 
general fault in all made dishes. Whem 

Suite tender, strain off the gravy from 
tie fat, thicken it with flour, and give 
it a boil-up ; lay the pieces of hare in 
a hash dish, and pour the gravy over 
it You may make a pudding the 
same as for roast hare, and boil it in 
a cloth, and when you disli up your 
hare, cut it in slices, or make force- 
meat balls of it for garnish. For sauce, 
red currant jelly {see also Stewed 
Hare, par. 926). 

1004. Curried Beel, Xadrai Way. 
— Take about two ounces of butter, 
and place it in a saucepan, with two 
small onions cut up into slices, and let 
them fry until they are a light brown ; 
then add a tablespoonful and a half of 
curry powder, and mix it up welL 
Now put in the beef, cut into pieces 
about an inch square ; pour in from a 
quarter to a thira of a pint of milk, 
and let it aimmer for thirty minutea ; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TfiET Must BUNOBR IH 9B0ST WHO WIU. HOT WORK IK HEAT. 2fl8 



ihen take it off, and plaoe it in a dish, 
with a little lemon juice. Whilst 
cooking stir constantly, to prevent it 
burning. Send to table with a wall 
of mashed potatoes or boiled rice round 
it. It greatly improves any curry to 
add with the milk a quarter of a cocoa- 
nut, scraped very small, and squeezed 
through muslin with a little water; 
this softens the taste of the curry, and, 
indeed, no curry should be made 
without it 

1005. Collared Beef.— The ribs or 
thinnest piece of the flank is the best 
for this purpose. Rub the beef with 
some coarse sugar and put it away for 
two or three days : then slightly salt 
it, and let it rest for eight or ten days. 
Next take off the bones and skin, and 
sprinkle the underside with savoury 
herbs and parsley, and roll it up 
tightly in a cloth, binding it rouud 
with a wide piece of tape. When 
cooking boU slowly. 

1000. Baffout of Buck, or any 
kiad of Poultry or Gam©.— Partly 
roast, theu divide into joints, or pieces 
of a suitable size for helping at table. 
Set it on in a stewpan, with a pint 
and a half of broth, or, if you have no 
broth, water, with any little trimmings 
of meat to enrich it ; a large onion 
stuck with cloves, a dozen berries of 
allspice, the same Quantity of black 
pepper, and the rind of half a lemon 
shaved thin. When it boils, skim it 
very clean, and then let it simmer 
gently, with the lid close, for an hour 
and a half. Then strain off the liquor, 
and take out the pieces, which keep 
hot in a basin or deep dish. Rinse 
the stewpan, or use a clean one, in 
which put two ounces of butter, and 
as mucn ilour or other thickening as 
will bring it to a stiff paste ; add to it 
the gravy by degrees. Let it boil up, 
then add a glass of port wine, a little 
lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of salt ; 
simmer a few minutes. Put the meat 
in a deep dish, strain the gravy over, 
and garnish with sippets of toasted 
bread. The flavour may be varied at 



pleasure by adding ketchup, curry 
powder, or vinegar. "There should 
be two," said the Abb6 Morellet, "to 
eat a turkey stuffed with truces. I 
am going to have one to-day. We 
shall be tioo, the turkey and myself I " 

1007. To DreM Cold Poultry, or 
Babbit. — Cut the cold bird or rabbit 
in quarters, beat up an e^ or two 
(according to the quantity to be 
dressed) with a little grated nutmeg, 
and pepper and salt, some parsley 
minced nne, and a few crumbs of 
bread; mix these well together, and 
cover the pieces with this batter: 
broil them, or put them in a Dutch 
oven, or have ready some drippins" hot 
in a pan, in which fry them a light 
brown colour ; thicken a little gravy 
with some flour, put a large spoonful 
of ketchup to it, lay the (it in a dish, 
and pour the sauce round it ; garnish 
with slices of lemon and toasted bread. 

1009. Pulled Turkov, Powl, or 
Chicken. — Skin a cold chicken, fowl, 
or turkey ; take off the fillets from the 
breasts, and put them into & stewpan 
with the rest of the white meat and 
wings, side-bones, and meriy-thought, 
with a pint of broth,. a largo blade of 
mace pounded, a shaUot minced fine, 
the juice of half a lemon, and a strip 
of the peel, some salt, and a few grains 
of cayenne ; thicken it with flour and 
butter, and let it simmer for two or 
three minutes, till the meat is warm. 
In the meantime score the legs and 
rump, powder them with pepper and 
salt, broil them in a dish, and lay the 
pulled chicken round them. Three 
tableapoonfttls of good cream, or the 
yolks of as many eggs, will be a great 
improvement to it. 

lOlQ. Haahed Poultry, Game, or 
BabMt. — Cut them into joints, put 
the trimmings into a stewpan with a 
quart of the broth in which they were 
boiled, and a large onion cut in four ; let 
the whole boil half-an-hour : strain it 
through a sieve ; then put two table- 
spooniuls of flour in a lHisin« and mix 
it well by degrees with ^e hot broth ; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



224 



AN R0KX8T WORD IS BETTER THAN A CARELESS OATH. 



set it on the lire to boil up, then strain 
it through a sieve: wash out the 
stewpan, lay the poultry in it, and 
pour the gravy on it (through a sieve) ; 
set it by me side of the fire to simmer 
very gently (it must not boil) for fifteen 
minutes ; five minutes before you serve 
it u^, cut the stuffing in slices, and 
put it in to warm, then take it out, 
and lay it round the edge of the dish, 
and put the poultry in the middle ; 
skim the fat off the gravy, then shake 
it round well in the stewpan, and pour 
it over the hash. Garnish the dish 
with toasted sippets. 

1011. Hashed Duoki or Oeese.— 

Cut an onion into small dice ; put it 
into a stewpan with a bit of butter ; 
fry it, but do not let it get any colour ; 
put as much boiling water into the 
stewpan as will make sauce for the 
hash ; thicken it with a little flour ; 
cut up the duck, and put it into the 
sauce to warm ; do not let it boil ; 
season it with pepper and salt and 
ketchup. 

1012. Country Captain.— Cut a 
chicken up small, melt some butter in 
a frying-pan, in which there is an onion 
cut into fine slices. Frv the chicken, 
sprinkling it plentifully with good 
curry powder, add a little salt, and 
fry till cooked. Turn the pieces fre- 
quently and serve very hot, placing 
some fried onions over them. 

1018. A KiceWayof Cooking Cold 
Fowl. — Beat the whites of two eggs 
to a thick froth ; add a small bit of 
butter, or some salad oil, flour, a little 
lukewarm water, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of beer, beaten altogether till it is 
of the consistency of very thick cream. 
Cut up the fowl into small pieces, 
strew over it some chopped parsley 
and shallot, pepper, salt, and a little 
vinegar, and let it lie till dinner-time ; 
dip the fowl in the batter, and fry it 
in boiling lajd, of a nice light brown. 
Veal that has been cooked may be 
dressed in the same way. 

1014. To Carry Xeftt, Poultry, 
4o. — Cut up a good fowl ; skin it 



or not, as you please ; fry it nicely 
brown : slice two or three onions, and 
fry them ; put the fried fowl and 
onions into a stewpan with a table- 
spoonful of curry powder, and one 
clove of garlic : cover it with water or 
veal gravy : let it stew slowly for one 
hour, or till very tender ; have ready, 
mix^ in two or three spoonfuls of 
good cream, one teaspoouful of flour, 
two ounces of butter, juice of a lemon, 
some salt ; after the cream is in, it 
must only have one boil up, not to 
stew. Any spice may be added if the 
cxmy powder is not highly seasoned. 
With chicken, rabbit, or fish, observe 
the same rule. Curry is made also 
with sweetbreads, breast of veal, veal 
cutlets, lamb, mutton or pork chops, 
lobster, turbot, soles, eels, oysters, 
&C. Any kind of white meat is fit for 
a curry. 

1016. Curried Eygs.— Slice two 
onions and fry them in butter, add a 
tablespoonful of curry powder ; let the 
onions and curry powder stew in a 
pint of good broth till the former are 

Suite tender ; mix a cup of cream, and 
iiicken with arrowroot, or rice flour. 
Simmer a few minutes, then add six 
or eight hard-boiled eggs cut in slices ; 
heat them thoroughly, but do not let 
them boil. 

1016. Curried Oystan.— This re- 
cipe may be greatly modified, both 
in quantity and ingredients. Let a 
hundred of large oysters be opened 
into a basin without losing one drop 
of their liquor. Put a lump of fresn 
butter into a good-sized saucepan, and 
when it boils, add a large onion, cut 
into thin slices, and let it fry in the 
uncovered stewpan until it is of a rich 
brown : now aad a bit more butter, 
and two or three tablespOonfuls of 
currypowder. When those ingredients 
are well mixed over the fire with a 
wooden spoon, add gradually either 
hot water, or broth from the stock- 
pot ; cover the stewpan, and let the 
whole boil up. Meanwhile, have 
ready the meat of a cocoa-nut, grated 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PLAIN WORDS MAKE THE MOST ORNAMENTAL SENTENCES. 



225 



or rasped fine, put this into the 
stewpan with an unripe apple, chopped. 
Let the whole simmer over the fire 
until the apple Ib dissolved, and the 
cocoa-nut very tender; then add a 
cupful of strong thickening made of 
flour and water, and sufficient salt, as 
a curry will not bear being salted at 
table. Let this boil up for five 
minutes. Have ready also a vegetable 
marrow, or part of one, cut into bits, 
and sufficiently boiled to require little 
or no further cooking. Put this in 
with a tomato or two. These vege- 
tables improve the flavour of the dish, 
but either or both of them may be 
omitted. Now put into the stewpan 
the oysters with their liquor, and the 
mUk of the cocoa-nut. if it be perfectly 
sweet ; stir them well with the former 
ingredients ; let the curry stew gently 
for a few minutes, then throw in the 
strained juice of half a lemon. Stir 
the curry from time to time with a 
wooden spoon, and as soon as the 
oysters are done enough, serve it up 
with a corresponding dish of rice on 
the opposite side of the table. This 
dish IS considered at Madras the ne 
plus ultra of Indian cookery. 

1017. Fried Oyitari.— Laige oys- 
ters are the best. Simmer for a 
minute or two in their own Honor ; 
drain perfectly dry; dip in yotk of 
egg, and then in bread-crumbs, sea- 
soned with nutmeg, cayenne, and salt ; 
fry them of a light brown. They are 
chiefly used as garnish for fish, or for 
rump steaks ; but if intended to be 
eaten alone, make a little thick melted 
butter, moistened with the liquor of 
the oysters, and serve as sauce. 

lOia Stewed Oysteri.— The beard 
or fringe is generally taken ofi*. When 
this is done, set on the beards with 
the liquor of the oysters, and a little 
white gravy, rich, but unseasoned ; 
having Doiled for a few minutes, strain 
off the beards, put in the oysters, and 
thicken the gravy with flour and 
butter (an ounce of butter to half-a- 
pint of stew), a little salt, pepper. 



and nutmeg, or mace, a spoonful of 
ketchup, and three of cream ; some 
prefer a little essence of anchovy to 
Ketchup, others the juice of a lemon* 
others a glass of white wine ; the 
flavour may be varied according to 
taste. Simmer till the stew is thick, 
and the oysters warmed through, but 
avoid lettmK them boiL Lay toasted 
sippets at the bottom of the dish and 
round the edges. 

1010. Cold Meat Broiled witli 
Poaehed Eggs. — The inside of a sirloin 
of beef or a leg of mutton is the best 
for this dish. Cut the slices of equal 
thickness, and broil and brown them 
carefully and slightly over a clear 
smart fire, or in a Dutch oven ; give 
those slices most fire that are least 
done ; lay them in a dish before the 
fire to keep hot, while you poach the 
eggs and mash the potatoes. This 
n^es a savoury luncheon or supper. 
The meat should be undercUme the 
first time. 

1020. Pork Sansagei.— Take some 
pig*s meat, and cut out all the skin 
and nerves. Chop fine, and put it in 
a pan with some parsley, mint, garlic, 
thyme, bumet, and maijoram (minced 
up fine), some powdered pepper and 
cloves, and a little salt, well mix 
these with a wooden spoon, then put 
in a tumblerful of white wine for each 
two pounds of meat — ^and again mix 
with the spoon. Have some nice 
clean skins, which should be well 
rubbed with lemon juice and put 
them in clean water in which there is 
plenty of lemon juice. After a short 
time take them out, fill with the 
meat, and tie up in lengths of three 
or three and a half inches. They 
should then be hung up to dry for 
a few days. 

1021. Oxford Saniagei.— To each 
pound of lean pork allow one pound 
of lean veal, one pound of fat, part 
pork and part veal. Chop and oeat 
well with a lard-beater. Allow one 

Sound of bread-crumbs, thyme, a 
ttle parsley; an ounce of sage leaves, 
p 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



220 



A ptTEL ;8 FOLLY PLAYING AT MFRDKIl. 



chopped very small ; two heads ol 
leeks, or a little garlic, or shallot, 
chopj[>ed very fiue ; salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. To each pound allow one 
egg, tlie yolks and whites separately ; 
beat both well, mix in the yolks, and 
as much of the whites as is necessary 
to moisten the bread. Then make 
the saii>ages in the usual way. 

Xj(^28. Worcettar S^iuayef are 

made ot beef, &c. ; add allspice, and 
any other spices and herbs you may 
choose. 

;023. Vutton 8»uiiagef.— The 
lean of the leg is the best. Add 
half as much of beef suet ; that is, a 
pound of lean and lialf-a-pound of 
suet (this proportion is good for all 
sausages). Add oysters, anchovies 
chopped very fine, and flavour with 
st*asoning. No herbs. These will 
require a little fat in the pan to fry. 

1024. Veal Sansagef are made 
exactly as Oxford sausages, except 
that you add ham fat, or f&t bacon ; 
and, instead of sago, use marjoram, 
thyme, and parsley. 

1086. Bologna Sauiages.— Take 
equal quantities of bacon, fat and 
lean, beef, veal, pork, and beef suet ; 
chop them small, season with pepper, 
salt, &c., sweet herbs, and sa^ rubbed 
fine. Have a well-washed intestine, 
fill, and prick it ; boil gently for an 
hour, and lay on straw to dnr. They 
may be smoked the same as hams. 

1026. Saveloys are made of salt 
pork, fat and lean, with bread-crumbs, 
pepi^er, and sage ; they are alwavs put 
In skins ; boil half-an-hour slowly. 
These are eaten cold. 

1027. To Prepare SaoMtse Sldnf. 

— Turn them inside out, and stretch 
them on a stick ; wash and scrape them 
in several waters. When thoroughly 
cleansed, take them off the sticks, and 
soak in salt and water two or three 
hours before filling. 

1028. Blao)E Ho^ Pnading.— 

Catch the blood of a hog ; to each 
quart of blood put a large teaspoonfnl 



of salt, and stir it without ceasing 
till it is cold. Simmer half-a-pint or 
a pint of Embdeu groats in a small 
quantity of water till tender ; there 
must be no gruel. The best way of 
doing it is in a double saucepan, so 
that you need not put more water 
than will moisten them. Chop up 
(for one quart of blood) one pound 
of the inside fat of the hog, and a 
quarter of a pint of bread-crumbe, a 
tablespoonful of sage, chopped fine, a 
teaspoonfnl of thyme, three drachms 
each of allspice, salt and pepper, and 
a teacupfuf of cream. Wi.en the 
blood is cold, strain it through a 
sieve, and add to it the fat, then the 
groats, and then the seasoning. When 
Mell mixed, put it into the skin of 
the largfst gUt, well cleansed ; tie it 
in lengths of about nine inches, and 
boil gently for twenty minutes. Take 
them out and prick them when they 
have boiled a few minutes. 

J.Q29. Sweetbread.— Trim a fine 
sweetbread (it cannot be too fre^i); 
paiboU it for five minutes, and throw 
it i;ito a basui of cold water. Theu 
roast it plain — or beat up the yolk of 
an egg, and prepare some fine bread- 
crumbs ; or when the sweetbread is 
cold, dry it thoroughly in a cloth ; 
run a lark-spit skewer through it; 
egg it with a paste-brush ; powder it 
well with bread-crumbs, and roast it. 
For sauce, fried bi-ead-cmmbs, melted 
butter, with a little mushroom ketch- 
up, and lemon juice, or serve on 
buttered toast, gamibhed with egg 
sauce, or with grax-y. It may also be 
cooked in a tin Dutch oven, or fried. 

1030. Sweetbread! Plain.— Par- 
boil and slice them as before, dry 
them in a clean cloth, flour them, 
and fry them a delicate brown ; take 
care to drain the fat well, and garnish 
with slices of lemon, and sprigs of 
chervil or parsley, or crisp pamey. 
Serve with sauce, and slices of ham 
or bacon, or forcemeat balls. 

1091. Broiled llidneyi . — Cut 
them through the long way, score 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BEVENOB 18 TH^ ONtY DEBT WHICH IT IS WBONG TO PAY. 



227 



them, sprinkle a little popper and 
salt on them, and run a wire skewer 
through to keep them from curling 
on the gridiron, so that they may be 
evenly ^roiled. Broil over a clear 
fire, taking care not to prick the 
kidney with the fork, and turning 
them often till they are done ; they 
will take about ten or twelve minutes, 
if the fire is brisk. 

1032. Fried KidAeyi.— Another 
mode is to fry them in butter, and 
make gravy for them in the pan (after 
yott have taken out the kidneys), by 
putting in a teaspoonful of flour ; as 
Boon as it looks brown, put in as much 
water as will make gravy. Kidneys 
will take five minutes more to fry 
than to broil. 

1033. S»at^ Kidneys.— Take the 
skins off the kidneys, and cut away 
the piece of cartilage by which they 
are neld ; but do not cut the kidneys 
into Tic^lves, Place some rashers of 
bacon along the bottom of an iron 
saucepan, and when they are cooked 
take them out. Then put the kidneys 
into the saucepan, with just suflBcient 
fat to cover them, having previously 
floured them. Leave the cover off 
the 8auce^)an, after thev have been in 
for five mmutes, turn them over (but 
not with a fork, or you may prick 
them and let the gravy out). Put a 
dish, with a little butter, salt, and 
pepper in it, in the oven or in front 
of tne fire to warm ; and in another 
five minutes the kidneys will be 
cooked. Take them out and put 
them all in the dish ; then cut them 
in half, placing a piece of the bacon 
between each piece of kidney. They 
cannot be cooked in a frying-pan, as 
it is not deep enough to hold sufficient 
fat to cover them. 

1034. devilled Turkey, <te.~The 

nra and rump, or legs, &c., of a 
ed turkey, capon, or goose, or 
mutton or veal kidney, scored, pep- 
pered> salted, and broiled, sent up 
lor a relish, being made very hot with 
jd^yexuiA pepper. 



IPSg. Scotch WoodcQck.— Three 
or four slices of bread ; toast and 
butter well on both sides, — nine or 
ten anchovies washed, scraped and 
chopped fine ; put them between the 
slices of toast, — have ready the yolks 
of four eggs well beaten, and half-a- 
pint of cream — which set over the fire 
to thicken, but not boil, — then pour 
it over the toast, and serve it to table 
as hot as possible. 

1036. Anclu)Yy Toast— Toas^ ^ 
thin round of oread, cut the crusts 
off, and butter it. Mix a little melte^ 
butter with a tablespoonful of an- 
chovy f^uce and a teaspoonful of flour, 
mixed with cold and set with boiling 
water. Slightly soften the toast by 
drips of boiling water on it, then 
spread the ancnovy on the toast, 
make it hot in the oven, and serve on 
a hot dish, the toast being cut into 
sippets, each with half a hard-boiled 
egg upon it. 

1.037- ^roiled 9am or Baco^.— 

The slices should not be less thai^ 
one-eighth or more than a quarter 
of an inch thick, and, for delicate 
persons, should be soaked in hot 
water for a (quarter of an hour, and 
tlien well wiped and dried before 
broiling. If you wish to curl a 
slice, roll it up, and put a wooden 
skewer through it; then it may be 
dressed in a cheese-toaster or a Butch 
oven. 

1088. Belishin^ Bashers of Cold 
Bacon. — If you have any cold' bcvcon, 
you may make a very nice dish of it 
by cutting it into slices about a quarter 
of an inch thick. Then grate some 
crust of bread as directed for ham, 
and powder the slices well with it 
on both sides ; lay the rashers in a 
cheese-toaster, — they will be browned 
on one side in about three minutes : — 
turn them and do the other. These 
are a delicious accompaniment to 
poached or fried eggs: — the bacon, 
having been boiledfirst, is tender 
and mellow. — They are an excellent 
garnish round veal cutlets, sweet* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



228 



SNVT IS A SSLF-EXXCUnONXR. 



breads, calf 8>head hash, green peas, 
or beans, kc 

1089. Liver and Bacon.— Wash 

the liver (but do not soak it), wipe, 
and cut into slices, flouring each 
piece. Cut off the rind from the 
Dacon, and fry the latter in rashers. 
Place them in a dish in front of the 
fire while the liver is being fried in 
the bacon fat Mix a little flour into 
a paste with water, add pepper and 
salt, and place in fr^in^-pan. Let 
boil gently, and strain it over the 
Uyer and bacon. Serve nice and hot. 

1040. SCOTCH POBBIBOB.— For 

Four Persons. — Boil three pints of 
water in a clean saucepan, add a 
teaspoonfiil of salt ; mix very gradu- 
ally, while the water is boiling, one 
pound of fine oatmeal, stirring con- 
stantly, while you put in the meal, 
with a round stick about eighteen 
inches long, called a ** spirtle." Con- 
tinue stirring for fifteen minutes ; 
then pour into soup plates, allow it 
to cool a little, and serve with sweet 
milk. Scotch porridge is one of the 
most nutritive diets that can be given, 
especially for young persons, on ac- 
count of the bone-producinR elements 
contained in oatmeal. It is sometimes 
boiled with milk instead of water, but 
the mixture is then rather rich for 
delicate stomachs. 

1041. SCOTCH BB08S.— This 

favourite Scotch dish is generally 
made with the liquor in which meat 
has been boiled. Put half-a-T)int 
of oatmeal into a porringer with a 
little salt, add as much broth as will 
mix it to the consistence of hasty 
pudding or a little thicker, — lastly, 
take a little of the fiit that swims on 
the broth and put it on the porridge, 
and eat it in the same way as hasty 
pudding. 

1042. SCOTCH BASLST BBOTH. 

— Dr. Kitchiner, from whose Cook's 
Oracle^ we take this recipe, after 

1 Published by Messrs. Houlston and 
Sons, Fatemoster Square, London, B.C. 



testing it, says: — *'This is a most 
frugal, agreeable, and nutritive meaL 
It will neither lighten the purse nor 
lie heavy on the stomach. It will 
furnish you with a pleasant soup, 
AND MEAT for eight persons. Wash 
three-quarters of a pound of Scotch 
barley in a little cold water; put it 
in a soup-pot with a shin or leg of 
beef, of about ten pounds weight, 
sawn into four pieces (tell the butcher 
to do this for you) ; cover it well with 
cold water ; set it on the fire ; when 
it boils, skim it very clean, and put 
in two onions, of about three ounces 
weight each ; set it by the side of the 
fire to simmer very gently for about 
two hours ; then skim all the fat 
clean off, and put in two heads of 
celery and a large turnip cut into 
small squares ; season it with salt, 
and let it boil for an hour and a half 
longer, and it will be ready : take out 
the meat carefully with a slice (cover 
it up, and set it by the fire to keep 
warm), and skim the broth well before 
you put it in the turoen. Put a quart 
of the soup into a basin, and aoout 
an ounce of flour into a stewpan, and 
pour the broth to it by degrees, stir- 
ring it well together ; set it on the 
fire, and stir it till it boils, then let 
it boil up, and it is ready. Put the 
meat in a ragout dish, and strain the 
sauce throng a sieve over the meat ; 
you may put to it some capers, or 
minced gherkins, or walnuts, kc. If 
the beef has been stewed with proper 
care, in a very gentle manner, and 
taken up at * the critical moment when 
it is just tender,* you will obtain an 
excellent and savoury meal." 

1048. HOTCHPOTCH FOB SITIC- 
XEB. — Make a stock from the neck 
or ribs of lamb or mutton, reserving 
some chops, which cook for a shorter 
time and serve in the tureen. Chop 
small four turnips, four carrots, a few 
young onions, a little parsley, and one 
lettuce ; boil for one hour. Twenty 
minutes before they are done, put in 
a cauliflower cut small, one quart of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WISB PEOPLE ARE THE MOST MODEST. 



229 



shelled peas, and a pint of young 
beans. 

1044. HOTCH-POTCH FOB WHT- 
TSB. — This can be made of beef or 
mutton, or, for those who are partial 
to Scotch cookery, a sheep's head and 
feet, one pound of old green peas, 
steeped all the night previously, one 
large turnip, three carrots, four leeks, 
a little parsley, all cut small, with 
the exception of one carrot, which 
should be grated ; add a small bunch 
of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. 
The peas take two hours and a half 
to cook ; the other vegetables two 
hours ; the head three hours ; and 
the feet four hours. 

1046. BESP BBOTH may be made 
by adding vegetables to essence of 
beef — or you may wash a leg or shin 
of beef, the bone of which nas been 
well cracked by the butcher; add 
any trimmings of meat, game, or 
poultry, heads, necks, gizzards, feet, 
&c. ; cover them with cold water ; 
stir the whole up well from the 
bottom, and the moment it begins 
to simmer, skim it carefully. Your 
broth must be perfectly clear and 
limpid ; on this depends the goodness 
of the soups, sauces, and gravies of 
which it is the basis. Add some cold 
water to make the remaining scum 
rise, and skim it again. When the 
scum has done rising, and the surface 
of the broth is auite clear, put in 
one moderate-sizea carrot, a head of 
celery, two turnips, and two onions, 
— it should not have any taste of 
sweet herbs, spice, or garlic, &c. ; 
either of these flavours can easily be 
added, if desired,— cover it close, set 
it by the side of the fire, and let it 
simmer very gently (so as not to waste 
the broth) for four or five hours, or 
more, accordiD|^ to the weight of the 
meat Strain it through a sieve into 
a clean and dry stone pan, and set it 
in the coldest place you have, if for 
after use. 

1046. CLBAB OBAYT SOUP.— 

This may be made from shin of beef, 



which should not be largQ or coarse. 
The meat will be found serviceable 
for the table. From ten pounds of 
the meat let the butcher cut off five 
or six fipom the thick fleshy part, and 
again divide the knuckle, that the 
whole may lie compactly in the vessel 
in which it is to be stewed. Pour in 
three quarts of cold water, and when 
it has been brought slowly to boil, 
and been well skimmed, tMow in an 
oimce and a half of salt, half a large 
teaspoonful of peppercorns, eight 
cloves, two blades of mace, a faggot 
of savoury herbs, a couple of small 
carrots, and the heart of a root of 
celery ; to these add a mild onion or 
not, at choice. When the whole has 
stewed very softly for four hours, 
probe the large bit of beef, and, if 
quite tender, fift it out for table ; let 
the soup be simmered from two to 
three hours longer, and then strain it 
through a fine sieve, into a clean pan. 
When it is perfectly cold, clear off 
every particle of fat: heat a couple 
of quarts ,* stir in, when it boils, half- 
an-ounce of sugar, a small tablespoon- 
ful of good soy, and twice as much of 
Harvey's sauce, or, instead of this, of 
clear and fine mushroom ketchup. If 
carefully made, the soup will be per- 
fectly transparent, and of p)od colour 
and flavour. A thick shoe of ham 
will improve it, and a pound or so of 
the neck of beef, with an additional 
pint of water, will likewise enrich its 
quality. A small quantity of good 
broth may be made of the fragments 
of the whole, boiled down with a few 
firesh vegetables. 

1047. JTTLIEHHE SOTO.— Take 
three carrots, three turnips, one onion, 
a leek, a few celery leaves, half a 
lettuce, some chervil, one ounce of 
butter, and two quarts of stock. Cut 
the vegetables into thin strips: fiy 
the carrots in the butter, boil the 
stock and pour over them ; add the 
other vegetables and stew for an hour. 

1048. XOCX TTTBTLB 80TO.— 

Take three pounds of knuckle of veal. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



280 



FOOLS HAVE AN ABIINDANCK Of VANITY. 



one cow-hee], a large onion stuck with 
cloves, some sweet herbs, two blades 
of mace, six peppercorns, eighteen 
forcemeat balls, a little lemon juice, 
and a glass of sherry. Put everything, 
except the forcemeat balls and tne 
lemon juice, into an earthen jar and 
stew for six hours ; when cold skim 
off the fat and strain the liquor. Add 
the forcemeat balls and lemon juice, 
cut up the meat into small squares 
and warm the soup up. 

1040. XULLIGiLTAWHT SOUP. 

— Throe onions, one carrot, one turnip, 
one stick of rhubarb, one ounce of 
bacon, one ounce of butter, two ounces 
of flour, one tablesix)onful of curry 
powder, some cayenne, salt, lemon 
juic^, and one quart of stock. Melt 
the butter and fry the bacon in it for 
five minutes, then fry the vegetables 
and rhubarb. Add the flour and 
curry powder, and fry all. Then add 
the stock and boil, skim, pass through 
a sieve, and add the lemon juice. 

1060. OXTAIL 80trP.— One ox- 
tail, two carrots, olie turnip, one onion 
Stuck with clotes, half head of celery, 
three ounces of butter, two ounces of 
flour, a bunch of herbs, twelve pepper- 
corns, two Quarts of water, and some 
salt. Blanch andjoint the tail and dry 
the pieces. Melt half the butter in a 
fttewpan, put in the pieces of tail and 
the vegetables (cut small) and fry for 
eight or ten minutes. Add salt and 
water and let simmer for two hours. 
In another pan fry the butter till 
brown and add the stock. Stir till it 
comes to the boil, skim, and season 
to taste. Then strain it ofi* into the 
tureen, with the tail, carrots and 
turnips. 

1051. COCS-A-LESKIE.— Boil 
from four to six pounds of good shin 
of beef well broken, until the liquor 
is very good. Strain it and add a good - 
sized fowl, with two or three leeks cut 
in pieces about an inch long, put in 
pepper and salt to taste, boil slowly 
about an hour, then put in as many 
mate leeks, and give it thfee-quartcrs 



of an hour longer. A somewhat 
similar soup may be made of good beef 
stock, and leeks cut up ana put in 
without a fowl, though this cannot h6 
called Cock-a-Leekie with propriety. 

1062. A«f AKAOtrs SOVP.-Two 

quarts of good beef or veal stock, fottr 
onions, two or three turnips, some 
sweet herbs, and the white parts of a 
hundred young asparagus, — if old, half 
that quantity, — and let them simmer 
till fit to be rubbed through a hair 
sieve ; strain and season it ; have 
ready the boiled green tops of the 
asparagus, au4 add them to the soup. 

1063. CABBOT SOUP.— Scrape 
and wash half-a-dozen large carrots ; 
peel off the red outside (which is the 
only part used for this soup) ; put it 
into a gallon stewpan, with one heaa 
of celery, and an onion cut into thin 
pieces ; take two quarts of beef, veal, 
or mutton broth, or liquor in whifch 
mutton or beef has been boiled, as the 
foundation for this soup. Stock that 
is equally good may be made by boil- 
ing down some cold roast inuttoli or 
beef bones. When you have put the 
broth to the roots, cover the stewpan 
close, and set it on a slow stove for 
two hours and a half, when the car- 
rots will be soft enough. At this 
stage some cooks put in a teacupftll of 
breMwl-cnrmbs. Next boil the soup for 
two or three minutes ; rub it through 
a hair sieve, with a wooden spooA, and 
add as much broth as will make it a 
proper thickness, i.e, almost as thick 
as pea-soup ; put it into a clean stew- 
pan, make it hot and serve. 

1064. tfiOfiXABtE SOt*.~Peel 
and cut into very small pieces three 
onions, three turnips, one carrot, and 
four potatoes, put tliem into a stewpan 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, 
the same of lean ham, and a bunch 
of parsley, pass them ten minutes over 
a sharp ure ; then add a large spoonful 
of flour, mix well in, moisten with two 
quarts of broth, and a pint of boiling 
milk ; bojl irp, keening it stirred ; 
season with a uttle sslit and sngar, an4 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WALK 8WIPTLY FROM TEMPTATION, OR IT MAY OVERTAKE YOU. 231 



run it through a hair sieve ; put it into 
another stewpan, boil again, skim, and 
servo with fnod bread in it, 

1055. VEBMIOELLI SOUP.— To 
three quarts of gravy soup, or stock, 
add six ounces of vermicelli. Simmer 
for half-an-hour ; stir frequently. 

1066. BBSF BXTKACT.— Take a 
pound of good juicy beef from which 
all the skin and fat "has been cut away, 
chop it up like sausage meat ; mix it 
thoroughly with a pint of cold water, 
place it on the side of the stove to heat 
very slowly ^ and give it an occasional 
stir. It may stand two or three hours 
before it is allowed to simmer, and 
will then re(|uire but fifteen minutes 
of gentle boiling. Salt should be added 
when the boiling commences, and this 
for invalids in ceneral, is the only 
seasoning required. When the extract 
is thus far prepared, it may be poured 
from the meat into a basrn, and allowed 
to stand until any particle of fat on the 
sur&ce can be SKimmed off, and the 
sediment has subsided and left the 
Soup quite clear, when it nmy be 
poured off gently, heated in a clean 
saucepan, and served. The scuni 
should be well cleai*ed as it accumu- 
ktes. 

1057. BifiF tlteA.— Beef extract, 
by adding water, forms the best beef 
tea or broth for invalids. A dessert- 
spoonful of sago put into a pint of 
cold beef tea, and boiled until the 
sago is dissolved, will be found most 
nourishing. You may use tapioca or 
rice insteall ; those will have to be put 
into cold beef tea, and boiled, or tney 
will not dissolve. 

1058. ESSElrcS OF BXEF may 
be prepared as follows : — Take one 
pound of lean beef, chopped very 
small, and a half-pint of water. Put 
these into a botfle and agit^ite them 
for half-an-hour; then run them 
through a pieve into a jup^. Boil the 
undissolved part for twenty minutes 
in one pint of water. Strain and mix 
with tne other portion, adding spice, 
Sfdt, &c., and pour the essenco whilst 



hot into a bottle, or can, whict murt 
be tightly closed up at once. There 
are many Kinds of^ essences of mtat 
now on the market, chief among which 
are Bovril, Brand's essence, Liebig's 
and Lipton's extracts, &c. They are 
all of gi'eat service in the sick-room, 
and are not very expensive. 

1050. BEEF GLAZE, OB POET- 
ABLE SOUP, is simply the essence of 
beef conden^ ty evaporation. It 
may be put into x»ots, like potted 
meats, or into skins, as sausazes, and 
will keep for many months. If further 
dried in cakes or lozenges, by being 
laid on pans or dishes, and frequently 
turned, it will keep for years, and 
supply soup at any moment. 

1060. BEdWH fiTOC«.-Put five 
pounds of shin of beef, three pounds 
of knuckle of veal, and some sheep's 
trotters or cow-heel into a closelv- 
covered stewpan, to draw out the 
gravy very gently, and ajlow it to 
become nearly broWn. Then pour 
in sufficient boiling water to entirely 
cover the meat, and let it boil up, 
skimming it frequently ; seasoning it 
with whole peppers, salt, and roots, 
herbs, and vegetables or any kind. 
Tliat being done, let it boil gently five 
or six hours, pour the broth off from 
the meat, ana lot it stand during the 
night to cool. The following morning 
take off the scum and fat, and put i? 
away in a stone Jar for further uso 
it may be made from all sorts of meat, 
bones, remnants of poultry, game, &c. 

1061. BBOWK CFBAVT.— Three 
onions sliced, and fried in butter to a 
nice brown ; toftst a large thin slice of 
bread until quite hard and of a deep 
brown. Take these with any pieces 
of meat, bone, &c. , and some herbs, 
and set them on the fire, with water 
according to judgment, and stew down 
until a rich and thick gravy is produced. 
Season, strain, and keep cool. 

1062. The use of little or much 
gravy with one's food is, of course, a 
matter of taste; but Sydney Smith, in 
describing, a dinnef at which he was 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



282 



VIOB CHEATS ITS YOTABIXS. 



present, says — ** I heard a lady who 
sat next to me say in a low, sweet 
voice, 'No gravy, sir.* I had never 
seen her before, but I tnmed suddenly 
round and said, * Madam, I have been 
looking for a person who disliked 
gravy all my life ; let us swear eternal 
mendship!^ She looked astonished, 
but took the oath, and what is better 
—kept it." 

1068. POTTED BEIF.— Take 
three or four pounds, or any smaller 
quantity, of lean beef, free from 
sinews, and rub it well with a mixture 
made of a handful of salt, one ounce 
of saltpetre, and one ounce of coarse 
sugar ; let the meat lie in the salt for 
two days, turning and rubbing it 
twice a day. Put it into a stone jar 
with a little beef gravy, and cover it 
with a paste to keep it close. Bake 
it for several hours in a very slow 
oven till the meat is tender; then 
pour off the gravy, which should be 
in a very smafi quantity, or the juice 
of the meat will be lost ; pound the 
meat, when cold, in a marole mortar 
tiU it is reduced to a smooth paste, 
adding by degrees a little fresh butter 
melted. Season it as you proceed with 
pepper, allsnice, nutmec, pounded 
mace, and cloves, or such of these 
spices as are thought agreeable. Some 
flavour witii anchovy, ham, shallots, 
mustard, wine, flavoured vinegar, 
ragout powder, curry powder, &c., 
according to taste. When it is thor- 
oughly Wten and mingled together, 
press it closely into small shallow pots, 
nearly full, and fill them up with a 
layer a quarter of an inch thick of 
clarified butter, and tie them up with 
a bladder, or sheet of Indian rubber. 
They should be kept in a cool place. 

1064. STRASBITBO POTTED 
MEAT. — Take a pound and a half of 
rump of beef, cut into dice, and put 
it in an earthen jar, with a quarter of 
H pound of butter at the bottom ; tie 
the jar close up with paper, and set 
over a pot to boil ; when nearly done, 
add doves, mace, allspice, nutmeg, 



salt, and cayenne pepper to taste ; 
then boil till tender, and let it get 
cold. Pound the meat, with four an- 
chovies washed and boned ; add a 
quarter of a pound of oiled butter, 
work it well together with the gravy, 
warm a little, and add cochineal to 
colour. Then press into small pots, 
and pour melted mutton suet over the 
top of each. 

1065. POTTED HEATS AHD 
PASTES. — A great variety of these 
useful relishes may be purchased ready 
prepared, such as anchovy paste, beef, 
bloater paste, cod's roe, game, ham, 
ham and chicken, shrimps, Stras- 
burg meat, tongue, turkey and tongue, 
and various kinds of game. They are 
most convenient and tasty articles for 
breakfast, luncheon, or supper. Be 
Ciireful to buy those made by reliable 
firms. 

1066. POBCEICEAT BALLS 

(for turtle, mock turtle, or made 
dishes). — Pound some veal in a marble 
mortar, rub it through a sieve ^th 
as much of the udder as you have 
veal, or about a third of the quantity of 
butter: put some bread-cnimbs into 
a stewpan, moisten them with milk, 
add a fittle chopped parsley and shal- 
lot, rub them well together m a mortar, 
till they form a smooth paste ; put it 
through a sieve, and when cold, pound, 
and mix all together, with the yolks 
of three eggs boiled hard ; season the 
mixture with salt, pepper, and curry 
powder, or cayenne ; add to it the 
yolks of two raw eggs, rub it well 
together, and make it into small balls, 
which should be put into the soup or 
hash, as the case may be, ten minutes 
before it is ready. 

1067. GOOSE OB DUCE STUFF- 
IKG. — Chop very fine about two 
ounces of onion, of green sage leaves 
about an ounce (both unboiled), four 
ounces of bread-crumbs, a bit of butter 
about as big as a walnut, &c., the yolk 
and white of an egg, and a little 
pepper and salt ; some add to this a 
minced apple. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PKOPLB SWEAR BBOiLTJSB THXY KNOW THBIR WORDS ARB WORTHLESS. 288 



1068. WILD BUCK, TO BBSSa 

— ^The biids are roasted like oomnion 
ducks, but without stuffing, and with 
a rather less allowance of time for 
cooking. For example, a full-sized 
duck unll take from three-quarters of 
an hour to an hour in roasting, but a 
wild duck will take from forty to fifty 
minutes. Before carving the kni/b 
should be drawn longitumnally along 
the breast, and u\H>n those a little 
cayenne peppermust besprinkled, and a 
lemon squeezed. They require a good 
made gravy, as described below. They 
are excellent half roasted and hashed 
in a good gravy made as follows : — 

1069. SAUCE FOB WUB DUCK. 
— Simmer a teacupful of port wine, 
the same quantity of good gravy, a 
small shallot, with pepper, nutmeg, 
mace, and salt to taste, for about ten 
minutes ; put in a bit of butter and 
flour ; give it all one boil, and pour it 
over the birds, or serve in a sauce 
tureen. 

1070. WIDOEON AKD TEAL, 
TO DBE8S. — These birds may be 
roasted or half roasted and hashed, 
according to the directions given for 
wild duck, and served up with a sauce 
or gravy made in |>recisely the same 
way. A widgeon will take as long to 
roast as a wild duck, but a teal, being 
a smaller bird, will take only from 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

1071. 8ALKI 07 COLD OBOUSE. 
— ^A very tasty dish is made by cutting 
the bird up and placing the pieces in 
a stewpan. The bones, &c., should 
be broken up and put into another 
stewpan with some gravy, small pieces 
of cooked ham, some lemon peel, half- 
a-dozen shallots, some parsley, bay- 
leaves, pepper, salt, ana two glasses 
of white wine. Boil for one hour, and 
strain it over the grouse in the other 
pan. Simmer, but don't let it boil, 
and serve very hot with sippets. 

1072. MEAT AKD GAXE PIES 
AKD PUDDIKGS. 
1078. BAISED PIES.— Put two 
pounds and a half of flour on the 



pasteboard,— and set on the fire, in a 
saucepan, three-quarters of a pint of 
water, and half-a-pound of gocKl lard. 
When the water boils, make a hole in 
the middle of the flour, pour in the 
water and lard by de^ees, gently 
incorporating the flour with a spoon, 
and when it is well mixed, knead it 
with your hands till it becomes stiff ; 
dredge a little flour to prevent it 
sticking to the board, or you cannot 
make it look smooth. RoU the doujjh 
with your hands — the rolling-pin 
must not be used — to about the thick- 
ness of a quart pot ; leave a little for 
the covers, and cut the remainder into 
six circular discs. Take each of these 
pieces in succession ; put one hand in 
the middle, and keep the other close 
on the outside till you have worked it 
either into an oval or a round shape. 
Have your meat ready cut, and 
seasoned with pepper and salt ; if 
pork, cut it in small slices — ^the gris- 
Rin is the best for pasties : if you use 
mutton, cut it in very neat cutlets, 
and put them in the pies as you make 
them ; roll out the covers with the 
rolling-pin, and cut them to the size 
of the pies, wet them round the edge, 
put them on the pie. Then press Uie 
paste of each pie and its cover together 
with the thumb and finger, and lastly, 
nick the edge all round with the back 
of a knife, and bake them an hour 
and a half. 

1074. COLD PABTBIDOE OB 
GAME PIES.— Bone as many part- 
ridges as the size of pie to be made 
may require. Put a wnole raw truffle, 
peeled, into each partridge, and fill np 
the remaining space in each bird with 
good forcemeat. Make a raised crust ; 
lay a few slices of veal in the bottom, 
and a thick layer of forcemeat ; then 
the partridges, and four truffles to each 
partridge ; then cover the partridges 
and truffles over with sheets of bacon, 
cover the pie in, and finish it. It 
will take four hours' baking. Cut two 
pounds of lean ham (if eight partridges 
are in the pie) into very thin slices, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



284 



tr tS JL FOUL TONOUi THAT GIVES ^OBTH f ALSfiflOOt). 



put it in a stewpan along with the 
bones and giblets of the partiidges, 
and any othef loose gfbleta that are at 
hand, an old fowl, a iaggot of thyme 
and parsloy, a little mace, and about 
twenty-four shallots : add about a x>int 
at stock. Set the steWpan on a stove 
to simmer for half-an-hour, then put 
in three quarts of g6od stock ; lot it 
boil foi- two hours, then strain it off, 
and reduce the liquid to one pint ; add 
sherry wine to it, and put aside till 
the pie is baked. When the pie has 
been out of the oven for half-an-hour, 
boil the Residue strained from the 
bones, &c., of the partridges, and put 
it into the pie. Let it stand for 
twenty-four hours before it is esLien. — 
Do n4)t take any of thtfai from, the pie^ 
as that is what preserves it. A pie 
made in this manner will be eatublo 
for three months after it is cut ; in 
short, it cannot spoil in any reasonable 
time. All cold pies are made in this 
manner. Eithef poultry or game, 
when put itito a raised crust and 
intended not to be eaten until cold, 
should be boned, and the liquor tliat 
is to fill up the pie made from the 
bones, kc. 

1076. PABTBiDOE PFBBIHe. 

— Skin a brace of well-kept partridges, 
and cut them into pieces ; line a deep 
basin with suet crust, and lay in the 
pieces, which should be rather higlily 
seasoned with white pepper and cay- 
enne, and moderately with salt. Pour 
in water for the gravy, close the pud- 
ding carefdlly, and boil it for three 
hours or three hours and a half. 
"When mushrooms are plentiful, put a 
layer of buttons or small mushrooms, 
cleaned as for pickling, alternately 
with a layer of partridge in filling the 
pudding. When carving, the crust 
may be left untouched and merely 
emptied of its contents, where it w 
objected to, or a richer crust made 
with butter may be used instead of 
the ordinary suet crust, 

1076. CAtti filAB PIE.— Boil 
the head an hour and a half, or rather 



more. After dining from it, cut the 
remaining moat off in slices. Boil the 
boftos in a Httle of the liquor for three 
hours ; then strain it otf, let it remain 
till next day, and then take oil the fat. 
To make the Fie — Boil two eggs fof 
five minutes ; let them get colaTtheli 
lay them in slices at the bottom of a 
j)ie dish, and put alternate layers of 
meat and jelly, with pepper anc| 
ehopTK'd kinon also alternately, till 
the dish is full ; cover with a crust 
and bake it. Next day turn the pie 
out uitside down. 

1077. SEA PIE.— Make a thick 
pudding crust, line a dish with it, or 
what is better, a cake-tin ; put a layer 
of sliced onions, then a layer of salt 
beef cut in slices, a layer of sliced 
potatoes, a layer of pork, and another 
of onions ; strew pei»per over all, covep 
with a crust, and tie aown tightly with 
a cloth previously dipped in boiling 
water ana floured. Boil for two hours, 
and serve hot in a dish. 

1078. BUMP-STEAK PIE— Cut 
three ]K>unds of rump-steak (that has 
been kept till tender) into pieces half 
as big as your hand, trim ofi' all the 
skin, sinews, and every part which 
has not indisputable pretensions to be 
eaten, and beat them with a chopjier. 
Chop very fine half-a-dozen shallots, 
and add to them half-an-ounce of 
pepper and salt mixed ; strew sonic of 
the seasoning at the bottom of the 
dish, then a layer of steak, tlien some 
more of the seasoning, and so on till 
the dish is full ; add half-a-gill of 
mushroom ketchup, and the same 
quantity of gravy, or red wine ; cover 
it as in the i»receding recipe, and bake 
it two hours. Large oystei*s, par- 
boiled, bearded, and laid alteniately 
with the steaks — their liquor reduced 
and substituted instead of the ketchup 
and wine, will impart a delicious 
flavour to the pie. 

lOTd. BEEFStEAE PTTMur^. 

— Line the basin with thin suet crust. 
Cut some nimp-steak into slices (first 
removing the fat and gristle) ; mix a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tP rOV DEStlt* Td KNOW, ho UbT *EAR TO ASK. 



235 



Htil6 p6pp6r and salt together, and dip 
the shces into it, then place it ronnd 
the bKsin in kyere until nearly fnll. 
Fill the puddle with oysters or mush- 
rooms, tie it up tightly and boil for 
three hours^ but do not let the vf&teT 
in the saucepan reach the top of the 
basin, liave a little extra hot gravy 
to pour into the pudding when carv- 
ing, 

1680. tMRK FIX.— Talte a dozen 
hitks, plncl^, singe, atid draw them 
(except th6 trails). Chop small, and 
mix with some scra|>ed bncon, a 
fe^ lAtishrooms, some palrsley and 
swefet hetbs, pepper, siilt, nutmeg, 
and inace; stuff the larks with it. 
Place some bac6n 6Ver the bottotn of 
a pic-dish, with some pepper, salt, and 
sweet herbs. Put in the birds, with 
sonte more s^stsoning over them, and 
cover them over wi th fat bacon. M ak^ 
H rich top crtzst, egg it over, and bake. 
"When sufficiently done, take up the 
crust, remove the bacon, pour in some 
good gravy^ place the crust down 
again, warm up, and serve. 

lObl. M&JL PI J.--Skin and draw 
rix rooks, cut out the backbones and 
put them oh one side. Be careful not 
to break th6 galls. Season the birds 
with pepper and salt, and ^lace them 
in a aeep pie-dish. Pour ovei them 
half-a-pint of wdter, a^d place a piece 
6f btitter 6n f hem. Make a light crust, 
cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, 
and bake for tw6 and a half to three 
hours. 

lOeia. iri&L Pli.— Take some 
of the middle or scrag of a small neck : 
season it with pe^>per and salt, and 
put to it a few pieces of lean bacon 
or ham. If a high seasoning is re- 
quired, add mace, cayenne, and nutmeg 
to the salt and pepper ; and forcemeat 
and egg balls, truffles, morels, mush- 
rooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, 
and cocks' combs blanched, can form 
part of the materials, if liked, but the 
pie will be very good without them. 
Have a rich gravy to potfr in after 
baking. 



I082f. IrtTTtW Pli.-thc fol- 
lowing Is a ca])ital family dish.— Cut 
muttoh int6 pieces about two inches 
Square, and nalf-an-iich thick ; mix 
pepper, pounded aillspice, and salt to- 
gether, dip the pieces ini this ; sprinkle 
dfatle bread-crumbs dt the bottom of 
the dish ; lay in the pieces, strewing 
the cnimbs over each Is^er ; put a 
piece of butter the size of a hen s egg 
at the top; add a wftieglassful of 
t^ater, and eover in, and bake in k 
moderate o^en rather better than an 
hour. Take an onion, chopped fine ; 
a faggot of herbs ; half an anchovy ; 
and add to it a little beef stock or 
gravy ; simmer for a (jtfarter of an 
hour ; raise thb crust at one end, and 
pour in the Hquor— not the thick part. 

1033. 8BVEH-BBLL PASTY.— 
Shred a po\|nd 6f suet fine, cut salt 
pork into dice, potatoes and onions 
small, rub a sprig of dried sage up 
fine ; mix with some pepper, and place 
in the corner of a square piece of paste ; 
turn over the other corner, pinch up 
the sides, and bake in a quick oven. 
If any bones, &c., remain from the 
riieat, season with pepper and sage, 
place them with a gill of water in a 

San, and bake with the pasty ; when 
one, strdin and ponr the gravy into 
the centre of the pasty. 

10^ t&tAtd hm Kta PIE. 

— Boil some mealy potatoes, peel and 
mash them with a little milk. Grease 
a baking dish ; put a layer of potatoes, 
then a Layer of meat cut in bits, and 
seasoned with pepper, salt, a little all- 
spice, either with or without chopped 
onions ; a little gravy of roast meat 
is a great improvement : then put 
another layer of potatoes, then meat, 
and cover with potatoes. Put a 
buttered paper over the top, to pre- 
vent it from being: burnt, and bake ii 
from an hour to ah hour and a half. 

1085. PBA8 PTODHre.— Dfy i 

pint or Quart of split peas thoroughly 
before tne fire ; then tie them up 
loosely in a cloth, put them into warir^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



286 



TRUTH 18 THX HIDDSN OEM WE ALL 8R0ULP DIG FOR. 



water, boil them a couple of hours, or 
more, until quite tender ; take them 
up, beat them well in a dish, with a 
little salt, the yolk of an egg, and a 
bit of butter. Make it quite smooth, 
tie it up again in a cloth, and boil 
it an hour longer. This is highly 
nourishing. 

losa oinniABT icokoxt. 

The English, generally speaking, are 
very deficient in the practice of culinary 
economy ; a French family would live 
well on what is often wasted in an 
English kitchen. The bones, dripping, 
pot-liquor, remains of fish, vegetables, 
itc, which are too often consigned to 
the grease pot, or the dust-heap, espe- 
cially where pigs or fowls are not kept, 
might, by a very trifling degree of 
management on the part of the cook, 
or mistress of a family, be converted 
into sources of daily support uud com- 
fort, at least to some poor peusioner or 
other, at an expense tnat even a miser 
could scarcely grudge. Housekeepers 
who wish to Imow how to economize 
all kinds of nutritious fragments, 
will find valuable hints and informa- 
tion on the subject in 7%e Family 
Save-cUly^ which supplies a complete 
course of Secondary Cookery, and also 
in The Pmctical Housewife,^ 



1087. 



XT WIPE'S UTTU 
8UPFEB8. 



108a XSAT CAXEa— Take any 
cold meat, game, or poultry (if under- 
done, all the better), mince it fin^, 
with a little fat bacon or ham, or an 
anchovy ; season it with pepper and 
salt ; mix well, and make it into small 
cakes three inches long;, an inch and a 
half wide, and half-an-inch thick ; fry 
these a light brown, and serve them 
with good gravy, or put into a mould, 
and boil or bake it Bread-crumbs, 
hard yolks of eggs, onions, sweet herbs, 
savoury spices, aest, curry-powder, or 



1 Both ppblfBhed bf Honlston and Sons, 
London. Price 2». 0<i. each. 



any kind of forcemeat may be added 
to these meat cakes. 

1069. 7I8E CAXS8.— Take the 
meat from the bones of any kind of 
cold fish, and put the bones with the 
head and fins into a stewpan with a 
pint of water, a little salt, pepper, an 
onion, and a faggot of sweet herbs, to 
stew for gravy. Mince the meat, and 
mix it well with crumbs of bread and 
cold potatoes, equal parts, a little 
parsley and seasoning. MaJce into a 
cake, with the white of an egg, or a 
little butter or milk ; egg it over, and 
cover with bread crumlG, then fiy a 
light brown. Pour the gravy over, 
and stew gently for fifteen minutes, 
stirring it carefully twice or thrice. 
Serve not, and garnish with slices of 
lemon, or parsley. These cakes afibrd 
a capital relish from scraps of cold 
fish. 

1090. OTSTEB PATTEBB.— Roll 

out puff paste a quarter of an inch 
thick, cut it into squares with a knife, 
sheet eif^ht or ten pattypans, put upon 
each a bit of breaa the size of half a 
walnut ; roll out another layer of paste 
of the same thickness, cut it as above, 
wet the edge of the bottom paste, and 
put on the top ; pare them round to 
the pan, and notch them about a dozen 
times with the back of the knife, rub 
them lightly with yolk of egg, bake 
them in a hot oven about a quarter of 
an hour : when done, take a thin slice 
off the top, then with a small knife, or 
spoon, taice out the bread and the 
inside paste, leaving the outside quite 
entire ; then parboil two dozen of large 
oysters, strain them from their liquor, 
wash, beard, and cut them into four ; 
put them into a stewpan with an ounce 
of butter rolled in flour, half-a-gill of 
good cream, a little grated lemon-peel, 
the oyster liquor, free from sediment, 
reduced by ooiliDg to one-half, some 
cayenne pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful 
of lemon juice ; stir it over a nre five 
minutes, and fill the patties. 

1091. LOBSTEB PATTIES.— Pre- 
pare the patties as in the last recipe. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WEITB YOtTB OWN HISTORY DAILY. 



287 



Take a hen lobster already boiled ; pick 
the meat from the tail and claws, and 
chop it fine ; put it into a stewpan with 
a little of the inside spawn pounded in 
a mortar till quite smooth, an ounce of 
fresh butter, half-a-gill of cream, and 
half-a-gill of veal consomm^, cayenne 
pepper, and salt, a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy, the same of lemon 
juice, and a tablespoonful of flour and 
water : stew for five minutes. 

1092. EQ0 AND HAH FATTIES. 

— Cut a slice of bread two inches thick, 
from the most solid part of a stale 
quartern loaf : have readjr a tin round 
cutter, two inches in diameter ; cut 
out four or five pieces, then take a 
cutter two sizes smaller, press it nearly 
through the larger pieces, then remove 
with a small knife the bread from the 
inner circle : have ready a large stew- 
pan full of boiling lard ; fry the discs 
of bread of a light brown colour, drain 
them dry with a clean cloth, and set 
them by till wanted ; then take half-a- 
pound of lean ham, mince it small, add 
to it a gill of good brown sauce ; stir 
it over the fire a few minutes, and put 
to it a small quantity of cayenne pepper 
and lemon juice : fill the sl^^pes with 
the mixture, and lay a poacned egg 
upon each. 

1008. VEAL ANB HAH FATTIES. 

— Chop about six ounces of ready- 
dressea lean veal, and three 'ounces of 
ham, very small ; put it into a stewpan 
with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, 
half-a-gill of cream, half-a-gill of veal 
stock, a little grated nutmeg and lemon 
peel, some cayenne pepper and salt, a 
spoonful of essence of nam, and lemon 
juice, and stir it over the fire some 
time, taking care it does not bum. 

1094. CHIOKEH AKD HAH FAT- 
TIES. — Use the white meat from the 
breast of the chickens or fowls, and 
proceed as for veal and ham patties. 

1095. MINCED COLLOFS.~Two 
pounds of good rump steak, chopped 
very fine ; six good-sized onions, also 
chopped small ; put both into a stew- 
pan, with as much water or gravy as 



will cover the meat ; stir it without 
ceasing till the water begins to boil ; 
then set the stewpan aside, where the 
coUops can simmer, not boiX for three- 
quarters of an hour. Just before 
serving, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, 
a little pepper and salt, and boil it up 
once. Serve with mashed potatoes 
round the dish. The above quantity 
will be enough for four persons. 

1096. ECONOMICAL DISH. —Cut 

some rather fat ham or bacon intoslices, 
and fry to a nice brown ; lay them aside 
to keep warm ; then mix equal quanti- 
ties of potatoes and cabbage, bruised 
well together, and fry them in the fat 
left from the ham. Place the mixture 
at the bottom, and lay the slices of 
bacon on the top. Cauliflower, or 
broccoli, substituted for cabbage, is 
excellent. The dish must be well 
seasoned with pepper. 

1097. 7BIEDEG0SAND MINCED 

HAM OB BACON.— Choose some very 
fine bacon streaked with a good deal 
of lean ; cut this into very thin slices, 
and afterwards into small square pieces; 
throw them into a stewpan and set it 
over a gentle fire, that they may lose 
some of their fat. When as much as 
will freely come is thus melted ftx)m 
them, lay them on a warm dish. Put 
into a stewpan a ladleful of melted 
bacon or lanl ; set it on a stove ; put 
in about a dozen of the small pieces of 
bacon, then incline the stewpan and 
break in an egg. Manage this care- 
fully, and the egg will presently be 
done : it will be very round, and the 
little dice of bacon will stick to it all 
over, so that it will make a very pretty 
appearance. Take care the yolks do 
not harden. When the egg is thus 
done, lay it carefully on a warm dish, 
and do the others. 

1098. TASTT BEEF SAUSAGES. 

— Take a pound of lean beef, and half- 
a-pound of suet, remove the skin, chop 
it fine as for mince collop, then beat it 
well with a roller, or in a marble mortar, ■ 
till it is all well mixed and will stick 
together ; season highly, and make into 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



^8 



A LAtTOHrNO CHIU> IS THJ! BWT FO^TBAJT 0? HAPPINESS. 



flat round c«ikes, about an inch thick, 
and shaped with a cup or saucer, and 
fry of a light brown. Tlie sausage? 
should be served up on boiled rice, as 
for curry ; if for company, you may 
do them with eggs ami bread-crumbs ; 
but they ^re quite as ^od without. 
Or they n?ay be rolled in puff or pie 
p^o, ^nd baked. 

1090. POTATO PUFFS.— Take 
cold roa^ meat, either beef, or mutton, 
or veal and ham, clear it from the 
^^istle, cut it smaJl, and p^'asoo with 
pepper, salt, and pickles, finely minced. 
Boil and mash some potatoes, and make 
them into a paste with one or two 
eegs ; roll out the pa^te, with a dust 
of flour, cut it round with a saucer, 
put some of your seasoned meat on 
one half, and fold the other half over 
it like a puff ; pinch or nick it neatly 
round, and fry of a light brown. This 
is a gootl method of preparing meat 
that Eas been dressed before. 

1100. 8CRA1CBI.EB EGOS. —Beat 

np' two eggs (wit!iout the whites) in a 
tftblespoonful of milk. Put a small 
piece of butter into a clean saucepan. 
When the butter becomes hot (not 
boiled) put the eggs in quickly and 
scramble them about for two minutes 
with a fork without leaving them. 
Spread some anohovy on a slice of 
toast, and then put the egg over it. 

1101. LOBSTSR SCALLOPS.— 

Take some tinned lobster and strain 
the liquor off. Then put into a basin 
a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the 
same of vinegar, some pepper, salt, 
and half-a-teaspoonful of salad oil. 
Mix all these together, and then cut 
the lobster into small pieces and mix 
them up with the other ingredients. 
Sift some bread crumbs through a 
colander, and mix them with a Tittle 
melted bacon dripping. Fill some 
patty-pans with the mixed lobster, 
place the bread crumbs on top, and 
bake in a hot oven till the crumbs are 
browned, that is to say about twenty 
minutes. 



1102. oysjw raiTTEJEtS.— 

Make a l»atter ol tlour, niilk, and eggs ; 
season with a very little nutmeg. 
Beard the oysters, and put as many 83 
you thiuk proper in each fritter. 

1 108. OTSTSB PH. -Takea large 
dish, butter it, and spread a rich paste 
over the sides and round the edge, but 
not at the bottom. The oysters should 
be fresh, and as large and fine as pos- 
sible. Drain off part of the liquor from 
the oysters. Put them into a pan, and 
season them with pepper, salt, and 
spice. Stir them well with the seasop- 
ing. Have ready the yolks of som^ 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, and 
the grated bread. Pour the oysters 
(with as much of their liquor as you 
please) into the disli that has the paste 
in it. Strew over them the chopped 
egg and grated bread. Roll out ;the 
lid of the pie, and put it on, crimpisff 
the edges handsomely. Take a small 
sheet of paste, cut it into a square, and 
roll it up. Cut it with a sharp knife 
into the form of a doul)le tulip. Maka 
a slit in the centre of the upper crust, 
and stick the tulip in it. Cut out 
eight large leaves of paste, and lay 
on the lid. Bake in a quick oven. 

1104. XASBLED GOOSE.— The 

following is suitable for larger supper 
parties, or as a stock dish for families 
where visitors are frequent ; it is also 
excellent for breakfasts, or for pic- 
nics : — Take a fine mellow ox-tongue 
out of pickle, cut off the root and homv 
part at the tip, wipe dr>% and boil 
till it is quite tender. Then peel it, 
cut a deep slit in its whole lem^th, and 
lay a fair proportion of the following 
mixture within it : — Mace half-an- 
ounce, nutmeg half-an-ounce, doves 
half-an-ounce, salt two tablespoonfuls, 
and twelve Spanish olives. The plives 
should be stoned, and all the in- 
gredients well pounded and mixed 
together. Next take a barn-door fowl 
and a good large goose, and bone them. 
Put tne tongue inside the fowl, rub 
the latter outside with the seasoning, 
and having ready some slices of hani 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AVOID IN YOTTBSJELy V5AT JOV T^NK "^ONO njT TOtTE KBJGHBpiTR. 23i^ 



divested of the rind, wrap them tightly 
round the fowl. Fut the fowl and its 
wrapping of ham inside tlie goose, with 
the remainder of the seasoning, sew it 
np, and make all secure and of natural 
sliape with a piece of new linen and 
tape. Put it m an earthen pan or jar 
just large enough to Jiold it, with 
plenty of cjarified butter, and bake it 
lor two hours and a hal(iu a slov oven ; 
then take it out, and when cold take 
out the goose and set it in a sieve ; take 
0^ the butter and hard fat, which put 
by the fire to melt, adding, if required, 
^ore clarified butter. Wash and wi|)e 
out the pan, put the bird again into it, 
^nd take care that it is well covered 
Vith the warm butter ; then tie the jar 
down with bladder and leather. It 
will keep thus for a long time. When 
"wanted for the table the jar should be 
placed in a tub of hot water, so as to 
melt the butter, the gpose then can be 
taken out, and sent to table cold. 

1105. SM«A9S, IQ ipx.— This 
requires care. The salad should be 
very fresh, carefully washed, picked, 
and dried in a dean cloth, cut up 
separately, well mixed, and put into a 
bowl just before using. The dressing 
or sauce for which we give a recipe in 
next paragraph should be poured down 
the side of tne salad bowl, but do not 
stir up the salad till wanted to be 
eaten, for if mixed, the vegetables lose 
that crispness which is so delicious. 
Garnish the top of the salad with the 
white of the eggs, and beet, or boiled 
potatoes, cut in slices ; these may be 
arranged in such manner as to be orna- 
mental on the table. 

1106. SALAD 8AVCS OB DBS88- 
IKO, — Boil two eggs for ten or twelve 
minutes, and then put them in cold 
water for a few minutes, so that the 
yolks may become quite cold and hard. 
Kub them through a coarse sieve with 
a wooden spoon, and mix them with 
a tablesjpoonful of water or cream, and 
then add two tablespoonfiils of fine 
flask oil, or melted batter ; mix, and 
add by degrees a teospoonfol of ^t. 



and the same quantity of mustard ; 
mix till smooth, and then incorporate 
with t^e other ingredients about three 
tablespooufuls of vinegar. 

1107. SALAD MIXTUBB IK 
VIMS. 

Two large potatoes, passed through Idtobon 

sieve, 
Unwonted softness to the salad give ; 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon — 
Distrust the condiment which bites po soofi ; 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a iault 
To add a double quantity of salt ; 
Three times the spoon wi^ oil of J^ncca 

crown, 
And once with vinegar procured from town. 
True flavour needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs ; 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 
And lastly, on the fovoured compound toss 
A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce ; 
Then, though green turtle fidl, though veni- 
son's tough* 
And ham and turk^ be not boiled enoi^ph, 
Seren^ ftUl, the epicure may say,— 
" Fate cannot harm me— J have dined to- 
day.- 

1108. ?B|ariQH;V0D^O;rDBi38- 

IKO SALAD.— Fill thesalad bowl with 
lettuce and small saladiug, taking care 
not to cut up tlie lettuce into too small 
strips. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and, if liked, drop some mustard, mixed 
thin, over the salad, and strew a little 
moist sugar over it Then pour over 
the whole three tablespoonfuls of good 
salad oil and one of Orleans vinegar, 
and turn over the lettuce lightly with 
a salad spoon and fork, that every por- 
tion of it may be brought into contact 
with the mixture. This mode of pre- 
paring a salad is far more expeditions 
than the ordinary way. 

1109. PIEB AKD PTTDDIirOS.— 

When much pastry is made in a house, 
a quantity of fine flour should be kept 
on nand, m dry lars, and ^uite secured 
f^om the air, as It makes lighter pastry 
and bread when kept a short t^me, 
than when fresh ground. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



S40 THX HIokfiST HAPPIN188 IB TO BI GOOD AKD TO DO GOOD* 



1110. PA8TBT FOB TABTS, fte. 
— ^Take of floor one pound ; baJdng 
|>owder, three teospoonfuls ; butter, 
lix ounces ; water, enough to bring it 
to the consistence required. 

1111. PUPFPASTE.— Toapound 
and a quarter of sifted flour, rub ^ntly 
in with the hand half-a-pound ot fresh 
butter, mix up with half-a-pint of 
spring water, knead it well, and set it 
by for a quarter of an hour ; then roll 
it out thin, lay on it in small pieces a 
quarter of a pound more butter, throw 
on it a little flour, double it up in folds, 
and roll it out thin three times, and 
set it by for about an hour in a 
cold place. Or, if a more substantial 
and savoury paste be desired, use the 
following : — 

1112. PA8TB FOB MSAT, OB 
SAYOVBT PISS. —Sift two pounds 
of flue flour to a pound and a naif of 
good salt butter broken up into small 
pieces, and washed well in cold water ; 
rub gently together the butter and 
flour, and mix it up with the yolks of 
three eggs, beat together with a spoon, 
and nearly a pint of spring water ; roll 
it out, and double it in folds three 
timeq, and it is ready. 

1118. AH EXOSLLEHT PA8TB 

for fruit or meat pies may be made 
with two-thirds of wheat flour, one- 
third of the flour of boiled potatoes, 
and some butter or dripping ; the 
whole being brought to a proper con- 
sistence with warm water, and a small 
quantity of yeast or baking powder 
added when lightness is desired. This 
will also make very pleasant cakes for 
breakfiut, and may be made with or 
without spices, fruits, kc. 

1114. APPLE PIE.— Pare, core, 
and quarter the apples ; boil the cores 
and parings in sm^rt and water ; strain 
ofi'the liquor, addingmore sugar ; grate 
the rind of a lemon over the apples, 
and squeeze the juice into the syrup ; 
mix half-a-dozen cloves with the fruit, 
put in a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut ; cover with puff paste. 



1116. Use of Cap in a Fruit Pie.— 
The principal use is to hold the crust 
up, and prevent it ttom sinking when 
the cooked fruit gives way under it 
Some persons imagine that the cup 
will prevent the juice from boiling 
over ; but it rather tends to make it 
boil over as there is less room in the 
dish. When the pie is put into the 
oven, the air in the cup begins to 
expand and drives every particle of 
juice from under it, in consequence of 
which, the pie-dish has a cupful lest 
room to hold its fruit in, than if the 
cup were taken out. When tlie pie is 
taken out of the oven, the air in the 
^up conlracts again and occupies a 
smaller space, and as the cup is no 
longer full of air, juice rushes in to 
occupy the void. The juice rushing 
into the cup prevents it from being 
spilt over the crust when the pie is 
carried about ; but it does not prevent 
the fruit from boiling over. 

1116. APPLE PXTDDIHG.— One 

pound of flour, six ounces of very finely 
minced beef suet ; roll thin, and line 
a buttered basin, then fill with one 
pound and a quarter of boiling spples ; 
add the ffrated rind and strained juice 
of a smaU lemon, cover it with a thin 
paste and tie a cloth over ; boil for 
onehourand twenty minutes, or longer. 
A small slice of n'esh butter stined 
into it when it is sweetened will be an 
acceptable addition ; grated nutmeg, 
or cinnamon in fine powder, may be 
substituted for lemon rind. For a 
richer pudding use half-a-pound of 
butter for the crust, and add to the 
apples a spoonful or two of orange or 
quince marmalade. 

1117. APPLE DUXPLIHOS.— 

Paste the same as for apple pudding, 
divide into as many pieces as dumplings 
are required ; peel and core the apples ; 
roll out your paste large enouph ; put 
in the apples ; close the dumplings, tie 
each in a cloth very tightly. Boil them 
one hour. When you tsike them up 
dip them quickly in cold water, and 
put them in a cup while you untie 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CUNOTNa MEN'S CLOAKS SOMBTIMES FALL. 



241 



them; they will turn out without 
breaking. 

1118. APPLE AHD BICS DTJXP- 
LIKG8. — Pick and wash a pound of 
rice, and boil it gently in two quarts 
of water till it becomes dry — keeping 
the pot well covered, and not stirring 
it. Then take it off the fire, and spread 
it out to cool on the bottom of an 
inverted sieve, loosening the grains 
lightly with a fork, that all the moist- 
ure may evaporate. Pare a dozen 
pippins, or some large juicy apples, 
and scoop out the core ; then fill up 
the cavity with marmalade, or with 
lemon and sugar. Cover every apple 
aU over with a thick coating of the 
boiled rice. Tie up each in a separate 
cloth, and put them into a pot of cold 
water. They will reouire about an 
hour and a quarter after they begin 
to boil, perhaps longer. 

1119. BOSTON APPLSPXTDDIHO. 

— Peel and core one dozen and a half 
of good apples ; cut them small ; put 
them into a stewpan with a little water, 
cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel of 
a lemon ; stew over a slow fire till soft ; 
sweeten with moist sugar, and pass it 
through a liair sieve ; add the yolks of 
four eggs and one white, a quarter of a 
pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, 
the peel of a lemon grated, and the 
luice of one lemon ; beat well together ; 
line the inside of a pie-dish witn good 
puff paste ; put in the pudding, and 
bake half-an-hour. 

1120. ALBEBTPUBBIHO.— Beat 

half-a-pound of butter to cream, add 
half-a-ponnd of crushed lump sugar, 
half-a-pound of flour, half-a-pound of 
chopped raisins, some lemon juice, and 
some candied peel chopped small. Mix 
together, beat six eg^, mix and pnt 
into a mould. Boil three aud a half 
hours, and serve with wine sauce. 

1121. BBEAB PBBBnrO.— Un. 
fermented brown bread, two ounces ; 
milk, half-a-pint ; one egg ; sugar, 
quarter of an ounce. Cut the bread 
into slices, and pour the milk over it 
boiling hot ; letit stand till wellsoaked. 



and stir in the egg and sugar, well 
beaten, with a litue grated nutmeg ; 
and bake or steam for one hqur. 

1122. BBEAB AKB JAM PBB- 

BnrO.— Take light white bread, and 
cut it in thin slice& Put into a pud- 
ding shape a layer of any sort of 
preserve, then a slice of bread, and 
repeat until the mould is almost fnlL 
Pour over all a pint of warm milk, in 
which four beaten eggs have been 
mixed ; cover the momd with a piece 
of linen, place it in a saucepan with a 
little boihnc water, let it boil twenty 
minutes, and serve with pudding sauce. 
1128. CABINET PBBBnrO.— Cut 
three or four muffins in two, pour over 
them boiling milk sufficient to cover 
them, cover them up until they are 
tender. Make a rich custard with ^e 
yolks of eight eggs and the whites of 
four, a pint of cream, a quarter of a 
pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of 
almonds, blanched and cut, lemon- 
peel and nutmeg grated, and a glass 
of ratafia or brandy, and add to the 
soaked muffins. Butter a tin mould 
for boiling — for baking, a dish. Put 
a layer of dried cherries, greengages, 
apricots, or French plums ; cover with 
the mixture, adding fruit and mixture 
alternately, until the mould or dish is 
quite fuU. Boil an hour, and servo 
with wine sauce. In boiling this 
pudding it should be placed in a stew- 
pan with only water enough to reach 
half-way up the mould. If for baking, 
it will not take so long. Lay a puff 
paste round the edges of the (ush. 

1124. HALF-PAT PBBBINe.— 

Four ounces of each of the following 
in^^redients, viz. suet, fiour, currants, 
raisins, and bread-crumbs ; two table- 
spoonfuls of treacle, half-a-pint Of 
milk — all of which must be well mixed 
together, and boiled in a mould, for 
four hours. 

1126. POTATO PTTBBINe.— 
Bruise with a wooden spoon, through 
a'colander, six large or twelve middle- 
sized boiled ^tatoes ; beat four eggs, 
mix with a pint of good milk, stir in 
Q 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



242 



TER FAT MAN KNOWETH NOT WHAT THX LBAN TBINKXTH. 



the potatoes ; sugar and seasonmg to 
taste ; butter the dish ; bake half- 
an-hour. A little Scotch marmalade 
makes s deUcious accompaniment 

1126. BAItfiBPtTBDIHG.— Take 

of flour, four ounces ; a teaspoonful of 
baking powder ; a little sugar, and one 
ege. Mix with milk to a thin batter, 
aud bake in a well-buttered tin, in a 
brisk oven, half-an-hour. A few cur- 
rants mav be strewed in the bottom of 
the tin if preferred. 

1127. lATTKR PVBBIKO, 
tiAXlB OB BOILBB.— Six ounces of 
fine flour, a little salt, and three eggs ; 
beat well with a little milk, added by 
degrees until it is the thickness of 
cream ; put into a buttere^l dish ; bake 
three-quarters of an hour ; or if boiled 

Sut it into a buttered and floured basin, 
!ed over with a cloth ; boil one hour 
and a half or more. 

112a PLUM PUDDDTO.— Take 
of flour, one pound ; baking powder, 
three teaspooufuls ; beef suet, eij^ht 
ounces ; currants and raisins four 
ounces each ; nutmeg and orange neel, 
grated fine, a quarter of an ounce ; tnree 
^ggB. Boil or steam four hours. 

1120. Pie PITBDniO.— Three- 
quarters of a pound of grated bread, 
nalf-a-pound of best f)^ six ounces of 
suet, six ounces of moist sugar, a tea- 
cnpfol of milk, and a little nutmeg. 
The figs and suet must be chopped very 
fine. Mix the bread and suet first, then 
the figs, sugar, and nutmegs, one egg 
beaten well, and lastly the milk. Boil 
in a mould four hours. To be eaten 
with sweet sauce. 

1180. PLAmSTJETPUDDIHe.— 
Take of flour, one pound and a half ; 
bicarbonate of soda, three drachms ; or 
two teaspooufuls of baking powder; 
beef suet, four ounces ; powdered gin- 
ger, half-a-drachm ; water or milk, one 
pint. Boil or steam for two hours. 

1181. CABBOT PTODnlO. —Grate 
a raw red carrot ; mix with double the 
weight of bread-crumbs or biscuit, or 
with the same weight of each : to a 



pound and a half of this mixture, pnt 
a pint of new milk or cream, or half- 
a-pint of each, four or six ounces of 
clarified butter, three or four eggs well 
beaten, sugar to taste, a little nntnoe^ 
and a glass of brandy ; line or edge 
a dish with puff" paste ; pour in the 
mixture ; put slices of candied lemon 
or orange peel on the top, and bake 
in a moderately hot oven. 

1182. ALtfOKB PTHDfBIKO.-A 

lai'ge cupful of finely-miuced beef suet, 
a teacupful of milk, four ounces of 
bread-crumbs, four ounces of well- 
cleaned currants, two ounces of al- 
monds, half-a-pound of stoned raisins, 
three well-beaten eggs, and the whites 
of other two ; sugar, nutmeg, and 
cinnamon, and a small glass of rum. 
Butter a shape, and place part of the 
raisins neatly in rows. Blanch the 
almonds ; reserve the half of them to 
be placed in rows between the ralshis 
just before serving. Mix all the re- 
maining ingredients well together, 
Eut into the shape, and boil three 
ours. 

1188. SAUCE POB AIMOIH) 
PUBBIHG.--One teaspoonful of milk, 
and two yolks of eggs well beaten, and 
some sugar. Place on the fire and stir 
till it just comes to the boil : then let it 
cooL When lukewarm, stir into it 
a glass of sherry or currant wine, and 
serve in a sauce tureen. This sauce is 
a great improvement to raisin pudding. 

1184. BABLBTPUBBIKG.— Take 
a quarter of a pound of Scotch or pearl 
barley. Wash and simmer it in a 
small quantity of water ; pour off" the 
water, and a<la milk and flavouring as 
for rice pudding. Beat up with sugar 
and nutmeg, and mix the milk and 
barley in the same way. It may be 
more or less rich of eggs, and with or 
without the addition of butter, cream, 
or marrow. Put it into a buttered deep 
dish, leaving room for six or eight 
ounces of currants, and an ounce of 
candied peel, cut up fine, with a few 
apples cut in small pieces. An hour 
will bake it 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HOPE IS A BETTER COMPANION THAN FKAR. 



24SI 



1186. tAXSp CtTSTAtB ^TI1)1)I#G. 

— Boil in a pint of milk a few cori- 
ander seeds, a little ciniianion aud 
lemon peel ; sweeten with four ounces 
of loaf sugar, mix with it a pint of 
cold milk ; beat eiglit eggs for ten 
minutes ; add the other ingredients ; 
pour it from one pan into another six 
or eight times, strain through a sieve ; 
let it stand ; skim the froth from the 
top, pour it into earthen cups, and 
l»ke immediatelr in a hot oven till 
they are of a good colour ; ten minutes 
will be sufficient 

1186. BOILED CT7STABD.— Boil 
half-a-pint of new milk, with a piece 
of lemon peel, two peach leaves, half 
A stick of cassia, a few whole allspice, 
from four to six ounces of white sugar. 
Cream may be used instead of milk ; 
beat the yolks and white of four eggs, 
strain the milk through coarse muslin, 
or a hair sieve ; then mix the eggs and 
milk very gradually together, and stir 
it Well from the bottom, on the fire, 
till it thickens. 

1137. UOTBSk SVX'S PtJDBINO. 

If you want a good pudding, to teach you 

I'm willing ; 
Take two pennyworth of eggs, when twelve 

for a shilling ; 
And of the same fruit that Eve had once 

chosen, 
Well pared and well chopped, at least half-a- 
dozen; 
Six ounces of bread (let your maid eat the 

crust), 
The crumbB must be grated as small as the 

dust; 
Six ounces of currants from the stones you 

must sort, 
Lest they break out your teeth, and spoil all 

your sport ; 
Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet; 
Some salt and some nutmeg will make it 

complete; 
Three hours let it boil, without hurry or 

flutter, 
imd then serve it up, without sugar or 

butter. 

118a A ooM) Biex mmae. 

—Wash » ooQple of handfuls of rice 



thoroughly, and cook it in about one 
quart of milk sweetened to liking, the 
rind of a lemon, and a small piece of 
cinnamon. Let the rice simmer until 
it has taken up all the milk. Turn 
out into a basin and take out the 
ciunamon and lemon. Stir into it the 
yolks of three eggij, add some candied 
citron, and mix. Butter a plain 
mould, put the pudding in and oake 
for half-an-hour or so in a quick oven. 

Ii8d. TELLOV BICE.— Take 
one pound of rice, wash it clean, and 
put it into a saucepan which will 
nold three quarts ; add to it half-a- 
pound of currants picked and washed, 
one quarter of an ounce of the best 
turmeric powder, previously dissolved 
in a cupful of water, and a stick of 
cinnamon ; pour over them two quartsi 
of cold water, place the saucepan un- 
covered on a moderate fire, and allow 
it to boil till the rice is dry, then stir 
in a quarter of a pound of sugar, and 
two ounces of butter : cover up, and 
place the pan near the fire for a few 
minutes, tnen mix it well and dish up. 
This is a favourite dish with the 
Japanese, and will be found excellent 
as a vegetable with roast meat, 
poultry, &c. It also forms a capital 
pudding, which may be improved by 
the addition of raisins, and a few 
blanched almonds. 

1140. LEMON BICE.— Boil suffi- 
cient rice in milk, with white sugar to 
taste, till it is soft ; put it into a pint 
basin or an earthenware blanc-mange 
mould, and leave it till cold. Peel a 
lemon very thick, cut the peel into 
shreds about half or three-quarters of 
an inch in length, put them into a 
little water, boil them up, and throw 
the water away, lest it should be 
bitter, then pour about a teacupful of 
fresh water upon them ; squeeze and 
strain the juice of the lemon, add it 
with white sugar to the water and 
shreds, and let it stew gently at the 
fire for two hours. (When cold it will 
he a syrup.) Having turned out the 
jellied rice into » cat-|;las9 4i8h, or 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



244 



•PTTTTINO OFP" DOW NO WORK. 



one of common delf, pour the syrup 
gradually over the rice, taking care 
the little shreds of the peel are ei^ually 
distributed over the whole. 

1141. BOILED BICE FOB CTTBBT 

— Put the rice on in cold water, and 
let it come to a boil for a minute or 
80 : strain it quite dry, and lay it on 
the hob in a stewpan without a cover 
to let the steam evaporate, then shake 
it into the dish while very hot. A 
si^ueeze of lemon juice after it boils 
will make it separate better. 

1142. A BLACK MAK'S BECIPE 
TO BBES8 BICE.— Wash him weU, 
much wash in cold water, the rice 
flour make him stick. Water boil all 
ready very fast. Throw him in, rice 
can't burn, water shake him too much. 
Boil quarter of an hour or little more ; 
rub one rice in thumb and finger ; if 
all rub away him quite done. Put 
rice in colander, hot water nin away ; 
pour cup of cold water on him, put 
Dock rice in saucepan, keep him 
covered near the fire, then rice all 
ready. Eat him up ! 

1148. TAPIOCA PTrBBIKO.—Boil 

a quarter of a pound of tapioca, with 
one pint of milk, sweetened to taste, 
and flavoured with lemon peel or 
vanilla. Pour into a buttered pie- 
dish and bake for half- an- hour. 

1144. XACABOin CHEESE.— 

Fill a dish or tin with some boiled 
macaroni ; butter it and pile it up 
with layers of macaroni and grated 
cheese (a high-flavoured one, such as 
Gruyire or Parmesan). Add sufficient 
butter and mustard, cayenne, salt and 
pepper. Cover with grated cheese, 
oake, and serve hot 

1146 . BEM ADTS OF COLD 
SWEET DISHES, 
i. Bioe Pudding.— Over the cold 
rice pudding pour a custard, and add 
a few lumps of jelly or preserved 
fruit Remember to remove the 
baked coating of the pudding before 
the custard is poured over it. 



ii. Apple Turt — Cut into triangu- 
lar pieces the remains of a cold apple 
tart : arrange the pieces around the 
sides of a glass or china bowl, and 
leave space in the centre lor a custard 
to be poured in. 

iii. Plum Pudding.— Cut into thin 
round slices cold plum pudding, and 
fry them in butter. Fry also fritters, 
and place them high in the centre of the 
dish, and the fried pudding all round 
the heaped-up fritters. Powder all 
with lump sugar, and serve them with 
wine sauce in a tureen. 

1146a. FREHCHBATTEB.— Two 

ounces of butter cut into bits, pour on 
it less than a quarter of a pint of boil- 
ing water ; when dissolved, add three- 
quarters of a pint of cold water, so 
that it shall not be quite milk warm ; 
mix by degrees smoothly with twelve 
ounces of fine dry flour and a small 
pinch of salt, if the batter be for fruit 
fritters, but with more if for meat or 
vegetables. Before used, stir into it the 
whites of two eggs beaten to solid 
froth ; previously to this, add a little 
water if too thick. This is excellent 
for frying vegetables, and for fruit 
fritters. 

1146. FBITTEBS.— Make them 
of any of the batters directed for pan- 
cakes, by dropping a small tiuantity 
into the pan ; or make the plainer 
sort, and dip pared apples, sliced and 
cored, into the batter, and fry them 
in plenty of hot lard. Currants, or 
sliced lemon as thin as paper, make 
an agreeable change. Fritters for 
company should be served on a folded 
napRin in the dish. Any sort of 
sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made 
into fritters. 

1147. APPLE FBITTEBS.— Peel 
and core some fine pippins, and cut 
into slices. Soak them in wine, 
sugar, and nutmeg, for a few hours. 
Make a batter of four eggs to a table- 
spoonful of rose water, a table.spoon- 
ful of wine, and a tablespoonful of 
milk, thickened with enough flour, 
stirred in by degrees; mix two or three 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO KNOW TH« VALUE OF MONET, WORK FOR IT. 



245 



Konrs before wanted. Heat some 
batter in a frying-pan ; dip each slice 
of apple separately in the oatter, and 
fry Drown; sift ponnded sugar, and 
grate a nutmeg over them. 

114a POTATO FBITT1E8.— Boil 
two large potatoes, bruise them fine, 
and beat four yolks and three whites 
of eggs, and add to the above one 
large spoonful of cream, another 
of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter 
well half-au-hour. It will be ex- 
tremely light. Put a good quantity 
df fine lard into a stewpau, and drop 
a spoonful at a time of the batter into 
it. Fry the fritters ; and serve as a 
sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice 
of a lemon, one dessertspoonful of 
peax;h-leaf or almond water, and some 
white sugar, warmed together ; not 
to be served in a dish. 

1149. PAKGAXS8.— Make a light 
batter of eggs, flour, and milk ; a 
little salt, nutmeg, and ginger may 
be added ;, fry in a small pan, in hot 
dripping or lard. Sugar and lemon 
should DO served to eat with them. 
Or, when eggs are scarce, make the 
batter with small beer, ginger, and so 
forth ; or water, with flour, and a 
very little milk, will serve, but not 
80 well as eggs and all milk. Thoy 
should be fried thin. 

1160. CBSAM PAHCAKES — 
Mix two eggs, well beaten, with a 
pint of cream, two ounces of sifted 
sugar, six of flour, a little nutmeg, 
cinnamon, and mace. Fry the pan- 
cakes thin, with a bit of butter. 

1161. BICE PAHCAXSS.— Boil 
half-a-pound of ground rice to a 

i'elly in a pint of water or milk, and 
:eep it well stirred from the bottom 
to prevent its being burnt ; if too 
thick add a little more milk ; take it 
off the fire ; stir in six or eight ounces 
of butter, a pint of cream, six or 
eight eggs well beaten, a pinch of salt, 
sugar, or nutmeg, with as much flour 
aa will make the batter thick enough. 
Fry with lard or dripping. 



1162. OBDIHAETOKELSTTE.— 

Take four eggs, beat the yolks and 
whites togeti^r with a tableepoonftd 
of milk, and a little salt and pepper ; 
put two ounces of butter into a frymg- 
pan to boil, and let it remain until it 
Degins to brown ; pour the batter into 
it, and let it remain quiet for a minute ; 
turn up the edges of the omelette 
gently from the bottom of the pan with 
a fork ; shake it to keep it from burn- 
ing at the bottom, and fry it till of a 
bright brown. It will not take more 
than five minutes' frying. 

1168. PEIAB'8 OMSLETTB.— 

Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce ; stir 
in a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
the same of white sugar ; when cold, 
add four eggs, well b^ten ; put it into 
a baking dish thickly strewed over 
with crumbs of bread, so as to stick 
to the bottom and sides ; then put in 
the apple mixture ; strew crumbs of 
bread over the top ; when baked, turn 
it out and grate loaf sugar over it. 

1164. Xisi Acton's Observations 
on Omelettes, Pancakes, Fritters, fto. 
— " There is no difficulty in ninking 
good omelettes, pancakes or fritters ; 
and, as they may be expeditiously pre- 
pared and served, they are often a very 
convenient resource when, on short 
notice, an addition is reauired to a 
dinner. The egs^ for all of tnem should 
be well and lightly whisked ; the lard 
for frying batter should be extremely 
pure in flavour, and quite hot when 
the fritters are dropped in ; the batter 
itself should be smooth as cream, and 
it should be briskly beaten the instant 
before it is used. All fried pastes 
should be perfectly drained from the 
fat before they are served, and sent to 
table promptly when they are ready. 
Eggs may be dressed in a multiplicity 
ofways, but are seldom more relished 
in any form than in a well-made and 
expeditiously served omelette. This 
may be plain or seasoned with minced 
herbs and a very little shallot, when 
the last is likea, and is then called 
OtneleUc aux fiiyu Jurhn ; or it may 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



246 



TO pOOIi I^ PASSJOK, T^Kg A JiONO WALK. 



be mixed with minced hua or frated 
cheese ; in any case it should be light, 
thick, full-tasted, and fried only on 
one side ; if turned in Uie pan, as it 
frequently is in England, it will at 
once be flattened and rendered 
tough. Should the slight rawness, 
which is sometimes found in the 
middle of the inside when the omelette 
is made in the French way, be objected 
to, a heated shovel, or a salamander, 
may be held over it for an instant, 
before it is folded on the dish. The 
pan for frying it should be quite small ; 
for if it be composed of four or five 
eggs only, and then put into a lar^e 
one, it will necessarily spread over it 
and be thin, which would render it 
more like a pancake than an omelette ; 
the only partial remedy for this, when 
a pan of proper size cannot be had, is 
to raise the handle of it high, and to 
keep the opposite side close down to 
the lire, which will confine the eggs 
in to a smaller space. No gravy should 
be poured into the dish with it, and, 
indeed, if properly made, it will require 
none. Lard is preferable to butter for 
frying batter, as it renders it lighter ; 
but it must not be used for omelettes. 
Filled with preserves of any kind, it is 
called a sioeel omelette." 

1X5J5. CA5E9 AID jiftcmrs. 

1158. PLUH CA?S.—On<? pound 
of flour, quarter of ^. pound of butter, 
quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter 
of a pound of ciirrants, three eggs, 
half-a-pint of milk, and a small tea- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda or baking 
powder. It is a very good plan to 
bake these cakes in a common earthen 
flower-pot saucer, 

1167. KICE PLTTM CAKE.— Take 
of flour one pound; baking powder, 
three teaspoon fuls ; butter, six ounces ; 
loaf sugnr, six ounces ; currants, six 
ounces ; three egsrs ; milk, about four 
ounces ; bake for one hour and a half 
in a tin or pan. 

1158. CHEAP PITTK CAKE.— 
Two pounds and a half of flour, throe- 



quarters of a pouud of sugar, thrpe- 
quarters of a pound of butter, half- 
a-pound of currants or quaiter of a 
pound of raisins, quarter of a poun4 
of orange peel, two ounces of caraway 
seeds, halt-an-ounce of ground cinna- 
mon or ginger, four t^spoonfuls of 
carbonate of soda or some baking 
powder ; mixed well, with nrther more 
than a pinv of new milk. The butter 
must be well melted before being mixed 
with the ingredients. 

1150. LXmpHSOK CAKE.— Take 
of flour one pound j baking powder, 
three teaspoonfuls ; sugar, three 
ounces ; butter, three ounces ; cur- 
rants, fourounceji ; milk, one pint, or 
twenty ounces : bake one hour in a 
quick oven. 

1160. 90PACAKE.— Take of flour 
half-a-ponnd ; Vncarbonate of ^oda, two 
drachms ; tartaric acid, two drachms ; 
butter, four ounces ; white sugar, 
two ounces ; currants, four ounces j 
ttt-o eggs ; warm milk, half-a-tea- 
cupful. 

1161. DPOP CA?ES.— One pint 
of flour, half-a-pound of butter, quarter 
of a iwund of pounded lump sugar, 
half a nutmeg grated, a handful of 
currants, two eggs, and a Inrge pinch 
of carbonate of soda, or a little baking 
powder. To be baked in a slack oven 
for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. 
The above quantity will make about 
thirty excellent cakes. 

1162. SEED CAKE (Plain).— A 
quarter of a i)eck of flour; half-a- 
pound of supar ; quarter of an ounce 
of all spice, half-a-pound of melted 
butter ; half-a-pint of milk ; quarter 
of a pint of yeast ; a little ginger. 
Add seeds and bake for an hour and 
a half. 

1163. GIIJGEEBEEAD CAKE.— 
Take one pound and a half of treacle j 
one and a nal f ounces of ground ginger ; 
half-an-ounce of caraway seeds ; two 
ounces of allspice ; four ounces of 
orange peel, shred fine ; half-a-pound 
of sweet butter ; six ounces of blanched 
almonds ; one pound of honey ; on© 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ONE TO-t>AY Is WORTH TWO TO-MOlLROWS. 



247 



and a half ounces of carbonate of 
soda ; and five pounds of fine flour. 
Make a pit in the flour ; then pour in 
the treacle, and all the other ingre- 
dients, creaming the butter ; mix 
them altogether into a dough ; work 
it well ; then put in three-quartei-s 
of an ounce of tartaric acid, and put 
the dough into a buttered pan, and 
bake for two hours in a cool oven. 
To know when it is ready, plunge a 
skewer into it, and if it comes out 
sticky, put the cake in the oven again ; 
if not it ia ready. This is a good and 
simple test, which may be resorted 
to m baking bread and all kinds of 
cakes. 

1164. SPONGE CAKl.— Take five 
eggs, half their weight of flour and 
half-a-pound of loaf sngar, sifted ; 
break the eggs upon the sugar, and 
beat with a steel fork for half-an-hour. 
After you have beaten the eg^ and 
sugar the time specified, grate in the 
rind of a lemon (the juice may be 
added at pleasure), stir in the flour, 
and immediately pour it into a tin 
lined with buttered paper, and let 
it be instantly put into rather a cool 
oven. 

1166. ALMOND SPONGE CAKE 

is made by adding blanched almonds 
to the above. 

1166. YULE CAKE.— Take one 
pound of fresh butter ; one pound of 
sugar ; one pound and a half of flour ; 
two pounds of currants ; a glas^ of 
brandy ; one pound of sweetmeats ; 
two ounces of swec.t almomis : ten 
eg^ ; a quarter of an ounce of all- 
spice ; and a Quarter of an ounce of 
cinnamon. Melt the butter to a cream, 
and put in the sugar. Stir it till quite 
light, addip^ the allspice and pounded 
cinnamon ; m a quarter of an hour, 
take the yolks of the eggs, and work 
them two or three at a time ; and the 
whites of the same must by this time 
be beaten into a strong snow, quite 
ready to work in. As tne paste must 
not stand to chill the butter, or it will 
be heavy, work in the whites gradually. 



then add the orange peel, lemon, and 
citron, cut in fine strips, and the 
currants^ which must be mixed in 
well, with the sweet almonds ; then 
add the sifted flour and glass of 
brandy. Bake this cake in a tin 
hoop, in a hot oven, for three hours, 
and put twelve sheets of paper under 
it to Keep it irom burning. 

1167. CAKE OF MIXED FSmrS. 

— Extract the juice from red currants 
by simmering them very gently for a 
few minutes over a slow fire ; strain it 
through folded muslin, and to one 
pound of the juice add a pound and a 
half of freshly-gathered cookingapples, 
pared, and rather deeply cored, that 
the fibrous part may be avoided. Boll 
these quite slowly until the mixture is 
perfectly smooth ; then, to evaporate 
part of the moisture, let the boiling 
be quickened. In from twen^-five to 
thirty minutes, draw the pan m>m the 
fire, and throw in gradually a pound 
and a quarter of sugar in fine powder ; 
mix it well with the fruit, and when 
it is dissolved, continue the boiling 
rapidly for twenty minutes longer, 
keeping the mixture constantly stirred ; 
put it into a mould, and store it, when 
cold, for winter use, or serve it for 
dessert, or as a pudding, in which 
case decorate it with spikes of 
almonds, blanched, and heap solid 
wliip|>ed cream round it, or pour a 
custard into the dish. For dessert, it 
may be garnished with dice of the 
palest apple jelly. 

1168. WEDDING CAKES.— Four 

pounds of fine flour« well dried ; four 
pounds of fresh butter ; two pounds 
of loaf sugar ; a quarter of a pound 
of mace, pounded and sifted fine ; the 
same of nutmegs. To every pound 
of flour add eight eggs ; wash four 
pounds of currants, let them be well 
picked and dried before the fire ; 
olanch a pound of sweet almond9, 
and cut them lengthwise very thin ; 
a pound of citron ; one pound of 
candied orange ; the same of candied 
lemon; half-a-pint of brandy. When 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



248 



A LEAKING BARREL 18 BOON EMPTY; 



these aie made ready, work the butter 
with joui hand to a cream ; then 
beat in the sugar a quarter of an 
hour ; beat the whites of the eggs to 
a very strong froth ; mix them with 
the sugar and butter ; beat the yolks 
half-an-hour at -least, and mix them 
with the cake ; then put in the flour, 
mace, and nutmeg ; xeep beating it 
well till your oven is ready — pour in 
the brandy, and beat the currants 
and almonds lightly in. Tie three 
sheets of white paper round the 
bottom of your hoop to keep it from 
running out ; rub it well with butter, 
put in your cake ; lay the sweetmeats 
in layers ; with cake between each 
layer; and after it is risen and coloured 
cover it with paper before your oven 
is stopped up. It will require three 
hours to bake properly. 

1160. ALXOKD ICDTG FOB 
WEDDHTO CAXS.— Beat the whites 
of three egm to a strong froth, pulp a 
pound of Jordan almonds very fine 
with rose water, mix them, with the 
eggs, lightly together ; put in by 
degrees a pound of common loaf sugar 
in powder. When the cake is baked 
enough, take it out, and lay on the 
icing ; then put it in to brown. 

1170. 8UGAB ICING FOB WEB- 
BING CAKE. — Beat two pounds of 
double refined sugar with two ounces 
of fine starch, sift the whole through 
a gauze sieve, then beat the whites of 
five eggs with a knife upon a pewter 
dish for half-an-hour ; beat m the 
sugar a little at a time, or it will make 
the eggs fall, and injure the colour ; 
when all the sugar is put in, beat it 
half-an-hour longer, and then lay it on 
your almond icing, spreading it even 
with a knife. If put on as soon as the 
cake comes out of the oven, it will 
harden by the time the cake is cold. 

1171. TEA CAKES.— Take of flour 
one pound ; sugar, one ounce ; butter, 
one ounce ; baking powder, three tea- 
spoonfuls ; milk, six ounces ; water, 
SIX ounces. Kub the butter and baking 
powder into the flour; dissolve the 



sugar in the water, and then add the 
muk. Pour this mixture gradually 
over the flour, and mix well together ; 
divide the mass into three portions, and 
bake twenty -five minutes. Flat round 
tins or earthen pans are the best to bake 
the cakes in. Buttermilk may be 
used instead of milk and water if pre- 
ferred. 

1172. BELVIBEBE CAKE FOB 
BBEAXFA8T OB TEA.— Take a quart 
of flour ; four eggs ; a piece of butter 
the size of an egg ; a piece of lard the 
same size mix the butter and lard well 
in the flour ; beat the eggs li^ht in a 
pint bowl, and fill it up with cold 
milk ; then pour it gradually into the 
flour ; add a teaspoonful of salt ; work 
it for eight or ten mmuces only ; cut 
the dough with a knife to the size you 
wish it ; roll them into cakes about the 
size of a breakfast plate, and bake m a 
quick oven. 

1178. 8C0NEB.— Flour, two 
pounds ; bicarbonate of soda, quarter 
of an ounce ; salt, quarter of an ounce ; 
sour buttermilk, one pint, more or 
less. Mix to the consistence of light 
dough, roll out about half-an-inch 
thick, and cut them out to any shape 
you please, and bake on a griddle over 
a clear fire about ten or fifteen minutes ; 
turning them to brown on both sides — 
or they may be done on a hot plate, or 
ironing stove. A griddle \a a thin 
plate of cast-iron about twelve or four- 
teen inches in diameter, with a handle 
attached, to hang it up by.— These 
scones are excellent for tea, and may 
be eaten cither cold or hot, buttered, 
or with cheese. 

1174. MTTFTINS.— Add a pint 
and a half of good ale yeast (from pale 
malt, if possible) to a bushel of the 
very best white flour ; let the yeast lie 
all night in water, then pour off" the 
water ^uite clear ; heat two gallons of 
water just milk-warm, and mix the 
water, yeast, and two ounces of salt 
well together for about a quarter of an 
hour. Strain the whole, and mix up 
your dough as light as possible, letting 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LnTLS XXPEN8BS ICAUB GREAT WASTE. 



240 



it lie in the trough au hour to rise ; 
next roll it with your hand, puUing it 
into little pieces about the size of a 
large walnut. These must be rolled 
out thin with a rolling-pin, in a good 
deal of flour, and if covered imme- 
diately with a piece of flannel, they 
will rise to a proper thickness ; but 
if too large or small, dough must be 
added accordioglv, or taken away ; 
meanwhile, the douffh must be also 
covered with flannel Next begin 
baking ; and when laid on the iron, 
watch carefully, and when one side 
changes colour, turn the other, taking 
care tiiat they do not bum or become 
discoloured. Be careful also that the 
iron does not get too hot. In order to 
bake muffins properly-, you ought to 
have a place built as if a copper were 
to be set ; but instead of copper a piece 
of iron must be put over the top, nxod 
in form like the oottom of an iron pot, 
underneath which a coal fire is kindled 
when required. Toast the muffins 
crisp on both sides with a fork ; pull 
them open with your fuivd, and they 
will be like a honeycomb ; lay in as 
much butter as you mtend ; then clap 
them together, and set by the fire : 
turn them once, that both sides may 
be buttered alike. When quite done, 
cut them across with a knife ; but if 
you use a knife either to spread or 
divide them, they will be as heavy as 
lead. Some kinds of flour will soak 
np more water than others ; when this 
occurs, add water ; or if too moist, add 
flour : for the dough must be as light 
as possible. 

1 176. OBTJXPETS. —To one pound 
of best flour, put a tablespoonful of 
veast, and two eggs, make into a 
batter with a quart of warm water or 
milk — ^pour the batter into tin rings 
of the size and thickness required, 
previously placed on a hot greased 
griddle {see par. 1173) ; turn them 
quickly. 

1176. " JBB8EY WOKDKBa"— 

The oddity of these ** wonders " con- 
nats solely in the nuumer of cooking, 



and the consequent shape. Take two 
^unds of flour, six ounces of butter, 
six ounces of white sugar, a little 
nutm^ ground ginger, and lemon 
peel ; beat eight eggs, and knead them 
all well together ; a taste of brandy 
will be an improvement Roll the 
paste into a lon^ mass about the thick- 
ness of your wiist ; cut off a slice and 
roll it into an oval, about four inches 
long and three inches wide, not too 
thin ; cut two slits in it, but not 
through either end ; there will then be 
three bands. Pass the left one through 
the aperture to the right, and throw 
it into a brass or bell-metal skHlet of 
BOILING lard or beef or mutton drip- 
ping. You may cook three or four 
at a time. In about two minutes 
turn them witli a fork, and you will 
find them browned, and swollen or 
risen in two or three minutes more. 
Remove them from the pan to a dish, 
when they will dry and cooL 

1177. BAKBVBT CAKES.— Roll 
out a rich puff* paste about half-an-inch 
thick, and cut it into pieces ; then roll 
again till each piece bHscomes twice the 
size ; put some Banbury meat in the 
middle of one side ; fold the other over 
it, and pinch it up into a somewhat 
oval shape ; flatten it with your hand 
at the top, letting the seam be quite 
at the bottom ; rub the tops over with 
the white of an egg, laid on with a 
brush, and dust loaf sugar over them : 
bake in a moderate oven. 

1178. MSAT FOB BAKBVBT 
CAKES. — Beat up a quarter of a pound 
of butter until it becomes in the state 
of cream ; tlien mix with it half-a- 
pound of candied orange and lemon 
peel, cut fine ; one pound of currants, 
a quarter of an ounce of ground cinna- 
mon ; and a quarter of an ounce of 
allspice : mix all well together, and 
keep in a jar till wanted for use. 

1179. SHBEWSBVBT CAKES.— 
Take half-a-pound of flour ; a quarter 
of a pound of sugar; the same of 
butter and enough eggs well beaten to 
mix it— grate in some nutmeg, mix 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



250 



K^Kfp iconic THAlf TOir M AKX— DXBT ; 



well, coU thin, cut with a pastry 
cotter or wineglass, and balce on 
buttered pa|)er. 

1180. CHES8B 04Jm.— Beat a 

quarter of a pound of butter with the 
hand in a warm pan until it becomes 
creamy. Add a quarter of a pound of 
powdered sugar aud beat thoroughly : 
then add the yolks of two eggs, and 
beat again. After this add a little 
milk aiid beat all together; add a 
quarter of a pound of currants and mix 
together, rut puff paste in patty- 
pans, fill them half full, sprinkle some 
sugar oyer, and bake in a quick oven. 

1181. Mixture ft>r Lemon Oheete 
Ctkaa. — Half-a-pouud of butter, two 

Sounds of lump sugar, yolks of a 
ozen eggs and the whites of eight, 
rind of four lemons (peeled thin and 
minced fine), juice of six lemons. 
Place them all into a saucepan, and 
boil till the sugar is melted and quite 
thick, stirring it well whilst on the 
fire. Then pour into a jar, with a 
wineglassful of brandy or whisky. 
It will keep for months. Wh<;n 
required for use add four tables[>oon- 
fuls of fine-grated bread. 

1182. lATH BTOrS.— A quarter 
of a pound of flour ; four yolks and 
three whites of ejrgs, with four spoon- 
fuls of solid fresh yeast. Beat in a 
bowl, and set before the fire to rise ; 
then rub into one pound of flour ten 
ounces of butter ; put in half-a-pound 
of 8u<?ar, and caraway comfits ; when 
the eggs and yeast are pretty light, 
mix by degrees altogether ; throw a 
cloth over it, and set before the fire to 
rise. Make the buns, and when on 
the tins, brush over with the yolk of 
egg and milk ; strew them with cara- 
way comfits ; bake in a quick oven. 
If baking powder is usea instead of 
yeast, use two teaspoonfuls, and pro- 
ceed as directed, omitting to set the 
dough before the fire to rise, which is 
useless as reoirds all articles made with 
baking powder. 

1183. PLAXH^TTHS.— Flour, two 
pounds ; sugar, five ounces ; butter, 



eight ounces ; some salt, gin^r and 
caraway, according to taste. Make f 
paste with warm mijk and four tea* 
spoonfuls of yeast, and bake in a hot 
oven. 

1184. CUBRAVT linfS.— The 

same as the preceding, but adding faalf- 
a-pound of currants, and a little water 
stainAd with saffron. 

1185. CBOQS 9img.— Take of 
flour Two pounds and a half; sifted 
sugar, half-a-pound ; some mace, 
cassia, and coriander seeds ; then form 
a paste consisting of half-a-pound of 
butter dissolved in half-a-pint of hot 
milk. Work it with three tablespoon- 
fuls of yeast and place it before the 
fire for about an hour. Make into 
buns and set them on a tin in front 
of the fire for half-an-hour, brush them 
over with warm milk, and bake in a 
fairly hot oven. 

1186. LBKOV imrfl.— Take of 
flour one poimd ; baking powder, three 
teaspoonfuls ; butter, six ounces ; loaf 
sugar, four ounces ; one egg ; essence 
of lemon, six or eight drop : make 
into twenty buns, and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

1187. EXCXLLEKT BISCUITS.— 

Take of flour two pounds ; carbonate 
of ammonia, three drachms, in fine 
powder ; white sugar, lour ounces ; 
arrowroot one ounce ; butter, four 
ounces ; one ecg ; mix into a stiff paste 
with new mine, and beat them well 
with a rolling-pin for half-an-hour ; 
roll out thin, cut them out with a 
docker, and bake in a quick oven for 
fifteen minutes. 

1188. ARSOWBOOT BISODITS 

are ma«le with equal parts of arrow- 
root and flour. 

1189. onreEB biscuits ahd 

CAKES. — Work into small crumbs 
three ounces of butter, two pounds 
of flour, and three ounces of powdered 
sugar and two of ginger, in fine 
powder ; knead into a stiff pasto, 
with new milk; roll thin, cut out 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



fifEND LBS8 THAK YOtT 1UK»— Dn)BPBNDBKCE. 



251 



with a cutter ; bake in a slov oven 
nntil crisp throogh ; keep of a pale 
colour. Additioual sugar may be 
nsed when a sweeter biscuit is desired. 
For good ginger cakes, butter six 
ounces, sugar eight, for each pound 
of flour ; wet the ingredients into a 
paste with eggs : a little lemon peel 
grated will give an agreeable flavour. 

1190. GIHOKE C«ES.— Totwo 
pounds of flour add three-quarters of a 
pound of ^ood moist suijar, one ounce 
best Jamaica ginger well mixed in the 
flour ; have ready three-quarters of a 
pound of lard, melted, and four eggs 
well beaten : mix the lard and eggs 
together, and stir into the flour, which 
wul form a paste ; roll out in thin 
cakes, and bake in a moderately heated 
oven. Lemon biscuits may be made 
in a similar way, by substituting 
essence of lemon for ginger. 

1191. PICKIC BI8CITIT8.— Take 
two ounces of fi-esh butter, and well 
vork it with a pound of flour. Mix 
thoroughly with, it half-a-saltspoonful 
of pui-e carbosate of soda, two ounces 
of sugar ; mingle thoroughly with the 
flour, make up the paste with spoon- 
fuls of milk ; it will require scarcely 
a quarter of a pint Knead smooth, 
roll a quarter or an inch thick, cut in 
rounds about the size of the top of a 
small wineglass ; roll these out thin, 

Srick them well, lay them on lightly 
oured tins, and bake in a gentle 
oven until crisp. When cold put into 
dry canisters. Thin cream used in- 
stead of milk, in the paste, will enrich 
the biscuits. To obtain variety cara- 
way seeds or ginger can be added at 
pleasure. 

1192. WHTB BXBCUITS. — Take 
of flour half-a- pound ; butter, four 
ounces ; sugar, four ounces ; two eggs ; 
carbonate of ammonia, one drachm ; 
white wine, enough to mix to a proper 
consistence. Cut out with a glass. 

1193. AJJ^Ol^ CUSTABPS. — 

Blanch and pound fine, with half-a- 
gill of rose water, six ounces of sweet 
and half-an-ounce of bitter almonds ; 



boil a pint of milk, with a few coriander 
seeds, a little cinnamon, and some 
lemon-peel ; sweeten it with two ounces 
and a half of sugar, rub the almonds 
through a fine sieve, with a pint of 
cream ; strain the milk to the yolks of 
eight eggs, and the whites of three 
well beaten ; stir it over a fire till it is 
of a good thickness, take it ofi* the fire, 
and stir it till nearly cold, to prevent 
its curdling. 

1194. BLAHCKAl^OB.— Take one 
pint of milk and half a handful of 
picked isinglass ; boil it till all the 
isinglass is melted ; strain it through 
a sieve ; pound fine four ounces of 
sweet and six or seven bitter almonds, 
mix with the milk adding a little 
spice ; sweeten with loaf sugar, boil 
it up, i)as8 it again through a sieve, 
then put it in moulds and let it stand 
till cold. 

1195. AI^W^OOT BLAJfC 
KANOE. — A teacupful of arrowroot to 
a pint of milk ; boil the milk with 
twelve sweet and six bitter almonds, 
blanched and beaten ; sweeten with 
loaf sugar, and strain it ; mix the 
arrowroot with a little of the milk as 
smooth as possible ; pour the boiling 
milk upon it by degrees, stirring the 
while ; put it back into the |)an and 
boil a few minutes, still stirring : then 
pour it into the shajK), which should 
be previously dippea in cold water, 
and turn it out when cold. 

1196. LBMOK SPOKeE.— For a 

quart mould — dissolve two ounces of 
isinglass in a pint and three-quarters 
of water ; strain it, and add three- 
quarters of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, 
the juice of six lemons and the rind of 
one ; boil the whole for a few minutes, 
stmin it again, and let it stand till 
quite cold and just beginning tostifien ; 
tnen beat the whites of two e^gs, and 
put them to it, and whisk tul it is 
quite white; put it into a monld, 
which must be first wetted with cold 
water. Salad oil is much better than 
water for preparing the mould for 
turning out jelly, blancmange, &c.| 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



852 



OIYIUTT 008TB KOTHINO BUT IS WORTH MrOH ; 



but great care must be taken uot to 
poor the lelly into the mould till quiU 
eool, or the oil will float on the top, 
and after it is turned out it must be 
carefully wiped over with a clean cloth. 
This plan only requires to be tried once 
to be invariably adopted. 

1197. CALF8 POOT JELLY.— 

Slit it in two, and take every particle 
of fat from the claws ; wash well in 
warm water, put it in a large stewpan, 
and cover with water ; skim well, and 
let it boil gently for six or seven hours, 
then strain and skim off any oily sub- 
stance on the surface. It is best to 
boil the foot the day before making 
the jelly, as, when tne liquor is cold, 
the oily part bein^ at the top, and the 
other being firm, with pieces of blotting 
paper applied to it, you may remove 
every particle of the oily substance 
without wasting the liquor. Put the 
liquor in a stewpan to melt, with a 
pound of lump sugar, the peel of two 
lemons, and the juice of six, six whites 
and shells of eggs beaten together, and a 
bottle of sherry or Madeira ; whisk the 
whole together until it is on the boil, 
then put it by the side of the stove, 
and let it simmer a quarter of an hour ; 
strain it through a jelly-bag : what is 
strained first must be poured into the 
bag again, until it is as bright and 
clear as distilled water ; then put the 
jelly in moulds, to get cold ana firm ; 
if the weather is too warm, it requires 
some ice or some of Nelson's gelatine. 
If required to be very 5^^/f, iialf-an- 
ounce of isinglass may be added when 
the wine is put in. It may be 
flavoured by the juice of various nmits 
and spices, &c., and coloured with 
saffron, cochineal, the juice of beet- 
root, spinach juice, claret, &c. It 
is sometimes made with cherry brandy, 
red noyeau, cura9ca, or essence of 
punch. 

1108. JSLLT FOB XHYALIDS. 

— Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, harts- 
' horn shavings, each one ounce ; sim- 
mer in three pints of water till reduced 
to one pint and strain it When 



cold, it will be a jelly, which giye, 
dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in 
change vrith the other nourishment. 

1190. ABBOWEOOT JBLLT.— A 

tablesi>oonl'ul of arrowroot, and cold 
water to form a paste ; add a 'olnt of 
boiling water ; stir briskly, boil for a 
few minutes. A little sherry and 
sugar may be added. For infants, a 
drop or two of the essence of caraway 
seed or cinnamon is preferable to the 
sherry. 

1200. APPLE JELLT. — Take 

some apples with red skins and cut 
them into quarters, but do not peel 
them. For each pound of apples take 
three pints of cold water, bnng it to 
the boiling point, and then boil fisLSt 
for half-an-hour. Then strain, and 
allow one pound of lump sugar for each 
pint of juice, replace in pan, and again 
boil quickly for balf-an-hour. 

1201. OBAHGE JELLT. — Take 
six oranges and one lemon, and peel 
them very thin. Pour some hot water 
on the peel and let it soak. Then 
scoop out the insides of the oranges 
and If mon into a basin ; pour an ounce 
of melted gelatine over tne pulp ; boil 
for a short time, Bud add some lump 
sugar to taste. Then pour it whilst 
hot over the peel and strain it through 
muslin. 

1202. APBICOT JELLT.— Divide 

two dozen ripe apricots into halves, 
peel and stone them, pound half of the 
kernels in a gill of water, and a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice ; reduce the 
fi-uit to a pulp, and mix the kernels 
with it ; put the whole into a stewpan 
with a pound of sugar, boil thoroughly, 
skim till clear, and put into small 
pots. 

1208. BED CirBBAKT JELLT.— 

With three parts of fine ripe red cur- 
rants mix one of white currants ; put 
them into a clean preserving pan, and 
stir them gently over a clear fire until 
the juice flows m)m them freely ; then 
turn them in a fine hair sieve, and let 
them drain well, but without pressure. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AND MANNISS OFTEN MAKE F0BTUNE8. 



253 



Paas the jaice through a folded muslin, 
or a jelly bag ; weigh it, and then boil 
it faxt for a quarter of an hour ; add 
for each pound, eight ounces of sugar 
coarsely powdered, stir this to it off the 
fire until it is dissolved, give the jelly 
eight minutes more of quick boiling, 
and pour it out. It will be firm, and 
of excellent colour and flavour. Be 
sure to clean otf the scum as it rises, 
both before and after the sugar is put 
in, or the preserve will not be clear. 
Juice of rea currants, three pounds ; 
juice of white currants, one pound : 
fifteen minutes. Sugar, two pounds : 
eight minutes. An excellent jelly may 
be paade with equal jmrts of the juice 
of red and of white currants, and of 
raspberries, with the same proportion 
of sugar and degree of boiling as men- 
tionea in the foregoing recipe. 

, 1204. WHITB CUBSAHT JELLT. 

— White currant jelly is made in the 
same way as red currant jelly, only 
double refined sugar should be used, 
and it should not be boiled above ten 
minutes. White currant jelly should 
be put through a lawn sieve. 

1205. Another Eecipe for White 
Onrrant Jelly. — After the fruit is 
stripped from the stalks, put it into 
the pan, and when it boils, run it 
quickly through a sieve : take a pound 
of sugar to each pint of juice, and let 
it boil twenty minutes. 

1206. BLACK CTJSBAlTr JSLLT. 

— To each pound of picked fruit allow 
one gill of water ; set them on the fire 
in the preserving-pan to scald, but do 
not let them boil ; bruise them well 
with a silver fork, or wooden beater ; 
take them off and squeeze them 
through a hair sieve, and to every pint 
of juice allow a pound of loaf or raw 
sugar ; boil it ten minutes. 

1207. ALMOND FLAVOUE (Es- 
sence OF Peach KKRNKii? — Quint- 
essence OP NoYEAU). — Dissolve one 
ounce of essential oil of bitter al- 
monds in one pint of spirit of wine. 
Use it as flavouring for cordials and 
pastry. In large qtMrUUiesUis exoMd' 



ingly poisonous, A few drops only 
should be used to several pounds of 
syrups, pastry, &c. This and other fla- 
vounngs may be bought in small bot- 
tles, ready for use, of grocers or oilmen. 

1208. BLAKCHEB ALMONDS.— 

Put the almonds into cold water, and 
heat them slowly to scalding; then 
take them out and peel them quickly, 
throwing them into cold water as they 
are done. Diy them in a cloth before 
serving. 

1209. POXTNDED ALMONDS.— 

The almonds should be dried for a few 
days after being blanched. Set them 
in a warm place, strewn singly over a 
dish or tin. A little pounded lump 
sugar will assist the pounding. They 
may be first chopped small, and roUed 
witn a rolling pin. — Almond Paete 
may be mode m the same manner. 

1210. OEANOB MABMALADS. 

Select the lai^gest Seville oranges, as 
they usually contain the greatest 
quantity of luice, and take those that 
have clear skins, as the skins form the 
largest part of the marmalade. Weigh 
the oranges, and weigh also an equal 
quantity of loaf sugar. Peel the 
oranges, dividing the peel of each into 
quarters, and put them into a preserv- 
ing-pan ; cover them well with water, 
and set them on the fire to boil. In 
the meantime prepare your oranges ; 
divide them into gores, then scrape 
with a teaspoon all the pulp from the 
white skin ; or, instead of peeling the 
oranges, cut a hole in the orange and 
scoop out the pulp ; remove carefully 
all the pips, or wnich there are innu- 
merable small ones in the Seville 
orange, which will escape observation 
unless they are very minutely ex- 
aminoii. Have a large basin near you 
with some cold water in it, to throw 
the pips and peels into — a pint is 
sufficient for a dozen oranges. Boil 
these in the water, and having strained 
ofi* the glutinous matter which comes 
from them, add it to the other parts. 
When the peels have boiled till they 
are sufilciently tender to admit of a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



254 



WOEK, WIVES, IN THE HOPSE J 



fork being stack into them, scrape 
away all the pith from the imdde 
of them ; lay them in folds, and cut 
them into thin slices of about an inch 
long. Clarify the sugar ; then tlnx)w 
the peels and pulp into it, stir it well, 
and let it boil lor half-an-hour. Tlicn 
remove it from the fire, and when it 
becomes cool, put it bv in air-tight 
|)0ts. Marmalade should be made at 
the end of March, or at the beginning 
of April, as Seville oranges are then in 
their best state. 

1211. APl'LE KAKKALABE — 

Peel and core two pounds of sub-acid 
apples — Wellingtons are excellent for 
the purpose — and' put them in an 
enamelled saucepan with one pint of 
sweet cider, or half-a-pint of pure 
wine, and one pound of crushed sugar. 
Ck>ok them by a gentle heat three 
hours, or longer, until the fruit is very 
soft, then saueeze it first through a 
oolander and then through a sieve. 
If not suflSciently sweet, add powdered 
sugar to taste, and put awav in jars 
made air-tight by covering them with 
a piece of wet bladder. 

1212. idNCEilSAt.— Take three 
and a half pounds of currants well 
picked and cleaned ; one and three- 
quarter pounds each of finely chopped 
beef suet, and finely chopped ai»ples 
(Kentish or golden pippins), four 
ounces each of citron, lemon peel, and 
orange peel cut small ; one pound of 
fine moist sugar ; mixed spice, half- 
an-onnce ; the rind of two lemons and 
two Seville oranges ; mix well, and 
put in a deep pan. Mix half a bottle 
of brandy, and half a bottle of ginger 
wine, and the iuice of the lemons and 
oranges that nave been grated, to- 
gether in a basin ; pour hdf over and 
press down tight with the liand, then 
add the other half and cover closely. 
This may be made one year so as to be 
used the next. 

Half the above weight of currants 
with the same quantity of stoned and 
well chopped raifflns is sometimes 
preferrea. 



1218. TO MASS A STilTTP.— 

Dissolve one pound of sUgar in about 
a ^11 of water, boil for a few minutes, 
skimming it till quite clear. To every 
two jiouuds of sugar add the white of 
one e^g well beaten. Boil very quickly, 
and skim cai-efuily while boiling. 

1214. XStUX BtkVT {a deW 

cious swnvter drink). — Five poimds of 
lump sugar, two ounces of citric acid, 
a gallon of boiling water ; when cold 
add half-a-drachm of essence of lemon 
and half-a-drachm of spirit of wine ; 
stir it well and bottle it About 
two tablespoonfuls to a glass of cold 
water. 

1216. APBIC0T8 8TEWXD Uf 
8TBUP. — Wipe the down from young 
apricots, and stew them as gently as 
possible in a syrup made of four ounces 
of sugar to half-a-pint of water, boiled 
the usual time. 

1216. SYBTTP OF 0BAN6B OB 
LEMOH PEEL.— Of fresh outer rind 
of Seville orange or lemon peel, three 
ounces, apothecaries* weight ; boiUng 
water, a pint and a half ; infuse the 
peel for a night in a close vessel ; then 
strain the liquor ; let it stand to 
settle ; and having poured it off clear 
from the sediment, dissolve in it two 
pounds of double refined loaf sugar, 
and make it into a syrup with a gentle 
heat. 

1217. APPLES IH sntirP (tor 
Immediate Use). — Pare and core some 
hard round apples, throwing them into 
a basin of water as each is peeled. 
Clarify as much loaf sugar as will cover 
them ; put the apples in water with 
the juice and rind of a lemon, and let 
them simmer till they are quite clear. 
Great care must he taken not to break 
them. Place them on the dish they 
are to appear upon at table, and pour 
the syrup over them. 

1218. APPLES WITH CrrSTASBc 

— Pare and core apples ; cut them in 
pieces; bake or stew ikem with aa 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WORK, MEN. OTTT OF IT. 



255 



little water as possible ; when they | 
have become paipy» sweeten and put j 
them in a nie-dish, and, when cold, 
pour over them in unboiled custard, 
find put back into the oveti till the 
custard is fixed. Equally good eaten 
hot or coid. 

1219. BAKED PXAB8. — Take 
twelve large baking pears ; pare and 
tat them into halves, leaving on about 
Wf-an-ineh of the stem. Take out 
the core with the point of a knife, 
and place the pears thus prepared close 
together in a block-tin saucepan, the 
inside of which is quite bright, and 
whose cover fits quite close. Put to 
them the riud of a lemon cut thin, with 
half its juice, a small stick of cinna- 
mon, and twenty grains of allspice ; 
cover them with spring water, and 
allow one pound of loaf sugar to a pint 
and a half of water : cover up close, 
and bake for six hours in a very slow 
oren ; — they will be quite tender, and 
0^ 8 good colour. Prepared cochineal 
id sometimes used for colouring the 
pears, 

laso. anrts oh makhiq jam. 

— It is not generally known that 
boiling frnit a long time, wUh<nU 
9ugar, wUhout a cover to the preserv- 
ing-pan, and skimming vL well is a very 
economical and excellent way — eco- 
nomical, because the bulk of the scum 
rises from the fruity and not from the 
iugar. Boiling it without a cover 
allows the evaporation of all the 
watery particles therefrom, and ren- 
ders the preserves firm and well 
flavoured. The siii^r should be added 
after the skimming is completed. The 
proportions are, three-quarters of a 

Jound of sugar to a pound of fruit, 
am made in this way of currants, 
strawberries, raspberries, or goose- 
berries is excellent. 

1221. COYEBIKOS 70B JAM.— 

White paper cut to a suitable size, 
dipped in brandy, or glazed over with 
the white of egg should be put over 
the jam when cold. The pots should 
then stand a night before they are 



covered. Thin papet immersed in 
milk or gum- water and pressed while 
wet over snd round the edge of the 
^ot forms a good covering, as it dries 
hrm and air-tight. 

*' Lightning Jam Pott."— An 
American dealer advertised ' ' Light- 
ning Fruit Jars " ; but for ligJUening 
fruit jars a small boy and solitude 
want a lot of beating — especially the 
boy sometimes. 

1222. FLUM, eSEXHeACOB, OR 
APBICOT JAK.— After taking away 
the stones from the fruit, and cutting 
out any blemishes, put them over a 
slow fire, in a clean stewpan, with 
half-a-pint of water, and when scalded, 
rub them through a hair sieve. To 
every pound of pulp put one pound 
of sifted loaf sugar, put it into a 
preserving- pan over a brisk fire, and 
when it boils skim it well, and 
throw in the kernels of the apricots 
and half-an-ounce of bitter almonds, 
blanched. Then boil it fast for a 
quarter of an hour longer, stirring it 
all the time. Store away in pots in 
the usual manner. 

1228. BHUBABB JAK. — This 
preserve should be made in the 
spring. Peel one poimd of the finest 
rhubarb, and cut it into pieces of 
two inches in length ; add three- 
quarters of a* pound of white sugar, 
and the rind and juice of one lemon 
— the rind to be cut into narrow 
strips. Put all into a preserving 
kettle, and simmer gently until the 
rhubarb is quite son ; take it out 
carefully with a silver spoon, and put 
it into jars ; then boil the syrup a 
sufficient time to make it keep well, — 
say one hour,— and pour it over the 
fruit When cold cover down in the 
usual manner. 

1224. TO BOTTLE FBtHTS.- 
Let the fruit to be preserved be 
quite dry, and without blemish. Take 
a wide-mouth bottle that is perfectly 
clean and dry within, and put in the 
fruit in layers, sprinkling sugar be- 
tween each layer, put in the bong, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



250 



THSRE 18 NO PLACE LIKE HOME —IT IT'S TIDY. 



and tie a bladder over, setting the 
bottles, bung downwards, in a large 
stewpan of cold water, with hay be- 
tween to prevent breaking. Simmer 
over the fire until the skin is just 
cracking, then take the bottles out, 
remove the bung9, and place a piece 
of paper dipped in sweet oil over 
the top of tne fruit ; prepare thin 
paper, immersed in gum water, and 
while wet, press it over and around 
the top of the jar : and as it dries, it 
will become quite iBrm and tight 

1224a. TOMATO JAM. — Some 
tomatoes not quite ripe. Take off the 
stems ; put into the preserving kettle 
with water and siigar enough to make 
a syrup. Allow half-a- pound of white 
sugar to one pound of fruit. Cook 
till done and tne syrup appears thick. 

1226. OK PBESEBVIH0 ratHT. 

The grand secret of preserving is to 
deprive the fruit of its water of vege- 
tation in the shortest time possible ; 
for which purpose the fruit ought to 
be gatherea just at the point of proper 
maturity. An ingenious French writer 
considers fruit of all kinds as having 
four distinct periods of maturity — the 
maturity of vegetation, of honeyfi- 
cation, of oxpecttitiou, and of coction. 

i The First Period he considers to 
be that when, Iiaviug gone through 
the vegetable processes up to the ripen- 
ing, it appears ready to drop spon- 
taneously. This however is a period 
which arrives sooner in the warm 
climate of France than in the colder 
orchards of England ; but its absolute 
presence may be ascertained by the 
general filling out of the rind, by the 
bloom, by the smell, and bv the facility 
with which it may be plucked from 
the branch. But even in Franco, as 
generally practised in England, this 
period may be hastened, either by 
cutting circularly through the outer 
rind at the foot of the branch, so as to 
prevent the return of the sap, or by 
oending the branch to a horizontid 
position on an espalier, which answers 
the same purpose. 



ii. The Second Period, or that of 
Honey fication, consists in the rijienesa 
and flavour which fruits of all kinds 
acq^uire if plucked a few days before 
arriving at their first maturity, and 
preserved under a proper degree of 
temperature. Apples may acquire or 
arrive at this second degree of maturity 
upon the tree, but it to<> often happens 
that the flavour of the fruit is thus 
lost, for fruit over-ripe is always found 
to have parted with a portion of its 
flavour. 

iii TheThirdStage, or of Expecta- 
tion, as the theorist quaintly terms it, 
is that which is acquired by pulpy 
fruits, which, though suflBciently ripe 
to drop off the tree, are even then hard 
and sour. This is the case with several 
kinds both of apples and pears, not to 
mention other fruits, which always 
improve after keeping in the confec- 
tionery, — but with respect to the 
medlar and the quince, this maturity 
of expectation is absolutely necessary. 

iv. The Ponrth Degree of maturity, 
or of Coction, is completely artificial^ 
and is nothing more nor less than the 
change produced upon fruit by the aid 
of culinary heat 

1226. TO 8T0BI APPLES.— 

They should be laid out on a dry 
floor for three weeks. They may then 
be packed away in layers with dry 
straw between them. Each apple 
should be rubbed with a dry clotn as 
it is put away. They should be put 
in a cool place, but should be sumci- 
ently covered with straw to protect 
them from fro&t They should be 
plucked on a dry day. 

1227. DBIED APPLES are pro- 
duced by taking fine apples of good 
Quality, and placing them in a very 
slow oven for several hours. Take 
them out occasionally, rub and press 
them flat. Continue until they are 
done. If they look dry, rub over 
them a little clarified sugar. 

1228. CAHDIEB APBICOTS.— 
Gather before ripe, scald in a jar put 
into boiling water, pare and stone 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



UP IN THE HORNING GETS THROUGH THE WORK. 



267 



theui ; put into a syrup of half their 
weight of susar, in the proportion of 
hall-a-pint of water to two pounds of 
snj^ar ; scald, and then boil uutil they 
are clear. Stand for two days in the 
syrup, then put into a thin candy^ 
and scald tliem in it. Keep two days 
longer in the candy, heating them 
each day, and then lay them on 
glasses to dry. 

1229. PRB8ERYEB PEACHES. 

— Wipe and pick the fruit, and have 
ready a quarter of the weight of fine 
sugar in powder. Put the fruit into an 
ice-pot that shuts very close ; throw 
the sugar over it, and then cover the 
fruit with brandy. Between the top 
and cover of the pot put a double 
piece of grey paper. Set the pot in 
a saucepan of water till the brandy is 
as hot as you can bear to put your 
finger into, but do not let it boil. Put 
the fruit into a jar, and pour on the 
brandy. Cover in same manner as 
preserves. 

1230. BEAHDT PEACHES.— 

Drop them into a weak boiling lye, 
untu the skin can be wiped off. Make 
a thin syrup to cover them, boil until 
they are soft to the finger-nail ; make 
a rich syrup, and add, after they come 
from the fire, and while hot, the same 

?|uantity of brandy as syrup. The 
ruit must be covert. 

1231. CHEBBT BBANI)T.--Take 
of brandy and crushed cherries one 
gallon of each ; let them remain to- 
gether for three days, then draw off 
the liquor, and add two pounds of 
lump sugar. Bottle off the clear por- 
tion in a week or ten days. 

1282. PBESEBVED PLUICS.— 
Cut your plums in halves (they must 
not be quite ripe), an<l take out the 
stones. Weigh the plums, and allow 
a pound of loaf sugar to a pound of 
fruit Crack the stones, take out the 
kernels, and break them in pieces. 
Boil the plums and kernels very slowly 
for about fifteen minutes, in as little 
water as possible. Then spread them 
tax a hu^e dish to cool, and strain the 



liquor. Next day add your syrup, 
and boil for fifteen minutes. Put into 
jars, pour the juice over when warm, 
and tie up with bladder when cold, 
with paper dipped in brandy over the 
preserve. 

1283. PBESEBVED PLUKS 

(Another Method). — Plums for com- 
mon use are very good done in treacle. 
Put your plums into an earthen vessel 
that holds a gallon, having first slit 
each plum with a knife. To three 
quarts of plums put a pint of treacle. 
Cover them over, and set them on 
hot coals in the chimney comer. Let 
them stew for twelve hours or more, 
occasionally stirring, and next day 
put them up in jars. Done in this 
manner, they will keep till the next 
spring. 

1234. TO PBESEBVE LEMOHS 
WHOLE. FOB DESSEBT.— Take six 
fine, fresh, well-shaped lemons, cut a 
hole just rouud the stalk, and with a 
marrow-spoon scoop out the pips, and 
press out the juice, but leave the pulp 
m the lemons. Put them into a bowl 
with two or three quarts of spring 
water, to steep out the bitterness. 
Leave them three days, changing the 
water each day ;* or only two days if 
you wish them to be very bitter. 
Strain the juice as soon as squeezed 
out, boil it with one pound of loaf 
sugar (setting the jar into which it 
was strained in a pan of boiling water 
fifteen or twenty minutes) ; tie it up, 
quite hotf with bladder, and set by till 
wanted. Taste the water the lemons 
are lying in at the end of the third 
day ; if not bitter, lift the lemons out 
into a china-lined pan, pour the water 
through a strainer upon them, boil 
gently one or two hours ; set by in a 
pan. Boil again next day, until ao 
tender that the head of a large needle 
will easily pierce the rind. Put in 
one pound of loaf sugar, make it just 
boil and leave to cool. Next day boil 
the syrup, and pour it on the lemons ; 
add one ]>ound of sugar, and hot water 
to supply what was boiled away. lift 
& 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



258 



LONG nt BBD DOM LITTUB WORK. 



out the Imbods, and boU tiie qynip 
and pour on them aj^ain every day for 
a fortniglit, then every three or four 
days, addtBg gradtkalljr three pennde 
of sugar. When the lemons lo<^ 
clear aud bright, boil the syrap prettv 
hard, add the lemon iuice whicn 
had been set by, jnst boil, skitn ; put 
the lemons into jars, pour the syrup 
upon them, and tie up the jars 
instantly with bladder. 

1286. PBESEBYED 0HEB£IX8. 

— Take equal weights of cherries and 
sugar, cut stalks of cherries, and wipe 
them clean ; strew a little powdered 
sugar over them ; boil the sugar in a 
pint of water to each three pounds of 
sugar ; clsrify it with whites of ecgs, 
strain, and boil it Next day boil up 
the cherries with the syrup for five or 
six minutes, and let them stay in the 
syrup for twenty-four hours. Strain off 
the syrup, boil it sgain, a degree 
higher, and pour it over the cherries. 
The following day boil again (yet a 
degree more), dip each cherry in the 
syi up, and put them on a sieve to dry 
in a warm place. 

1286. PB16BBV1D OINOSB.— 

Scald the young roots till they become 
tender, peel them, and place in cold 
water, frequently changing the water ; 
then put into a thin synip, and, in a 
few days, put into jars and pour rich 
syrup over them. 

1287. TO MEBEBVE nOi.— It 
has been long known to housewives, 
that the great secret of preserving 
eggs fhesfa is to place the small end 
downwards, and keep it in that 
position— other requisites not being 
neglected, such as to have the eggs 
perfectly fresh when deposited for 
keeping, not allowing them to become 
wet, keeping them cool in warm 
weather, aud avoiding freering in 
winter. Take an inch board of con- 
venient size, say a foot wide, and two 
and a half feet long, and bore it full 
of holes, each about an inch and a 
half in diameter ; a board of this size 
may hare five dozen holes bored i)i it^ 



fot as many eggs. Then nail strq» 
of thin board two inches wide round 
the edges to serve as a ledge. Boards 
such as this may now he made to 
constitute the shelves of a cupboard 
in a cool cellar. The ealy precaution 
necessary is to place the eggs as fast 
as they are laid in these holes, with 
the small end downwards, and they 
will keep perfectly fi-esh for a con- 
siderable time. [The great advantage 
of this plan is the perfect ease wim 
which the fresh eggs are packed away, 
and again obtain^when wanted. A 
carpenter would make such a board 
for a trifling charge.] 

1288. TO PBXIBBVl 1068 

(Another Method).— Apply with a 
brush a solution of gum aiabic to the 
shells, and afterwards pack them in 
dry charcoal dust. 

1280. PBESEBVIITG XO08 
(Mixture for). — The following mixture 
for preserving eggs was devised 
several years ago oy Mr. Jayne, of 
Sheffield, who alleged that by means 
of it he could keep eggs for two years. 
A part of his composition is often 
made use of— perhaps the whole of it 
would be better. Put into a tub or 
veesel one bushel of quicklime, two 
pounds of salt, halfa-pound of cream 
of tartar, and mix the same together, 
with as much water as will reduce the 
composition, or mixture, to that con- 
sistence that it will cause an egg put 
into it to swim with its top just above 
the liquid ; then place the eggs 
therein. 

1240. TO PBS8SBVE BVTTBB. 
—Dry some salt thoroughly before 
the fire, pound it as fine as possible. 
Spread a layer of it at the bottom of 
a jar, then press and beat the butter 
down on it with a wooden rammer, 
cover the top with a thick layer of 
Fait, pothatwnen converted into brine 
it will completely protect the butter. 

1241. 8ALT BTTTTEB may be 
fVeshened by churning it with new 
milk. In the proportion of a pound of 
butter to a quart of milk. Treat tiie 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CKXDIT MAKS3 OHSAP THINGS I»AR. 



aso 



batter in all respects in chaming as 
fresh. Cheap earthenware chums for 
dMBestic use may be had at any hard- 
Ware shopw 

1242. BAD BUTTBE may be im- 
proved greatly by dissolving it in 
thoroughly hot water ; let it cool, 
then skim it off, and chum again, 
adding a little good salt and sugar. 
A small portion can be tried and ap- 
proved before doing a larger quantity. 
The water should be merely hot 
enough to melt the butter, or it will 
become oily. 

1243. TO PBSSEBVE mX— 

Provide bottles, which must be per- 
fectly clean, sweet, and dry ; draw the 
milk from the cow into the bottles, 
and as they are filled, immediately 
cork them well up, and fasten the 
corks with pack-thi^ad or wire. Then 
spread a little straw at the bottom of 
a boiler, on which place the bottles, 
with straw between them, until the 
boiler contains a sufficient quantity. 
Fill it up with cold water ; neat the 
water, and as soon as it begins to boil, 
rake out the fire, and let the whole 
gradually cool. When quite cold, 
take out the bottles, and pack them 
in sawdust, in hampers, and stow them 
in the coolest part of the house. Milk 
preserved in tnis manner, and allowed 
to remain even eighteen months in 
bottles, will be as sweet as when first 
milked from the cow. 

1044. ''Konhig's mik," says 
an eminent German philosopher, 
'* commonly yields some hundredths 
more cream than the evening's at the 
same tem^rature. That milked at 
noon funushes the least ; it would 
therefore be of advantage, in making 
butter, &c., to employ the morning^ 
milk, and keep the evening's for 
domestic use." 

1246. TO PRBSEBVE KSAT.— 

Joints may be kept several days in 
the height of summer, sweet and good, 
by lightly covering them with bnn or 
powdered borax and hanging them in 



some high or windy room, or in a 
passage where there is a current of air. 

1246. TO CimB BAOOK AND 
HAMS. — ^The most simple method is 
to use one ounce and a half of conunon 
soda and the same quantity of salt- 
petre, to fourteen pounds of ham or 
oacon, using the usual quantity of 
salt. The soda prevents that haniness 
in the lean of the bacon which is so 
often found, and keeps it quite mellow 
all through, besides oeing a preventive 
of rust 

1246a. AAotherMetk^dtf Oaring 
Hami. — Choose the short t^ick legs 
of well-fed hogs. To each large ham 
allow half-a-pound of bay salt, an 
ounce of saltpetre, half-a-pound of 
coarse sugar, half-a-pound of common 
salt, a quarter of a pound of pepper, 
and an ounce of coriander seeds. 
Pound the ingredients, and beat and 
mix them well; but first rub in about 
six ounces of the salt and the salt- 
petre, and after two days drain and 
rub in the remainder of the salt and 
the spices. Rubforhalf-an-hour ; lay 
the hams in a trough, keep them care- 
fully covered, and baste them with 
the brine every day ; turn them occa- 
sionally, and rub the brine well in. 
When thb is done, hang the ham in 
a cool dry place, where there is a 
thorough current of air, and let it 
remain there until it is perfectly dry ; 
then remove it into the store closet 
and lay it by in clean straw. 

1247. eLAZIHG FOB HAMS, 
T0KGTTE8, fto.— Boil a shin of beef 
twelve hours in eight or ten quarts of 
water ; draw the gravy frx>m aknuckle 
of veal in the same manner ; put the 
same herbs and spices as if for soup, 
and add the whole to the shin of beef. 
It must be boiled till reduced to a 
quart. It will keep good for a year ; 
and when wanted for use» warm a 
little, and 8|)read over the ham, 
tongue, ke., with a feather. 

124a TO PBB8XBVB KAOK- 

IBXL.— Mackerel are at oerttin timet 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



260 



NOTHING 18 CHEAP IF YOU DON't WANT IT. 



exceedingly plentiful, especially to 
those who live near the coast. They 
may be preserved so as to make an 
excellent and well-flavoured dish, 
weeks or months after the season is 
past, by the following means. Having 
chosen some fine fijsh, cleanse them 
perfectly, and either boil them or 
lightly fry them in oil. The fish 
should be divided, and the bones, 
heads, and skins removed ; they should 
then be well rubbed over with the 
following seasoning : — For every dozen 
good-sized fish use three tablespoonfuls 
of salt (heaped), one ounce and a half 
of common blaick pepper, six or eight 
cloves, and a httle mace, finely 
powdered, and as much nutmeg, 
grated, as the operator chooses to 
afford, — not, however, exceeding one 
nutmeg. Let the whole surface be 
well covered with the seasoning ; then 
lay the fish in layers packed into a 
stone jar (not a glazed one) ; cover the 
whole with gooa vinegar, and if they 
be intended to be longlcept, pour salad 
oil or melted fat over the top. Caution, 
— The glazing on earthen jars is made 
from lead or arsenic, which poisons 
vinegar draws forth. 

1249. TOPBSSEBVE POTATOES. 

— ^The preservation of potatoes by 
dipping them in boiling water is a 
valuable and useful discovery. Large 
quantities may be cured at once, by 
putting them into a basket as large as 
the vessel containing the boiling water 
will adroit, and then just dipping them 
a minute or two, at the utmost. The 
germ, which is so near the skin, is 
thus destroyed without injury to the 
potato. In this way several tons 
might be cured in a few hours. They 
should then be diied in a warm oven, 
and laid up in sacks, secure from the 
frost, in a dry place. 

1250. TOPSBSEBYEFLOWEBS. 

— Dip them, whilst fresh gathered, 
in gum water. Let them drain for a 
few minutes and place them in a vase. 
The gum will then produce a thin 
coating on the stems and leaves, thus 



preserving their shape and colour. 
Faded flowers may oe restored by 
dipping them in very hot water half- 
way up the stems, then lay them by 
until the water cools. The portions 
of the stems which have been immeiiied 
must then be out off and the flowers 
placed in clean cold water. 

1251. PICKiniG, ilrft Ketbod. 
— This, the most simple one, is merely 
to put the article into cold vinegar. 
The strongest pickling vinegar of 
white wine should always be used for 
pickles ; and for white pickles, use 
distilled vinegar. This method may 
be recommended for all such vegetables 
as, being not themselves, do not 
require the addition of spioe, and such 
as do not require to be softened by 
heat, as capsicum, chilli, nasturtiums, 
button onions, radish-pods, horse- 
radish, garlic, and shallots. Half fill 
the jars with best vinegar, fill them up 
with the vegetables, and tie down 
immediately with bladder and leatlter. 
One advantage of this plan is that those 
who grow nasturtiums, radish-pods, 
and so forth, in their own gardens, 
may gather them from day to day, 
when they are exactly of tne proper 
^owth. They are very much oetter 
if pickled quite fresh, and all of a size, 
which can scarcely be obtained if they 
be pickled all at the same time. The 
onions should be dropped in the vinegar 
as fast as peeled ; tnis secures their 
colour. The horseradish should be 
scraped a little outside, and cut np in 
rounds half an inch deep. 



1252. PICKLnrO, Moond Method, 
is that of heating vinegar and spice, 
and pouring them hot over the vege- 
tables to M pickled, which are pre- 
viously prepared by sprinklinff with 
salt, or immersing in brine. Do not 
boil the vinegar, tor if so its strength 
will evaporate. Put the vinegar and 
spice into ajar, bung it down. tightly, 
tie a bladder over, and let it stand on 
the hob or on a trivet by the side of 
the fire for three or four days ; shake 
it well three or four times a day. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OHARITT BB0IN8 AT HOME, DON*T LET IT END THERE. 



261 



This method may be applied to gher- 
kins, French beans, cabbage, broccoli, 
cauliflowers, onions, and so forth. 

1268. PIGKLOro, third Method, 
is when the yegetables are in a greater 
or less degree done over the fire. 
Walnuts, artichokes, artichoke bot- 
toms and beetroots are done thus, and 
sometimes onions and cauliflowers. 

1254. EIHT8 OK PICKLDTO. 

i. Do not keep pickles in common 
earthenware, as the glazinff contains 
lead, and other poisons which combine 
with the vinegar. 

IL Keep pickles only in wood, glass, 
or stone ware. Anything that has 
held grease will spoil pickles. 

iii If you use copper, bell-metal, 
or brass vessels for pickling, never 
allow the vinegar to cool in them, as 
it is then poisonous. 

iv. Vinegar for pickling should be 
sharp, though not the sharpest kind, 
as it iujures the pickles. 

▼. Vinegar may be prepared ready 
for use for any kind of pickling by 
adding a teaspoonful of alum and a 
toacupful of salt to three gallons of 
vinegar, with a bag containing pepper, 
ginger root, and all the mflerent 
spices that are used in pickling. 

yi Stir pickles occasionally, and if 
they are soft ones take them out, and 
scald the vinegar, and pour it hot over 
the pickles. 

▼ii. Keep enough vinegar in every 
jar to cover the pickles completely; 
if it is weak, take fresh vinegar and 
pour on hot. 

▼liL Copper in pickles may be de- 
tected by immersing a piece of thick 
bright iron wire in the vinegar for 
some hours. If there is the least 

Quantity of copper, it will become 
eposited on the wire. 
IX. Mont pickle vinegar, after the 
vegetables have been used, may be 
again utilized, walnut pickle in parti- 
cular; boil it up, allowing to each 
quart four or six anchovies chopped 
small, and a large tablespoonful of 
shallots, also chopped. Let it stand 



a few days, till it is quite clear, then 
pour off and bottle. It is an excel- 
lent store sauce for hashes, fish, and 
various other purposes. 

1266. T0MAT0B8, to Piekle.— 
Take five pounds of the ripe fruit, 
remove the stalks, and wipe with a 
soft cloth or piece of flanpef ; put the 
tomatoes in a jar, with a breakfast- 
cupful of salt and the same quantity 
of vinegar. Close the jar with a paste 
of flour and water round the lid ; put 
the jar into a pan of boiling water, and 
let the fruit simmer for six hours, then 
pulp through a colander so as to get 
rid of the cores and skins ; now shred 
two ounces of red chillies, two ounces 
of garlic, make a syrup of two pints of 
vinegar and two pounds of lump sugar, 
cut two ounces of ginger up small, mix 
all these with the tomatoes, and 
simmer gentlv on a slow fire till it 
comes to the boil. Bottle when cold, 
and keep it (tightly corked) in a warm 
place. 

1256. 7BBKCEBBAK8, to Pickle. 
— The best sort for this purpose are 
white runners. They are veiy larg«*, 
long beans, but should be gathered 
quite young, before they are half- 
grown ; they may be done in the same 
way as described in par. 12.51. 

1257. OKIOirs, to Pickle.— 
Onions should be chosen about the size 
of marbles ; the silver-skinned sort are 
the best. Prepare a brine, and put 
them into it hot ; let them remain one 
or two days, then drain them, and 
when quite dry, put them into clean 
dry jars, and cover them with hot 
pickle, in every quart of which has 
been steeped one ounce each of horse- 
radish sliced, black pepper, allspice, 
and salt, with or witnout mustard 
seed. 

1258. OABUO AHB SHALLOTS. 
— These may be pickled in the same 
way as onions. 

1250. BBB CABBAGE, to Piokle. 
— Choose fine firm cabbages — the 
largest are not the best ; trim off" the 
outside leaves ; quarter the cabbage, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2«3 



SYIRT GOOD ACT 18 CHARmP. 



take out the large stalk, slice the 
qiMurtert into a cokuider, and sprinkle 
a little salt between the layers ; pot 
but a little salt — too mneh will spoil 
the eolonr ; let it remain in the colan- 
der till next day, shake it well, that 
all the biine may ran o£f ; put it in 
jars, cover it with a hot pickle com- 
posed of black pepper andf allspice, of 
each an ounce, ginger pounded, horse- 
radish sliced, and salt, of each half-an- 
ounce to every quart of vinegar (steep 
as directed in par. 1252) ; two capsi* 
cams may be added to a quart, or one 
drachm of cayenne. 

12e0. BSOCCOLI OB CATTU- 
FL0WZB8, to Fickle. —Choose such 
as are firm, and of full size ; cut away 
all the leaves, and pare the stalk ; pull 
away the flowers by bunches, steep in 
brine two days, then drain them, wipe 
them dry, and put them into hot 
pickle. 

1261. MEL0K8, MANGOBS ABD 
LOBO CVOUMBBBS may all be 

Sickled in the following manner, 
[elons should not be much more than 
half-grown ; cocumbers full-grown, 
but not overgrown. Cut off the top, 
but leave it hanging by a bit of rind, 
which is to serve as a hinge to a box- 
lid; with a marrow-spoon scoop out 
all the seeds, and fill the fruit with 
equal parts of mustard seed, ground 
pepper, and ginger, or flour of mustard 
instead of the seed, and two or three 
cloves of garlic. The lid which en- 
closes the spice may be sewn down 
or tied, by running a white thread 
through the cucumber and through the 
lid, and tying them together. A 
pickle may be prepared which bears a 
resemblance to the Indian method : — 
To each quart of vinegar put salt, flour 
of mustard, curry powder, bruised 
ginger, turmeric, half-an-ounceofeach, 
cayenne pepper one drachm, all rubbed 
together witli a large glassful of salad 
oil ; shallots two ounces, and garlic 
half-an-ounce, sliced ; steep the spice 
in the vinegar as before directed, and 
put the vegetables into it hot 



iaa2. eXIBBIBS, to BkUa.— 
Pat about two hundred and fifty in 
strong brine, and let them remain in 
it three hours. Put them in a sieve 
to drain, wipe them, and place then 
in a jar. For a pickle, beat vinegar, 
one gallon ; oemmon saJt, six ounces ; 
allspioe, one ounce ; mo^tard seed, one 
ounce ; doves, half-ao-ounce ; naee^ 
half-an-ounce ; one nutmeg, sliced ; 
a stick of horseradish, slioed; boil 
fifteen minutes ; skim it well. "When 
cold, pour it over them, and let stand 
twenty-four hours, covered up; pat 
them mto a pan over the fire, and let 
them simmer only until they attain 
a green colour. Tie the jars down 
closely with bladder and leather. 

1268. BBETB00T8, to Plokle.— 

Boil or bake them gently until they 
are nearly done ; according to the size 
of the root they will require from an 
hour and a half to two hours ; drain 
them, and when they begin to cool, 
peel and cut in slices hslf-an-inch thick, 
then put them into a pickle composed 
of black pepper and allspice, of each 
one ounce ; ginger pounded, horse- 
radish slioed, and salt, of each half-an- 
ounce to every quart of vinegar, 
steeped. Two capsicums may be 
added to a quart, or one drachm of 
cayenne. 

1264. ABTICE0EB8, to Pifkla. 
— Gather young artichokes as soon as 
formed ; throw them into boiliDg 
brine, and let them boil two minutes ; 
drain them ; when cold and dry, put 
them in jars, and cover with vinegar, 
prepared as in par. 1258, but the only 
spices employed should be ginger, 
mace, and nutmeg. 

1264a. ABTXCHOEB B0TT91U, 

to Piekla. — Select full-grown arti- 
chokes and boil them ; not so moeh as 
for eating, but just until the leaves can 
be pulled; remove them and the 
choke ; in taking off the stalk, be 
careful not to break it off so as to 
bring away any of the bottom ; it 
would be better to pare them with a 
silver knife, and leave half-an-inch of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TBN GOOD V«B]M ikItS Hmmi A aVKSABB BAD ONES. 



tender atalk commg to a point ; 
cold, add vinegar and ipifie, tlia 
as for artichokea. 

1265. XUSEROOVS. tfi TioUo. 
— Choose small white mushrooms ; 
they idioald be of but one night's 
growth. Cut off the roots, and rub 
tne mushrooms clean with a bit of 
flannel and salt ; put them in a jar, 
allowing to every cjuart of mushrooms 
one ounce of salt, one ounce of ginger, 
half-an-ounce of whole pepper, eight 
blades of mace, a bay-leaf, a strip of 
lemon rind, and a wineglassfUl of 
sherry ; cover the jar close, and let it 
stand on the hob or on a stove, so as 
to be thoroughly heated, and on the 

Soiot of boiling. Let it remain thus a 
ay or two, till the liquor is absorbed 
by the mushrooms and spices ; then 
cover them with hot vin^ar, close 
them a^in, and stand till it just comes 
to a boil ; then take them away from 
the fire. When they are quite cold, 
divide the mushrooms and spice into 
wide-mouthed bottles, fill them up 
with the vinepr, and tie them over. 
In a week's time, if the vinegar has 
shrank so as not entirely to cover the 
mushrooms, add cold vinegar, and at 
the top of each bottle put a teaspoon - 
ful of salad or almond oil ; cork close, 
and dip in bottle resin. 

1266. WAUrUTf, to Pitkle.— Be 
particular in obtaining them exactly 
at the proper season ; if they go bo- 
yond the middle of July, there is 
danger of their becoming hard and 
woody. Steep them a week in brine. 
If they are wanted to be soon ready 
for use, prick them with a pin, or run 
a lardhig-pin several limes through 
them ; but if they are not wanted in 
haste, this method had better be left 
alone. Put them into a kettle of 
brine, and gtre them a gentle simmer, 
then drain them on a sieve, and lay 
them on fish drainers (or what is 
equally -good, the cover of a wicker 
hamper), in an airy place, until they 
become Uack ; then make a pickle of 
▼inegar, adding to every quart, Uack 



pepper one ounce, ginger, shallots, lall, 
and mnstard seed, one ounce each. 

1267. HASTirBTXUMS, to PloUs. 
— A week or ten days after the 
blesBoms have fidkn off, gather a 
gallon of the nasturtiums and put 
them in a pail of salt and water 
(changing the water occasionally) for 
three or four dars ; put them in a 
sieve to drain, and diy them with cloths 
until perfectly dry. Boil one gallon 
white vinegar, four sliced shallots, four 
onaces of salt, one ounce of nutmeg, 
one ounee of mace, two oaitces of white 
peppercorns, for a quarter of an hour ; 
skim, and when almost coM pour it all 
over the fruit previously placed in jars 
and tie up tigntly. 

126a GBAPB8, to Pickle.— Cut 

the grapes off before they are ripe, 
taking care not to bruise them. Boil 
a gallon of vinegar with one ounce of 
peppercorns, two dozen cloves, and 
two ounces of ginger. "When it is cold 
pour over the grapes, cover them well, 
and let them stay for three or four 
days. Then boil the vinegar again 
and pour it (when cold) over the 
giapes. Bottle, and cork tightly. 

1269. aUIPHIU, to Piakla.— 
On the sea-coast this is merely 
preserved in water, or equal parts of 
sea- water and vinooar ; out aa it ia 
aometimea aent fresh aa a preaent to 
inland i>arts, the best way of managing 
it under such circumstances is to steep 
it two days in brine, then drain and 
put it in a atone jar covered with 
vinegar, and having a lid, over which 
put a thick paste of flour and water, and 
set it in a very cool oven all night, or 
in a warmer oven till it neariy hut not 
quite boils. Then let it stand on a 
warm hob for half-an-hour, and allow 
it to become quite cold before th# 
paste is removed ; then add cold 
vinegar, if any more is required, and 
secure as other pickles. 

127a PieiLBD IQOa— If tha 

fc^wing niekle were generally known, 
it would be more generally used. It 
is an excellent pickle to be eaten with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



264 



HOIOMT WOKK MAKES A SOUND 8LEXP. 



li 



cold meat, &c. The eg^s should be 
boiled hard (say ten minutes), and 
then divested of their shells ; when 
quite cold put them iBJars, and pour 
over them vinegar (sufficient to quite 
cover them), in which has been pre- 
viously boiled the usual spices for 
-lidding ; tie the jars down tight with 
iladder, and keep them till they begin 
to change colour. 



1271. IHDIAir PICKLB.— The 

vegetables to be emploved for this 
favourite pickle are small hard knots 
of white cabba^, sliced ; cauliflowers 
or broccoU in dakes ; long carrots, not 
larger than a finger, or large carrots 
sli^ (the former are far preferable) , 
gheridns, French beans, small button 
onions, white turnip radishes half- 
aprown, radish-pods, shallots, young 
hard apples ; green peaches, before the 
stones begin to form ; v^table 
marrow, not larger than a hen s egg ; 
small green melons, celery, shoots of 
green elder, horseradish, nasturtiums, 
capsicums, and garlic As all these 
vegetables do not come in season to- 
gether, the best method is to prepare 
a large jar of pickle at such time of 
the year as most of the things may be 
obtained, and add the others as they 
come in season. Thus the pickle will 
be nearly a year in making, and ought 
to stand another year before using, 
when, if properly managed, it will be 
excellent, but it will keep and 
continue to improve for years. For pre- 
paring the several vegetables, the 
same directions may be observed as 
for pickling them separately, only 
following this general rule — that, if 
possible, boiling is to be avoided, and 
soaking in brine to be preferred. Be 
very particular that every ingredient 
is perfectly dry before it is put into 
the iar, and that the jar is veiy 
closely tied down every time that it 
is opened for the addition of fresh 
vegetables. Neither mushrooms, wal- 
nuts, nor red cabbage are to be ad- 
mitted. For the pickle:— To a 
gallon of the best white wine vinegar 



add salt three ounces, flower of 
mustard half-a-pound, turmeric two 
ounces, white ginger sliced three 
ounces, cloves one ounce, mace, bUck 
pepper, long pepper, white pepper, 
nalt-an-ounce each, cayenne two 
drachms, shallots, peeled, four ounces, 
garlic, peeled, two ounces ; steep the 
spice in vinegar for two or three days. 
The mustard and turmeric must be 
rubbed smooth with a little cold 
vinegar, and stirred into the rest when 
as near boiling as possible. Such 
vegetables as are ready may be put in ; 
when cayenne, nasturtiums, or any 
other vegetables mentioned in the first 
method of pickling (par. 1251) come 
in season, put them in pickle as they 
are ; for the preparation of vegetables 
mentioned in the second method (par. 
1252), use a small quantity of not 
vinegar without spice : wh**n cold, 
pour it oft, and put the vegetables into 
the general jar. If the vegetables are 
greened in vinegar, as French beans 
and gherkins, this will not be neces- 
sary, but the adoption of this process 
will tend to improve alL Onions had 
bettor not be wetted at all ; but if it 
be desirous not to have the Ml 
flavour, both onions, shallots, and 
garlic may be sprinkled with salt in 
a colander, to draw ofl" all the 
strong juice ; let them lie two or three 
hours. The elder, apples, peaches, 
and fio forth, should oe greened as 
gherkins. The roots, radishes, car- 
rots, celery, are only soaked in brine 
and dried. Half-a-pint of salad oil 
is sometimes added. It should be 
nibbed up in a bowl with the flower 
of mustard and turmeric. — It is not 
essential to Indian pickle to have 
every variety of vegetable here 
mentionefl ; but all these are admis- 
sible, and the greater the variety the 
more the pickle will be approved. 

1272. TO MAKE BBITI8H AH- 
CE0VIE8. — Procure a quantity of 
sprats, as fresh as possible ; do not 
wash or wipe them, but just take 
them as caught, and for eveiy peck 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WORKING 18 BETTER THAN THINKING ABOUT IT. 



265 



of the fUh take two pounds of com- 
mon salt, a quarter of a pound of 
bay salt, four pounds of saltpetre, two 
ounces of salprunella, and two penny- 
worth of cochineal. Pound all these 
ingredients in a mortar, mixing them 
well together. Then take stone jars 
or smiul kegs, according to your 
quantity of sprats, and place a layer 
of the iish and a layer of the mixed 
ingredients alternately, until the pot 
is fuU; then press hard down, and 
coyer close for six months, when they 
will be fit for use. 

1278. OBKAKEHTAL 8TAIN- 
niO. General Obsenrationf.— When 
Alabaster^ Marble^ and other Stones 
are coloured, and the stain is required 
to be deep, it should be poured on 
boiling hot, and brushed equally oyer 
eyory part, if made with water; if 
with spirit, it should be applied cold, 
otherwise the eyaporation, being too 
rapid, would leaye the colouring 
matter on the surface, without any, 
or yery little, being able to penetrate. 
In greyish or brownish stones, the 
stain will be wanting in brightness, 
because the natural colour combines 
with the stain ; therefore, if the stone 
be a pure colour, the result will be 
a combination of the colour and stain. 
In staining Bone or Ivory^ the colours 
will take better before than after 
polishing; and if any dark spots 
appear, they should be rubbed with 
chalk, and the article dyed acain, to 
produce uniformity of shade. On 
remoyal from the boiling hot dye- 
bath, the bone should be immediately 
plunged into cold water, to preyent 
cracks from the heat If Paper or 
ParchmmU is stained, a broad yamish 
brush should be employed, to lay the 
colouring on eyenly. When the stains 
for v)ood are required to be yery 
strong, it is better to soak and not 
brush them ; therefore, if for inlaying 
or fine work, the wood should, bo 
preyiously split or sawn into proper 
thicknesses ; and when it is necessary 
to bnuih the wood seyeral times oyer 



with the stains, it should be allowed 
to dry between each coating. When 
it is wished to render an^ of the stains 
more durable and beautiful, the work 
should be well rubbed with Dutch or 
common rushes after it is coloured, 
and then yamished with seed-Iao 
yamish, or if a better appearance is 
desired, with three coats of the same, 
or shellac yamish. Common work 
only requires frequent rubbing with 
linseed oil and wooUen rags. 

1274. TO STAIN ALABA8TEB, 
MABBLB, AHD STONE.-- These may 
be stained yellow, red, green, blue, 
purple, blacK, or any of the compound 
colours, by the stains used for wood. 

1275. TO STAIN BONE AND 
IVOBY. 

i. Blaok.^After being well cleansed 
from grease and dirt, lay the article 
for seyeral hours in a strong solution 
of nitrate of silyer, and expc^ed to the 
li^ht or dried, and then dipped in a 
solution of sulphide of ammonium. 
Or boil the article for some time in a 
strained decoction of logwood, and 
then steep it in a solution of persul- 
phate or acetate of iron. 

ii Blue. Immerse for some time in 
a dilute solution of sulphate of indigo 
— partly saturated with potash — and 
it will be fully stained. Or steep in 
a strong solution of sulphate of copper, 
or in a solution of soluble Prussian 
blue. 

ill. Brown. — The same as for Black, 
but with a weaker solution of silyer. 

iy. Green. — Dip blue-stained articles 
for a short time in nitro-hydrochlorate 
of tin, and then in a hot decoction 
of fustic. Or boil in a solution of 
yerdigris in yinegar until the desired 
colour is obtained ; a glass or stone- 
ware utensil should be used. 

▼. Bed. — ^Dip the articles first in 
the tin mordant used in dyeing, and 
then plunge into a hot decoction of 
Brazil wood — half-a-pound to a gallon 
of water—or cochineaL Or steep in 
red ink until sufficientiy stained. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



IttOllM ABM VSB WINde 99 AOfKUM. 



Ti loftrltt— Um lao dye inatMd 
of the preoeding. 

Ttt. Pwrplo.— Immerse the pitcM in 
a weak eolation of terchloride of gold, 
and then expose to the li^t 

▼iii Yialet—Dip in the tin mor- 
dant» and then immetae in a decoction 
of logwood. 

is. Tellov.— Impregnate withnitio- 
hydrochlonrte of tiu, and then digest 
with heat in a strained decoction of 
fustic. Or steep for twenty-four hours 
in a strong solution of the neutral 
chromate or potash* and then plunge 
for some time in a boiling solution of 
acetate of lead. Or boil the articles 
in a solution of alum— a pound to half- 
a-gallon — and then immerse for half- 
an-hour in the following mixture : — 
Take half-a-pound of turmeric, and a 
quarter of a pound of pearlash ; boil 
in a gallon of water. When taken 
from this^ the bone must be again 
dipped in the alum solution. 

1276. TO STAJH B0B9.— This 
most be treated iu the same manner 
as bone and ivory for the rarious 
colours given under that heading. 

127 7. TO miTATE T0BT0I8X- 

8HELL.— First steam and then press 
the horn into proper shapes, and after- 
wards lay the following mixture on 
with a small brush, in imitation of the 
mottle of tortoiseahell : — ^Take equal 
parts of quicklime and litharge, and 
mix with strong soap-lees; let this 
remain until it is thoroughly dry, brush 
off and repeat two or three times, if 
necessary. Such parts as are reourred 
to be of a reddisb-brown should be 
covered with a mixture of whitening 
and the stain. 

127a TO POUCH T0BT0I8B- 
8HXLL. — Take some rouge powder, 
ami with a piece of soft rag or leather 
rub the shell, and then finlBh with the 
hand. 

1276L 10 ITADr DM*. Bbiek. 
— ^To one gallon of rinegar add a 
quarter of a pound of iion rusk, let it 
stand Ibr a week ; then add a pound 
of dry lampblack, and thiee-quarten 



of a paund of oopperaa : stir it up at 
intenrals for a couple of dava. liiy 
five Of aix ooats on the article with a 
sponfs, allowing it to dry well between 
each. Foliah with linseed oiland soft 
wooUeA ran, aad it will look lika 
ebony. 

t28a TO 8XAIX FA? BB OB 
BABCSlCEirT. 

i Blutw— Stain the materiel gfsen 
uith the vetdigiis ^ain given in Ko. 
1281 (iiL), and Wash aver with asolu* 
tion of parlash— two ouncea to the 
pint — till it becomes blue. Or use 
the blue stain for wood. 

a. Oraan or Bad.— The aa»e as for 
wood. 

iU. OraBff.— Biisli over with a 
tincture of turmanc, formed by in- 
fuain^ an ounce of the root in a pint 
of spirit of wine ; let this dry, and 
give another coat ef pearlash aolution, 
made by dissolving two ouncea of the 
salt in a quart of water. 

W. FuTfU.— Brush over with the 
expressed juice ef ripe privet bemea. 
Or use the same as for wood. 

T. Tallow. — Brush over with tino- 
ture of turmeric Or add anatto or 
dragon's-blood to the tincture of 
turmeric, and brush over as usuaL 

1281. TO STAIH WOOD. 

i. Blaak.— 1. Drop a little sulphuric 
add into a small auantity of water, 
brush over the wood and hold to the 
fire ; it will turn a fine black, and take 
a good polish. 

9. Take half-a-galk>n of vinegar, an 
ounce of braised nutgalls, of logwood 
chipa and copperas each half-a-pound 
— boil well ; add half-an-ounce of the 
tincture of tosquichloride of iron, 
formerly called the muriated tincture, 
and brush on hot. 

8. Use the stain nven foriroB» par. 
1279. 

4. Take hAlf*«-galkm of vinegar, 
half-a-pound of dry lampblack, ana 
three noainds of iron rust, sifted. Mix 
and let stand for a week. Lay tkrea 
ooata el thia on hot, and tm rob 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



lAW 18 eostiir, atiJLKM sakds aiid fii iniiitDs. 



fitf 



with linseed oil, and you will have a 
fine deep black, 

6. Add to the aboye stain an ennoe 
of nutgalls, half-a-pottiid of logwood 
chips, and a quarter of a powid of 
copperas ; lay on three coats, oil well, 
and you will have a black stain that 
will stand any kind of weather. 

6. Take a pound of logwood chips, 
a qnarter of a pound of Brazil wood, 
and boil for an hour and a half iu a 
gallon of water. Brush the wood 
several times with this decoction while 
hot Make a decoction of nutgalls 
by simmering gently, for three or four 
days, a qnarter of a pound of the galls 
in two quarts of water ; give the wood 
three coats of this, and, while wet, 
lay on a solution of sulphate of iron 
(two ounces to a quart), and when dry, 
oil or varnish. 

7. Give three coats with a solution 
of copper filings in aquafortis, and 
repeatedly brush over with the log- 
wood decoction, until the greenness of 
the copper is destroyed. 

8. Boil half-a-ponnd of loffwood 
chips in two quarts of water, add an 
ounce of pearlash, and apply hot with 
a brush. Then take two quarts of the 
logwood decoction, and half-an-ounce 
of verdigris, and the same of copperas ; 
strain, and throw in half-a-pound of 
iron rust. Brush the work well with 
this, and oiL 

ii Blue. —Dissolve copper filings in 
aquafortis, brash the wood with it, 
and then go over the work with a hot 
•olution of pearlash (two ounces to a 

})int of water) till it assumes a per- 
ectly blue colour. Or boil a pound of 
indigo, two pounds of woad, and three 
ounces of alum in a gallon of water ; 
brush well over until thoroughly 
stained. 

iii GieeB. — Dissolve verdigris in 
vinegar, and brusli over with 3ie hot 
solution until of a proper colour. 

iv. Dark Maliagniy Oaloar.— Boil 
half-a-pound of madder and two ounces 
of logwood chit)s in a gallon of water, 
and brush well over whUe hot ; when 
dry- 90 over the whole with paarlash 



sedation, two drachms to the qvail 
Or put two ounces of dragon's-blood, 
bruised, into a quart of oil of turpen- 
tine ; let the bottle stand in a warm 
place, shake frequently, an«l when 
dissolved, steep the work in the mix- 
ture. 

▼. Light Bed Brown.^Boil half-a< 
pound of madder and a quartes of a 
pound of histic in a gallon of water ; 
brush over the work when boiling hot, 
until properly stained ; or the surfaoe 
of the work being quite smooth, bruoh 
over with a weak solution of aquafortis, 
half-an«ounce to the pint, and them 
finish with the following : — Fut foxa 
ounces and a half of dragon's-blood 
and an ounce of soda, both well bruised, 
to three pints of spirits of wine ; let it 
stand in a warm place, shake fre- 
quently, strain, and lay on with a soft 
brush, repeating till of a proper colour ; 
polish with linseed oil or varnish. 

vi Purple. — Brush the work seve- 
ral times with the logwood decoction 
used for No. 6 black (w« par. 1281), 
and when perfectly dry give a coat of 
pearlash solution— one drachm to a 
quart — taking care to lay it on evenly. 

Yii« Bed. — Boil a pound of Brazil 
wood and an ounce of pearlash in a 
gallon of water, and whue hot brush 
over the work until of a proper colour. 
Dissolve two ounces of alum in a quart 
of water, and brush the solution over 
the work before it dries ; or use a cold 
infusion of archil, and brush over with 
a pearlash solution of two drachms to 
the quart. 

viii Yellow. — Brush over with the 
tincture of turmeric ; or warm the work 
and brush over with weak aquafortis, 
then hold to the fire. Varnish or oil 
as usual. 

ix. Imitation of Botany lay Wood. 
— Boil half-a-pound of French Berries 
(the unripe berries of the i^kamwus 
i^ftcloriitft) in two quarts of water till 
of a deep yellow, and while boiling 
hot give two or three ooats to the work. 
If a deeper colour is desired, give a 
coat of logwood decoction over tha 
yellow. When nearly dry fcvm tha 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



268 



NEITHEB LISTEN TO, NOB TELL, 8KCRKT8. 



grain with No. 8 blcuJc stain {ate par. 
1281) used hot ; and when dry, anst 
Tarnish. 

X. Imitaticn of Bote Wood.— Boil 
half-a-pound of logwood in three pints 
of water till it is of a very dark red, 
add half-an-ounce of salt of tartar ; 
stain the work with the liquor while 
boiling hot, giving three coats ; then 
with a painter's graining brush, form 
streaks with No. 8 black stain {see 
par. 1281) ; let the work dry, and 
yamish ; or brush over with the 
logwood decoction used for No. 6 
black, three or four times ; put half-a- 
pound of iron filings into two quarts of 
vinegar ; then with a graining brush, 
or cane bruised at the end, apply the 
iron filing solution in the form re- 
quired, and when drv polish with 
bees'-waz and turpentine or varnish. 

1282. DTEIHO. General Obtenra- 
tioni. — The filaments from which stuffs 
of all kinds are fabricated are derived 
either from the animal or vegetable 
kingdom. We recognize the former by 
the property they possess of liberat- 
ing ammonia on b^ing treated with 
potash ; while the latter afford a liquor 
having an acid reaction under the 
same treatment. The animal kingdom 
famishes three varieties — silk, wool, 
and the furs, &c. of various animals ; 
the vegetable kingdom also three — 
flax, hemp, and cotton. 

The Yarioxu Shades produced by 
colouring matters may be classed in 
one or otncr of the following groups : — 

1. Blues ] 

2. Reds 'Simple, 

8. Yellows .... J 

4. Violets 1 

5. Orange colours . . Binary. 

6. Greens J 

7. Compound colours , 1 m^^^.., 

8. Blacr j Ternary, 

Some colours adhere at once to the 
stuff, and are called substantial 
colours : while others require that the 
material to be dyed should undergo 
some previous preparation in order to 
render it permanent. The substances 



used to fix the colouring matters are 
odled Mordants, which uiould possc-ss 
four qualifications : — 

L An equal affinity for the f^uro of 
the material and the colouring matter. 

it They should be incapable of 
injuring or destroying either by pro- 
longed action. 

iii They should form, with the 
colour, a compound capable of resist- 
ing the action of air and water. 

It. They should be capable of readily 
conforming to the various operations 
of the dyer. 

1282a. KOBDAHTS FOB DYE- 
ING. — For the reasons above given, 
the acetate or tartrate of iron is pre- 
ferable to the sulphate ; and the 
acetate or tartrate of alumina to alum. 
For reds, yellows, greens, and pinks, 
aluminous mordants are to be used. 
For blacks, browns, puces, and violets, 
the acetate or tartrate of iron must bo 
employed. For scarlets use a tin 
mordant, made by dissolving in strong 
nitric acid one-eighth of its weight of 
sal-ammoniac, then adding by degrees 
one-eighth of its weight of tin, and 
diluting the solution with one-fourth 
of its weight of water. 

1288. TO DYE CAUCO, UHEK, 
AND KUSUN. 

L Blue. — Wash well to remove 
dressing, and dry ; then dip in a 
strong solution of sulphate of indigo 
— partly saturated with potash — and 
hang up. Dry a piece to see if the 
colour IS deep enough ; if not dip 
again. 

ii. Saxon Blue. — Boil the article in 
alum, and then dip in a strong solu- 
tion of chemical blue. 

iii. Bni£ — Boil an ounce of anatto 
in three quarts of water, add two 
ounees of potash, stir well, and put in 
the calico while boiling, and stir well 
for five minutes ; remove and plunge 
into cold pump water, hang np the 
articles without wringing, and when 
almost dry, fold. 

!▼. Pink. — Immerse in the acetate 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TELL NO HOME SECRETS OUT OP DOORS. 



269 



of alamina mordant, and then in the 
colourijig of a pink sancer. 

▼. 0reen. — boil the article in an 
alum mordant, and then in a sola- 
tion of indigo mixed with any of the 
yellow dyes untQ the proper colour is 
obtained. 

Ti. Yellow. — Cut potato tops when 
in flower, and express the juice ; steep 
articles in this for forty-eight hours ; 
or dip in a strong solution of weld 
after boiling in an aluminous mordant. 
Turmeric, fustic, anatto, &c, will 
answer the same as weld. 

1284. TO DTS CLOTH. 

i Black. — Impregnate the material 
with the acetate of iron mordant, and 
then boil in a decoction of madder and 
logwood. 

IL Xadder Red.— Boil the cloth in 
a weak solution of pearlash— an ounce 
to a gallon of water, — wash, dry, and 
then steep in a decoction of bruised 
nutgalls. After drying it is to be 
steeped twice in dry alum water, then 
dried, and boiled in a decoction made 
of three-quarters of a pound of madder 
to every pound of the article. ^ It 
should then be taken out and dried, 
and steeped in a second bath in the 
same manner. When dyed, the articles 
should be washed in warm soap and 
water, to remove a dun -coloured 
matter given out by the madder. 

ill. Itearlet — Three-quarters of a 
pint of a tin mordant, made by dis- 
solving three pounds of tin in sixty 
pounds of hydrochloric acid, is addea 
to every pound of lac dye, and digested 
for six hours. To d^re twenty-five 
pounds of cloth, a tin boiler of seventy- 
five gallons capacity should be filled 
nearly full with water, and a fire 
kindled under it When the heat is 
160° Fahr., half a handful of bran and 
two ounces of tin mordant are to be 
thrown into it. The froth which rises 
is skimmed off, the liquor is made to 
boil, and two pounds and three- 
quarters of lac dye, previously mixed 
with a fHiund and three-quarters of the 
solvent, and fourteen ounces of the 



tin solvent are added. Immediately 
afterwards two pounds and three- 
quarters of tartar, and a pound of 
ground sumach, both tied up in a 
linen bag, are to be added, and sus- 
pended in the bath for five minutes. 
The fire being withdrawn, five gallons 
of cold water and two pints and three- 
quarters of tin mordant being poured 
into the bath, the cloth is immersed 
in it The fire is then rep^laced, and 
the liquid made to boil rapidly for an 
hour, when the cloth is removed and 
washed in pure water. 

It. Yellow. — Quercitron and weld 
pro<Iuce a solid yellow ; fiistio a very 
brilliant tint ; while turmeric yields a 
less solid yellow. 

1285. TO DYS FBATHXB8.— 
The feathers must be put into hot 
wa^r, and allowed to dnun before tliey 
are put into the dye. After they are 
taken out of the dye, rinse them two 
or three times, in clear cold water 
(except the red, which most only be 
done once), then lay them on a tray, 
over which a cloth has been spread, 
before a good fire ; when they begin to 
dry ana imfold, draw each feather 
gently between your thumb and finger, 
until it regains its proper shape. 

i. BUek. — Use the same as for 
cloth. 

ii Blue. — Every shade may be given 
by indigo,— or dip in silk dye. 

iii. Crimion. — Dip in acetate of 
alumina mordant, then in a boiling- 
hot decoction of Brazil wood — and, 
last of all, pass through a bath of 
cudbear. 

It. Pink or Bote-oolonr is given by 
safSower and lemon juice. 

▼. Deep Bed. — Proceed as for crim- 
son, omitting the cudbear bath. 

yi. Yellow. — Mordant with acetate 
of alumina, and dip in a bath of 
turmeric or weld. More or less of 
the turmeric will give them different 
shades and a very smdl quantity of 
soda will yield an orange hue. 

tU. Green. — Mix the indigo liquid 
with turmeric, and pour boiling wat«r 
over it ; let the feathers limmer in 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



170 



NO LOCK WILL HOLD 'OAINST KET8 GW GOLD. 



th« dye until tbey have Aoqiiired the 
ehade yo« want them. 

rUL LilM.— About two teMtpoon- 
fills of cadbe«r in about a quart of 
boiling water; kt it simmer a few 
minutes before yon put in the feathers. 
A small quantity of cream of tartar 
tUTBB the oolonr from lilac to amethyst. 

ISM. fO DTI 0I.OVI8. 

i. Tellow, Brown or 1^ Oolonr. — 
Steep saflton in boiliug-bot soft water 
for about twelve hours ; sew up the 
tojw of the gloves to prevent the dye 
staining the insides, wet the outsides 
over with a sponge dipped in the 
liquid. A teacnpful of dye will do 
a pair of gloves. The quantity of 
safmm used must depend on the 
depth of colour recjuired. 

ii. Pnrple. — Boil four ounces of 
logwood and two ounces of roche alum 
in three pints of soft water till half 
wasted ; strain, and let it cool. Sew 
up the tops, go over the outsides with 
a brush or sponge twice ; then rub off 
thtf loose dye with a coarse cloth. 
Beat up the white of an egg, and rub 
it over the leather with a sponge. 
Vinegar will remove the stain from 
the hands. 

1287. TO DTS LEATHER. — 
Blaek.^Use No. 4 bUuk ttain {Bee 
par. 1281), and polish with oiL 

128a TO DTE SnJL 
L BlMk. — ^The same as for cloth 
(par. 1284), but black dyeingisdifficult. 
ii. Bine. — Wash quite clean, rinse 
well, and then dip in a hot solution 
of sulphate of iron : after a short time 
take it out and rinse aflain. Have 
ready in another vessel a hot solution 
of prussiate of potash, to which a 
smtul quantity of sulphuric acid has 
been added. Dip the silk in this 
liquid; on removal rinse in clean 
water, and expose to the air to dry ; or 
wash well, rinse, wring out, and then 
dip in the following: — ^Boil a pound 
of indigo, two pounds of woaa, and 
three ounces of alnm, in a gallon of 



water. Wbon the adk is of a proper 
colour, remove, rinne, and dry. 

UL Oaxmatioft.— Boil two Gallons 
of wheat and an c^inoe of alum in 
four gallons of water ; stnin tiirongh 
a fine sieve ; dissolve half-a-poniHl 
more of alum and white tartar ; add 
three pounds of madder, then pnt in 
the silk at a moderate heat. 

tr. Criaison. — Take about a spoon- 
ful of cudbear, put it into a small 
pan, pour boiling water upon it ; stir 
and let it stand a few minutes, then 
put in the silk, and turn it over in a 
short time, and when the colour is 
full enough, take it out ; but if it 
should require more violet or crimson, 
add a spoonful or two of pnrple archil 
to some warm water ; steep, and dry 
it within doors. It must be mangled, 
and ought to be pressed. 

▼. Lilac.— For every pound of silk 
take one and a half pounds of archil, 
mix it well with the Honor ; make it 
boil for a Quarter of an nour, dip the 
silk quickly, then let it cool, and 
wssh It in nver water, and a fine half- 
violet, or lilac, more or leas full, ^ill 
be obtained. 

▼i Madder Bed.~Use the dye for 
cloth (No. it par. 1284). 

▼ii Tellow.— Take clear wheat 
bran liquor fifteen pounds, in which 
dissolve three quarters of a pound of 
alum ; boil the silk in this for two 
hours, and afterwards take half-a- 
pound of weld, and boil it till the 
colour is good. Nitre used with alum 
and water in the first boiling fixes 
the colour. 

_ 1280. TO DTE WOOL. 

L Bine. — Boil in a decoction of 
logwood and sulphate or acetate of 
copper. 

\L Brown. — Steep in an infusion 
of green walnut peels. 

Ui Drab. — Impregnate with brown 
oxide of iron, and then dip in a bath of 
quercitron bark. If sumach is added, 
it will make the colour a dark brown. 

It. Oraen. — First imbue with the 
bine, then with the yellow dye. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GOLD IS SO BALIf TO A. WOCnn>XD SPIRIT. 



271 



▼. tnuigew— Dye first with the 
UmI dye for doti^ tad then with a 

ti Eed.*— Tsfae four and a half 
pounds of cream of tartac, four and a 
qluurter pounds of alum ; boil the 
wool gently for two hours ; let it oool, 
and wash it on the following dav in 
pure water. Infuse twelve pounds of 
Bladder for half-aa-hour with a pound 
of chloride of tin, in lukewarm water ; 
filter throngh canvas, remove the dye 
from the canvas, and put it in the 
bath, which is to be heated to 100" 
Fahr. ; add two onnces of aluminous 
mordant, put the wool in and raise 
to boiling heat Remove the wool, 
wash, and soak for a quarter of an 
hour in a solution of white soap in 
water. 

vii. Yellow.— Dye with that used 
for calico, &c (No. vL par. 1283). 

1200. TO BYS BOHirSTS. 

Chip and straw bonnets or hats 
may be dyed black by boiling them 
three or four hours in a strong liquor 
of logwood, adding a little green cop- 
peras occasionally. Let the bonnets 
remain in the liquor all night, then 
take out to dry in the air. If the 
black is not satisfactory, dye again 
after drying. Rub inside and out 
with a sponge moistened in fine oil. 
Then block. 

1291. TO CLSAH WHITS SATIK 
AKB FLOWSHID 8ILXS. — Mix 
sifted stale bread-crumbs with powder 
blue, and rub it thoroughly all over 
the article ; then shake it well, and 
dust it with clean soft cloths. After- 
wards, whera there are any gold or 
silver flowers, take a piece of crimson 
ingrain velvet, nib the flowers with 
it, which will restore them to their 
original lustre. 

Another Method. — Pass them 
through a solution of fine hard soap 
of a moderate heat, drawing them 
through the hand ; rinse in lukewarm 
water, dry and finish by pinning out. 
Brush the flos^ or biignt side with 
A dean olothes-Dmah, the way of the 



nap. Finish them by dip 
8|>oDge into a size made by boiilng 
isinglass in water, and rub uie wroDff 
side. Rinse out a second time, and 
brush, and dry near a fire in a warm' 
room. — Silk may be treated im the 
same way, but not bmshed. 

1292. TO CL£AK COLOtTBEB 
SOX, SATIHB, W00LLSHDRX8SE8, 
ftc. — Four ounces of soft soap, four 
ounces of honey, the white of an egg, 
and a wineglassful of gin ; mix well 
together, and scour the article with a 
rather hard brush tiioroughly ; after- 
wards rinse it in cold water, leave to 
drain, and iron whilst quite damp. 

1293. TO CLSAH BLACK CLOTH 
CL0TES8.— Beat and brush the 
garments well, then boil four ounces 
of logwood in a boiler or copper con- 
taining two or three gallons of water 
for half-an-hour ; dip the clothes in 
warm water and squeeze dry, then 

Eut them into the copper and boil for 
alf-an-hour. Take them out, and 
add three drachms of sulphate of 
iron ; boil for half-an-hour, tnen take 
them out and hang them up for an 
hour or two ; take them down, rinse 
them thrice in cold water, dry well, 
and rub with a soft brush which has 
had a few drops of olive oil applied 
to its surface. If the clothes are 
threadbare about the elbows, cufis, 
Itc, raise the nap with a teasel or 
half-worn hatter's card, filled with 
flocks, and when suflSciently raised, 
lay the nap the right way with a 
hard brush. 

1294. TO CLSAir FXTS8.— Strip 
the fur articles of their stuffing and 
binding, and lay them as nearly as 
possible in a flat position. They 
must then be subjected to a very 
brisk brushing, with a stiff* clothes- 
brush ; after this any moth-eaten 
parts must be cut out, and neatly 
replaced by new bits of ftir to match. 
Sable, Chinchilla, Squirrel, Polecat, 
&c., should be treated as follows : — 
Warm a quantity of new bran in a 
pan, taking car^ tbat it does not bum„ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



272 



O HEABT ! BUT TRY IT ONCB ;— 'TIS BASY GOOD TO BE, 



to prevent which it must be actively 
stirred. When well wanned, rub it 
thoroughly into the fur with the hand. 
Repeat this two or three times : then 
vhake the fur, and give it another 
sharp brushing until free from dust 
White furs, Ermine^ &c., may be 
cleaned as follows : — La^ the fur on a 
table, and rub it well with bran made 
moist with warm water; rub until 
quite diy, and afterwards with dry 
bran. The wet bmn should be put 
on with flannel, and the dry with a 
piece of book muslin. They should 
also be well rubbed with magnesia, 
or a piece of book muslin, after the 
bran process. Furs are usually much 
improved by stretching, which may 
be managed as follows : — In a pint of 
soft water dissolve three ounces of 
salt ; with this solution, sponge the 
inside of the skin (taking care not 
to wet the fur, until it becomes 
thoroughly saturated ; then lay it 
carefully on a board with the fur side 
downwards, then stretch as much as 
it will bear, and to the required 
shape, and fasten with small tacks. 
The drying may be accelerated by 
placing the skin a little distance from 
the fire or stove. 

1296. TO CLXAK8E FEATHEBS 
OF THEnt AHIMAL OIL.— The foL 
lowing recipe gained a premium from 
the Society of Arts : — Take for every 
gallon of clean water one pound of 
quicklime, mix them well together, 
and when the undissolved lime is pre- 
cipitated in line powder, pour off the 
clean lime water for use. Put the 
feathers to be cleaned in another tub, 
and add to them a (quantity of the 
clean lime water, suflicient to cover 
them about three inches when well 
immersed and stirred about therein. 
The feathers, when thoroughly moist- 
ened, will sink, and shoula remain in 
the lime water three or fonr days; 
after which the foul liquor should be 
separated from them, by la3ring them 
in a sieve. The feathers should be 
•fteiwards well washed in clean water. 



and dried upon nets, the meshes of 
which may be about the fineness of 
cabbage nets. The feathers must be 
&om time to time shaken on the nets, 
and, as they get dry, they will fall 
through the meshes, and must be col- 
lected for use. The admission of air 
will be serviceable in drying. The 
process will be completed in three 
weeks. When thus prepared, the 
feathers need only be beaten to get 
rid of the dust 

1296. TO CLE Air WHITE 
OST&ICH FEATHEBS.— Four ounces 
of white soap, cut small, dissolved in 
four pints of water, rather hot, in a 
large basin ; make the solution into a 
lather, by beating it with birch rods, 
or wires. Introduce the feathers, and 
rub well with the hands for five or 
six minutes. After this soaping, wash 
in clean water, as hot as the hand can 
bear. Shake until dry. 

1297. TO CLEAH OBEBE 
FEATHEBS. — First remove the lin- 
ing, then wash with warm water and 
soap, as described for ostrich feathers. 
Do not shake the feathers until per* 
fectly diy, and before re-making the 
skin mend any tears, &c., in it 

1298. TO CIBAH 8TBAW HATS 

AND BONNETS. —They may be 
washed with soap and water, rinsed 
in clear water, and dried in the air. 
Then wash them over with white of 
egg well beaten. Remove the wire 
before washing. 

1299. TO BLEACH STBAW 
HATS, Ac. — Wash them in pure 
water, scrubbing them with a brush. 
Then put them into a box in which 
has been set a saucer of burning 
sulphur. Cover tliem up, so that the 
fumes may bleach them. 

1800. BALLS FOB CLEAimia 
CLOTHES.— Take some fuller's earth, 
dried till it crumbles to powder; 
moisten it with the juice of lemon, 
add a small quantity of pearlash, 
work and knead careftilly together 
till it forms % thick paste i make into 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Birr TO APPEAB 80, WHAT A STRAIN AND MISERY. 



27d 



balls, and diy them in the son. 
Moisten the spot on clothes with 
water, then rub it with the ball. 
Wash ont the spot with clean water. 

1801. TO CUAH YSLLTTM AHD 
PABOHMBHT.— A sponge dipped in 
a little benzine will remove all stains 
without iigming the materiaL 

1802. TO BEHOVE STADTS 
FBOX WALL-PAPEB8.— Marks or 
oil stains mav be removed by mixing 
pipeclay and water together to the 
thickness of cream and placing it on 
the spot. Let it stay there for twelve 
hours and then remove it with a 
brush or penknife. 

1808. TO BLEACH A FABEB 

DBE88.— Wash it well in hot suds, 
and boil it until the colour seems to 
be gone, then wash, and rinse, and 
dry it in the sun ; if still not quite 
white, repeat the boiling. 

1804. TO BLEACH DISCOLOITBEB 
LIHEB. — Let it lie on the grass ex- 
posed to the sun, air, and dews day 
and night, as long as may be necessary. 

1806. HIBT8 OK WA8HIBG.— 

If the water is hard owing to its being 
impregnated with lime, it may be much 
softened by boiling it before use. Even 
exposure to the atmosphere will pro- 
duce this effect in a great degree u^n 
spring water so impregnated, leavmg 
it much fitter for lavatory purposes. 
In both cases the water ought to be 
carefully poured off from the sediment, 
as the neutralized lime, when freed 
fit>m its extra quantity of carbonic 
acid, falls to the bottom by its own 
gravity. Preparations for softening 
watcr^ and facilitating the process, 
exist m the Extract of Soap, and the 
various washing powders now to be 
purchased of most grocers and oil and 
colourmen. Cold-water soap, too, has 
achieved considerable popularity, for 
by its use a lather can be quickly 
produced, even in the hardest water. 

1806. WA8HIB0 HACHIHE8.— 

By the introduction of these machines, 
the labour of washing-day, formerly so 



severe, has been much abrid^d. 
Suitable machines for washing, wnng- 
ing, and manglins may be purchased 
at comnarativelv low prices of any of 
the makers of what is termed * * lalwur- 
saving machinery." 

1807. TO WASH HOUSE LIBEB. 

— To save your linen and your labour, 
— pour on half-a-ponnd of soda two 
quarts of boiling water, in an earthen- 
ware pan ; take half-a-pound of soap, 
shred fine; put it into a saucepan 
with two quarte of cold water ; stend 
it on a fire till it boils ; and when 
perfectly dissolved and boiling, add it 
to the former. Mix it well, and let 
it stand till cold, when it will have 
the appearance of a strong jelly. Let 
your Imen be soaked in water, the 
seams and any other soiled part rubbed 
well with soap the night before. Get 
your copper ready, and add to the 
water about a pint basin full of the 
above soap jelly ; when luketoarm put 
in your linen, and allow it to boil for 
twenty minutes. Rinse it in the usual 
way, and that is all which is necessary 
to get it clean, and to keep it in good 
colour. Housekeepers will find the 
above recipe invaluable. 

1806. TO WASH HTTSLIBS ABB 
CHIBTZES. — Soap ma^ be almost 
dispensed with in gcttmg up these 
articles, which may be tr^ted in the 
Oriental manner; that is, to wash 
them in plain water, and then boil 
them in rice water ; after which 
chintzes should be calendered, an 
operation much more satisfactory than 
ironing. 

1809. TO WASH FLABBEL&— 

These should always be washed with a 
lather of white soam and in hot but 
not boiling water ; do not use soda, as 
it changes the colour. They should be 
washed and dried very (quickly to 
prevent shrinking. In washing squeeze 
and knead them, but do riot rub 
them. 

180e». fO SHBIBK FLABBBL8. 

— Before they are made up they should 

8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



274 



THKUE IS NO DAEKKB8S SO DBSP AS THAT OF THS MIND. 



be well soaked, first in cold, then in 
hot water. 

1810. TO WASH tLAKKETS.- 
First shake them well and soak for a 
quarter of an hour in warm soap 
lather in which a small lump of 
ammonia has been dissolved, then 
wash in the same wav as flannels, 
afterwards rinsing well in several 
waters, the last of which should be 
nearly cold. They should be dried in 
the open air, being taken down 
occasionally and well shaken to raise 
the nap. 

1811. TO WASH BSD Ftmm- 

TTtBB, fte. — Before putting into the 
water, see that yon shake off as much 
dust as possible, or you will greatly 
increase your labour. Use no soda, 
or pearlash, or the articles will lose 
their colour. Use soft water, not hot, 
but warm : have plenty of it. Rub 
with mottled soap. On wrin^ng out 
the second liquor, dip each piece into 
cold hard water for finishing. Shake 
out well, and dry auickly. If starch 
is desired, it may be stirred into the 
rinsing water. 

1312. TO WASH A WHITE 
LACS TXIL. — Put the veil into a 
strong lather of white soap and very 
clear water, and let it simmer slowly 
for a quarter of an hour ; take it out 
and squeeze it well, but be sure not 
to rub it : rinse it twice in cold water, 
the second time with a drop or two 
of liquid blue. Have ready some 
very clear weak gum arabic water, or 
some thin starth, or rice water ; pass 
the veil through it, and clear it by 
clapping ; then stretch it out evenly, 
and pin it to dry on a linen clotn, 
making the edge as straight as possi- 
ble, opening out all the scallops, and 
fastening each with pins. When dry, 
lay a piece of thin muslin smoothly 
over it, and iron it on the wrong side. 

1318. TO WASH CHIHA CRAPS 
SCARVES, 4to. — If the fabric be good, 
these articles of dress can be washed 
as frequently as may be required, and 
no diminution of their beauty will be 



discoverable, even when the Various 
shades of green have been employed 
among other colours in the patterns. 
In cleaning them, make a strong 
lather in boiline water ; suffer it to 
cool ; when cold or nearly so, wash 
the scarf quickly and thoroughly, dip 
it immediately in cold hard water in 
which a little salt has been thrown 
(to preserve the colours), rinse, squeeze, 
and hang it out to dry in the open 
air ; pin It at its extreme edge to the 
line, so that it may not in any part 
be folded together ; the more rapidly 
it dries the clearer it will be. 

1814. TO RSSDSB USSH* *•. 
INC0MBU8TIBLB.— All linen, cot- 
ton, muslins, ^c, Ac, when dipped 
in a solution of tungstate of soda or 
common alum, will become incom- 
bustible. A little alum should there- 
fore be added to the rinsing water, 
especially for children's clothes, and 
curtains. 

1316. CARS OF WASHlKO TtSS. 

— If made of woo<l those should have 
a little water left in them to prevent 
shrinking when not in use. Zmc tube 
should be well dried and turned upside 
down. 

1316. dlTM ARABIC STAJJtCH.— 

Procure two ounces of fine white gum 
arabic and pound it to powder. Next 
put it into a pitcher, and pour on it a 
pint or more of boiling water, accord- 
ing to the degree of strength yoti 
desire, and then, having covered it, 
let it set all night In the morning, 
pour it carefully from the dregs into 
a clean bottle, cork it, and keep it for 
use. A tablespoonful of gum water 
stirred into a pint of starch thut has 
been made in the usual manner will 
give to lawns (either white or printed) 
a look of newness to which nothing 
else can restore them after washing. 
It is also good (much diluted) for thm 
white muslin. 

1317. LAVSKDER WATER.— 

Essence of musk, four drachms ; 
essence of ambergris, four drachms; 
oil of cinnamon, ten drops ; English 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A sttfdtt ttt ti'htt dAVxs Htkt, 



m 



lavender, six dracTinti j ftiil of gerftnlttfti, 
two drachms : spirit of wine, twenty 
onnced. To be all mixed together. 

1818. tkinM)tk sctttrt BA0.-- 

Take of lavender flowerd, ftee from 
stalk, half-a-|Krand ; dried thyhie 
and mint, of each half-an-onnce ; 
ground cloves ilnd caraway^, of each 
a nnatter of ati oonce ; common dali, 
dried^ one onhce ; mi* the whole well 
together, and nnt the product into 
silk or cambric bags. In this wAy it 
will perfume the drawers and linen 
Terr nicely. ^ ^ ^ 

18i9. PSBFtrMl iml oufuksB. 
— A very pleasint J)erfame, and ala6 
preventive against nioths, may be 
made of the fbllowing ingredients: 
Take of clones, caraway ttedi, uTtt- 
meg, mace, cinnartion, and Tomiuin 
beans, one ounce each ; then add fts 
much Florentine orris root as will 
equal the other ingredients put to- 
gether. OHnd the whMe well to 
powder; and then put it in little bags 
among your clothes, ke* 

1880. RHKBT IfATXA.— Recti- 
fied spirit, eight minces ; oil of cloves, 
oil or bergamot, oil of' lavender, of 
each half-a-drachm ; musk, three 
mins ; yellow senders shavings, four 
drachms, tet it stand for eight days, 
then add tl^o ounces each of orange- 
flower water and rose water. 

1821. HLOim (WAI'.-Cut thin 
two pounds of yellow Soap into a 
double saucepan, occ^^tionally stirring 
it till it is melted, which will l» in a 
few minutes if the water is kept boil- 
ing around it, theh add a quarter of a 
pound of palm oil, a quarter of a 
pound of honey, thTeepennyworth of 
true oil of cinnamon ; let all boil 
together another six or eight minutes ; 
pour out and let it stand till next day, 
It is then fit for immediate use. 

1822. A MOV tcnm SOAf.- 
Palm-oil soap and olive-oil soap, one 

Stt of each ; curd soap, three parts, 
elt them together and then scent 
With oil of verbena ginger-grass, ot 
xvsv geraDiuiii* 



— Take a wine-glassful of £au-de- 
Ck>logne) (md ano^er of lemon iulce ; 
then scrape twd cake^ df browh 
"Windsor soap to apowdir, and mix 
iTell In a mould. When h*rd, it will 
be an excellent sosp for whitetiing 
the hands. 

18124. STAUrS OK THX HAItBS 

may be removed by washing th^m in 
a small quantity of oil of vitriol and 
cold water without soap. Salts of 
lemon is also efficacious in removing 
ink-stains from the hands as well as 
from linen. 

1825. TO WHITEH THl HAILll. — 

Diluted sulphuric acid, two drachms ; 
tincture of myrrh, one drachm ; spring 
water, four ounces: mix. First 
cleanse with white soap, and then dip 
the fingers into the mixture. A deli- 
cate h£uid is one of the chief points of 
beauty, and these applications are 
really effective. 

1826. wHmr to fabs tds 

irAlIS.— The old formula Wtt us 
follows— 

Cut them on Monday, cut them ft>r health. 
Cut them on Tuesday, cut them for wealth. 
Cut them on Wednetday, cut for a letter. 
Cut them on Thursday, for something betttf. 
Cut them oh Friday, you cot for a Wife. 
Cut them on Sstnrdiy, cut ^r long lifb. 
Cut them on Sunday, fot cut fhem for evil, 
For all of thai week you'll be ruled by the 

devil 

(or, according to another rersion) 
A man had better ne'er be bom 
Than have his ncfls on BistSMf shorn. 

Josh SiUiTvgi said, "Yu kant 
alwus tell a gentleman by hiz clothes, 
but yu kan by his finger nails." 

132^. COLD dtSAlC.— L OU of 

almonds, one pound ; white wax, four 
ounces. Melt together gently in an 
earthen vessel, and when nearly cold 
stir in graduallytwelve ounces of 
rose-water.— ii White #ax and Sper- 
maceti, of each half-an-ounee ; on of 
tmSsxthSu^ four otinoMr i oran^-Hower 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



276 



THKIVS BY H0NE8TT, OB BSMAIN POOB. 



water, two ounces. Mix as directed 
for No. 1. 

1828. TO 80FTE9 THS 8XIH 
and ImproTe the Complexion.— If 
flowers of sulphur be mixed in a little 
milk, and after standing an hour or 
two the milk (without disturbing the 
sulnhur) be rubbed into the skin, it 
will keep it soft and make the com- 
plexion clear. It is to be used before 
washing. The mixture, it must be 
borne m mind, will not keep. A 
little should be prepared over night 
with evening milk, and used the next 
morning, but not afterwards. About 
a wine-glassful made for each occasion 
will suffice. 

1829. WASH FOB THE TBSTH 

— Dissolve two ounces of borax in 
three pints of water ; before quite 
cold, add thereto one teaspoonful of 
tincture of m3rrrh, and one tablespoon- 
ful of spirits of camphor : bottle the 
mixture for use. One wine^lassful 
of the solution, added to half-a-pint 
of tepid water, is sufficient for each 
application. This solution, spplied 
daily, preserves and beautifies the 
teeth, removes tartar, produces a 
pearl-like whiteness, arrests decay, 
and induces a healthy action in the 
gums. 

1880. CAMPHOBATED BBHTI- 
7BICS. — Prepared chalk, one pound ; 
camphor, one or two drachms. The 
camphor must be finely powdered, 
moisten it with a little spirit of wine, 
and then intimately mix it with the 
chalk. 

1881. XTBBH DEHTIFBICS.— 

Mix powdeted cuttlefish, one pound ; 
powdered myrrh, two ounces. 

1882. QUININE TOOTH POW- 
DEB. — Rose pink, two drachms ; 
precipitated chalk, twelve drachms ; 
carbonate of magnesia, one drachm ; 
quinine (sulphate), six grains. All 
to be well mixed together. 

1888. THE OABE OF TOOTH- 
BB1TSHE8. — Do not shut them up 
closely in a brash tray, or dressing- 



bag, as it will cause the bristles to 
scquire an unpleasant smelL After 
use shake the water out and place 
them so that they may drain. 

1884. EYELASHES.— To increase 
the length and strength of the eye- 
lashes, simply clip the ends with a 
pair of scissors about once a month, 
in eastern countries mothers perform 
the operation on their children, both 
male and female, when they are mere 
infants, watching the opportunity 
whilst they sleep. 

1886. HAIB DTI.— To make 
good hair dye some lime must be first 
obtained, and reduced to powder by 
throwing a little water upon it The 
lime must then be mixed with litharge 
in the proportion of three parts of 
lime to one of litharge. This mixture, 
when sifted through a fine hair sieve, 
forms the most efiectual hair dye that 
has yet been discovered. 

1886. How to nte the Dje.— Put 
a quantity of the mixture in a saucer, 
pour boiling water upon it, and mix 
it up with a knife like thick mustard ; 
having cleansed the hair thoroughly 
from grease divide it into thin layers 
with a comb, and plaster the mixture 
thickly into the layers to the roots, and 
all over the hair. When it is completely 
covered with it, lay over it a covering 
of damp blue or brown paper, then 
bind over it, closely, a hanakerchief, 
then put on a night-cap, over all, and 
go to oed ; in the morning brush out 
the powder, wash thoroughly with 
soap and warm water, then dry, curl, 
oil, kc Hair thus treated will be 
dyed a beautiful black. Should brown 
be desired use milk instead of water 
with mixture. 

1887. Care neeaiiary in Applioa- 
tion of Hair Dye.— The efficacy of 
hair dyes depends as much upon their 
proper application as upon their 
chemical composition. If not evenly 
and patiently applied, they give 
rise to a mottlea and dirty con- 
dition of the hair. A lady, for in- 
stance, attempted to use the lime and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



USE A BOOK AS A BEE DOES A FLOWER. 



277 



lithar^ dye, and was horrified on the 
following morning to find her hair 
spotted red and black, almost like the 
skin of a leopard. The mixture had 
not been properly applied. 

188a TO TEST HAIR BTS.-- 

To try the effect of hair dye npon hair 
of any colour, cut off a lock and apply 
the dye thoroughly as directed above. 
This will be a guarantee of success, or 
will at least guard against failure. 

1889. EXCELLSNT HAIR 
WASH. — Take one ounce of borax, 
half-an-ounce of camphor ; powder 
these ingredients fine, and oissolTe 
them in one quart of boiling; water ; 
when cool, the solution will be ready 
for use ; damp the hair frequently. 
This wash effectually cleanses, beau- 
tifies, and strengthens the hair, pre- 
serves the colour, and prevents early 
baldness. The camphor will form 
into lumps after being dissolved, but 
the water will be sufficiently impreg- 
nated. 

1840. BAY BTTM is an American 
wash for the head, and is very cool- 
ing and pleasant to use, promoting 
the ffrowth of the hair. It is made 
by oistilling rum from the leaves of 
the bayberry tree; sometimes called 
the wax myrtle. 

1841. POMADE AOAIHST 

BALBKESS.— Beef marrow, soaked 
in several waters, melted and 
strained, half-a-pound ; tincture of 
cantharides (made by soaking for a 
week one drachm of powdered canth- 
arides in one ounce of proof spirit), 
one ounce ; oil of bergamot, twelve 
drops. 

1842. SBABICTTS WILSOrs 
LOTIOK AGAIK8T BALDNESS.— 

Eau-de-Cologne, two ounces ; tincture 
of cantharides, two drachms ; oil of 
lavender or rosemary, of either ten 
drops. These applications most be 
used once or twice a day for a consid- 
erable time ; but if the scalp become 
sore, they must be discontinued for a 
time, or used at longer intervals* 



1848. BAVDOLIHX OB 7IXA- 
TUBE. 

L Mucilage of clean picked Irish 
moss, made by boiling a quarter of an 
ounce of the moss m one quart of 
water, until sufficiently thick ; add a 
teaspoonful or so of rectified spirit to 
prevent its being mildewed. The 

auantity of spirit varies according to 
tie time it requires to be kept, 
ii Gum tragacanth, one dinchm 
and a half ; water, half-a-pint ; proof 
spirit (made by mixing equal {mu^s of 
rectified spirit and water), three 
oimces ; otto of roses, ten drops ; 
soak for twenty-four hours and strain. 
Bergamot may be substituted for the 
otto of roses. 

1844. COSMETIC.— For black, 
take five parts of lard, two parts of 
wax, melt and stir in finely* powdered 
ivorv black two parts. Then pour into 
sn^Il moulds. For brcwn, the same 
as the preceding, but nsin^ finely 
powdered umber, or terra di Siena. 
For white, no colouring matter is 
used. 

1846. BOSE HAIB OIL.— OUve 
oil, one pint ; otto of roses, five to 
sixteen drops. Essence of bergamot, 
being much cheaper, is commonly 
used instead of the more expensive 
otto of roses. The oil can be coloured 
red before scenting, by steeping in it 
one drachm of alkanet root, with a 
gentle heat, until the desired tint is 
produced. 

1846. TO MAKE POMATUMS. 

— The lard, fat, suet, or mnrrow used 
must be carefully prepared by being 
melted with as gentle a heat as possi- 
ble, skimmed, strained, and cleared 
from the dregs which are deposited on 
standing. 

L Ordinarr Pomatum. — Mutton 
snet, prepared as above, one pound ; 
lard, three pounds ; carefully melted 
together, and stirred constantly as it 
cools, two ounces of bergamot being 
added. 

iL Hard Pomatum. — Lard and 
mutton suet carefully prepared, of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



278 



THK MILL OANVOT QRIND WITH THX WATER THAT U PAST. 



e»cl) one pound; w)ut» was, foar 
ounces ; essence of bergamot, one 
ounc^. 

1847. 04flC(IE ML MIUDI.— 

Castor oil, four ounces ; prepared 
krd, two ounces ; white wajr, two 
drachms ; ber^;aniot, two drachms ; 
oil of lavender, twenty drops. Melt 
the fat together, and on cooling add 
the scents, and stir till cold. 

1348. BOTXMXTOVS B4I?t.- 

Any remedy is dpubtful ; many of 
those conuuonly used are dangerous. 
The safest plan i^ as foUowR: — The 
hairs should be perseveringly plucked 
up by the root^, and the skin, having 
been washed twice a day with warm 
soft water, without soap, should be 
treated with the following wash, 
commonly called milk op roses: — 
Beat four ounces of sweet almonds in 
a mortar, and add ha]f-au-ounce of 
white sugar during the process ; 
reduce the whole to a paste by pound- 
ing ; then add, in small quantities at 
a time, eight ounces of rose water. 
The emulsion thus formed should be 
strained through a ^ne cloth, and the 
residue again pounded, while the 
strained fluid should be bottled in a 
large stonpered phial. To the pasty 
mass in tiie moitar add half-an-ounce 
of sugar, and eight ounces of rose 
water, and strain again. This pro- 
cess must be repeated three times. 
To the thirty-two ounces of flui<l, add 
twenty grains of the bichloride of 
mercury, dissolved in two ounces of 
alcohol, i^nd shake the mixture for 
five minutes. The fluid should bo 
applied with a towol, immediately 
alter washing, and tne skin gently 
rubbed with a dry cloth, till per/cctty 
dry. Wilson, in his work on Healthy 
SkiT^ writes ^s follow* :— " Substances 
are sold by the perfumers called 
depilatories, wl^ich ^ represented as 
having the power of removing hair. 
But the hair is pot destroyed by these 
means, the root and that part of the 
shaft ii^planted within the skin still 
Tfipift'Dj ft«tl are r^ady tp shoot up 



with inorea«p4 vigour m soon ^B the 
depilatory is withdrawfi. T^e effect 
of the depilatory is the s^me, in this 
respectf as thai of fi razor, and t|ie 
latter is, unquestionably, the better 
remedy. It must also te remembered 
that depilatories are violent irritants, 
and require to be used with the utmost 
caution. 

1349. TO Cl^UM Mm 
BBUS^XS.— As hot water ai)d soap 
very soon soften the bristles, apd pxh- 
bing cpmpletes their destruction, use 
soda, dissolved in cold water, instead ; 
soda having an affinity for pease, 
cleanses the brush with little fnction. 
Do not set them near the Are, nor in 
the sun, to dry, but after shaking 
well, set them on the poii^t of the 
handle in a shady place. 

i860. TQ ej^^AJf BFOIIQ^— 
e two or three ounce? of carbonate 
of soda and dissolve it in fi couple of 
pints of water. After having soaked 
the sponge in this for a day, wash it 
thorouglily in clean water; after 
which immerse it for a couple of 
hours in three pints of water, and a 
wineglassfi|l of muriatic acid. Then 
rinse it in cold water and let it diy. 
Spopges after being used should always 
if possible be dried in the sun. 

1351. THE ypTOO LAUTP 
tSl^ET BBqUISIXJS. 

^6 "Rwflhint^ Mmw^Self-Kwmledffe. 
Tbis carious glass will bring your faults to 

Ught, 
And make yoar virtues shine bot|i strong 
and bright 
Wtsh to Smooth WrinU6t-Gim(«»t«^nt 
A daily portion of this essence use, 
Twill smooth the brow, and tn^i^^ilUty 
inftise. 

Tine XihMalve— TVutA. 
Use daily for your lips this procloua dye, 
They'll redden, and breathe sweet melody. 

Vi^ture for tfio Ypioe— Pra^«-. 
At morning, noon, and night this mixturo 

take. 
Ypur tones, improved, wUl richer mnslo 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TIME, WHICH IS MOST VALUABLE, IS MOST TRIFLED WITH. 



279 



BMt Eye- water— OomjNunon. 
These drops will add great lustre to the 

eye; 
When more you need, the poor will you 
supply. 
Solution to prevent Broptioni Wudom, 
|t calips the temper, beautifies the fiice, 
And givee to wonum dignity and grace. 
Matphless Pair of Ear-zings— il((«neion and 
Obedience. 
With these dear drops appended to the 

ear, 
Attentive lessons you will gladly hear. 
Jnd|speni|U)le Pair of Bn^ettt—Ifeatneii 
and Industry. 
Clasp them on caroftilly each day you live, 
To good designs they eQlcacy give. 

4n SUftie WxiH^—PaiUnot. 
The more you use the brighter it will frow. 
Though its least merit is ej^temol show. 

King of Triad Ckdd — PrineipU. 
Tield not this golden bracelet while you 

live, 
Twill sin restrain, and peace of conscience 
gfve. 
If epkUiH ft Puveat Pearl— J2tei>»«ii(m. 
Tiiis ornament embellishes the lair. 
And t^^es all the ills of life to bear. 

WamoBd 9reaat-pln— love. 
Adorn your bosom urith this preelous pin, 
It shines without, and warms the heart 
wiUiin. 
A flhraeeftd Mukimn—PoliUneMs. 
The forehead neatly circled with this band. 
Will admiration and respect command. 

A Predons Diadem— Pi«fy. 
Whoe'er this precious diadem shall own. 
Securer herself an everlasting crown. 

TJniTersal Beautifler— (^ood Temper. 
With tbiR choice liquid gently touch the 

mouth, 
It spreads o'er all the ftice the charms of 
youth 

1852. YAflBLIHE. 

This indispensable household requi- 
site is a product of petroleum, from 
which it }8 obtained by au elaborate 
system of filtration, without the ad- 
dition or aid of any chemical what- 
ever. The substance thus produced, 
\o which the name of "Vaseline" 



has been given, is in the form of 
a lemon-coloured jelly, completely 
devoid of cither smell or taste, and of 
exquisite softness and smoothness tq 
the touch. It may be procured from 
any chemist. 

TOItSX.— The toilet »oap and tw 
soap made from vaseline are superior 
in emollient and healing propci-ties, to 
similar preparations from glycerine. 
For the hair an excel^nt hair 
tonic and pomade are supplied, which 
have the effect not only of 
strengthening, but of promoting Its 
OTowtn. Fof the complexion, vase- 
line cold creapi shoulU be used, and 
for the lips, when sore and chapped by 
cold winds or any other cause, vaseline 
camphor ice, 

1854. YASlinn TOB MEDI- 
GIVAL USB.— The puro jelly it«elf, 
without any addition, is an invaluable 
family remedy for bums, chilblains, 
chapped hands, and skin roughened 
by exposure to wind and water in cold 
weather; as well as for sunburns, 
wounds, sprains, and all diseases of 
the skin ; for inflamed eyelids, and (or 
preventing pitting in small-pox, when 
used externally as an ointment 
When taken internally, in doses of 
half-a-teafipoonful, or in smaller quan- 
tities, it forms a cure for diseases of 
the throat, chest, and stomach, and 
gives speedy relief in cases of diph- 
theria, croup, &c For convenience in 
using it, a confection is prepared from 
it for complaints of the throat and 
lungs. 

1365. VWBWIW FOR TRK 
HOUS£HOIi]>. — As time progresses 
there can be no doubt that this valu- 
able preparation will be turned to good 
account for many domestic uses. |t 
has already been found an excellent 
anticorrosive, being an efficient pro- 
tection against rust, wjien smeared 
over guns, bicycles, arms, knives, tools, 
and steel goods of any kind in general 
household use. An excellent boot and 
shoe paste is prepared from it, which 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



280 



A QOOO BOOK 18 A LIGHT TO THE SOUL. 



renders boots and shoes absolutely 
waterproof, and over which any ordin- 
ary blacking may be nsed to produce a 
polish. 

186a YAssunx nr the 

8TABLX. — When mixed with gra- 
phite, vaseline affords a valuable Inbri- 
cant for application to the axles of light 
and heavy carriages of every description 
and for all bearings in machinery of 
any Idnd, especially where great 
speed is required. A paste is also pre- 
pared from it which renders leather 
namess soft, pliable, impervious to 
wet, and free from anjr tendency to 
crack, thus increasing its durability. 
Another preparation is found most 
useful for the cure of ii^uries and 
diseases of cattle and domestic animals. 
This, which is supplied under the name 
of Yeterinaiy Vaseline, has been found 
to promote the growth of the hair, 
uncnanged in colour, in the case of 
broken knees. Its use will also 
improve the condition of the coat on 
horses, and will keep off the flies, and 
cure the mange, and all skin disease 
commonly met with in the stable, 
including ii^uriea to the frogs, hoofs, 
and fetlocks, 

1857. CI.SAHLIHX88. 

Nothing can be more agreeable to 
the senses, more to the honour of the 
inhabitants, or conducive to their 
health, than a dean town ; nor does 
anything impress a stranger sooner 
with a disrespectful idea of any people 
than its opposite. It were well if the 
lower classes of the inhabitants of 
Great Britain would imitate their 
neighbours the Dutch in their assiduity 
in cleansing their streets, houses, &c 
Water, indeed, is easily obtained in 
Holland ; but the situation of most 
towns of Oreat Britain is more favour- 
able to cleanliness. 

It is well known that infectious 
diseases are caused by tainted air. 
Everything, therefore, which tends to 
pollute the air or spread the infection 
ou;;clit with the utmost care to be 
avoided. For this reason, in great 



towns, no filth of any kind should be 
permitted to lie upon the streets. We 
are sorry to sa^ that the importance of 

feneral cleanlmessin this respect doM 
y no means seem to be sutBciently 
understood. 

One common cause of putrid and 
malignant fevers is the want of clean- 
liness. Those ievers commonly begin 
among the inhabitants of close, dirty 
housM, who breathe bad air, take little 
exercise, eat unwholesome food, and 
wear dirtv clothes. There infection 
is generally hatched, which spreads 
far and wide, to the destruction of 
man^. Hence cleanliness may be 
considered as an object of public atten- 
tion. It is not sufficient that I be clean 
myself, while the want of it in my 
neighbour affects my health as well as 
his own. 

If dirty people cannot be removed 
as a common nuisance, they ought at 
least to be avoided as infectious. All 
who regard their health should keep 
at a safe distance, even from their 
habitations. 

In hospitals and other plaoes where 
great numbers of sick people are kept, 
cleanliness oud^t most religiously to 
be observed. The very smdU in such 
places is often sufficient to make one 
sick. It is easy to imagine what effect 
that is likely to have upon the dis- 
eased. A person in health has a 
greater chance to become sick than a 
sick person has to get well, in a hos- 
pital or infirmary' where cleanliness is 
neglected. 

186a PSB80KAL CLSAVLmSB. 

The want of cleanliness is a fault 
which admits of no excuse. Where 
water can be had for nothing, it is 
surely in the power of every person to 
be clean. 

Frequent washing not only removea 
the filth which adheres to the skin, 
but likewise promotes the perspiration, 
braces the oody, and enlivens the 
spirits. Even washing the feet tends 
greatly to preserve heslth. The pcs- 
spiration and dirt with which these 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



XVSBY DAT OF YOUB LIFB IS A PAGE IN YOUB HISTORY. 



281 



parts are frequently covered cannot 
fidl to obstruct their pores. This piece 
of cleanliness would often prevent 
colds and fevers. Were people to 
bathe their feet and hands in warm 
water at night, after being exposed to 
cold or wet through the day, they 
would seldom experience any of the 
effects from these causes which often 
prove &taL 

Change of apparel greatly promotes 
the secretion from the skin, so neces- 
sary to health. When that matter 
which ought to be carried off by per- 
spiration is either retained in the 
body or re-absorbed in dirty clothes, it 
is apt to occasion fevers and other 
dis e as es . 

Most diseases of the skin proceed 
from want of cleanliness. These in- 
^ deed mav be caught by infection, but 
* thej will seldom continue long where 
cleanliness prevails. To the same 
cause must we impute the various 
kinds of vermin that infest the 
human body, houses, ko. These may 
generally bie banished by cleanliness 
alone. Perha^ the intention of Na- 
ture, in permitting such vermin to 
annoy mankind, is to induce them to 
thepractice of this virtue. 

The brutes themselves set us an 
example of cleanliness. Most of them 
seem uneasy, and thrive il], if they 
be not kept clean. A horse that is 
kept thoroughlv clean will thrive 
better on a smaller quantity of food 
than with a greater where cleanliness 
is neglected. Even our own feelings 
are a sufficient proof of the necessity 
of cleanliness. How refreshed, how 
cheerful and agreeable does one feel 
on being washed and dressed ; especi- 
ally when these have been long neg- 
lected. 

Superior cleanliness sooner attracts 
our regard than even finery itself, 
and often gains esteem where the 
other fails. 

1859. Xahomedaa ClMBliiiMt. 
It is remarkable that in most 
eastern countries, cleanliness makes a 



ereat part of their religion. The Ma- 
homeoan, as well as the Jewish 
religion, einoins various bathings, 
washings, and purifications. No doubt 
these were designed to represent in- 
ward purity ; but they are at the same 
time calculated for the preservation of 
health. However whmisical these 
washings may appear to some, few 
things would seem more to prevent 
diseases than a proper attention to 
many of them. Were every person, 
for example, after handling a dead 
body, visiting the sick, &c., to wash 
before he went into company or sat 
down to meat, he would run less 
hazard either of catching the infec- 
tion himself or communicating it to 
others. 

1860. The Doctor's Bet —A certain 
doctor at a dinner purty placed his 
hand on the table. One of the guests 
said to another, " What a dirty hand 

Dr. has." The doctor, who had 

overheard the remark said, **V\\ bet 
^ou a bottle of wine there is a dirtier 
in company." *'Done," said the 
other; upon which the doctor pro- 
duced his other hand, winning the 
bet. 

1861. THE BATH. 

If to preserve health be to save 
medical expenses, without even reck- 
oning upon time and comfort, there 
is no part of the household arrange- 
ment 80 important as convenience for 
Sersonal ablution. Most modem 
welling-houses are now fitted with 
pipes conveying both cold and hot 
water to the various floors, and few of 
them are without a fitted bath-room ; 
but in houses not so famished, though 
temporary or zinc baths may be 
extremely useful upon pressing occa- 
sions, it will be found to be finally as 
cheap, and much more readily conve- 
nient, to have a permanent rath con- 
structed, which may be done in any 
dwelling-house of moderate size, with- 
out interfering with other general 
purposes. Many baths are now pro- 
curable at very reasonable prices ftir- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



282 



PXR3EVSRAN0V OVKRCOMES DIFFICULTIES. 



nished with apparatus for heating 
water in a few minutes. Some of 
these however, fitted with burners for 
coal-gas and atmospheric air combined, 
give out poisonous fumes, and should 
therefore have a flue to carry them 
out from the bath-room. 

1861a. TAFOXni BATHS may be 

contrived by putting boiling water in 
a pan, and placing a caue- bottom 
chair in the pan, the patient sitting 
upon it, enveloped from head to foot 
in a blanket covering tlie bath. Sul- 
phur, spirit, roediciual, herbal, and 
other baths may be obtained in the 
same manner. They should not be 
taken except under medical advice. 
Another equally easy method of pro- 
curing a vapour bath at home is to 
attach ooe end of a ^iece of flexible 
tubing to the spout ot the kettle on 
the fire, and to introduce the other 
end below the chair, on which the 
person who requires the bath is sittiug 
enveloped in a blanket sm described 
above. 

ISeS. ^XB]tCI9E.— Exercise in 
the open air is of the first importance 
to the human frame, yet how many 
are in a manner deprived of it by their 
own want of management of their 
time ! Females with slender means 
are for the most part destined to 
indoor occi^pations, and have but 
little time allotted them for taking 
the air, and that little time is gener- 
ally sadly eucroaehed upon by the cere- 
mony of di-esjsing to go out. It may 
appear a simple suggestion, but ex- 
jjerience only will show how much 
time might be redeemed by habits of 
regularity: such as putting the shawls, 
cloaks, gloves, shoes, ic, &c., or 
whatever is intended to be worn, in 
readiness, instead of haying to search 
one drawer, then apother, for possibly 
a glove or collar — wait foj* shoes being 
cleaned, ^c Whereas, if all were in 
readiness, the preparations might be 
accomplished in a few minut^, th^ 
walk not being cm-tailed by unneces- 
sary 4elav8. 



1368. Throe Poi^ti to \t9 Ot^Mryed 

in the manner of taking exercise 
are :— 

i. The kind of exercise. 

ii The proper time for exercise. 

iii The duration of it 

With respect to the kinds of exercise 
the various species of it may be 
divided into Active and Passive. 

1864. Aettve Ezerciiei are more 
beneficial to youth, to the middle- 
aged, to 1he*robuBt in gMieral, and 
particularly to the corpulent and the 
plethoric Among these which admit 
of being consideraby diveraifiad, may 
be enumerated walking, running, 
leaping, swimming, riding, cycling, 
fencing, different sorts of athletio 
games, &e. 

1866. PaaiiTe Bzereiiei which 
comprise riding in a carriage, sailing, 
friction, swinging, &c., are better 
calculated for children ; old, thin, and 
emaciated persons of a delicate and 
debilitated constitution ; and particu- 
larly for the asthmatic and consump- 
tive. 

1866. The TimP ^t which e^^ercise 
should be taken and the duration of 
exercise depend on such a variety of 
concurrent circumstances, that they 
cannot be regulated by any gener^ 
rules, and must th«^refore be decided 
fi-oni observations made on the effects 
of air, food, &c., and the state of the 
mind and body, bearing in mind the 
following — 

1367. Hinta on l^erci«e. 

I. That Exercise is to be preferred 
which, with a view to brace and 
strengthen the bo(|y, we are most 
accustomed to. Any upusual one 
may be attended with a contrary 
effect. 

ii. Exercise should be l^egun and 
finished gradually, never abruptly. 

iii. Exercise in the open air \itia 
many advantages over that used within 
doors. 

iv. To continue exercise uptil a 
pofuse |>ersj>iration or a ^eat ^Qgl^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PUT A STOUT H|tABT TQ A 8TEE? HILIm 



283 



pf weariness takes p}ace^ is pa firpm 
being wholesome. 

y. In the forenoon when the 
stomach is not too much 4isten4ea, 
muscnlar motion is both agreeable and 
healthful: it strengthens digestion, 
and a gooo appetite after it is a proof 
th^^ it has not been carried to excess. 

FL It is not advisable to take vio- 
lent exercise immediately before a 
meal, as digestion might thereby jie 
retarded. 

yii. po not sit down to a substan- 
tial diQner or supper immediately on 
retuniing from a fatifi^ing walk, at 
the time when the blood is heated, 
and the body in a state of perspira- 
tion from previous exertion, as the 
worst consequences may arise, espeoi- 
^lly when the meal is commenced with 
cooling dishes, salad, or a glass of cold 
drink. 

Tiii Exercise is always hurtful 
immediately after meals, fVom its 
impeding digestion, by propelling 
• those fluids too much towaras the 
surface of the body which are designed 
for the solution of the food in the 
stomach. 

1808. Walkiijg.— To waljc grace- 
fully, the body must be erect, but not 
stiff, and the head held up in such a 
posture tha^ the eyep are directed 
forward. The tendency of untaught 
walkers is to look towards the ground 
naar the feet ; and some persons appear 
always as if admiring their shoe-laces. 
The eyes should not thus be cast 
downward, neither should the chest 
bend forward to throw out the back, 
making what are termed round 
shouldors : on the contrary, the body 
should be held erect, as if the person 
to whom it belongs were not afmid to 
look the world in the face, and the 
chest by all mo^ps be allowed to ex- 
pand. At the same time, everything 
like struttip^ or pomposity must be 
carefully avoideol. An easy, firm, and 
erect posture is alone desirable. Ip 
walking, it is necessary to bear in 
TP|q4 pat the locomotiou i^ to be 



performed entirely by the legs. Awk- 
ward persons rock from side to side, 
helping forward each lee alternately 
by advaucing the haunches. This is 
not onlv Tmcraceful but fatiguing. 
Let the legs alope advance, bearing up 
the body. 

1968. TQ 4TOIP OATOTHO 

(W)U>.— Accustom yourself to the use 
of sponging with cold water every 
morning on first getting out of bed. 
It should be fol]owea hy a good deal 
of rubbing with a wet towel. It has 
considerable effect in ^ving tone to 
the skin, and maintamiug a proper 
fiction in it, and thus proves a safe- 
guard to the injurious influence of cold 
and sudden cnanges of temperature. 
Sir Astley Cooper said, "The methoils 
by which I have preserved my own 
health are — temperance, early rising, 
and sponging the body every ^norning 
with cold water, immediately after 

fitting out of bed, — a practice which 
have adopted for thirty years without 
ever catching cold." 

13TO. uTuiTT 07 anrfiiira.— 

It has been asserted, and we believe 
with some truth, that singing is a 
corrective of the too common tendency 
to pulmonic complaints. Dr. Eush, 
an eminent ph vsictan, observes on this 
subject: — '* The Germans are seldom 
affli(i;ed with consumption ; and this, 
1 believe, is in part occasioned by the 
stren^h which their lungs acquire by 
exercising them in vocal music, for 
this constitutes an essential branch of 
their education. The mnsic master 
of an academv has furnished me with 
a remaric still more in favour of this 
opinion. He infonned me that he bad 
known several instances of persons 
who were strongly disposed to con- 
sumption, who were festoreil to health 
by the exercise of their luuga in 
singing." 

1371. TO TEST THE «TAXii ^ 
Tfff LTOOS. — Persons desirous of 
ascertaining the true state of their 
lungs should draw in as much breath 
as they conveo;ently can j thev ar? 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Sd4 



TAKX TUINOS ALWAYS BY TUS SMOOTH HANDLE. 



then to count as far u they are able, 
in a ^ow and andible voice, without 
drawing in more breath. The number 
of seconds they can continue counting 
must be caremllv obseryed ; in cases 
of consumption tne time does not ex- 
ceed ten, and is frequently less than 
six seconds; in pleurisy and pneu- 
monia it ranges from nine to four 
seconds. When the lungs are in a 
sound condition, the time will range 
as high as from twenty to thirty-five 
seconds. 

1872. 8LESPLS88HS88. 

How to get sleep is to many per- 
sons a matter of nigh importance. 
Nervous persons who are troubled 
with wakefulness and excitability 
usually have a strong tendency of 
blood on the brain, with cold extrem- 
ities. The pressure of the blood on 
the brain keeps it in a stimulated or 
wakeful state, and the pulsations in 
the head are often painfuL Let such 
rise and chafe the body and extrem- 
ities with a brush or towel, or rub 
smartly with the hands, to promote 
circulation and withdraw the exces- 
sive amount of blood from the brain, 
and they will fall asleep in a few 
moments. A cold bath, or a sponge 
bath and rubbing, or a good run, or a 
rapid walk in the open air, or going 
up and down stairs a few times just 
before retiring, will aid in equalizing 
circulation and promoting sleep. 
Tl^ese rules are simple and easy of 
api>lication in all cases. Many people 
derive benefit from taking a tumbler 
of hot milk on getting into bed. 

1878. YEVTILATDrO BSD- 
BOOMS. — A sheet of finely perforated 
zinc, substituted for a pane of glass in 
one of the upper squares of a cnamber 
window, is the cheapest and best form 
of ventilator ; there should not be a 
bedroom without it 

1874 . A SnCPLE MBTHOD OF 
VEH TlLATIOir. —Get a piece of deal 
two inches wide and one inch thick, 
and exactly as long as the width of 



the sashes of the window in which it 
Ib to be used. Raise the lower sash — 
drop in the piece of wood, so that it 
rests on the bottom part of the window 
frame, the ends being within the stops 
on either side, and then close the sash 
upon it. If properly planed up, no 
draught can enter between the wood 
and tne bottom of the sash ; but the 
air can enter the room in an upward 
direction, through the opening be- 
tween the top of the lower sash and 
the bottom of the upper sash, any 
direct draught into the interior of the 
room being prevented by the position 
of the lower sash. 

1876. KIOHT CLOTHES.— The 

perfection of dress, for day or night, 
where warmth is the purpose, is ti^at 
which confines around the body suf- 
ficient of its own warmth, while it 
allows escape to the exhalations of the 
skin. Flannel best fulfils these con- ' 
ditions. Where the bodj is allowed 
to bathe protractedly m its own 
vapours we must expect an unhealthy 
efiect upon the skin. Where there 
is too little allowance for ventilation, 
insensible persmration is checked, and 
something analogous to fever super- 
venes ; foul tongue, ill taste, and lack 
of morning appetite betray the evil. 

1876. DAMP SHEETS. — Few 

things are attended with more serious 
consequences than sleeping in damp 
linen. Persons are frequently assured 
that the sheets have been at a fire for 
many hours, but the question is what 
sort of fire, and whether they have 
been turned, so that every part has 
been exposed to the fire. The fear of 
creasing the linen, we know, prevents 
many &m unfolding it, so as to be 
what we consider sufficiently aired; 
but health ii of more importance than 
appearances. With gentleness there 
need be no fear of want of neatness. 

1877. EAELT Eisnro. — Dr. 
Wilson Philip in his TrecUiae on 
Indi^um says : — ** Although it is 
of consequence to the debilitated to go 
early to bed, there ar^ few tilings 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A WULIKO HEART LIGHTENS WORK. 



286 



more hurtful to them than remaining 
in it too long. Qetting up an hour or 
two earlier often ^ves a degree of 
vigour which nothing else can pro- 
cure. For those who are not much 
debilitated, and sleep well, the best 
rule is to ffet out of bed soon after 
waking in tne morning. This at first 
may appear too early, for the debili- 
tated require more sleep than the 
healthy ; out rising early will gradu- 
ally prolong the sleep on the succeed- 
ing night, till the quantity the patient 
enjoys is equal to his demand for it. 
Lying late is not only hurtful, by the 
relaxation it occasions, but also by 
occupying that part of the dav^ at 
whicn exercise is most beneficiaL" 

1878. APPETITE.— This is fre- 
quently lost throufi^h excessive use of 
stimulants, food taken too hot, seden- 
tary occupation, coativeness, liver dis- 
order, ana want of change of air. The 
first endeavour should be to ascertain 
and remove the cause. Change of diet 
and change of air will frequently be 
found more beneficial than medicines. 

1879. HANDEL'S APPETITE.— 

The ffreat Handel was apparently 
blessed with a fistirly good appetite, 
for, intending one day to dine at a 
certain inn, he ordered a dinner suffi- 
cient for three ordinary people. Re- 
turning at the time he had appointed 
for dinner, he was surprised to find 
that it was not served up, and com- 
plained to the landlord. The latter 
replied, '*It shall come up, sir, di- 
rectly the company arrive." "Den 
pring up der tinner hrestisaimo,** re- 
plied Handel ; ** I am der gompany ! " 

1880. TEMPERANCE. — << If," 

observes a writer, '*mcn lived uni- 
formly in a healthy climate, were 
possessed of strong and vigorous 
frames, were descen(&d from healthy 
parents, were educated in a hardy and 
active manner, were possessed of ex- 
cellent natural dispositions, were 
placed in comfortable situations in 
life, were engaged onl^ in healthy 
occupations, were happily connected 



in marriage, and kept their passions 
in due subjection, there would be 
little occasion for medical rules." 

All this is very excellent and desir- 
able ; but, unfortunately for mankind, 
unattainable. Man must be some- 
thing more than man to be able to 
connect the different links of this 
harmonious cliain — to consolidate this 
swnmum bonum of earthly felicity 
into one uninterrupted whole; for, 
indep^endent of all re^arity or irre- 
gularity of diet, passions, and other 
subUmary droumstances, thousands 
are visited by diseases and precipi- 
tated into the grave, inde{)endent of 
accident, to whom no particular vice 
could attach, and witn whom the 
appetite never overstepped the bound- 
anes of temperance. Do we not hear 
almost daily of instances of men 
living near to and even upwards of a 
century ? We cannot account for this 
either ; because of such men we know 
but few who have lived otherwise 
than the world around them ; and we 
have known many who have lived in 
habitual intemperance for forty or fiftv 

Jreare, without interruption and with 
ittle apparent inconvenience. 

The assertion has been made by 
those who have attained a great age 
(Parr, and Henry Jenkins, for in- 
stance), that they adopted no particu- 
lar arts for the preservation of their 
health ; consequently, it miffht be 
inferred that the duration of life has 
no dependence on manners or customs, 
or the qualities of particular food. 
This, however, is an error of no com- 
mon magnitude. 

Peasants, labourers, and other 
hard-workinff people, more especi- 
ally those whose occupations require 
them to be much in the open air, may 
be considered as following a regulated 
system of moderation ; and hence the 
higher degree of health which pre- 
vails among them and their famines. 
Some also observe rules; and those 
which it is said were recommended by 
Old Parr are remarkable for good 
sense ; namely, ''Keep your head cool 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



tOOft OH tut BBlOSl* stun Of' iyjRYrttllWJ. 



bv temperance, your fteet warm by exer- 
cise ; rise early, and go soon to bed ; 
and if yon are inclined to get fat, keep 
your eyes open and yonr mouth dint. * 
— in other words sleep moderately 
and be abstemious in diet; — excellent 
admonitions, more especially to those 
inclined to corpulency. 

1381. JdHil lbo#n ind teaipdhtAee. 

John Brown was a man without hoiuoi or 

lands, 
fiut happy While making good use of hit 

hands ; 
He kept a good home by the sweat of his 

brow, 
And when asked to drink would firmly say 

John Brown had a wife who was fond of her 

home, 
So John was unwilling to wander or roam ; 
She could bake, she could make, she could 

trim, she could sew ; 
And find time to teach her Uiree boys to say 

Ob John as a workman you could always 

depend. 
Till one cold winter's night Le met an old 

friend, 
Who asked him to drink— it would keep oui 

the snow ; 
John refused, then consented, ashamed to 

say No ! 
John Brown had a home, but a ohange is now 

seen, 
Tho' Ills wife did her best to keep the boys 

clean: 
The savings are spent, the beet chairs had to 

go, 
John saw the sad change, but could not say 

No! 
John Brown had a heart ; he saw his wife's 

tears; 
He thought of his home, the home of past 

years ; 
He thought of his boys, so ill-ckd In the 

snow, 
He thought what they sUfl'ered through his 

not saying Wo ! 

John Brown took the pledge, and asked help 

fhmi above, 
That he stiU might provide ftir thoae he 

abouldlove; 



fie Went back to his work, determined to 



That John B^wn ink a man when hslea^JiM 
toeay Jfd/ 

ISdSL Oalen*! Advibe tor a 
&«gnlar Mode of Livinff.— Galen, 
who is said to have reached the great 
age of 140 years without having ever 
experienced disease, advises th6 readers 
of his Treatise on IfeaUh as fol* 
lows: — "I beseech all persons who 
shall read this work not to degrade 
themselves to a level with the brutes, 
or the rabble, by gratifvinx their 
sloth, or bv eating and (mnking 
promiscuouslj^ whatever pleases their 
palates, or by indulging their appetitea 
of every kmd. But whether they 
understand phySic or tiot, let them 
consult their reason, and observe what 
ames and what does not agree with 
them, that, like wise men, they inay 
adhere to the nse of such things as 
conduce to their health, and forbeiJt 
everything which, by tneir own ex- 
perience, they find to do them hurt ; 
and let them be as!mred that, by A 
diligent observation and practice of 
this rule, they may enjoy a good share 
of health, and seldom stand in seed 
of physic at physicians.'* 

1888. TOVTHm IBftSeiTLAB^ 
im§.— Late hours, irregular habits^ 
and want of attention to diet, are 
common errors with most "fcning 
men, and thede gradually, but at fir^ 
imperceptibly, undermine the health, 
and lay the foundation for varioas 
forms of disease in itfter life. It is 
a very difficult thing to make young 
persons comprehend this. They fre- 
quently sit up as late as twelve, one, 
or two o'clocK, without experiencing 
any ill effects ; they go without a 
meal to-day, and to-morrow eat to 
repletion, with only temporary incon- 
venience. One night they will sleep 
three or four hours, and the next nine 
or ten ; or one night, in their eager- 
ness to get away into some agreeable 
companv, t^ey will take no food at 
an, ana the next, perhapfl, will eat 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



sou-nms is mt Ktntss of vnstott. 



4S7 



a hearty supper, and go to bed upon 
it. These, with variona other irre- 
gularities, are common to the msgoritv 
of young men, and are, as just stated, 
the cause of much bad health in 
mature life. Indeed, nearly all the 
shattered constitutions with which 
too many are cursed, are the result of 
a disregard to the plainest precepts 
of health in early life. 

1864. OOBFULEVOE.— The late 
Mr. William Banting, author of a 
Letter on Corpulence^ giTes the 
following exoellent adrice, with a 
dietary Tor use in eases of obesity 
(cotpulence) : — 

L Medieiae. — None, save a min- 
ing cordial, as a corrective. 

ii. Dietary. 

Breakfast, — Four or five onnces of 
beef, mutton, kidneys, broiled fish, 
bacon, or any kind of cold meat 
except pork, a large cUp (or two) of 
tea T^ithout thilk or sugar, a little 
biscuit, or dry toast. 

Dinner. — Five or six ounces of any 
fish dxcept salmon, any meat except 
pork, any vegetables except potatoes ; 
one ounce of dry toast ; fruit out of a 
pudding; any kind of poultry or 
game, And two or three glasses of 
claret or sheriy. Port, champagne, 
and beer forbidden. 

Tea, — Two or three ounces of fruit ; 
a rusk or two, and a cup or two of tea, 
without tnilk or sugar. 

Supper. — ^Three or four ounces of 
meat or fish as at dinner, with a glass 
or two of claret. 

Nightcap (if rec[uired).— A glass or 
two of grog,— whisky, gin, or brandy, 
— without sugar ; or a glass or two of 
sherry. Mr. Banting adds : *' Dietair 
is the principal point in the treat- 
ment of corpulence (also, in rheu- 
matic diseases, and even in incipient 
paralysis). If properly regulated, it 
becomes in a certain sense a medicine. 
It purifies the blood, strengthens the 
muscles and viscera, and sweetens life 
tf it doea not proloi^f it." 



1886. KrsieHT OF KitN aMs 

WOXBK. 

Tht Weight of « llttfl, if in healtbi 
should be as follows : — 



fL 


in. 




St. 


lbs. 


Hatfhi 5 


1 


m^ht 8 




., 5 


S 


i» 


9 




„ 5 


8 


II 


9 




}t 6 


4 


It 


9 


10 


,, 6 


5 


II 


10 




» 6 


6 


„ 


10 




» fi 


7 


II 


10 




f> 5 


8 


II 


11 




» 5 


• 


11 


11 




» 5 


Id 


II 


12 




M 5 


11 


II 


12 




tf 





M 


12 


io 


tie ITtii^t of ft 


'WmAA:- 


— 


ft. 


tn. 




8t. 


lbs. 


HHght 6 





Weiffkt 7 





i» •' 


2 


M 


7 


12 


it O 


4 


II 


9 





»i " 


5 


II 


9 


10 


II " 


6 


l» 


10 





II * 


7 


„ 


10 


7 


II ^ 


8 


„ 


10 


12 


II w 


9 


„ 


11 






1886. DIET IN HOT WEATHEB. 

In dry, sultry weather the heat 
ought to be counteracted by means 
of a cooling diet To this purpose 
cucumbers, melons, and juicy fruits 
are subservient. We ought to give 
the preference to such alimentary sub- 
stances as lead to contract the juices 
which are too much expanded by the 
heut, and this prof>erty is possessed by 
all acid food and drink. To this class be- 
long all sorts of salad, lemons, oranges, 
pomegranates sliced and sprinkled 
with sugar, for the acid of this fruit 
is not so apt to derange the stomach 
as that of lemons; also cherries and 
strawberries, curds turned with lemon 
acid or cream of tartar; cream of 
tartar dissolved in water; lemonade, 
and Rhenish or Moselle wine mixed 
with water. 

18 gf7. tt fg&Att fOR Hot 

It^THZlt.— The yolk of eggs beaten 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



288 



JrDOMXNT IB THX THBOKB OF PRrDXNCX. 



up, lump sugftr (to taste), Rheniah 
wme or not> citric acid powdered, or 
tartaric acid (small quantity, exact 
auantity soon found); one or two 
drops of essence of lemon on a lump 
of sugar, to make it mix readily 
with tne water; one quart of water. 
This is really an excellent, agreeable, 
and, without the wine, an inexpensive 
beyerage. 

188a DAMP SITUATIOirS, 
Bamedy for.— People who live in 
damp localities, particularly near 
undmned land, are apt to think that 
tliere is no help for them save in 
removaL They are mistaken. Suc- 
cessful experiments have shown that 
it is possible to materially improve 
the atmosphere in such neighbour- 
hoods by the planting of the laurel 
and the sunflower. Tne laurel gives 
off an abundance of ozone, whilst the 
sunflower is potent in destroying the 
malarial condition. These two, if 
planted on the most restricted scale 
in a garden or any ground close to 
the house, will be found to speedily 
increase the dryness and salubrity of 
the atmosphere. 

1880. CHABCOAL at a Diiin. 

feetant— The great eflBcacy of wood 
and animal charcoal in absorbing 
effluvia, and the greater number of 
gases and vapours, has long been 
known. Charcoal powder has also, 
during many centuries, been advan- 
tageously employed as a filter for 
putrid water, the object in view being 
to deprive the water of numerous 
organic impurities diffused through 
it, which exert injurious effects on 
the animal economy. The best form 
of charcoal, however, for filters is the 
animal charcoal. Charcoal removes the 
alkaloids, resins, metallic salts, Jtc. 
It does not however retain its powers 
for any great length of time, and there- 
fore the charcoal of a filter requires 
renewing occasionally. Charcoal not 
only absorbs effluvia and gaseous 
homes, but especially^ when m con- 
tact with atmosphenc air, oxidizes 



and destroys many of the easily alter- 
able ones, by resolving them into 
the simplest combinations thev an 
capable of forming, which are chiefly 
water and carbonic acid. It is on 
this oxidizing property of charcoal, 
as well as on its alKsorbent power, 
that its efficacy as a deodorising and 
disinfecting agent chiefly depends. 

1890. CHASCOAL A8 AH AVTI- 

8BPTIC. — Charcoal is an antiseptic, 
that is to say, a substance wnich 
arrests the decay and decomposition 
of animal substances. Meat, poultry, 
game or fish, kc. may be preserved 
for a longer period in hot weather by 
sprinkling it with powdered char- 
coal, which should be washed off in 
clean cold water before the article is 
cooked. 

1801. CHABCOAL TBHTILA- 
T0B8. — It has been proposed to 
employ charcoal ventilators, consisting 
of a thin layer of charcoal enclosed 
between two thin sheets of wire gauze, 
to purify the foul air which u apt 
to accumulate in water-closets, in tne 
close wards of hospitals, and in the 
impure atmospheres of many of the 
back courts and mews-lanes of large 
cities, all the impurities being absorbed 
and retained by the charcoal, while a 
current of pure air alone is admitted 
into the neighbouring apartments. In 
this way pure air may be obtained 
from exceedingly impure sources. The 

E roper amount of air required by 
ouses in such situations might l)e 
admitted through sheets of wire gauze 
or coarse canvas, containing a thin 
layer of coarse charcoal powder. A 
tolerably thick charcoal ventilator, 
as described above, could be very 
advantageously applied to the gully- 
holes or common sewers, and to the 
sinks in private dwellings, the foul 
water in both cases being carried into 
the drain by means of tolerably wide 
syphon pipes, retaining always about 
a couple of inches of water. Such an 
arrangement would effectually prevent 
the escape of any effluvia, would be 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



JOT OFTXN C0UB8 AFTER SORROW, LIKB MORNING AFTXR NIOHT. 289 



easy of constructiony and not likely 
to get 80on oat of order. 

1892. OHABOOAL BSflPIKA- 
T0B8. — In resmrators for the month 
the air is made to pass through a 
qnarter of an inch of coarsely powdered 
charcoal, retained in its place by two 
sheets of silvered wire gauze, covered 
over with thin woollen cloth, by 
which means its temperature is greatly 
increased. The charcoal respirator 
possesses a decided advantage over 
respirators of the ordinary construc- 
tion, in that all disaio^eable effluvia 
are absorbed by the charcoal, so that 
ooiiiporatively pure airis alone inhaled. 
Adaptations may be jnade to cover 
the nostrils as well as the mouth, for 
protecting the wearer against fevers 
and other infectious diseases, and 
chiefly for use in chemical works, 
common sewers, &c, to protect the 
workmen from the noxious effects of 
the deleterious gases to which they 
tre frequently exposed. 

1808. CHABOOAL APPLISD TO 
80BS8, Ac— Charcoal powder has 
been most successfully employed at 
hospitals, to arrest tne progress of 
gangrene and other putrid sores. The 
charcoal does not require to be put 
immediately in contact with the sores, 
but IB placed above the dressings, not 
unfrequently quilted loosely in a little 
cotton wooL In many cases patients 
who were rapidly sinking have been 
restored to health. 

1894.— BORAX AHB ITS V8BS. 

— ^The utility of borax for medicinal 
purposes, such as relieving soreness of 
the throat, and for the cure of thrush 
in young children, has long been 
known, but it is only in tiie present 
day that its good qualities as an anti- 
septic have Mcome known, and its use 
in every kind of domestic work, in 
the laundry, in the garden, vinerv, 
and greenhouse, and even for the 
toilet, under various forms specially 
prepared for all personal and domestic 
purnoses, has been promoted by its 
production in small packets, varying 



in price from Id. to 6d, which may 
be purchased of almost any chemist, 
oilman, cpt>cer, or dealer, tnrotighout 
the world. 

1896. BOBAX AS AH ABTISBP- 
TIC— The Patent Borax, which con- 
sists of a combination of boron and 
sodium, acts in a marvellous manner 
as an arrester of decay, and as such is 
useful for the preservation of meat, 
milk, butter, and all articles of animal 
food liable to taint and decay, especially 
in hot weather. When infused in smaU 
quantities in water, it preserves and 
softens it for drinking, cooldng, wash- 
ing, and all household purposes; it 
whitens linen and cleanses it far better 
than soda ; it kills harmful insect life, 
though perfectly harmless to human 
beings and domestic animals; it 
cleanses and heals ulcers, festering 
wounds, sore throat, Ac ; is useful in 
the nursery for washing the heads of 
children, cleans sponges, destroys un- 
pleasant and unwholesome smells, and 
IS beneficial to teeth and gums when 
used as a tooth-powder, or put in 
water used for washing the teeth. 

1896. BOBAX FOB CLBABS- 

IHO. — A solution in hot water, al- 
lowed to cool, is useful for washing 
any kind of glass or china, imparting 
a lustre and orightness to them that 
they never exhibit when washed in 
the ordinary way. When it is put 
into water used ior washing floors it 
destroys all vermin with which the 
solution comes in contact 

1897. BOBAX FOB KULIBO 

nrSBCTS.— When sprinkled in the 
form of powder on places infested with 
insects, black beetles, Ac., these 
troublesome pests will soon disappear. 

1898. BOBAX DT OOOXBBT.— 

A few grains added to the tea before 
the water is poured on it greatly im- 
proves the flavour of the infairion. 
When used instead of soda, or car- 
bonate of soda, in cooking vegetables, 
such as greens, peas, b^s, Ac., it 
improves their flavour, preserves their 
colonr, and renders them tender. 

T 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



9M 



A Sk All tCau ftSuxVts 1 OttXAT softiicW. 



YegeUililes eaten in an uncooked state, 
80 aalwl, are rendered more crisp and 
of better flavoor, by steeping them for 
a short time before they are brought 
to table in a solutloB of boras. 

1809. BOSAX A8 A PUSSST- 
ATIYX Ot SEAT, fto.— Meat may 
be preserved, and taint removed by 
Boakiug it for a short time in a solu* 
tion of borax, or by sprinkling it witli 
the dry powder. Game, poultry, 
hams, bacon, and all kinds of meat 
may be thus preserved. Milk cans 
should be washed with the solution, 
and milk itself may be preserved and 
kept sweet fbr some time by adding to 
each quart about half-a-thimblefm of 
this prepared borax dissolved in a 
tablesDoonful of hot water. Butter 
may also be preserved by washing it 
in a solution of borax, or sprinkling 
the nowder over it, or the cloths in 
whicn it is wrapped. 

1400. IMAZ n TEX LAUV- 

BBT.^For washing add a half- 
pound packet to every ten gallons of 
not water used ; let toe clothes soak 
all ni^tt in the solution ; in the morn- 
ing give them a slight boil, adding a 
little more borax, if they be very greasy 
or dirty. By this means the clothes 
are rendered whiter, soap is saved, and 
the hands are unipjured. It acts, 
moreover, as a disinfectant, if the 
clothes have been taken fVom the bed 
or person of any one who is suffering 
from any infectious disorder. Flannels 
are rendered softer, and the appearance 
of lace, fine articles, coloured prints, 
soiled ribbons, &c., greatly improved 
by washtng them in this solution. A 
teaspoonfm to each phit of starch, 
when hot, will add to the stifiness 
and gloss of linen when ironed. 

1401. BOXAX nr the tour. 

— As a wash for the mouth add half-a- 
tcaspoonful of spirits of camphor, and 
a teaspoonftil or tincture of myrrh to 
a pint of hot water, in which a penny 
packet of borax has been dis8olv«a, 
wad use s wfusgUonftxl of this mtxttire 
in half-a-tmnbler of wstef, whm 



brushing the teeth. When the month 
is washed out with this solution, it 
removes the smell of tobacea and 
any unpleasant odour arising from 
decayed teeth. Camphorated chalk 
dentrifice is improvea as a tooth- 
powder by the addition of a littto 
powdered borax. For wafdiing hssr- 
brushes, sponges, Jtc, a solution of a 
small packet in a pint of hot water 
should be used. 

1402. BOSAX IV THE ITYBS- 

EBT.— A little borax added to wat<*r 
for bathing infiints and children has 
a beneficial efl^t on the skin. For 
cleansing the hair and removing scurf 
or dandrifr wash the head with a 
solution of a small packet of borax in 
a pint of hot water, afler which th« 
h«ad should be rinsed with cold 
water, and carefully dried. This 
wash may be improved by the addition 
of half-an-ounee of rosemary spirit 
sold by any chemist 

1408. BOEAZ nr THE eAE- 
IBlf . — A solution made by dissolving 
borax in hot water in the proportion 
of a penny packet of the former to a 
pint of the latter, will kill the green 
fly on roses and other plants. A 
weaker solution may be used for 
syringing the plants. When applied 
to the stems of fruit trees, and other 
trees, it destroys all insects in and 
about the bark, and dears the blight 
on apple trees. For these purposes 
the solution should be applied with 
a brush. For washing the shelves, 
boards, and woodwork of greenhouses, 
the solution is especially valuable, 
and when used for syringing vines 
in the proportion of a pint of the 
solution to ten gallons of water, and 
half-a-ponnd of borax dry soap, as 
soon as the grapes have been thinned, 
it will keep them free from red spider 
and other insects. 

1404. MKS8TI0 WHYS AEB 
WHBBBTOUiS. 

The Mlowing paragn^hs ave from 
The Eamew^f JUmm fFh^, con* 
tMiaiagvijmwM of VMO ttason»ttpoff 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THIS SSA 18 tRS HEATtNQ BOSOM 0? T^l! WORLD. 



2dl 



every kind of domestic subject (25. 6d. 
Uoalston and Sons.) 

1405. W7ty is the JUsh cf sh^sep 
VuU are fed near the sea mare nu- 
tritUms than that qf others f — Because 
the saline particles (sea salt) which 
they find with their green food give 
parity to their blood and flesh. 

1406. Why does the marbled ap- 
pearctnce o/fai in mMxt indicate that 
it is young and tender f — Because in 
young animals fat is dispersed through 
the muscles, but in ola animals it is 
laid in masses on the outside of the 
flesh. 

1407. Whf is some flesh white 
and other flesh r«d;— White flesh 
contains a larger proportion of albu- 
men (similar to the white of egg) than 
that which is red. The amount of 
blood retained in the flesh also influ- 
ences its colour. 

140d. Why are raw oysters more 
wholesome than those that are cooked? 
^When cooked they are partly de- 
prived of salt water, which promotes 
their digestion ; their albumen also 
becomes nard (like hard-boiled eggs). 

1409. Why have some oysters a 
green tinsel — This has been errone- 
ously attributed to the effects of 
copper ; but it arises from the oyster 
feeding upon small green sea-weeds, 
which grow where such oysters are 
found. 

1410. Why is eahbage rendered 
more wholesome by being boiled in two 
waters t — Because cabbages contain an 
oil, which is apt to produce bad 
effects, and prevents some persons 
from eating "green** vegetables. 
When boiled in two waters, the first 
boiliuj^ carries off the greater part of 
this oil. 

141 1. Why are salt and soda used 
in cooking greens t — Because salt 
makes the water hotter and gives a 
better taste to the greens, and the 
aoda, by extracting the oil from thd 
greens, gives them a good colour. 



1412. Why should horseradish be 
scraped for the table only Just before it 
is required f — Because the peculiar 
oil of horseradish is verv volatile ; it 
quicklv evaporates, ana leaves the 
vegetable suostanee dry and insipid. 

1413. Why is mint eaten with pea 
soupf — The properties of mint are 
stomachic and antispasmodic. It is 
therefore useful to prevent the flatu* 
lence that mifi[ht arise, especially fhutt 
soups made of green or dried peaa. 

1414. Why is apple sauce eaten 
toith pork and goose t — Because it is 
slightly laxative, and therefore tends 
to counteract the effects of rich and 
stimulating meats. The acid of the 
apples also neutralizes the oify nature 
of the fkt, and prevents biliousness. 

1416. Why does milk turn sour 
during thwnderUorms t — Because in an 
electric condition of the atmosphere 
ozone is generated. Ozone is oxygen 
in a state of great intensity; and 
oxygen is a general acidifier of many 
organic substances. Milk may he 
prevented from becoming sour by 
t>oiling it, or bringing it nearly 
to boiling point, for, as the old 
proverb says, "MUk boiled is milk 
spoiled." Heating the milk dxpeli 
the oxygen. 

1416. Why does ths churning (/ 
cream or milk produce butter t — Be- 
cause the action of stirring, together 
with a moderate degree of warmth, 
causes the cells in which the butter is 
confined to burst ; the disengaged fat 
collects in flakes, and mtfiiately 
coheres in large masses. 

1417. What is the blue mould 
which appears sometimes upon cheese f 
—It is a species of fungus, or minute 
vegetable, which may be distinctly 
seen when examined by a magnifying 
glass. 

1418. Why are some of the Ivmhs 
of birdsmore tender than othetit — ^The 
tenderness or toughness of flesh is 
determined bv the amount of exercise 
the muscles nave undergone. Hence 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



S92 



MrSIO 18 80VL XICBODIZD IK SOUND. 



the win|r of a biill that chiefly walks, 
and the leg of a bird that chiefly flies, 
are the moat tender. 

1410. WTiy does tea freqwrnUy 
cure headache t — Because, b}r its stimu- 
lant action on the general drcolation, 
in which the brain participates, the 
nervous congestions are overcome. 

1420. Why are clothes qf smooth 
and shining sXvrfwzes best adapted for 
hot weather f-^'Bec&nae they reflect or 
turn back the rays of the sun, which 
are thus prevented from penetrating 
them. 

1421. Why isloose clothing toarmer 
than tight articles of dress t — Because 
the loose drees encloses a stratum of 
warm air which the tight dress shuts 
out; for the same reason, woollen 
articles, though not warmer in them- 
selves, appear so, by keeping warm air 
near to the body. 

1422. Why should the scoter 
poured wpon tea he at the boiling 
point /—Because it requires the tem- 
perature of boiling water to dissolve 
and extract the tea oil and tannic 
acid. 

1428. Why does the first ii\fusion 
qf tea possess more aroma than the 
second /—Because the first infusion, if 
the water used is at the boiling tem- 
perature, takes up the essential oil of 
the tea, while tne second water re- 
ceives only the bitter extract supplied 
by the tannic acid of tea. 

1424. Why does a head-dress of 
sky-hlue become a fair person /—Be- 
cause light blue is the complementary 
colour of pale orange, which is the 
foundation of the blonde complexion 
and hair. 

1426. Why are yellow, orange, or 
red colours suitable to a person of dark 
hair amd complexion t — Because those 
colours, by contrast with the dark 
skin and hair, show to the greater 
advantJ^ themselves, while they 
enrich me hue of black. 

1426. Why is a delicate green 
fa/courMe to pale blonde complestians t 



— Because it imparts a rosiness to such 
complexions — red, its complementary 
colour, being reflected upon green. 

1427. Why is light green un- 
favourable to niddy complexions f — 

Because it increases the redness, and 
has the effect of producing an over- 
heated appearance. 

1428. Why are violet draperies 
unfavourable to every kind of com" 
plexiont — Because reflecting yellow, 
they anient that tint wnen it is 
present m the skin or hair, change 
olue into green, and give to an olive 
complexion a jaundiced look. 

1429. Why is blue unsuitable to 
brunettes f — Because it reflects orange, 
and adds to the darkness of the com- 
plexion. 

14S0. Why do blue veils preserve 
the complexion t — Because they di- 
minish the effect of the scorching rays 
of light, just as the blue glass over 
photographic studios diminishey the 
effect of certain rays that would injure 
the delicate processes of photography. 

1481. FXXALS BBE88.— It is 
well known that a loose and easy 
dress contributes much to give the sex 
the fine proportions of body that are 
observable in the Grecian statues, and 
which serve as models to our present 
artists, nature being too much dis- 
figured amonff us to afford any such. 
The Greeks knew nothing of tho^ 
ligatures and bandages with which 
our bodies are compressed. Their 
women were ignorant of the use of 
stays, by which ours distort their 
shape instead of displaying it. This 
practice, carried to excess as it is in 
England, is in bad taste. To behold 
a woman cut in two in the middle, as 
if she were like a wasp, is as shocking 
to the eye as it is painful to the 
imagination. Such a deformity would 
be shocking in a naked figure ; where- 
fore, then, should it be esteemed a 
bc»uty in one that is dressed ? The 
effect of tight-ladng is to prevent the 
natural motion or the ribs, thus 
imp«ding respiration, and the inspira- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OUT OF DEBT, OUT OF DAKOEB. 



298 



tkm of air beiu^ inanfficient, the sjrs- 
tern requires quicker respiration, which 
disturbs the lungs and excites the 
heart. Everything that confines and 
lays nature under restraint is an 
instance of bad taste. This is as true 
in regEurd to the ornaments of the 
body as to the embelliMhments of the 
mind. life, health, reason, and 
convenience ought to be taken first 
into consideration. Gracefulness can- 
not subsist without ease. High- 
heeled boots and shoes also are very 
injurious, as the whole weight of the 
body is thrown forward on the toes, 
and the strain on the insteo and con- 
traction of the muscles at the back of 
the heel are very great 

1482. hutts ov the oaee of 

OLOTHXS. 

(See also pars. 842 to 850.) 

1488. CABS 07 MBVS HAT8. 

L Should you get caught in a 
shower, always remember to brush 
your hat while wet When dry, brush 
the glaze out, and ^ntly iron it over 
with a smooth flat iron. 

U. If yovLT hat is viry wet, or 
stained with sea water, get a basin of 
clean cold water, and a good stiff 
brush ; wash it well all over, but be 
careful to keep the nap straight ; brush 
it as dry as you can, then put it on a 
peg to dry. When dry, brush the 
glf^ out, and gently iron it over as 
above. 

iii. Should you get a spot of grease 
on your hat, just drop one drop of 
benzine or sapine on the place, and 
then rub it briskly with a piece of 
cloth until out 

iy. Should you be traveUinff, always 
tie your hat up in a handkerchief 
before putting it into your case ; this 
will save it from setting rubbed or 
damaged through the friction of the 
rail or steamboat 

y. Never put your hat flat on the 
brim, as it will spoil its shape; but 
always hang it up on a peg. 

vL If ever put your hat, wet or dry, 



in front of the fire, as it will soften it, 
and throw it all out of shape. 

tU. Before putting vour hat down, 
be careful to see if the plaoe is free 
from spot of grease, beer, sugar, &c., 
as these things often spoil a good hat 
more than a twelvemonth's wear, and 
are often very difficult to remove. 
These simple rules will save a good hat 
for a very long time. 

1434. CAES OF eiOVES. — 

Nothing looks worse than shabby 
gloves ; and, as they are expensive 
articles in dress, they require a little 
management A good glove will, 
with care, out-last three dieap ones. 
Do not wear your best gloves at 
night ; the heat of the gas, &c., gives a 
moisture to the hands that spoils 
the gloves ; do not wear them in very 
wet weather, as carrying umbrellas, 
and drops of rain, spoil them. 

1485. TO CLEAH KH) eLOYES. 
— Make a strong lather with curd 
soap and warm water, in which steep 
a small piece of new flannel. Place 
the glove on a flat, clean, and un- 
yielding surface — such as the bottom 
of a oish, and having thoroughly 
soaped the flannel (when squeezed 
fh>m the lather), rub the kid till all 
dirt be removed, cleaning and re-soap- 
ing the flannel from time to time. 
die must be taken to omit no part 
of the glove, by turning the fingers, 
kc The glove must be dried in the 
sun, or before a moderate fire, and 
will present the appearance of old 
parchment When quite dry, they 
must be gradually '* pulled oul^" and 
will look new. 

1485a. Another way. —Have ready 
a little new milk in one saucer, and 
a piece of brown soap in another, and 
a clean cloth or towel folded three or 
four times. On the doth, spread out 
the glove smooth and neat Take a 
piece of flannel, dip it in the milk, 
then rub off a good quantity of soap 
to the wetted flannel, and commence 
to rub the glove downwards towards 
the fingers, nolding it firmly with the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



m 



A OAMBLEB AND A 8WIin)UB ABB NEAB NEIGHBOURS. 



loit hand. Continae this process 
until the jdove, if white, lookB of a 
dingy yeuow, though clean ; if 
Qfdoiued, till it lo(^ dark and 
spoiled. Lay it to dry; and old 
gloves will soon look nearly new. 
They will be soft, glossy, smooth, 
well-shaped> and elastic. 

14M. TO CLSAK WASH. 
LSATHBB e LOVE 8. —Rub the 
grease spots out with magnesia, or 
cream of tartar. Then wash with 
soap dissolved in water, afterwards 
rinsing in w«nn water and then with 
cold. Dry in the sun, or before the 
fire. 

14B7. TO CLSAH BUCSSKIir 
6L0VB9- — Mix together four ounces of 
Paris white, four ounces 8craj)ed pipe- 
clay, and three ounces of isinglass. 
Bou them down, stirring welL Put 
the substance on thick, and when dry 
beat it out by clipping your hands. 
Finally iron the gloves with » hot 
smoothing iron. 

1488. TO FESSEBYB THE 
OOLOVR or DBS88BS WHSK 
WASHIVe THEM.— We need 
scarcely say that no coloured articles 
should ever be boiled or scalded. The 
colours of merinos, mousseline-de- 
laines, ginghams, chintzes, printed 
lawns, kCf may be preserved by using 
water that is only muk-wami ; making 
a lather with white soap he/ore you 
put in the dress, instead of rubbing it 
on the material ; and stirring into a 
first and second tub of water a large 
tablespoonful of ox-galL The gall 
can be obtained from the butcher, and 
a bottle of it should always be kept 
in every house. Ko coloured articles 
diould be allowed to remain long in 
the water. They must be washed 
fast, and then rinsed through two 
cold waters. In each rinsing water 
stir a teaspoonfttl of vinegar, which 
will help to brighten the colours; 
and after rinsing, hang them out 
immediatelv. When ironing-dry (or 
still a little damp), bring them in ; 
l)ftve iroD9 xesdj heated, aad iroQ 



them at once — as it injures the colours 
to allow them to remain damp too 
long— or sprinkle and roll them up in 
a cover for ironing next day. If tney 
cannot be conveniently ironed inune- 
diately, let them bans till they are 
quite dry, and then damp and fold 
them on the /ollounng day, a quarter 
of an hour before ironing. It is 
better not to do coloured oresses ou 
the day of the general wash, but to 
give them a morning by Uiemselves. 
They should only be undertaken in 
clear bright weaUier. If allowed to 
freeze, the colours will be irreparably 
injured. If you get from a shop a 
slip for testing the durability of 
colours, give it a fair trial by waging 
it as above ; afterwards pinning it to 
the edge of a towel, and hanging it to 
dry. Some colours (especiuly pinks 
and light greens), though they may 
stand perfectly well in washing, will 
change as soon as a warm iron is 
applied to them ; the pink turning 
purplish, and the green bluish. No 
coloured article should be smoothed 
with a hoi iron. 

1488. TO BSVOTATS SILKS.— 
Sponge faded silks with warm water 
and soap, then rub them with a dry 
cloth on a flat board ; afterwards iron 
them on the inside with a smoothing 
iron. Old black silks may be im- 
proved by sponging with spirits ; 
in this case, the ironing may be done 
on the right side, thin paper being 
spread over to prevent glazing. 

1440. BLACK SILKEBYIYBB — 

Boil logwood in water for half-an- 
hour; then simmer the silk half- 
an-hour; take it out, and put into 
the dye a little blue vitriol, or green 
copperas ; cool it, and simmer the 
silk for half-an-hour. Or use the 
decoction of fig-leaves described in 
par. 1443. 

1441. eBBASE SPOTS FBOH 
SILK. — Upon a deal table lay a piece 
of woollen cloth or baize, upon which 
lay smoothly the part stained, with 
the right 8i4e downwards, Sanng 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TIMS AKD TIDB TA&ilT fOa MO MAN. 



29S 



•pxMd a piece of brown paper on the 
to|u apply a flat iron just hot enough 
to acoroh the ^per. About fire or 
eight seconds is usually sufficient. 
Then rub the stained part briskly 
with a piece of wLitey-brown paper. 

1441a. B£STOSIVG COLOUE TO 
SILK. — When the colour has been 
taken from silk b^ acids, it may be 
restored by applying to the spot a 
littie hartshorn, or sal volatUe. 

1442. TO B£XOVE WATSB 
iTAIHS FBOX BUUDK CBAP£.-> 
When a drop of water foils on a black 
erape veil or collar, it leaves a oon> 
apicuous white maik. To obliterate 
tnis, spread the erape on a table 
(laying on it a laige book or a paper- 
weight to keep it steady), and place 
underneath the stain a piece or old 
black silk. With a large camel's-hair 
brush dipped in common ink go over 
the stain, and then wipe off the ink 
with a small {^eoe of old soft silk. 
It will drv at once, and the white 
mark will oe seen no more. 

1448a. TO eLXAir OEAn.— Rinse 
it in ox-gall and water to take out 
the dirt, and then in clean water; 
finally in gum-water to stiffen it, 
then beat it between the hands until 
it is dry. 

1443. TO BEMOTl fTAIHS 
nOM MOUENIVO DBBMES.— 
Boil a handful of fig-leaves in two 
quarts of water until reduced to a 
pint. Bombazines, crape, cloth, kc., 
need only be rubbed with a sponge 
dipped in this liquor, and the stains 
will be instantly removed. 

1444. TO U8T0BE 7EI.YST.— 
When velvet gets crushed from pres- 
sure, hold the parts over a basm of 
hot water, witn the lining of the 
article next the water ; the pile will 
soon rise, and assuma ita original 
beauty. 

1444a. TO EXTRACT WAX OR 
IIEEASB BPOTB 7E0M CLOTH.— 
Hold a red-hot iron within an inch or 
two of the marks, and afterwards rub 
thw with a soft clean ra^. 



1446. TO BAEIM KOTU.— 

L Procure shavings of cedar wood, 
and enclose in muslin bags, which 
can be distributed freely among the 
clothes. 

ii. Frooui^ shayings of camphor 
wood, and encloee in hogs. 

iii. Sprinkle pimento (^Ispice) 
berries amons the clothes. 

It. SprinkM the clothes with ih» 
seeds or the musk plant 

V. To destroy the eggs when 
deposited in woollen cloths, ftc, use 
a solution of acetate of potash in 
spirits of rosemary, fifteen grains to 
the pint. 

1446a. TO FEOTECTTVEf FBOK 

MOTH. — Warm water, odc pint; 
corrosive sublimate, twelve grains. 
If washed with this, and afterwards 
dried, furs are safe from moth. Care 
should be taken to label the liquid— 

1446.-CAEE OF EITEi.— In the 
month of April or May, beat your 
fur gannenta well with a small caae 
or elastic stick, then wrap them up in 
linen, without presaing the fur too 
hard, and put betwixt the folds lome 
camphor in small lumps; then put 
your furs in tliis state in boxes well 
closed. When the furs are wanted 
for use, beat them well as before, and 
expose them for twenty-four hours 
to the air, which will take away the 
smell of the camphor. If the fur has 
long hair, as bear or fox, add to the 
camphor an equal quantity of black 
pepper in powder. 

1447. CABS OF BOOTS ABB 
8H0S8. — These should be cleaned 
frequently, whether they are worn or 
not, and should never be left in a 
damp place, nor be put too near to the 
fire to dry. In cleaning them, be 
careful to brush the dirt from the 
seams, and not to scrape it oiT with a 
knife, or you may cut the leather. 
Let the hard brush do ita work 
thoroughly well, and the polish will 
beaUthebHi^htcr, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



296 



pmrcnTALiTT biobtb ookfidbnge. 



144a UQUID BLACKIVG. — 

Ivory hUok and treacle, of each one 
pound : aweet oil and oil of vitriol, of 
each a quarter of a pound. Put the 
first thrae together until the oil is 
perfectly mixed or ''ktiUd**; then 
add the oil of vitriol, diluted with 
thrue times its weight of wate^ and 
after standing three hours add one 
<iuart of water or sour beer. The 
ivory black must be very finely 
ground for liquid blacking, otherwise 
It settles rapidly. The oil of vitriol 
is powerfully corrosive when undiluted, 
but uniting with the lime of the ivory 
black, it IS partly neutralized, and 
does not injure the leather, whilst it 
much improves the quality of the 
blacking. 

1448a. PA8TB BLAOKIVO— Ivory 
black, two pounds ; treacle, one pound ; 
olive oil and oil of vitriol, of each, a 
quarter of a pound. Mix as before, 
adding only sufficient water to form 
into a paste. 

1440. Trtneh Polish for Boota 
and Shoes. — Mix together two pints 
of the best vinegar and one pint of 
soft water ; stir into it a quarter of a 
pound of glue, broken up, half-a- 
pound of logwood chips, a quarter of 
an ounce of finely powdered indigo, a 
quarter of an ounce of the best soft 
soap, and a quarter of an ounce of 
ifdnglass. Put the mixture over the 
fire, and let it boil for ten minutes or 
more. Then strain the liquid, and 
bottle and cork it : when cold it is fit 
for use. Apply it with a dean sponge. 

1440a. To Polish XnameUed 
Leather. —Two pints of the best 
cream, one pint of linseed oil ; make 
them each lukewarm, and then mix 
them well together. Having previ- 
ously cleaned the shoe, &c, from 
dirt, rub it over with a sponp dipped 
in the mixture : then rub it with a 
soft dry cloth until a brilliant polish 
is proauoed. 

1460. BOOT-TOP LIQUID.— 
Oxalic add and white vitriol, of each 
one ounce; water, one pint and a 



half. To be applied with a sponge to 
the leather, previously washed, and 
then wiped off again. ThisjnyparO' 
tion is poisonous, 

1461. To Waterproof Boots and 
Bhoei. — Linseed oil, one pint ; oil of 
turpentine, or camphine, a quarter of 
a pmt ; yellow wax, a quarter of a 
pound; fiurgundv pitch, a quarter 
of a pound. Melt together with a 
gentle heat, and when required for use, 
warm and well rub into the leather 
before a fire, or in the hot sun. The 
composition should be poured, when 
melted, into small gsllipots, or tin 
boxes. Or— warm a little bees*-wax 
and mutton suet until it is a liquid, 
and rub some of it slightly over the 
edges of the sole, where tbestitchesare. 

1461a. To Stop Boots Craakinr. — 
Drive a small peg into the middle of 
the sole. 

1462. TO CLIAV GOLD AHD 
8ILYXB LACS. — Orate the crumb 
part of a small loaf into fine crumbs 
and mix them with a quarter of a |)ound 
of powder-blue, sift some of the mix- 
ture over the lace, and then rub with 
a piece of flanneL Brush away the 
crumbs, and finally rub with a piece 
of red velvet. 

1468. PIVOXB EDTOS which 
have precious stones in them should 
always be taken off the finger when 
the hands are washed, or they will 
become discoloured. 

1464. TO BEKOYS TIQHT 
FIKOXB BnrOS.— Pass the end of 
a piece of fine string under the ring, 
and wind it evenly round the finger 
umoard as far the middle joint. 
Then take the lower end of the string 
under the ring, and slowly unwind it 
upward. The ring will then gradually 
move along the string and come off. 

1466. EDITS OK ITIQVETTB. 

Whatever objections maybe raised to 
the teachings of works on etiquette, 
there can be no soundargument asainst 
a series of simple and brief liinta, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ONE TO-DAY IS WOKTH TWO TO-MORROWS. 



297 



which shall operate as precaations 
against mistakes in personal conduct 

1466. LSTTEB8 07 nTTBO- 

BUCTION. 

L When giving a letter to introduce 
a friend leave it unsealed, as he may 
wish to see what you have said before 
he makes use of it 

it In availing yourself of a letter 
of this kind intended as a friendly 
introduction, send it in an envelope 
with your (»rd and address, but do 
not call until the friends to whom 
you are introduced have called upon 
you. 

ill. If the letter is a lusiness intro- 
duction deliver it without dela^. 

!▼. On receiving a letter of intro- 
duction be sure to acknowledge it at 
once, and call on the person introduced 
as soon as possible. 

1467. CALLS AND YIBITS. 

L It is now usual for ladies to have 
an ''at home day" once or twice a 
mouthy when they make a point of 
being at liberty to receive any friends 
who wish to call on them. It is 
customary to have the intimation of 
your at home day printed on your 
visiting card, such as (''1st and 8rd 
ThursSty ") ('* 2nd Monday "). 

iL A formal visit should never be 
made before noon. If a second visitor 
arrives it is advisable not to remain 
long, unless you are very intimate 
both with the host and the visitor ; 
or the host expresses a wish for you 
to stay. 

iiL A gentleman should hold his 
hat in his hand, unless requested to 
put it down, but should leave his 
umbrella in tne hall. 

!▼. "Visits after balls or parties 
should be made within a month. 

y. Visits of condolence should be 
paid within a week or fortnight after 
the event and require a grave style of 
dress. 

yL When you introduce a person, 
pronounce the name distinctly, and 
say whatever you can to make the 
introduction agreeable. Such as "an 



old and valued friend,*' "a school- 
fellow of mine," "an old acquaintance 
of our family." 

yii A eentleman should be intro- 
duced to the lady, not the lady to the 
gentleman. 

yiiL Be hearty in your reception of 
guests; and where you see much 
diffidence, assist the stranger to throw 
it off. 

iz. Request the servant, during the 
visits of guests, to attend to the door 
the moment the bell rings. 

z. When your visitor retires, ring 
the bell for the servant You may 
then accompany your guest as far 
towards the door as the circumstances 
of your friendship seem to demand. 

xL If visiting for a few days at a 
friend's house, give as little trouble 
as possible and endeavour to conform 
to the habits of the family. Ascer- 
tain the usual times for meals, and 
make a point of being punctual 

146a BINNXB PABTDBS. 

i Invitations should be sent out at 
least a week beforehand. 

ii Accept or decline an invitation 
by rotnm of post 

ill. Strictly keep to your engage- 
ments and make apoint of ounctuality. 

iy. For gentlemen blacK coats and 
trousers aro indispensable for either 
a dinner or a ball. 

y. The host and hostess should be 
in the drawing-room to receive their 
guests. 

yi When dinner is announced the 
host offers his arm to the principal 
lady guest and conducts her to the 
dining-room, the rest of the company 
follow in couples as arranged by either 
the master or mistress of the house — 
the latter with her attendant gentle- 
man always entering the dining-room 
last 

yii The places of the various guests 
at the table are usually indicated by 
cards bearing their names. 

yiii Each eentleman during dinner 
should attend to the wants of the 
lady placed under his care, and chooeo 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2M 



TTKOBETAINTT WAULS ON BOTH BIBI8 Or US. 



sobiiaott of oonveoation likelj to prove 
•greeablo to her. 

1459. BALLS AVD VTZBINQ 
TARTIXB, 

L Ao invitation to a ball should be 
given at lead a fortnight beforehand. 

ii. Upon entering the reception- 
room first address the lady of the 
house; and after her, the nearest 
acquaintances you may recognize in 
the room. 

iii If you introduce a friend, make 
him acquaintod with the names of 
the chief persons present But first 
present him to the lady of the house, 
and to the host 

It. Appear in fUll dress. 

T. Always wear gloves, and put 
them on previous to entering the 
room. 

Ti. Avoid an ezoeas of jewellery, 
and do not wear rings on the outside 
of your gloves. 

TiL Gentlemen should not select the 
same partner fluently, but distribute 
their attentions as much as possible. 

viii If tliere are more dancers than 
the room will accommodate, do not 
join in every dance. 

ix. Do not remain to the close, and 
in leaving a large party it is unneces- 
sary to bid farewell, and improper to 
do so before the guests. 

X. The host and hostess should 
look after all their guests, and not con- 
fine their attentions. They should, 
in fact, attend chiefly to those who 
are the least known in the room. 

zi. The hostess may introduce any 
oentleman to a lady without first ask- 
ing the lady's consent, after ascer- 
taining that the lady is willing to 
dance. 

xii. After dancing, conduct your 
partner to a seat, or resign her as 
soon as her next partner advances. 

ziii An introduction to a lady at a 
ball does not entitle the gentleman to 
bow to her on a future occasion, unless 
ahe first recognizes him. 

(For the Figures of DancM, see 
pWS. 141 tQ 163.) 



1460. MARBIAOB ABBAKftB- 
MBHTS. 
, 1461. Ipteial LieeBoet. --Special 
licences are dispensations from the 
ordinary rule, under which marriages 
can only take place canonically in uie 

Barish church, or other places duly 
censed for that purpose. They can 
c^y be obtained from the Metropo- 
litan or Archbishop of the province, 
and often with no small difficulty, 
not being readily granted, and when 
obtained the fees are about £30, 

1462. Common Lieeneei enable 
persons of full age, or minors with 
consent of parents or guardians, to be 
n)arried in the church of the parish in 
which one of them has resided for 
three weeks. They are procured from 
The Faculty Office, Doctors' Commons, 
or from any Surrogate, at a cost of 
from £2 to £8. 

1468. Baimi must be published 
three times in the parish cnurch, in 
each vlace where the persons con- 
cerned rvside. The cleiic is applied 
to on such occasions ; his fee varies 
from la. M. upwards. When the 
marriage ceremony is over, the parties 
repair to the vestry, and enter their 
names in the pansk registry. The 
registrv is signed by the clergyman 
and the witnesses present, and a 
certificate of the registry is given to 
the bridegroom if desired. The chaige 
for a certificate of marriage is 2a. 7a., 
including the penny stamp on the 
documents, as by law required, and 
the clergyman's fee varies according 
to circumstances. The clerk will at 
all times give information thereupon ; 
and it is best for a friend of the 
bridegroom to attend to the pecuniaiy 
arrangements. 

1464. lUrrUges of SUaentert 
may be solemnized at any place of 
worship duly licensed, and in accord- 
ance with toe forms of their worship. 
In some cases the service of the 
Church of England is read, with 
9light additions or modificntiona. The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AN HOUK IN THE MORNINe IS WOBTB TWO AT NIGHT. 



290 



d^k of the place of worship should 
be applied to for information. 

1465. Marriage by Eegiftration. 
^-An Act was passed in the reign of 
William the Fourth, by which it was 
rendered legal for ^lersons wishing to 
be married bv a civil ceremony, to 
give notice of their intention to the 
Registrar of Marriages in their distiict 
or districts. Three weeks' notice is 
necessary, to give which the parties 
call, separately or together, at the 
office or the registrar, who enters 
the names in a b<^k. When the time 
of notice hao expired, it is only 
necessary to give the registrar an 
intimation, on the previous day, of 
your intention to attend at his office 
on the next dav, and complete the 
registration. The ceremony consists 
in merely answering a few questions, 
and making the demration that you 
take each other to live as husband 
and wife. The fee amounts only to a 
few shillings, and in this form no 
wedding-ring is required, though it is 
usually placed on the ring-finger of 
the bride's left hand, in the presence 
of the persons assembled. The married 
couple receive a certificate of marriage, 
which is in every respect lawful 

1466. Wedding BiB^.--The 
custom of wearing weddmg rings 
appears to have taken its rise among 
the Romans. Before the celebration of 
their nuptials, there was a meeting 
of friends at the house of the lady's 
father, to settle articles of the marriage 
contract, when it was agreed that the 
dowry should be paid down on the 
wedding day or soon after. On this 
occasion there was commonly a feast, 
at the conclusion of which the man 
^ve to the woman, aa a pledge, a 
ring, which she put on the fourth 
finger of her left hand, because it was 
believed that a nerve reached thence to 
the heart, and a day was then named 
for the marriage. 

1467. Why ^ W«d4i«g Bing 
if plaoad on the Fourth 7iager.— 
** W© have r^mark©4 o^ the vulgar 



error which supposes tliat an artery 
runs from l^e fourth finger of the 
left hand to the heart It is said by 
Swinburn and others, that therefore 
it became the wedding finger. The 
priesthood kept up this idea bv still 
retaining it as the wedding finger, 
but the custom is really associated 
with the doctrine of the Trinity; 
for, in the ancient ritual of £nglish 
marriages, the ring was placed by the 
husband on the top of the thumb of 
the left hand, with the words, 'In 
the name of the Father;' he then 
removed it to the forefinger, saying, 
'In the name of the Son;' then to 
the middle finger, adding, 'And of the 
Holy Ghost V finally, he left it as 
now, on the fourth finger, with the 
cloeinff word, * Amen.' "—Tit^ffistory 
and Poetry of Finger Ring*. 

1468. Wedding ]>resi.— It is im- 
possible to lay down specific rules for 
dress, a9 fashions change and tastes 
differ. The great art consists in 
selecting the style of dress most be- 
coming to the penon. A stout person 
should adopt a difierent style from a 
thin person ; a tall one from a short 
one. Peculiarities of oomplexion, and 
form of face and figure, should be duly 
regarded ; and in these matters there 
is no better course than to call in the 
aid of any respectable milliner and 
dressmaker, who will be found ready 
and able to give the best advice. The 
bridegroom should simply appear in 
morning dress, and should avoid every- 
thing eccentric and conspicuous m 
style. Tlie bridesmaids should always 
be made aware of the bride's dress 
before they choose their own, which 
should be determined by a proper 
harmony with the former. 

1460. The Order of Going to 

Ohuroh is as follows : — 

i. The Sride, accompanied by her 
father, occujHes the kiti et^rriage. 
The father hands out the bride, and 
leads her direct to the altar, round 
which those who have been invited 
haye already grouped tbms^T^iy 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



800 



MORNING FOR WORK, BVSNINO FOR CONTBMPLATION. 



leaTinff room for the &ther, the bride, 
and the bridesniaids, who nsiiAlly 
await the bride's coming at the 
entrance to the chorch, or at the 
bottom of the chancel, and follow her 
to the communion rails, 

ii Tha Bridafroom, who has made 
his way to the church, accompanied 
by his "best man," or principal 

Cmsman — an intimate friend or 
hei^-should be waiting at the 
communion rails to receive his future 
wife on her arrivaL He and she then 
stand facing the altar, he being on the 
right of the bride, and the fither or 
the gentleman who is to ** giveaway " 
the bride, on the left. 

iii Tha Chief Bridesmaid occupies 
a place immediately behind the &nc^ 
to hold her gloves, handkerchief, and 
flowers ; her oempanions range tliem- 
selves close to, and slightly in the 
rear of the principal bridesmaid. 

1470. When the Ceremony is con- 
elnded, the Bride, tal^ng tlie Bride- 
groom's arm, goes into the vestry, the 
others following ; signatures are then 
affixed, and a redstnition made, after 
which the married pair enter their 
carriage, and proceed to the reception, 
every one else following. 

1471. The *'Be8t Man " should be 
careful that the Bridegroom does not 
forget to take the licence and rinff with 
him to the church. He should siso 
see to the payment of the fc^s and to 
the arrangement of the carriagee and 
comfort of the ffuests on the return 
from the church. The fee to the 
clergyman is according to the rank 
and fortune of the bridegroom ; the 
clerk if there be one, expects five 
shillings, and a trifle shoula be given 
to the pew opener, and other officials 
of the church. There is a fixed scale 
of fees at every church, to which the 
parties married can add if they please. 

1472. The Order of Betuming 
from Chnroh differs fh)m the above 
only in the fact that the Bride and 
Bridegroom now ride together in the 
flrst carrisge, the bride oeing on his 



left The bridesmaids and other 
guests follow in the remainiuK carriages 
under the direction of the " best man ** 
to the house of the Bride's parents, or 
other place where the wedoing recep- 
tion is held. 

1478. The Wedding Breakfiist 
having been already prepared, the 
wedding party return thereto. If a 
large party, the bride and bridegroom 
occupy seats in the centre of the long 
table, and the two extremities shoula 
be presided over by the father and 
mother of the bride, or, fidling these, 
by elderly relatives, if posuble one 
from each family. Every one should 
endeavour to make the occasion as 
happy as possible. One of the senior 
members of either the bride or bride- 
groom^ family should, some time be- 
fore the breakfast has terminated, rise, 
and in a brief but graceful manner, 
propose the " Health and happiness of 
the wedded pair." It is much better 
to drink their healths together than 
separately ; and, after a brief interval, 
the bridegroom should return thanks, 
which he may do without hesitation, 
since no one looks for a speech upon 
such an occasion. A few words, teel- 
ingly expressed, are all that is required. 
The breakfast generally concludes with 
the departure of the nappy pair upon 
their wedding tour. 

1474. Wedding Baeentions.— 

Since it has been made legal for 
marriages to be solemnized after noon, 
the wedding breakfast has been very 

generally superseded by a reception 
eld by the oride's parents, either at 
their own house or at a hall or rooms 
engaged for the purpose. Liberal 
reueshroents are provided, but there 
is no formal sit-down meal. Friends, 
although not invited to the church, 
may be asked to the reception. They 
are expected to offer their oongratula- 
tions to the newly-married couple 
and their families, and after partaking 
of refineshments, and in some cases 
viewing the presents, take their leave. 
This arrangement eiiables ma^y more 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FBI70ALITT PROYIS AK BAST OHAIB FOB OLD AOB. 



801 



frionds to be invited, and is more 
easily managed and less ezpensiye 
than the regular wedding breakfast. 

1476. Wedding Cardf.— A newly 
married couple usually, on the day of 
the ceremony, have their new address- 
cards sent out to their friends and 
acquaintances with the intimation of 
the date of their first "at home." 
Recently, the custom of sending cards 
has been in a great measure discon- 
tinued, and instead of this, the words 
''No cards" are appended to the 
ordinary newspaper advertisement, 
and the announcement of the mar- 
riage, with this addition, is considered 
idl-suffident. 

1470. The Wedding Tonr must 
depend upon the tastes and circum- 
stuices of the married couple. Home- 
loving Englishmen and women may 
find much to admire and eigoy with- 
out ranging abroad. Those whose 
time is somewhat restricted should 
visit some spot which may be reached 
without difficulty. Cornwall and 
Devonshire, the Isle of Wight, &c., 
are each delightM to the tourist. 
The scenery of the North of Devon, 
and of both coasts of Cornwall is 
especially beautifuL North Wales 
offers a delightful excursion ; the lakes 
of Westmoreland and Cumberland; 
the lakes of KiUamey, in Ireland ; 
also the magnificent sceneij of the 
Scottish lakes and mountains. To 
those who wish for a wider range, 
France, Germanv, Switzerland, and 
the Rhine offer charms which cannot 
be surpassed, 

1477. The Bride's First "At 
Home." — ^When the married pair have 
returned, and the day of reception 
arrives, the bride should have her 
mother, sisfer, or other female friend 
with her when she receives her guests, 
even though her husband be present. 
Wedding cake, wine, or tea and coffee 
are hand^ round, of which every one 
partakes, and each expresses some 
Kindly wish for the newly-married 
oouple. 



147a 



OF 



RMISTIATIOV 
BIBTHI. 

The law of registration requires the 
parents, or occupiers of houses in 
which the births happen, or any per- 
son present at the birth, and the 
person having the charge of the child, 
to register such birth within nx toeeks 
after the date thereof. For registra- 
tion, within the time specified, no 
charge is made. But after the expira- 
tion of the forty-second day from the 
birth, a fee of seven shillings and six- 
pence must be paid. After the expira- 
tion of six months from the date of 
the birth, no registration is allowed. 
It is therefore most important^ as 
soon as possible after the birth of a 
child to go to the office of the r^^trar 
of the iUstrict, and communicate the 
following particulars :-# 

1. Date when bom. 

S. Name of the child. 

8. BoyorgirL 

4. Name of the flither. 

5. Name and maiden name of the mother. 

6. Bank or profession of the flither. 

7. Signature, description, and residence of 
the person giving the information. 

8. Date of the registration. 

1479. Sagistration of Births at 
Sea. — If any child of an English 
parent shall be bom at sea on board 
a British vessel, the captain or com- 
manding officer shall make a minute 
of the particulars touching the birth 
of the child, and shall, on the arrival 
of the vessel at any port of the king- 
dom, or sooner, by any other oppor- 
tunity, send a certificate of the birth 
through the post-office (for which no 
postage will he charged) to the Regis- 
trar General, London. 

1480. OHBISTSHinOS may 1)e 

performed either in accordance with 
the rites of the Established Church, 
or of dissenting congregations ; the 
time of birth, and the name of every 
child, must also be registered. The 
fees paid for christening vary with a 
varietv of circumstances. Particulars 
should in each case be obtained of the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



S02 WB DfOMArt Otm WSAtTfl WTtEJf W« UOSSEtf OU% DESIRES. 



clerk of the place of woroliip. It is 
nsoai to make a ehiifltening the occa- 
sion of festiTitj ; bat not in such a 
manner as to require special remark. 
The parents and god-parents of the 
child appear at church at the ap- 
pointed hour. The child is carried 
oy the nurse. The dress of the parties 
attending a christening shoirid be 
what may be termed demi-costume, 
or half-costume; but the infant 
should be robed in the choicest 
manner that the circumstances will 
allow. It is usual for the sponsors 
to present the child with a gift to be 
preserved for its future years. Silver 
spoons, a silver knife and fork, a 
clasp- Bible, a silver cup, and other 
such articles, are usually chosen. It 
is usual, also, to give a trifling present 
to the nurse. % 

1481. OHOIOI 07 NA1CS8.— To 
choose names for children, parents 
should consult the list of names in 
pars. 806 and 807. 

1482. Baptismal ITams.— If anv 
child bom in England, whose birth 
has been registered, shall, within six 
months of such registration, have 
any name given to it in baptism other 
than that originally registered, such 
baptismal name may be added to the 

Srevious registration, if, within seven 
ays of such baptism, application be 
made to the registrar by whom the 
child was originally registered. For 
this purpose a certificate of the bap- 
tism must be procured of the clergy- 
man, for which a fee of 25. 7d. (in- 
cluding stamp) must be paid. This 
certificate must be taken to the regis- 
trar, who will chsijge another fee of 
one shilling for adding the baptismal 
name to the original registration. 

1483. BBeiSTBATIOH 0¥ 

BBATH8.— The father or mother of 
any child that dies, or the occupier 
of a house in which any person 
may die, must, within Jive days after 
Aicn death, fAve notice to the regis- 
trar of the district Some person 
pi^Bsent at the death diould At the 



same time attend and give to the 
registrar an account of the circum* 
stances or cause of the death, to the 
best of his or her knowledge or belief. 
Such person must sign nis or her 
name, and give the place of abode at 
which he or she resides. The follow- 
ing are the partieulan required : — . 
1. Date of Death. 

3. Name in fUU. 
t. Sexandifs. 

4. Rank or profasstoa. 

5. Oaosaordaatli. 

9. Slgnainre, descrlptloii, and restdoBOS off 
the perwn giving Um infonnaHoa. 
7. Date of the regUtntton. 

A certificate of the cause of death 
must be obtained from the medical 
man in attendance, who is required to 
state when he last saw the padent. 

1483a. HonfleholdeT't Besponst- 
bility for BuriAl.— It is not generally 
known that by common law a person 
in whose house a death takes place id 
bound to bury the corpse. He must 
not send it away, or tasie it uncovered 
to the grave ; but must provide decent 
burial for it. 

1484. BegistratloB of Beaths at 
Sea. —The commander of any British 
vessel, on board of which a death 
occurs at sea, must act the same as in 
a case of birth. (See par. 1479.) 

1486. eBBTirlOATBI 07 
BBATX. — Every registrar must de- 
liver to the undertaker, wiihomtfts^ a 
certificate of the death, which oertift- 
cate shall be given np at the funeral to 
the officiating minister. No dead 
body can be buried without such 
certificate, under a penalty of £10. 

1486. IHTIMAYIOHI 07 
BBATH8 ABB TirBBEALS.— It is 

usual, when a death takes place, to com- 
municate it immediately, upon mourn- 
ing note-paper, to the principal mem- 
bers of the family, and to request 
them to notify the same to the more 
remote relatives in their cirele. A 
subsequent note should state the day 
and hour at which the funeral ie fixed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DILtOBKCB AtOSK tt A OOOU PATRIMOlTr. 



m 



to take place. Special Invitations to 
funerals are not considered reqnisite 
to be sent to near relatives ; put to 
friends and acquaintances such invita- 
tions should be sent. 

1487. mtkALB. 

It 18 always best to place the di- 
rection of a funeral under a respectable 
undertaker, with the precaution of 
obtaining his estimate ^ for the ex- 

BinseSy and limiting him to them, 
e can best advise upon the obeerv- 
ances to be attended to, since th« 
style of funerals differs with the 
station of the deceased's family, and 
is further modified by the customs of 
particular localities, and even by 
religious views. He will also make 
the necessary arrangements at the 
cemetery or place of interment. 

1488. eiovM.'-Most persons who 
attend funerals will provide them* 
selves with gloves ; but it is well to 
have a dozen pairs, of assorted sizes, 
provided i^ case of accident. An 
arrangement can be made for those 
not used to be returned. 

1489. Hatbands and floakf are 
now rarely, if ever, worn at funerals. 

1490. lEouniiiig.— The dress- 
maker will advise upon the ** degree " 
of mourning to be worn, which must 
be modifiecT according to the a^e of 
the deceased, and the relationship of 
the mourner. The undertaker will 
advise respecting the degree of mourn- 
ing to be oisplayed upon the carriages, 
horses, ttc 

1491. In the Fmeral OmUge the 
nearest relatives of the deceased occupy 
the carriages nearest the hears \ Tne 
same order prevails in returning. 
Only the relatives and mo<vt intimate 
friends of the family should return to 
the house after the funeral ; and their 
visit should be as short as possible. 

1492. In Walking Funerals it is 
considered a mark of respect for friends 
to become pall-bearars. In t^e funerals 
of young persons, the pall should be 



borne by their companions, wearing 
white ^ovee. It is a pretty and an 
affecting sight to see the pall over the 
coffin of a young lady home by rix of 
her female friends. Flowers may be 
placed upon the coffin, and strewed in 
and over the grave. 

1498. CSSMATION is the process 
of reducing the human remains to 
ashes by means of fire, and is a verr 
ancient usage. Danger to the health 
of those persons who live in the 
vicinity of cemeteries and graveyards, 
by reason of the noxious gases given 
forth and pollution of water, is vei]y 
great ; but by burning the body it la 
quickly reduced to its component 
elements without creating any nuis- 
ance or danger, and without any want 
of reverence or respect. The process 
has been in vc^ue for some years 
abroad, being first made legal in 
Italy in the year 1877 ; but in Eng- 
land the first public crematorium was 
erected at Woking cemetery in 1885. 
There are now crematories in various 
parts of the country. The apparatus 
used nearly everywhere is the Gorini 
ftimace, consisting of a furnace, re- 
ceiver, and chimney. The receiver 
is a chamber with open ends, one of 
these ends is in contact with the 
furnace and the other with the 
chimney. The furnace is supplied 
with wood ftiel, or coke ; and the time 
occupied in the process of cremating 
a boay is from an hour and m quarter 
to an hour and three-qoartert. After 
cremation the ashes of a grown-up 
person weigh fh>m five to seven 
pounds. 

1494. TtntESAt sznBBfdxs.— 

As fitnerals in England, when con- 
ducted in the ordinary way, with the 
usual display of hearse, mourning 
carriages, and costly mourning, are 
attenoed with considerable expense, 
societies have been formed in many 
parishes with the view of reducing the 
outlay resorted to on these occasions, 
and at a time perhaps when it would 
be better in many esses to obserte tike 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



804 



PATONOX AVD PIBfllYXBAKCI A(XX)lfPLI8H WOITDVSM, 



Btrictatt economy. The members of 
theee eodetiee •([ree among themaelvee 
to do all that is possible to reduce 
expenditure at funerals, and to render 
the accompaniments of the sad cere- 
mony as inezpensiTe as possible. 
Instead of going into mourning, many 
now content themselves with wearing 
a simple hand of cloth round the left 
arm. This is done by women as well 
as by men. 

1496. VISITS 01* OOHBOLXVOX 

after funerals should be paid by rela- 
tives within from a week to a fort- 
night ; by friends within the second 
week of tne fortnight ; friends of less 
intimacy should make enquiries and 
leave cards. 

1406. OABX OF DTFAVTS. 

14G7. DTFAVTS' FOOD. 

i Happy indeed is the child who, 
during the first period of its existence, 
is fed upon no other aliment than the 
milk of its mother or that of a healthy 
nurse. If other food become necessaiy 
before the (^ild has acquired teeth, it 
ought to be of a liquid form ; for 
instance, biscuits or stale bread boiled 
in an equal mixture of milk and water, 
to the consistence of a thick soup ; but 
by no means even Uiis in the first few 
weeks of its life. Children who are 
brought up by hand, that is to say, 
who are not nursed by mother or wet 
nurse, require an occasional chance of 
diet, and thin gruel affords a whole- 
some alternation to milk. When 
cows' milk is used it should be ob- 
tained, if possible, from one and the 
same cow, and be freely diluted with 
boiled water. Swiss milk is recom- 
mended by some medical men. Several 
dairy companies furnish a specially 
prepared milk for young children, 
which is often useful. 

ii After the first six months weak 
veal or chicken broth may be given, 
and also, progressively, vegetables 
that are not very flatulent, and occa- 
sionally a little stewed fhiit, such as 
apples^ pears, or rhubarb. 



ilL When the in&ntti weaned, and 
has acquired its proper teeth, it is 
advisable to let it nave small portions 
of meat finely mincedL and other 
vegetables, as well as milk puddings, 
made of sago, semolina, rice, &c., so 
that it may graduallv become accus- 
tomed to every kind of strong and 
wholesome food. Caie, however, 
should be taken not upon any account 
to allow a child pastry, confectionery, 
cheese, onions, horseradiah, mustard, 
smoked and salted meat, especially 
pork, and all compound dishes ; for 
the most simple food is the most 
wholesome. Potatoes should be given 
only in moderation, and not to be 
eaten with butter, but rather with 
other vegetables, either mashed up or 
in broth. 

It. The time for giving food is a 
matter of importance ; very young 
infants may be fed more freouently, as 
their consumption of vital power is 
more rapid. It is, however, advisable 
to accustom even them to a certain 
regularity, for children fed indiscrim- 
inately through the whole day, are 
subject to debility and disease. The 
stomach should be allowed to recover 
its tone, and to collect the juices 
necessary for digestion, before it is 
supplied with a new portion of food. 

▼. The following order of civing 
food to children will be founa con- 
ducive to their health : — After rising 
in the morning, suppose about seven 
o'clock, a moderate portion of luke- 
warm milk, with well baked stale 
bread ; at nine o'clock, bread with 
some fruit, or, if fruit be scarce, a 
small (luantity of fresh butter, or 
bacon hquor; about twelve o'clo<^, 
the dim ^r, of a sufficient quantity of 
wholesome food (see pars. 1506 to 1526). 
Between four and five, some breaid 
with fruit, or, in winter, some preserve 
as a substitute for fruit ; at this meal 
children should be allowed to eat till 
they are satisfied, without surfeiting 
themselves, so that they will only 
need a light supper, about seven 
o'clock ; they ought then to eat bat 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HASTE MAKES WASTE. 



805 



little, and not be pat to sleep for at 
least an hour after it 

▼i. It has often been contended that 
bread is hurtful to children ; but this 
api)lies only to new bread, or such 
as is not sufficiently baked ; for in- 
stance, nothine can be more hurtful 
or oppressive than roUs, muffins, and 
crumpets. Good wheaten bread, 
especially that baked by the aerated 
bread process, is extremely proper 
during the first years of infancy ; but 
that made of whole wheat meal, or 
wheat flour from which the bran has 
not been eliminated is, perhaps, more 
oonduciTe to health aiter the age of 
childhood. 

14Qa OHILDBEK'8 BBIHK. 

L Doctors are decidedly against 
giving drink to children in large 
quantitiefl^ and at irregular perio£, 
whether it consists of the mother's 
milk, or any other equally mild 
liquid. In the latter part of the first 
year, pure water, milk-and-water, or 
toast-and-water may occasionally be 
given. On no account should a young 
child be permitted to taste beer or 
wine, unless specially ordered by a 
medical man. 

ii. Many children acauire a habit 
of drinking during their meals ; it 
would be more conducive to digestion 
if they were accustomed to drink only 
after having made a meal ; this salu- 
tary rule is too often neglected. 

1409. GBTOra OF mPAHTS. 

L It is a mistake to consider every 
noise of an infant as a claim upon our 
assistance, and to give either food or 
drink, with a view to satisfy its sup- 
posed wants. By such injudicious 
conduct, children readily acquire the 
injurious habit of demanding nutri- 
ment at improper times, and without 
necessity. 

IL In the first year of infancy, 
many expressions of the tender organs 
are to be considered only as efforts of 
manifestations of power, in many 
instances, these vociferating sounds 



imply the effort which children neces- 
sanly make to display the strength of 
their lungs and exercise their organs 
of respiration. You will observe, for 
instance, that a child, as soon as it is 
undressed, or disencumbered from 
swaddling clothes, moves its arms and 
legs, and often makes a variety of 
strong exertions. Nature has wisely 
ordained that by these very efforts the 
power and utility of functions so 
essential to life should be developed, 
and rendered more perfect with every 
inspiration. 

iiL Hence it follows, that those 
over-anxious parents or nurses, who 
continually endeavour to prevent 
infants crying do them a material 
ii^'ury ; for, hj such imprudent man- 
agement, their children seldom or 
never acquire a perfect form of 
chest, while the foundation is laid in 
the pectoral vessels for obstructions 
and other diseases. Independently 
of any particular causes, the cries of 
children, with regard to their general 
effects, are hi^y beneficifS and 
necessary. 

iv. In the first Period of Life such 
exertions are almost the only exercises 
of the infant ; thus the circulation of 
the blood, and all the other fluids, is 
rendered more uniform ; digestion, 
nutrition, and the growth of the body 
are thereby promoted ; and the differ- 
ent secretions, together with the very 
important office of the skin, or in- 
sensible perspiration, are dcQy per- 
formed. Sometimes, however, the 
mother or nurse removes the child 
from its couch, carries it about fre- 
quently in the middle of the night, 
and thus exposes it to repeated colds, 
which are m their effects infinitely 
more dangerous than the most violent 
cries. 

▼. There are frequently instances in 
which the loud complaints of infiaints 
demand our attention. Thus, if their 
cries bo unusually violent and long con- 
tinued, we may conclude that they are 
troubled with colic pains ; if^ on such 
occasions, they move their arms and 
u 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8oe 



CONTBMTlfXNT WILL BOTH CLOTHS AND FKSD. 



handa r^Mttodly towaidi th« face, 
paiaftll taethiaff maj aceooiit for Ul« 
oanae ; and if otner morbid pbanomana 
aooompany their oriaa, or if thaaa az- 
preanona ba repeated at certain periods 
of the day, we ought not to alight 
them, but endeaToor to discover the 



uoa m YAocniAnoir o? 
mrAVTs. 

Parenta or guardians are obli^ by 
law to hare eyery child bom in the 
United Kingdom vaccinated within 
foor months of its birth, either by a 
registered private medical praotitioner, 
or by the public vaccinator for the dis- 
trict in which they reside. If the child 
shoold be in such a state of health as 
to be unfit for the operation and a 
postjxmement is advisable, a medical 
certificate to that offset must be 
proeuied. We regret to sav that an 
Act of Parliament was passed in 1898, 
which provides that any parent who 
can satisfy two juatices or magistrates 
that he conacientioualy believes that 
vaccination would be prejudicial to 
the health of his child, and can obtain 
their oertiftoates to that effect, is ex- 
empt from any penalties incurred by 
failiBg to comply with the first-men- 
tioned moat salutary law. It is, how- 
ever, to be fervently hoped that this 
recent Aet will be speedily repealed, as 
vaocination haa proved itaelf a won- 
derful preventive and safeguard from 
the ravagaa ol that hum diaaaaa— 
small-pox. 

1601. OEnraEH'S SLUP. 

L Infants cannot sleep too long; 
and it is a favourable symptom when 
l^ey emoy a calm and long-continued 
rest, of which they ahould by no 
means be deprived, as this is the 
greatest support granted to them by 
nature. 

ii. A child lives comparatively 
much faster than an adult ; its blood 
flows more rapidly; every stimulus 
operates more powerlully ; and not 
only its constituent parts, but its 



vital reaouroea alao, are more speedily 
consumed. Sleep promotes a more 
oalm and uniform droolation of the 
blood; it f acili t at e a the aisimilation 
of the nutriment received, and con- 
tributea towards a more copious and 
regular deposition of alimentary 
matter, while the horizontal poature 
is the moat favourable to the growth 
and development of the child. 

iii Sleep ought to be in proportion 
to the age of the.iniant After the 
age of six months, the periods of 
sleep, as well as all other animal 
ftmctions, may in some degree be 
regulated ; yet, even then, a child 
should be suflered to sleep the whole 
night, and several hours both in the 
morning and in the afternoon. 
Mothers and nurses should endeavour 
to accustom infants, from the time 
of their birth, to sleep in the ninht 
preferably to the day, and for tms 
purpose they ought to remove all 
external impressions which mav dis- 
turb their reat, such aa noise, light, 
kc, and especially not to obey every 
call for taking them up, and giving 
food at improper times. 

iv. After the second year of their 
age, children will not instinctively 
require to sleep in the forenoon, 
though after dinner it may be con- 
tinued to the third and fourth year 
of life, if the child shows a particular 
inclination to repose; because, till 
that age, the full half of life may 
safely be allotted to sleep. From 
that period, however, sleep ought to 
be shortened for the space of one hour 
with everv succeeding year, so that 
a child of seven years old may sleep 
about eight, and not exceeding nine 
hours; this proportion may be con- 
tinued to the age of adolescence, and 
even manhood. 

▼. To awaken children from their 
sleep with a noise, or in an impetuous 
manner, is extremely injudicious and 
hurtful ; nor is it wiw to cany them 
fVom a dark room immediately into 
a glaring light, or against a dazzling 
wSl; for me sudden impression of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DO A UTTLB WELL, AKD TOU DO MUCH. 



307 



Ught debilitates the organs of yision, 
and lays the foundation of weak 
eyes. 

Ti. Children should never be fright- 
ened or threatened b^ referenoes to 
ghost stories, 6r goblins, ko. They 
have such a small amount of reasoning 
power, and are so susceptible to fear 
and fright, that if sucn stories are 
told to them they suffer acutely during 
the hours of darkness and quiet 

1802. HIGHT NUBSEBIES. 

i A 'bedroom or night nursery 
ouf^t to be spacious and lofty, dry, 
airy, and not inhabited through the 
day. The windows should never be 
opened at night, but may be left open 
tne whole day in fine clear weather. 

ii If possible, no servant should 
be sutfered to sleep in the same room, 
and no linen or washed clothes should 
ever be hung there to dry, as they 
contaminate the air in which so con- 
siderable a portion of infantile life 
must be spent, as the consequences 
attending a vitiated atmosphere in 
such rooms are serious, and often 
fatal. 

ill. Feather-beds should be banished 
from nurseries, as they are unnatural 
and debilitating contrivances. The 
horsehair mattress is now generally 
preferred ; being cooler, more healthy, 
and more comfortable. Chaff beds 
also may be highly recommended, as 
they are warm, cheap, and easy to 
refill. 

iv. Spring and wire-woy«n b«d8 
are very largely used now, instead 
of laths or sacking. They are by no 
means expensive, can be easily cleaned, 
and save the use of mattresses. 

y. Lastly, the bedstead must not 
be placed too low on the floor; nor 
is it proper to let children sleep on a 
couch which is made without any 
elevation from the ground ; because 
the moat pernicious air in an apart- 
ment is that within one or two feet 
from the floor, while the most whole- 
some, or atmospheric air^ is in the 
jBiddle of the roonL 



1603. WASHIHa CHUPESH. 

A child should never go to bed 
dirtr, the whole body ^ould be 
washed every day. Young children 
should be washed after bresLKfast, and 
older ones before that meal. Care 
should be taken lest the child catches 
a chill whilst being dried. A sponge 
is generally used for washing children; 
but some persons prefer a piece of 
flannel. Special care should be taken 
to use only the best and purest soap. 

1604. TSSTHINe. 

Young children whilst cutting their 
first set of teeth, often suffer severe 
constitutional disturbance. At first 
there is restlessness and peevishness, 
with slight fever, and not unfrequently 
these are followed by convulsive 
fits, which are caused by the brain 
becoming irritated, and sometimes 
under this condition the child either 
dies suddenly, or the foundation of 
serious mischief to the brain is laid. 
The remedy, or rather the safeguard 
against these frightful consequences, 
is trifling, safe, and almost certain, 
and consists merely in lancing the 
gum covering the tooth which is 
making its way through. When 
teething is about it may be known 
by the saliva constantly drivelling 
from the mouth and wetting the frock. 
The child has its fingers often in its 
mouth, and bites hard any substance 
it can get hold of. If the gums be 
carefully looked at, the part where 
the tooth is pressing up is swollen 
and redder than usual ; and if the 
finger be pressed on it the child 
shrinks ana cries, showing that the 
gum is tender. When these symptoms 
occur, the gum should be lanced, and 
sometimes the tooth comes through 
the next day, if near the surface; 
but if not so far advanced the cut 
heals and a scar forms, which is 
thought by some objectionable, as 
rendering the passage of the tooth 
more difficult This, however, is not 
so, for the scar will give way much 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



308 



GOLD HAS MORE WOnSHIPPEBS THAN QOD. 



more easily than the uncut gum. If 
the tooth do not come through after 
two or three days, the knclng may be 
repeated ; and this is more especially 
needed if the child be very fi-actious, 
aud seems in much pain. Lancing 
the gums is furtlier advantageous, 
because it removes the blood from the 
inflamed part, and so relieves the pain 
and inflammation. The relief children 
experience in the course of two or 
three hours from the operation is 
often very remarkable, as they almost 
immediately become livelv and cheer- 
iuL A small grev powder, say one 
grain, given at night affords reliefl 

1506. THB BIICIPLnnS OF 

chudbsh. 

L Children should not be allowed 
to ask for the same thing twice. 
This may be accomplished by parents, 
teacher, or whoever may happen to 
have the management of them, pay- 
ing attention to their little wants, 
if proper, at once, when possible. 
Children should be made to under- 
stand that when they are not answered 
immediately, it is because it is not 
convenient Let them learn patience 
by waiting. 

ii. We Team from daily experience, 
that children who have been the least 
indulged, thrive much better, unfold 
sll their faculties quicker, and accjuire 
more muscular strength and vigour 
of mind, than those who have been 
constantly favoured, and treated by 
their ^rents with the mo3t solicitous 
attention: bodily weakness and want of 
self-reliance are the frequent attributes 
of the latter. 

ill. The greatest art in educating 
children consists in a continued 
vigilance over all their actions, with- 
out letting them discover that they 
are being watched and guided. 

1606. COOXSBT FOB OHUBBEK. 
1607. Food for Infants.— Take of 
fresh cow's milk, one tablespoonful, 
and mix with two tablespoonfuls of 
hot water ; sweeten with loaf sugar, 



as much as may be agreeable. This 
(quantity is sufficient for once feed- 
ing a new-bom infant ; and tiie 
same quantity may be given every 
two or three houn, — not oftener, — 
till the mother's breast affords natural 
nourishment 

1608. Milk fbr In£uito Biz 
lEonthf Old. —Take one pint of milk, 
one pint of water, boil it, and add 
one tablespoonful of flour. Dissolve 
the flour first in half-a-teacupfnl of 
water ; it must be strained in gradu- 
ally, and boiled hard twenty minutes. 
As the child grows older, one-third 
water. If properly made, it is the 
most nutritious, at the same time 
the most delicate food that can be 
given to young children. 

1609. Nunerj Biscuits soaked in 
boiling water or milk and beaten up 
well with a fork are very beneficiu 
to some infants, whUe others thrive 
best on one or other of the many 
infants' foods which are now mann- 
fiactured. 

1610. Broth, made of mutton, 
veal, or chicken, with stale bread 
toasted, and broken in, is safe and 
wholesome for the dinners of children 
when first weaned. 

1611. Vew Milk, with a very 
littie loaf sugar, is good and safe 
food for voung children. From three 
years ola to seven, pure milk, into 
which stale bread is crumbled, is the 
best breakfast and supper for a chUd. 

1612. Milk Porridge.-^tir four 
tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, smoothly, 
into a quart of milk, then stir it 
quickly into a quart of boiling water, 
and boil it up a few minutes till it 
is thickened: sweeten with sugar. 
Oatmeal, where it is found to agree 
with the stomach, is much better for 
children, being a mild aperient as 
well as cleanser ; fine flour in every 
shape is the reverse. Where biscuit- 
powder is in use, let it be made at 
home ; this, at all events, will prevent 
them getting the sweepings of the 
baker's counters, boxes, and baskets. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HONEST LOSS IS PREFSRABLS TO SHAMEFUL GAIN. 



309 



All the waste bnead in the nursery, 
hard ends of stale loaves, kc, ought 
to be dried in the oven or screen, and 
reduced to powder in the mortar. 

1518. 7or a Child's Lnnoheon.— 
Good sweet butter, with stale bread, 
is one of the most nutritious, at the 
same time the most wholesome articles 
of food that can be given children 
after they are weaned. 

1514. Meats for ChUdren.— 
Mutton and poultry are the best 
Birds and the white meat of fowls are 
the most delicate food of this kind 
that can be given. These meats 
should be slowly cooked, and no 
gravy, if made rich with butter, 
should be eaten by a young child. 
Never give children hard, tough, 
half-cooked meats, of any kind. 

1516. Sggs for Children should 
be boiled slowly and soft. 

1516. Vegetables for Children.— 
For children rice ought to be cooked 
in no more water than is necessary to 
swell it ; Apples roasted, or stewed 
with no more water than is necessary 
to steam them ; Vegetables should be 
thoroughly well cooked. Potatoes, 
particularly some kinds, are not easily 
digested by children ; but this may 
be remedied by mashing them very 
fine, and seasoning them with salt 
and a little milk. Peas should be 
seasoned with mint and salt, which 
will take off the flatulency. If they 
are old, let them be pulped, as the 
skins cannot be dijpsted by children's 
stomachs. Never give them vegetables 
less stewed than would pulp through 
a colander. Should the children be 
flatulent or bilious, a very little curry 
powder may be given with vegetables 
with good effect Turmeric and the 
warm seeds (not hot peppers) are also 
particularly useful in sucn cases. 

1617. Fmito for ChUdren.— That 
fruits are naturally healthy in their 
season, if rightly taken, no one who 
believes that the Creator is a kind and 
beneficent Being can doubt And yet 
the use of summer fruits appears often 



to cause most fatal diseases, especially 
in children. Why is this I Because we 
do not conform to the natural laws in 
using this kind of diet These laws 
are veiy simple, and easy to under- 
stand. Let the fruit be ripe when 
you eat it ; and eat when you require 
food. Fruits that have seeds are much 
more wholesome than the riane fruits. 
But all fruits are better, for very 
young children, if baked or cooked in 
some manner, and eaten with bread. 
The French always eat bread with raw 
fruit Apples and winter |)ears are 
very excellent food for children, — 
indeed, for almost any person in 
health, — but best when oaten for 
breakfast or dinner. If taken l&te in 
the evening, fruit often proves iigur- 
ious. The old saying, that apples 
are gold in the morning, silver at 
noon, and lead at night, is pretty near 
the truth. Both apples and pears are 
often good and nutritious when baked 
or stewed, and when prepared in this 
way are especially suitable for those 
delicate constitutions that cannot bear 
raw fruit Much of the fruit gathered 
when unripe might be rendered fit for 
food by preserving in sugar. 

1618. To prepare Fruit for 
Children. — A far more wholesome 
way than in pies or puddings, is to 
put apples sliced, or plums, currants, 
gooseDerrios, &c., into a stone jar, 
and sprinkle among them as much 
sugar as necessary. Set the jar in 
the oven, with a teacupful of water 
to prevent the fruit from burning; 
or put the jar into a saucepan of 
water till its contents be perfectly 
done. Slices of bread or some rice 
may be put into the jar to eat with 
the fruit. 

1619. Bioe Pnddinff with Tmit. 
— Into a pint of new milk put two large 
spoonfuls of rice, well washed ; then 
add two apples, pared and quartered, 
or a few currants or raisins. Simmer 
slowly till the rice is very soft, then 
add one egg beaten to bind it : serve 
with cream and sugar. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



810 



Uomt tS A GOOD SSRTAlfT, BUT ▲ BAB ItASTXt. 



1520. lioe and Applea. — Gore m 
mauj nice apples at wul fill the dish ; 
boil them in light syrup ; prepare a 
quarter of a pound of rice in milk with 
sugar and salt ; put tome of the rice 
in the dith, put in the applet, and fill 
up the intervals with rice : bake it in 
the oven till it is a fine colour. 

1621. A niee Apple Cake in 
Children. —Grate some stale bread, 
and slice about double the quantity of 
apples ; butter a mould, and line it 
with sugar paste, and strew in some 
crumbs, mixed with a little sugar ; 
then lay in apples, with a few bits of 
butter over tnem, and so continue 
till the dish is full; cover it with 
crumbs, or prepared rice ; season with 
cinnamon and sugar. Bake it well. 

1622. Bipe Currantt are excel- 
lent food for children. Mash the 
fruit, sprinkle with fiugar, and let 
them eat freely, taking some good 
bread with the miit 

1628. BUekWrry Pnddinff or 
Pie. — A pudding or pie made of 
blackberriee only, or of blackberries 
and apples mixed in equal proportions 
is excellent. For suitable suet crust 
8M par. 1116, and for puff paste see 
par. 1110. 

1624. Blackberry Jam. ~ Gather 
the fruit in dry weather ; allow half- 
a-pound of ^ood brown sugar to every 
pound of fruit ; boil the whole to- 
gether gently for an hour, or till the 
blackberries are soft, stirring and 
mashing them well. Preserve it like 
any other jam, and it will be found 
very useful in families, particularly 
for children, regulating their bowels, 
and enabling you to dispense with 
cathartics. It may be used in the 
ordinary way in roll-over puddings, 
and for tarts, or spread on bread 
instead of butter ; and oven when the 
blackberries are bought, it is cheaper 
than butter. In the country every 
fiunily should preserve at least half-a- 
peck of blackberries. 

1626. Te make Senna and Manna 
Palatable.— Take of senna leaves and 



manna a quarter of an ounce of each, 
and pour over them a pint of boiling 
water; when the strength is ab- 
stracted, pour the infusion over fh>m 
a quarter to half-a-pound of prunes 
ana two large tablespoonfuls of Weat 
India molasses. Stew the whole 
slowly until the liquid is nearly ab* 
sorbed. When cold it can be eaten 
with bread and butter, without da* 
tecting the senna, and is excellent for 
children when costive. 

162a Xilk a diiteminatet of 
Biteaae. — Cows* milk very readily 
absorbs infectious germs, and bv its 
agency many diseases such as aiph- 
tneria, typhoid, and other fevers, Ac, 
have been widely spread. It is, 
therefore, a wise precaution, which 
should be adopted in all families, 
especially those resident in cities and 
towns, to boil all milk before it i$ 
used by the household. By this 
simple measure the danger is very 
considerably lessened. 

1627. HIKT8 OH COHBVCT AKB 
MAKKEBS. 
1628. Ceremonies.— These are in 
themselves superficial things; yet a 
man of the world should know them. 
They are the outworks of manners 
and decency, which would be too 
often broken in upon, if it were not 
for that defence which keeps the 
enemy at a proper distance. It is for 
that reason we always treat fools and 
coxcombs with great ceremony, true 
good- breeding not being a sufficient 
barrier against them. Books on eti- 
quette are useful, inasmuch as tlioy 
expound the laws of polite society. 
Experience alone, however, can ^?e 
effect to the precise manner in which 
those laws are required to be obterved. 

1620. Choice of Priendt.— Dr. 
Blair has said ; ** We should ever 
have it fixed in our memories, that bp 
the character of those whom we choose 
for <mr friends our own character it 
likely to beformed^ and will certainly 
be judged of by the world. We ongh^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ftSTrB& 00 TO ItD STTPFSItLSSS TttAlY RttB IN DSBT. 



811 



therefore^ to be slow and oaations in 
contracting intimacy ; bat when a 
virtuona friendship ia once establiahed, 
we moat ever consider it aa a sacred 
engagement" 

1680. Bnlal of Condiiot— The 
following roles of conduct were drawn 
op by the celebrated Qoakeress, Mrs. 
Fry, who combined in her character 
and conduct all that is truly excellent 
in woman : 

I. Never lose any time. — I do not 
think that time lost which is spent in 
amusement or recreation some part 
of each day ; but always be in the 
habit of being employed. 

ii. Never err the least in truth. 

iiL Never say an ill thing of a 
person when thou canst say a good 
thing of him ; not only speak charit- 
ably, but feel so. 

iv. Never be irritable or unkind to 
anybody. 

V. Never indulge thyself in luxu- 
ries that are not necessary. 

▼L Do all things with considera- 
tion ; and when thy path to act right 
is most difficult, feel confidence in 
that Power alone which is able to 
assist thee, and exert thy own powers 
as far as they go. 

1631. The Art af being Agrea- 

able. — The true art of being agreeable 
is to appear well pleased with all the 
company, and rather to seem well 
entertained with them than to bring 
entertainment to them. A man thus 
disposed, perhaps, may not have much 
learning, nor any wit ; but if he has 
common sense and something friendly 
in his behaviour, it conciliates men*s 
minds more than the brightest parts 
without this disposition ; and when a 
man of such a turn comes up to old 
age, he is almost sure to be treated 
with respect It is true, indeed, that 
we should not dissemble and flatter in 
company ; but a man may be very 
agreeable, strictly consistent with 
lauth and sincerity, by a prudent 
silence where he cannot concur, and a 
pleasing asaent where he can. Now 



and then you meet a person so exactly 
fonned to please, that he will gaia 
upon evwy one that hean or beholds 
him : this diapodtion is not merely 
the gift of nature, but frequently the 
effect of much knowledge of the world, 
and a command over the passions. 

1682. Fvnoaal Mannart.— Arti- 
ficial manners, and such as spring 
from good taste and refinement, can 
never be mistaken, and differ aa 
widely as tinsel and gold. How cap- 
tivating is gentleness of manner de- 
rived from true humility, and how 
faint is every imitation 1 That suavity 
of manner which renders a real 
gentlewoman courteoua to all, and 
careftd to avoid giving offence, ia 
often copied by those who merely 
subject tnemselves to certain rules of 
etiquette : but very awkward is the 
copy. Warm professions of regard 
are bestowed on those who do not 
expect them, and the esteem which ia 
due to merit appears to be lavished 
on every one alike. And as true 
humility, blended with a right appre- 
ciation of self-respect, gives a pleasing 
cast to the countenance, so from a 
sincere and open disposition springs 
that artlessness of manner which dis- 
arms all prejudice. Feeling, on the 
contrary, is ridiculous when afifected, 
and even when real, should not be 
too openly manifested. Let the man- 
ners arise from the mind, and let 
there be no disguise for the genuine 
emotions of the neart 

1638. Avoid Intarmaddlliig vith 
the AiBurs of Others.— This is a most 
common fault. A number of people 
seldom meet but they begin discuss- 
ing the affaire of some one who is 
absent This is not only uncharit- 
able, but positively unjust It la 
equivalent to trying a cause in the 
aieence of the person implieaied. 
In our criminal code a prisoner ia 
presumed to be innocent until he is 
found guilty. Society, however, ia 
lees just, and passes judgment with- 
out hearing the defence. Depend 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



812 



GOLD IS THE DUST THAT BLINDS ALL ETBS. 



upon it, as a certain rule, thcU the 
people who unite with you in diaeuss- 
ing the affaira of others will proceed to 
your affairs and conduct in your 
absence. 

1684. B« eoniistent in the 
ATOwal of Prineiplas.-— Do not deny 
to-day that which you asserted yester- 
day. If you do, you will stultify 
vourself, and your opinions will soon 
be found to hare no weight. You 
may iancy that you gain favour by 
suraerviency ; but so far from gaining 
favour, you lose respect. 

1586. AToid Falsehood.— There 
can be found no higher virtue than 
the love of truth. The man who 
deceives others must himself become 
the victim of morbid distrust. Know- 
ing the deceit of his own heart, and 
the falsehood of his own tongue, his 
e;^es must be always filled with sus- 
picion, and he must lose the greatest 
of iJl happiness— confidence in those 
who surround him. 

1686. AToid XanifesUtions of 
ni-temper.— Reason is flnven for man's 
guidance. Passion is the tempest by 
which reason is overthrown. Under 
the effects of passion, man's mind 
becomes disordeml, his face disfigured, 
his body deformed. A moment's 
passion has frequently cut off a life's 
friendship, destroyed a life's hope, 
embittered a Ufe's peace, and brought 
unending sorrow and disgrace. It is 
scarcely worth while to enter into a 
comparative analysis of ill-temper and 
passion ; they are alike discreditable, 
alike iigurious, and should stand 
equally condemned. 

1687. Ayoid Pride.— If you are 
handsome, Qod made you so ; if you 
are learned, some one instructed yon ; 
if you are rich, God gave you what 
you own. It is for others to perceive 
your goodness ; but you should be 
blind to your own merits. There can 
be no comfort in deeming yourself 
better than you really are ; that is 
self-deception. The beet men through- 



out all history have been the most 
humble. 

1688. AifiMtation a Font of 
Pride. — It is, in fact, pride made 
ridiculous and contemptible. Some 
one writing upon aifectation has 
remarked as follows : 

** If anything will sicken and disgust a 
man it is the affected, mincing way in which 
some people choose to talk. It is perfectly 
nanseoos. If these yoimg Jackanapes, who 
screw their words into all manner of dia- 
bolical shapes, could only feel how perfectly 
disgusting they were, it might induce them 
to drop it With many, it soon becomes 
such a conflimed habit that they cannot 
again be taught to talk in a plain, straight- 
forward, manly way. In the lower order of 
ladies' boarding-schools, and indeed, too 
much everywhere, the same sickening, 
mincing tone is too often found. Do, pvmy, 
good people, do talk in your natural tone, 
if you don't wish to be utterly ridiculous and 
contemptible." 

1689. Avoid Yolgaritj in man- 
ner, in speech, and in correspondence. 
To conduct yourself vulgarly is to 
offer offence to those who are around 
you ; to brinff upon yourself the con- 
demnation of persons of good taste ; 
and to incur the penalty of exclusion 
fh>m good society. Thus, cast among 
the vulgar, you oecome the victim of 
your own error. 

1640. Avoid Swearing.— An oath 
is but the wrath of a perturbed spirit 
It is mean, A man of high moral 
standing would rather treat an offence 
with contempt than show his indigna- 
tion by an oath. It is vulgar^ alto- 
gether too low for a decent man. It 
is cowardly f implying a fear either of 
not being believed or obeyed. It is 
ungentUmardy, A gentleman, acoord- 
ing to Webster, is a genteel man — 
well-bred, refined. It is indeeenl^ 
offensive to delicacy, and extremely 
unfit for human ears. It is foolish, 
"Want of decency is ^ant of sense." 
It is abusive — to the mind which con- 
ceives the oath, to the tongue which 
utters it, and to the person at whom 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RICHES ARE BUT THB BAOOAOE OF FORTUNE. 



818 



it is aimed. It is contemptible, for- 
feiting the respect of all the wise and 
food. It is vncked, violating the 
Hvine law, and provoking the dis- 
pleasure of Him who will not hold him 
guiltless who takes His name in viEun. 

1641. B« a OeHtleomn.— Modera- 
tion, decorum, and neatness distin- 
goiah. the gentleman ; he is at all 
times affable, diffident, and studious 
to please. Intelligent and polite, his 
behaviour is pleasant and graceful. 
When he enters the dwelling of an 
inferior, he endeavours to hide, if 
possible, the difference between their 
ranks of life ; ever willing to assist 
those around him, he is neither un- 
kind, haughty, nor overbearing. In 
the mansions of the rich, the correct- 
ness of his mind induces him to bend 
to etiquette, but not to stoop to adu- 
lation ; correct principle cautions him 
to avoid the gaming-table, inebriety, 
or any other fuiblethat could occasion 
him self-reproach. Gratified with the 
pleasures or reflection, he rejoices to 
see the gaieties of society, and is fas- 
tidious upon no point of little im- 
port Appear only to be a gentleman, 
and its shadows will bring upon you 
contempt; be a gentleman, and its 
honours will remain even after you 
are dead. 

1642. The Happy Xan or True 
Oentleman. 
How happy is he bom or taught, 
That serveth not another's will, 
Whose armotur is his honest thought, 
And simple truth his only skill : 

Whose passions not his masters are, 
Whose soul is still prepared for death, 

Not tied unto the world with care 
Of prince's ear, or vulgar breath : 

Who hath his life from rumours freed, 
Whose conscience is his strong retreat, 

Whose state can neither flatterers feed. 
Nor ruin make oppressors great : 

Who Ood doth late and early pray 
More of His grace than gifts to lend. 

And entertains the harmless day 
With a well chosen book or fHend f 



This roan is fireed firom servile bands. 
Of hope to rise or fear to ML ; 

Lord ci himself, though not of lands. 
And having nothing, yet hath all. 

Sir Henry WotUnh 1580. 

1648. B« Honeit— Not only be- 
cause *' honesty is the best policy," 
but because it is a duty to Ood and to 
man. The heart that can be gratified 
by dishonest gains ; the ambition that 
can be satisfied by dishonest means; 
the mind that can be devoted to dis- 
honest purposes, must be of the worst 
order. 

1644. Ayoid Idlenati.— it is the 
parent of many evils. Can you ptay, 
** Give us this day our daily bread," 
and not hear the reply, ''Do thou this 
day thy daily duty " ! 

1646. AToid Telling Idle Tales, 
which is like shooting arrows in the 
dark : you know not into whose heart 
they may fall. 

1646. Ayoid Self-praiie, extolling 
your own works, and proclaiming your 
own deeds. If they are ^ood they 
will proclaim themselves, if bad, the 
less you say of them the better. 

1647. Ayoid Envy ; for it cannot 
benefit you, nor can it injure those 
against whom it is cherished. 

1648. Ayold Dispntatioii for the 
mere sake of argument. The man 
who disputes obstinately, and in a 
bigoted spirit, is like the man who 
would stop the fountain from which 
he should drink. Earnest discus- 
sion is commendable; but factious 
argument never yet produced a good 
result. 

1649. Be Kind in Little Things. 
— ^Tlie true generosity of the heart is 
more displayed by deeds of minor 
kindness, than by acts which may 
partake of ostentation. 

1660. Be Polite.— Politeness is the 
poetry of conduct— and like poetry. 
It has many qualities. Let not your 
politeness be too florid, but of that 
gentle kind which indicates a refined 
nature. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



S14 



THX KOBLI MIHD HA8 MO BtSKNTMlKTS. 



1561. B« S«cUble— «void reserve 
in society. Remember that the social 
elements, like the air we breathe, are 
purihed by motion* Thought illomines 
thought, and smiles win smiles. 

1662. Is Fnnetmftl.— One mionte 
too late has lost many a golden oppor- 
tunity. Besides which, the want of 
punctuality is an affront offered to 
the person to whom your presence 
is due. 

1568. Bs hearty in your saluta- 
tions, discreet and sincere in your 
friendships. 

1564. BsluiTS, even in the presence 
of your relations, as though you felt 
respect to be due to them. 

1666. In sooistT never forget that 

Sou are but one of many. Prefer to 
sten rather than talk. 

1666. Pry not into lettsn that are 
not your own. 

1667. Pay unmistakable rsspsct to 
ladies everywhere, carefully avoiding 
foppery, and silly flirtation. 

1668. In pnblie plaoes be not too 
pertinacious of your own rights, bat 
nnd pleasure in making concessions. 

1669. Speak distinoUy, look at 
the person to whom you speak, and 
when you have spoken, give him an 
opportunity to reply. 

1600. ATOid dnmkenneis as you 
would a curse ; and modify all 
appetites, especially those that are 
acquired. 

1661. Dress well, but not super- 
fluously ; be neither like a sloven, nor 
like a stuffed model. 

1662. Study personal eleanlineis. 
Let the nails, the teeth, and, in fact, 
the whole system receive Mlutary 
and careful attention at the toilet — 
not elsewhere. 

1668. AtoIA displayiaf ezoets of 
jewellery. Kothing looks more effemi- 
nate upon a man. 

1664. Every one of these sug- 
gestions may be regarded as the eentre 
of many others, which the earnest 



mind cannot fail to discover. (jS«s 
HiKTs ON Btiqitbttb, par. 1455.) 

1666. A Few Words on Words. 

—Soft words soften the souL Angry 
words are fuel to the flame of wrath, 
and make it blaze more freely. Kind 
words make other people good-natured. 
Cold words freeze people, and Hot 
words scorch them, snd Bitter words 
make them bitter, and Wrathftd words 
make thom wrathful. There is such a 
rush of all other kinds of words in onr 
days, that it seems dssirable to give 
kind words a chance among them. 
There are Vain words, and Idle words, 
and Hasty words, and Spiteful words, 
and Silly words, and £mpty words, 
and Profane words, and Boisterous 
words, and Warlike words. Kind 
words also produce their own image 
on men's souls, and a beautiful image 
it is. They smooth, and ouiet, and 
comfort the hearer. They sname him 
out of his sour, and morose, and 
unkind feelings. We hare not yet 
begun to use kind words in such 
abundance as they ought to be 
used. 

1666. Goisipiig.— If yon wish to 
cultivate a gossiping, meddling, cen- 
sorious spirit in your children, be sure 
when they come home from church, a 
visit, or any other place where you do 
not accompany them, to ply them with 
questions concerning what everybody 
wore, how everybody looked, and what 
everybody said and did ; and if you 
And anything in this to censure, 
always do it in their hearing. You 
may rest assured, if you pursue a coui-se 
of this kind, they will not return to 
you unladen witn intelligence ; and 
rather than it should he unmteresting, 
they will by degrees learn to embellibb, 
in such a manner as shall not fisil to 
call forth remarks and expressions of 
wonder from you. You will, by this 
course, render the spirit of curiosity, 
which Ib so early visible in childroi, 
and which, if rightly directed, may 
be made the instrument of enriching 
and enlarging their minds, a v^i^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



KOtBma tS TltOTtBLtSOn THAT WS DO WILLIKOLY. 



S15 



of mischief which vnll serve only to 
narrow them. 

1567. CoanBels for tht Toanf. 

i Never be oast down by trifles. 
If a spider break his thread twenty 
times, he will mend it again as 
often. 

iL Make np your mind to do a 
thing, and you will do it 

ill. Fear not if a trouble comes 
upon you ; keep up your spirits, 
though the day be a dark one. If 
the sun is going down, look up to 
the stars. If the earth is dark, keep 
your eye on heaven. With Gods 
promises, a man or a child may be 
cheerful. 

It. Mind what you run after. 
Never be content with a bubble that 
will burst — firewood that will end in 
smoke and darkness. Get that which 
you can keep^ and which is worth 
keeping. 

▼. Fight hard against a hasty 
temper. Anger will come, but resist 
i'y strongly. A fit of passion may give 
you cause to mourn all the days of 
your life. 

yi. Never revenge an ii\jury. If you 
nave an enemy, act kindly to him, 
and make him your fnend. You may 
not win him over at once, but try 
again. Let one kindness be followed 
by another, till you have compassed 
your end. By little and little, great 
things are completed; and repeated 
kindnesses will soften the heart of 
stone. 

▼IL Whateveryoudo,do it willingly. 
A boy that is whipped to school never 
learns his lessons well. A man who 
is compelled to work cares not how 
badly it is performed. He that pulls 
off his coat cheerfully, turns up his 
sleeves in earnest, and sings while he 
works, is the man of action. 

1668. Advice to Tovng Lftdiei. 

i If you have blue eyes you need 
not languish : if black eyes, yon need 
not stare. 

ii If you have pretty fbet there is 
no occasion to wear short petticoati : 



if you are doubtful as to that points 
there oan be no harm in letting the 
petticoats be long. 

iiL If you have ffood teeth, do not 
laugh in order to show them : if bad 
teeSi do not laugh lees than the 
occasion may warrant. 

iy. If you have a bad rdce, q>eak 
in a subdued tone: if you have the 
finest voice in the world, never speak 
in a high tone. 

y. If you danoe well, dance bat 
seldom ; if ill, never dance at alL 

yi. If you sing or play well, 
make no foolish ezcuaes: if only 
moderately, do not hesitate when 
you are asked but do your beet, ae 
every one appreciates a desire to 
please. 

yii To preserve beauty, rise early. 

yiii. To preserve esteem, be gentle. 

ix. To live happily, try to promote 
the happiness of others. 

1660. On Trtining Banghtert.^ 
Mothers who wish not only to dis- 
charge well their own duties in the 
domestic circle, but to train up their 
daughters for a later day to make 
happy and comfortable firesides for 
their families, should watch well, and 
puard well, the notions which they 
imbibe and with which they grow up. 
There will be many persons ready 
to fill their young heads with false 
and vain fancies, and there is so much 
always afloat in society opposed to 
duty and common sense, that if 
mothers do not watch well, their 
children may contract ideas very fatal 
to their future happiness and useful- 
ness, and hold them till they grow 
into habits of thought or feeling. A 
wise mother will have her eyes open, 
and be ready for every emergency. 
A few words of common, downright 
practical sense, timely uttered by her, 
may be enough to counteract some 
foolish idea or belief put into her 
daughter's head by others, whilst if 
it be left unchecked, it may take such 
possession of the mind that it cannot 
be corrected at a later time. One false 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



816 WHBN FORTUNB 8MILBS, 8HX OFTEN DBBI0K8 THB MOST MISCHIZF. 



notion rife in the present age is the 
idea that women, nnless compelled to 
it by absolute poverty, are oat of 
place when engaged in domestic affairs. 
Now mothers should have a care lest 
their daughters get hold of this con- 
Tiction as regard themselves— there is 
danger of it ; the fashion of the day 
engenders it, and even the care that an 
affectionate family take to keep a girl, 
during the time of her education, free 
from other occupations than those of 
her tasks, or her recreations, may lead 
her to infer that the matters with 
which she is never asked to concern her- 
self are, in fact, no concern to her, and 
that any attention she may ever bc»tow 
on them is not a matter of simple duty, 
but of ffraoe, or concession, or stoop- 
ing, on ner part Let mothers bring up 
their daughters from the fird with the 
idea that in this world it is required to 
give as well as to receive, to minister 
as well as to e^joy ; that every person 
is bound to be usefhl in his own sphere, 
and that a woman's first sphere is the 
house, and its concerns and demands. 
Once really imbued with this belief, a 
young ffirl will usually be anxious to 
learn lul that her mother is disposed 
to teach, and will be proud and happy 
to aid in any domestic occupations 
assigned to her. These need never be 
made so heavy as to interfere with 
the peculiar duties or enjoyments of 
her age. If a mother wishes to see 
her daughter become a good, happy, 
and rational woman, never let there be 
contempt for domestic occupations, or 
suffer them to be deemed secondary. 

1670. Treatment of Serrantf.— 
There are frequent complaints in 
these days, that servants and assist- 
ants jiienerally are unsatisfactory and 
detenorating. If so what is the 
inference? Domestic servants, and 
assistants in business and trade, come 
closely and continually into contact 
with their employers ; and they are 
about them from morning till night, 
and see them in every phase of 
character, in every style of numour, 



in every act of life. How powerful 
is the force of example 1 Rectitude is 
promoted, not only oy precept but by 
example, and, so to speak, by contact 
it is mcreased more widely. Kind- 
ness is communicated in the same 
way. Virtue of every kind acts with 
magnetic power ; those who come 
under its influence imbibe its prin- 
ciples. The same with qualities and 
tempers that do no honour to our 
nature. If servants come to you bad, 
you may at least improve them; 
possibly almost change their nature. 
Here follows, then, a recipe to that 
effect: — Recipe for cUaining good 
9ercants. — Let them observe m your 
conduct to others just the quaUties 
and virtues that you would desire 
they should possess and practise as 
respects you. Be uniformly kind and 
gentle. If you reprove, do so with 
reason and with good temper. Be 
respectable, and you will be respected 
by them. Be kind, and you will meet 
kindness from them. Consider their 
interests, and they will consider yours. 
A friend in a servant is no con- 
temptible thing. Be to every servant 
a fnend; arid heartless, indeed, will 
be the servant who does not warm in 
love to you. 

1671. A Wife's Power.— The 
power of a wife for good or evil is 
irresistible. Home must be the seat 
of happiness, or it must be for ever 
unknown. A good wife is to a man 
wisdom, and courage, and strength, 
and endurance. A bad wife is con- 
fusion, weakness, discomfiture, and 
despair. No condition is hopeless 
where the wife possesses firmness, 
decision, and economy. There is no 
outward prosperity which can counter- 
act indolence, extravagance, and folly 
at home. No spirit can long endure 
bad domestic influence. Man is strone, 
but his heart is not adamant. He 
delights in enterprise and action ; but 
to sustain him he needs a tranquil 
mind, and a whole heart He needs 
his moral force in the conflicts of the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PLKASURE 18 A PHANTOM ; WEALTH A VANITY ; POWER A BOAST. 817 



world. To recover his equanimity 
and composure, home must be to him 
a place of repose, of peace, of cheer- 
fumess, of comfort; and his soul 
renews its strength again, and goes 
forth with fresh vigour to encounter 
the labour and trouoles of life. But 
if at home he find no rest, and is 
there met wil^ bad temper, stdlenness, 
or gloom, or is assailed by discontent 
or complaint, hope vanishes, and he 
sinks into despair. 

1572. The Wife's Temper.— No 
trait of character is more agreeable in 
a female than the possession of a 
sweet temper. Home can never be 
happy without it. It is like the 
flowers that spring up in our path- 
way, reviving and cheering us. Let 
a man go home at ni$;ht, wearied and 
worn by the toils of the dav, and how 
soothing is a word dictated by a good 
disposition ! It is sunshine falling on 
his heart. He is happy, and the 
cares of life are foi^otten. A sweet 
temper has a soothing influence over 
the minds of a whole family. Where 
it is found in the wife and mother, 
you observe a kindness and love 
predominating over the natural feel- 
mgs of a bad heart Smiles, kind 
words and looks, characterize the 
children, and peace and love have 
their dwelling there. Study, then, 
to acquire aud maintain a sweet 
temper. 

1678. Three Wifely T^tues.— 
There are three things which a good 
wife should resemble, and yet mose 
three things she should not resemble. 
She should be like a town clock — keep 
time and regularity. She should notf 
however, like a town clock— speak so 
loudly that all the town may hear 
her. She should be like a snail — 
prudent, and keep within her own 
house. She should not be like a 
snail— carry all she has upon her 
back. She should be like an echo — 
speak when spoken to. But she should 
no^ be like an echo— determined always 
to have the last word. 



1574. Counsels for Huibandi. — 

You can hardly imagine how refresh- 
ing it is to occasioniEdly call up the 
recoUection of your courting days. 
How tediously the hours rolled away 
prior to the appointed time of meet- 
mg ; how swirtly they seemed to fly 
when you had met ; how fond was the 
first greeting ; how vivid your dreams 
of future happiness, when, returning 
to your home, vou felt yourself secui'e 
in the confessed love of the object of 
your warm afiections t* Is your dream 
realized! — are you as happy as you 
expected! Consider whether, as a 
husband, you are as fervent and con- 
stant sa you were when a lover. 
Remember that the wife's claims to 
your unremitting regard, great before 
marriage, are now exalted to a much 
higher degree. She has left the world 
for you — the home of her childhood, 
the fireside of her parents, their 
watchftil care and sweet intercourse 
have all been yielded up for yon. 
Look, then, most jealously upon all 
t^at may tend to attract you from 
home, and to weaken that union upon 
which your temporal happiness mainly 
dependis ; and believe that in the 
solemn relationship of husband is to 
be found one of tne best guarantees 
for roan's honour and happiness. 

If your wife complain that young 
ladies of the present day are very 
foiward, don't accuse her of jealousy. 
A little concern on her part only 
proves her love for you, and you may 
ei^jov your triumph without saying a 
word. Don't evince your weakness 
either, by complaining of every trifling 
neglect What though her Knitting 
and crochet seem to absorb too large 
a share of her attention ; depend upon 
it, that as her eyes watch the inter- 
twinings of the threads, and the 
manoeuvres of the needles, she is 
thinking of the events of bygone 
times, which entangled your two 
hearts in the network of love, whose 
meshes you can neither of you unravel 
or escape. 

Summer is the season of love and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



818 



MUUTT IS A GOOD LITTIB OF INTRODUCTION. 



innocent eigojment Whst shall the 
husbuid do when sommer returni to 
gladden the earth, and all who lire 
upon it t Must he still pore over the 
cmlcolations of the oonntm^-hooae, or 
oeaselesslj pursue the toils of the 
work-room — sparing no moment to 
taste the joys which Heaven measures 
out 80 liberally t No ! Let him ask 
his wife onoe more to breathe with 
him the fresh air of heaven, and look 
upon the beauties of earth. The sum- 
mers are few that they may dwell 
together ; so let him not give them all 
to mammon, but seek invigorating 
and health-renewingrecreatioikabroad, 
which shall make the hearts of each 
glow with emotions of renewed love. 

1676. Counsels for WItos.— Per- 
chance you think that your husband's 
disposition is much changed ; that he 
is no longer thesweet-tempered, ardent 
lover he used to be. This may be a 
mistake. Consider his struggles with 
the world — his everlasting race with 
the busy competition of trade. What 
is it makes him so eager in the pur- 
suit of gain — so enen^etic by day, so 
sleepless by night — out his love of 
home, wife, and children, and a dread 
that their respectability, according to 
the light in which he has conceivea it, 
may be encroached upon by the strife 
of existence ? This is the true secret 
of that silent care which preys upon 
the hearts of many men ; and true it 
is, that when love is least apparent, it 
is nevertheless the active principle 
which animates the heart, though fears 
and disappointments make up a cloud 
which obscures the warmer element. 
As above the clouds there is glorious 
sunshine, while below are showers and 
gloom, so with the conduct of man — 
behind the gloom of anxietnr is a bright 
fountain of high and noble feeling. 
Think of this in those moments when 
clouds seem to lower upon your domes- 
tic peace, and, by tempering your con- 
duct accordingly, the gloom will soon 
pass away, and warmth and brightness 
take its place. 



If Tonr husband ocoasionally looks 
a little troubled when he comes home, 
do not say to him, with an alarmed 
countenance, '^What ails you, my 
dear ! " Don't bother him ; he will 
tell you of his own accord, if need be. 
Be observant and quiet Let him 
alone until he is inclined to talk; 
take up your book or your needle- 
work pleasantly and cheerfully ; and 
wait until he is inclined to be sociable. 
Don't let him ever find a shirt-button 
missing. A shirt-button being off a 
collar or wristband has frequently 
produced the first impatient word in 
married life. 

Never complain that your husband 
pores too much over the newspaper, 
to the exclusion of that pleasing 
converse which you formerly enjoyed 
with him. — Don't hide the paper, but 
when the boy leaves it at the door 
take it in pleasantly, and lay it down 
before him. Think what man would 
be without a newspaper, and how 
much good newspapers have done by 
exposing bad husbands and bad wives, 
by giving their errors to the eye of 
the public. When your husband is 
absent, instead of gossiping or looking 
into shop windows, sit down quietly, 
and look over that paper; run your 
eye over its home and foreign news ; 
glance rapidly at the accidents and 
casualties ; carefully scan the leading 
articles; and at tea-time, when your 
husband again takes up the paper, 
make some brief remarks on what you 
have read, and depend upon it, he 
will put it down again. If he has 
not read the information, he will 
hear it all from your lips, and when 
you have read, he will ask questions 
in his turn, and, gradually, you will 
get into as cosy a chat as you ever 
enjoyed; and you will soon discover 
that, riffhtly used, the newspaper is 
the wife s real friend, for it keeps the 
husband at home, and supplies capital 
topics for every-day table-talk. 

"It wasl" "It was not I " "It 
was/" "It was not/" "Ah!" 
" Ha ! *' — Now who's the wiser or the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DEATH DOES NOT BLOW A TSVMPET. 



319 



better for this contention for the last 
wordt Does obstinacy establish su- 
periority or elicit truth ? Decidedly 
not ! Woman has always been de- 
scribed as clamourins for the last 
word, and men, generally, have agreed 
in attributing this trait to her, and in 
censuring her for it. This being so, it 
remains for some one of the sex, by 
an exhibition of noble example, to aid 
in sweeping away the unpleasant im- 
putation. The wife who will estab- 
lish the rule of allowing her husbaud 
to have the last word, will achieve 
for herself and her sex a great moral 
victory! Is he right t-^it were a 
great error to oppose him. Is he 
wrong f — he will soon discover it, and 
applaud the self-command which bore 
unvexed his pertinacity. And gradu- 
ally there will spring up such a happy 
fusion of feelings ana ideas, that there 
will be no **tost word" to contend 
about, but a steady and unruffled flow 
of generous sentiment 

1576. SABLT BlSIHe. 

The difference between rising every 
morning at six o'clock or ei^ht, in the 
course of forty years, amounts to 
29,200 hours, or three years one 
hundred and twenW-one days and 
sixteen hours, which are equal to 
eight hours a da^ for exactly ten 
years. So that rismg at six will be 
the same as if ten years of life 6a 
weighty consideration) were added, 
wherein we may command ei^ht 
hours every day for the cultivation 
of our minds and the despatch of 
business. 

1677. DB. 7BAVKLIK OH 
FBHOALITT. 

We quote some of this great phi- 
losophers proverbial truisms on this 
subject. 

i. "A man may, if he knows not 
how to save as he gets, keep his nose 
all his life to the grindstone, and die 
not worth a groat at last A fat 
kitchen makes a lean will." 



" Many •states are spent in the gtttfng, 
fliBce womaB for tea forsook spinning and 

knitting. 
And men for punch forsook hewing and 
•putting." 

ii ** If you would be wealthy, think 
of saving as well as of getting. The 
Indies have not made Spain rich, 
because her out-goet are greater than 
her in-comes," 

iii '*Away with your expensive 
follies, and you will not have so much 
cause to complain of hard times, 
heavy taxes, and chargeable iamilied.*' 

iv. *'What maintains one vice 
would bring up two children." 

y. '*You may think, perhaps, that 
a little tea, or superfluities now and 
then, diet a little more costly, clothes 
a little finer, and a little entertain- 
ment now and then, can be no great 
matter ; but remember, < Many a little 
makes a mickle.'" 

▼i. ** Bewai-e of little expenses ; " 
** A small leak will sink a great ship ; " 
"Who dainties love, shall be^^rs 
prove ; " '* Fools make feasts and wise 
men eat them." 

▼it ** Here you are all got together 
to this sale of fineries and nick-nacks. 
You call them goods ; but if you do 
not take care they will prove evils to 
some of you. You expect they will 
be sold cheap, and perhaps they may, 
for less than they cost ; but if you 
have no occasion for them they must 
be dear to you." 

viii. ** Buy what thon hast no need 
of, and ere long thou shalt sell thy 
necessaries.'' 

157a CASH TXBSVS GBSDIT. 

If you would get rich, don*t deal in 
bill books. Credit is the "Tempter 
in a new shape." Buy goods on trust, 
and you will purchase a thousand 
articles that Cash would never have 
dreamed of. A shilling in the hand 
looks larger than ten shillings seen 
through the perspective of a three 
months' bilL Cash is practical, while 
Credit takes horribly to taste and 
romance. Let Cash buy a dinner, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



820 



THIY WHO SHUN THB SMOKE, OFTEN FALL INTO THE FIKE. 



you will have a beef-steak flanked with 
onions. Send Credit to market, and 
he will return with ei^ht pairs of 
woodcocks and a peck ot musnrooms. 
Credit believes in diamond pins and 
cham])agne suppers. Cash is more 
easily satisfied. Give him three meals 
a day, and he doesn't care much if 
two of them are made up of roasted 
potatoes and a little salt. Cash is a 
zood adviser, while Credit is a good 
mloMT to be on visiting terms with. 
If you want double chins and content- 
ment, do business with Cash. 



% 



1679. DOVT BUH IHTO DEBT. 

" DoN^ run into debt ;"— never mind, never 
mind 
If yoor clothes are fkded tnd torn ; 
Mend them up, make them do ; it is better 
bylkr 
Than to htve the heut wearj and wonu _ 

Who'll love yon the more for the shape of 
yoor hat, 

Or your mflT, or the tie of yoor shoe, 
The cut of your vest, or your boots, or cravat, 

If they know you're in debt for the new ? 

There's no comfort, I tell you, in walking the 
street 
In fine clothes, if you know you're In debt, 
And fsel that, perchance, you some trades- 
man may meet, 
Who will sneer— "They're not paid tor 
yet.- 
Good friends, let me beg of you, don't run in 
debt; 
If the chairs and the solks are old 
They will fit your back better than any new 
set. 
Unless they are paid for— with gold ; 

If the house is too small, draw the closer 
together. 
Keep it warm with a hearty good-will ; 
A big one unpaid for, in all kinds of weather, 

Will send to your warm heart a chiU. 
Don't run in debt—now, dear girls, take a 
hint. 
If the Ikshions have changed since last 



Old Nature is out In the very same tint. 
And old Nature, we think, has some 
reason; 



But just say to your fHend, that you cannot 
afford 
To spend time to keep up with the fkshion ; 
"niat your purse Is too light and your honour 
too bright. 
To be tarnished with such silly passion. 

Men, don't run in debt— let your friends, if 
they can. 
Have fine houses, and foathers, and flowers; 
But, unless they are paid for, be more of a 
man 
Than to envy their sunshiny hours. 

If you've money to spare, I have nothing to 
say- 
Spend your silver and gold as you please : 
But mind you, the man who his bill has to 

p»y 

Is the man who is never at ease. 
Kind husbands, don't run into debt any 
more; 
Twill fill your wives' cup ftall of sorrow, 
To know that a neighbour may call st your 
door. 
With a claim you must settle to-mortow. 

Oh ! take my advice— it is good, it is true I 
But, lest you may some of yon doubt it, 

111 whisper a secret now, seeing 'tis you— 
I have tried it, and know all about it 

Tfu dkain <ffa debtor U htavjf and eold, 
JU links all eomrion and rutt ; 

Qild it o'er a$ you will, it it ntver qfgnUt 
Then tpum it atidt with ditgutL 

1680. Josh Billing said, « Never 
run into debt, not if you can find 
ennything else to run into." 

1681. HIHT8 ITPOH XOITXT 

1CATTBB8. 

i Have a supply of change in hand- 
shillings, sizpsnces, halfpence. This 
will obviate the various inconveni- 
ences of keeping people at the door, 
sending out at unreasonable times, 
and running or calling after any in- 
mate in the house, supposed to be 
better provided with "the needful ** 
The tradespeople with whom you 
regularly deal will always give you 
extra change, when yovi are malong 
purchases or paying bills ; while those 
to whom you apply for it, on a sudden 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



RINO*S ENTREATIES AKE COMMANDS. 



821 



emergency, may neither be willing 
nor able to do so. Some housekeepers 
object to this arrangement, that, ^'as 
soon as five-pound notes or sovereigns 
are changed, they always seem to go, 
without their underBtanding how ; " 
but to such persons I would humbly 
intimate, that this is rather the fault 
of their not getting understanding^ 
than any inevitable coosequence of 
getting change. The fact is, that it is 
the necessity of parting with your 
money which obliges you to get the 
larger pieces changed, and not the 
circumstance of having smaller coin 
that necessitates your parting with your 
money, though it certainly facilitates 
your doing so when the necessity ar- 
rives. However, as it is easier to 
count a few sovereigns than many 
shillings, and loose money is most 
objectionable, it is well to put up 
reserve change in small collective 
packets, and to replenish the house- 
Keening purse from these daily or 
weekly, as may be most convenient. 

IL if money for daily expenses has 
to pass through the hands ofa servant, 
it is a time-and- trouble-saving plan to 
settle with her every night, and to 
make up her cash in hand to a certain 
similar sum. This will prevent such 
puzzling calculations as tne following : 
**Let me see: I gave you 10s, on 
Saturday, and 9d, the day before. 
Was it id, t No, it must have been 
lid, fori gave you l^., and you gave 
me Id, out for tne beggar ; then there 
was 6«. 6d, on Monday, and Sd, you 
owed me from last money ; and then 
the Is. 6rf. your master ^ve you for 
a parcel — ^you brought him 2cL back, 
and did, out of the outcher's bill ; no 
— ffou had to give 84^. to the butcher, 
but you came to me for the id,y and I 
had no coppers, so we still owe him 
the id, ; by the way, don't forget to 
pay him the next time you go. Then 
there's the baker — no, I paid the 
baker myself, and I thijik tne house- 
maid paid the butterman ; but you 
ft in the cheese the day before, and 
have a sort of recollection that I 



may possibly owe you for that, all but 
a few pence you must have had left of 
mine, that I told you to take from 
off the chimney-piece. Well, cook, I 
think that's nearly allt Now how 
do your accounts stand f" This the 
poor cook, who is a cook, and not a 
conjuror, finds it no easy matter to 
discover ; all that she is quite certain 
of is, that her disbursements have 
somewhat exceeded her receipts, and 
being an honest woman, though a 
poor one, she wishes to cheat neither 
her mistress nor herself; but what 
with her memory and her want of it, 
her involved payments, and different 
receipts ; what she owed her mistress, 
and what her mistress owes her ; 
what she got from her master, and 
what was partly settled by the house- 
maid ; the balance from the butcher's 
bill, and the intricacies of the cheese 
account, the poor woman is perfectly 
bewildered. She counts again and 
again ; recapitulates her mistress's 
data and her own ; sums upwards, 
backwards, and forwards, and endea- 
vours to explain the differences be- 
tween them ; then, if she can read and 
write, she brings her slate to '^explain 
the explanation," and the united cal- 
culations of maid and mistress, which 
are after all entirely unavailing to 
produce a more correct account, prob- 
ably consume more time, and are ex- 
pressed in more words, than would 
suffice to fill another volume like the 
present. Two minutes* daily reckon- 
ing from tL regular RVLxn in hand would 
do the business effectually, and pre- 
vent either party from being out of 
pocket or out of temper. Tnus, for 
instance, the maid has her usual sum 
of 5^. to account for ; she pays during 
the day, for— 

Bread 19 

^Beer 6 

* Vegetables and firoit . • . 10 

Milk 4 

Matches. 1 

Farce) 10 

Total .* . T~0 

X 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TIKE OOVBBB AKD DI8OOVBB0 BVSBTTH|KO. 



This 18 eaitly r^koQed, Bwea by tha 
unlearned; the roi^trow enters the 
itema in her day-book, Uikm the re- 
maining siziMnce, and again gives her 
acrvant 6s. , in convenient change, to 
be aa readily accounted for ou the 
succeeding day. — ** JIoiM JVuths for 
Home Peace; or, MuddU D'fcaUd.** 

168% TMim OF A XAir OF 
HUSnraiS.— A sacred regard to the 
principles of justice forms the baais 
of every transaction, and regulates the 
conduct of thfl upnght roan of busi- 
ness. The following statements afford a 
bird's-eye view, as it were, of his habits, 
practice, and mode of procedure : — 

i He is strict in keeping his 
engagements. 

U. He does nothing oareleasly or in 
a hurry. 

Ul. He employs nobody to do what 
he d^i easily do himself. 

if. tie keeps everything in its 
proper place. 

y. He leaves nothing undone that 
ought to be done, and which oircnm- 
sUmoes permit him to do. 

vi. He keeps his designs and busi- 
ness from the view of ouiers. 

vii He is prompt and decisive with 
his customers, and does not over-trade 
his capital 

viii. He prefers short credits to 
long ones ; and cash to credit at all 
times, either ip buying or selling ; and 
small profits in credit cases with little 
risk, to the chance of better gains with 
more hazard. 

i^ He is clear and explicit in all 
his bargains, 

X. He leaves nothing of oonsequence 
to memory which he can and ought to 
commit to writing. 

zi. He keeps copies of all his im- 
portant letters which he sends away, 
and has every letter, invoice, &c., 
belonging to his business, titled, 
classed, and put away. 

zii. He never suffers his desk to be 
confused by many papers lying upon 
it, but has a place for everything, and 
f vetything in ita place. 



xiiL He is always at the head of 
his business, well uiowing that if ha 
leaves it, it will leave him. 

xiv. He holds it as a maxim that 
he whose credit is suspected is not one 
to be trusted. 

X?. He is constantly examining his 
books, and sees through all his affaire 
as far as care and attention will enabie 
him. 

xvi. He balances regularly at stated 
times, and then makes out and trans* 
mits all his accounts current to his 
customers, both at home and abroad. 

svii. He avoids as much as possible 
all sorts of accommodation in roone^ 
matters, and lawsuits where there is 
the least hazard. 

zviii. He is economical in his ex* 
penditure, always living within his 
income. 

xix. He keeps a memorandum-book 
in his pocket, in which he notes every 
particular relative to appointments, 
addresses, and petty cash matters. 

SZ. He is cautious how he becomes 
■ecnrity for any person ; and is 
generous when urged by motivea of 
humanity. 

xzi. He makes his business known 
in few words witliout loss of time. 

xxii He treats all with respect, 
confides in few, and wronp no one. 

zxiii He attends to his own busi- 
ness, and not to his neighbour's. 

Let a man act strictly to these habits 
— ever remembering that he hath no 
profits by his pains whom Providence 
doth not prosper— and success will 
attend his efforts. 

1583. HnrXS TO SHOFyHlFEW 

If you are about to take a place of 
business, you will do well to consider 
the following remarks : — 

i. Small Gapitalistt. — Let us take 
the case of a person who has no inti- 
mate knowledge of any particular 
trade, but having a very small capital, 
is about to embark it in the exchange 
of commodities for cash, in order to 
obtain an honest livelihood thereby. 
It is clear th*t unleea such a person 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GOOD WARS MAKSS A QUICK MAKIUT. 



S2S 



starts with proper precaution and 
judgment, the capital will be expended 
without adequate results ; rent and 
taxes will accumulate, the stock will 
lie dead, or become deteriorated, and 
loss and ruin must follow. For the 
fast absorption acting upon a small 
capital willsoon dry up its source ; and 
we need not picture the trouble that 
will arise when the mainspring; of a 
tradesman's success abides by him no 
more. 

iL Largrer Chipitaliitf.— The case 
of the larger capitalist can scarcely be 
eonsiderea an exception to the same 
rule. For it is probable that the larger 
capitalist, upon commencing a busi- 
ness, would sink more of his funds in 
a larger stock — would incur liability 
to a heavier rent ; and the attendant 
taxes, the wsges of assistants and 
servants would be greater, and, there- 
fore, if the return came not speedily, 
similar consequences must sooner or 
later ensue. 

iii Loealities.~Large or small 
capitalists should, therefore, upon 
entering on a shopkeeping speculation, 
consider well the nature of the locality 
in which they propose to carry on 
trade, the number of the population, 
the habits and wants of the people, 
and the extent to which they are 
already supplied with the goods which 
the new adventurer proposes to oflfer 
them. 

It. Hew neighbourhoods.— There 
is a tendency among small capitalists 
to nish into new neighbourhoods with 
the expectation of making an early 
connection. Low rents also serve as 
an attraction to these localities. 
General experience, however, tends to 
show that the early suburban shops 
seldom succeed. Tbey are generally 
entered upon at the very earliest 
moment that the state of the locality 
will permit — often before the house is 
finished the shop is tenanted, and 
goods exposed for sale — even while 
the streets are unpaved, and while Uie 
roads are as ro^h and uneven as 
oountiy lanes. The oonsequenoe is, 



that as the few inhabitants of theso 
localities have frequent commnnioa- 
tion with adjacent centres of business, 
they, as a matter of habit or of choice, 
supply their chief wants thereat ; and 
the newly-arrived shopkeeper has to 
depend principally for support upon 
the accidental for^tfulness of nis 
neighbour, who omits to bring some* 
thing from the cheaper and better 
market ; or upon the changes of the 
weather, which may sometimes faronr 
him by rendering a *• trip to town ** 
exceedingly undesirable. 

▼. Failartt.—*' While the grass is 
growing the horse is starving ; " and 
thus, while the new district Is be- 
coming peopled the funds of the small 
shopkeeper are gradually eaten up, 
and he puts up his shutters just at 
the time when a more cautious specu- 
lator steps in to profit by the connec- 
tion already formed, and to take ad- 
vantage of uie now improved condition 
of the locality. It seems, therefore, 
desirable for the small oapitslists 
rather to run the risk of a more ex« 
pensive rent, in a well-peopled dis- 
trict, than to resort to places of slow 
and uncertain demand ; for the we1<- 
fare of the small shopkeeper depends 
entirely upon the frequency with 
which nis limited stock is cleared out 
and replaced by fresh supplies. 

▼i. Preeantions. — But should the 
small capitalist still prefer opening in 
a suburban district, where competltioiL 
is less severe, and rents and rates less 
burdensome, there are certain precau- 
tions which he will do well to observe. 
He should particularly guard against 
opening a shop to supply what may be 
termed the superfluities of life ; for 
the inhabitants of most new suburban 
districts are those who, like himself, 
have resorted to a cheap residence for 
the sake of economy. Or if this be 
not the case — if they are people of 
independent means, who prefer the 
" detached villa " to the town house, 
squeeeed up on both sides, they have 
the means of riding and driving 
to town, and will prefer ohoosiBg 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



824 



Line '8 BTT A KXAK8 17NT0 AN XND : 



articles of taste and luxury from the 
best martSy eDriched bj the finest 
display. 

TiL Heeeisarias or Lnzorief. — 
The suburban shopkeeper should, 
therefore, confine himself to supplying 
the neeesaaries of life. Hungry people 
dislike to fetch their bread from five 
miles off; and to bring vegetables 
from a long distance would evidently 
be a matter of considerable inconvem- 
ence. The baker, the butcher, the 
greengrocer, the beer retailer, Itc, 
are those who find their trade first 
established in suburban localities. 
And not until these are doing well 
should the tailor, the shoemaker, the 
hatter, the draper, the hosier, and 
others, expect to find a return for 
their capital, and reward for their 
labour. 

Tiii Ciyilitj. — In larger localities, 
where competition abounds, the small 
shopkeeper frequently outstrips his 
more power rival by one element of 
success, which maybe added to any 
stock without cost, but cannot be with- 
held without loss. That element is 
eiviliiy. It has already been spoken 
of elsewhere, but must be enforced 
here, as aiding the little means of the 
small shopkeeper to a wonderful de- 
gree. A Kind and obliging manner 
carries with it an indescribable charm. 
It must not be a manner which indi- 
cates a mean, grovelling, time-serving 
spirit, but a plain, open, and agree- 
able demeanour, which seems to desire 
to oblige for the pleasure of doing so, 
and not for the sake of squeezing an 
extra penny out of a customer's 
pocket 

iz. Integrity. — The main reliance 
of the shopkeeper should be in the 
integrity of his transactions, and in 
the civility of his demeanour. He 
should make it the interest and the 
pleasure of the customer to come to 
nis shop. If he does this, he will 
form the very best "connections,** 
and so long as he continues this sys- 
tem of business, they will never 
desert him. 



z. Ihities of a Shopkaaper. — He 
should cheerfully render nis best 
labour and knowledge to serve those 
who approach his counter, and place 
confidence in his transactions ; make 
himself alike to rich and poor, but 
never resort to naean subterfuge and 
deception to sain approbation and 
support. He should be frugal in his 
expenditure, that in deriving profits 
from trade, he may not trespass 
unduly upon the interest of othere ; 
he should so hold the balance between 
man and man that he should feel 
nothing to trouble his conscience 
when the day comes for him to repose 
from his lal)oura and live upon the 
fruits of his industry. Let the public 
discover such a man, and they will 
flock round him for their own sakes. 

xi A very useful book. The 
Bandy Book of SJumkeeping, Sho^ 
keeper's Guide (publisned at one shil- 
ling, by Houlston and Sons), en- 
larges upon these subjects in a very 
able manner, and gives most useftil 
hints to people in every department 
of trade. 

1684. ADVLTEBATIOHS. 

A series of papere were published in 
the Lancet and elsewhere a few years 
back on the subject of Adulteration. 
These brought about a parliamentary 
inquiry ; the inquiry ended in demon- 
strating that nearly everything we ate 
and drank was adulterated — in many 
cases with ingredients very prejudiciaJ 
to human health. The result of the 
inquiry inras the passing of an Act of 
Parliament for the purpose of putting 
a stop to this wholesale adulteration 
by making it a criminal offence. The 
Act is called the "Sale of Foods and 
Drugs Act,** and the following are 
the most important clauses it con- 
tains: — 

" No person shall mix, colour, stain, 
or powder any article of food with 
any ingredient or material, so as to 
render the article injurious to health, 
with the intent that the same may 
be sold in that state, and no person 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BBOINNINO, MXAN, AND VSTD TO ALL THIK08— GOD. 



826 



shall sell such article under a penalty 
not exceeding £60." 

** No person shall sell to the pre- 
judice of the purchaser any article of 
food, or any drug which is not of the 
nature, substance, and quality of the 
article demanded under a penalty not 
exceeding £20." 

The Act also provides for the ap- 
pointment of public analysts for 
counties and boroughs. A later Act 
provides that all substances or com- 
pounds made to imitate butter shall 
be sold as Margarine, and all wrap- 
pers, kc, used in its sale must be 
plainly marked. These Acts are in- 
tended for the protection of the public ; 
but we give below the names of a few 
of the chief articles of consumption 
that are liable to be adulterated, and, 
when possible, how to detect the 
adulteiation, or the best mode of 
avoiding it. 

1686. Bread.— The chief adulter- 
ation of bread is alum. This is added 
to ^ve the bread a pure white colour, 
which is supposed to be an advantage, 
thus enabling the baker to use infenor 
or damaged flour. The presence of 
alum can be detected by soaking a 
piece of the bread in an ammoniacal 
tincture of logwood. If alum be 
present the hreM. will be turned blue, 
whereas pure bread will remain pink. 
Recent mvestigations have proved 
that the presence of alum is extremely 
injurious, especially to children, affect- 
ing the coats of the stomach and im- 
pairing the digestion. Other sub- 
stances stated to be used in adulterat- 
ing bread are borax, sulphate of 
copper, sulphate of zinc, carbonate 
of magnesia, chalk, flour of rice, and 
bran, and potatoes. 

1686. Batter is made heavy by 
water beinc beaten up with it 
Cheap samples are sometimes adulter- 
ated with other fats and grease, which 
however require an experienced analyst 
to detect. 

1687. Bntterine and Xargarine 
are made of animal fat melted, the 



top la^rer bein^ taken off' and mixed 
with oiL This is washed in milk, 
salted, and made up to imitate butter. 

1688. Cayenne Pepper. — The 
cayenne of commerce is adulterated 
with brickdust, red wood dust, oochi« 
neal, vermilion, and red lead. The 
last two are highly injurious. These 
can be detected by any one possessing 
a good microscope. The best way to 
avoid the impurities is to purchase 
the capsicums or chiUies, pounding 
them with a pestle and mortar, ana 
rubbing through a sieve, in small 
quantities as required. The pepper 
is far better flavoured when trosh 
ground. 

1689. Chocolate and Coooa. — 
Thoee who prefer the pure cocoa can 
obtain the •* nibs,'* or more properly 
* * beans, " and grind them. But manj 
prefer the soluble cocoa, which is 
simply cocoa modified by admixture 
with less stimulating substances, such 
as sugar, arrowroot, and other starchy 
matters. 

1600. CofEbe is adulterated with 
roasted beans, peas, and acorns ; but 
chiefly with chicory. Have your own 
mill, buy the roasted beans from a 
respectable grocer, ascertain his roast- 
ing'day, and always bwy from a freth 
roaet. If you like the flavour of 
chicory, purchase it 8eparately> and 
add to taste. Chicory in small quan- 
tities is not iivjurious, but you need 
not pay the coffee price for it Grind 
your coffee, and mix it with chicory 
for yourself. 

1691. Hone;^.— A creat portion of 
so-called honey is merely etajch (sugar 
or glucose) mixed with a little real 
honey. 

1692.— Kilk is << adulterated " by 
skimming off part of the cream, also 
by the addition of water. 

1698. Xoitard is largely adulter- 
ated with flour and turmeric; as, 
however, mustard is usually sold in 
tins it is easy to obtain it pure, as 
under the Sale of Foods ana Drags 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SM 



Tim feRlKOS KVtRYTfllNd tO TflOSl WHO CAN WAIt. 



Act, all that is mixed with floor and 
othar flaroiiiitigs hat to be labelled aa 
soch on the outside of the package. 
Manv prefer this mixture to the pore 
article. 

1 W4. Oatmeal is usually adulter- 
ated with barley -flour, to give it a 
whiter appearance. 

1006. Feppar is adulterated with 
inferior grain, husks of seeds, sand, 
rice-flour, sago, linseed, and even dust 
of a variety of descriptions. Have 
your own pepper-mill, purchase the 
seed whole, and ^ind for yourself. 
Yon will then obtsun the pure article 
at a moderate cost. 

1596. Sausagea.— The most ofien- 
sive of all adulterations are fouud in 
these savoury morsels. Horseflesh, 
diseased animals, and odds and cuds 
of every description appear in the 
tempting ^uise of ''sausages." To 
escape Uus evil, make your own 
sausages by the aid of the sausage- 
machme, which will enable you to 
add many savoury morsels to the at- 
traetions of your table. The same 
machine may be used for ehoppii^ 
vegetables, which it will do to such 
perfection that they will perfectly 
oissolve in soups and stews, and afibrd 
most delicious made-dishes. And in 
this you will soon save the cost of the 
machine. 

1G07. Tea now undergoes examina- 
tion by the Customs authorities before 
"duty" is allowed to be paid upon 
it ; it is. therefore, practically pure. 
Almost the only form which adulter- 
atioB now takes is in the *' faced tea." 
This is black tea, to which an improved 
appeaianoe has been imparted by 
means of indigo, French chalk, plum- 
bago, kG. 

1606. Yin^gta is principally adul- 
terated with water, or sulphuric acid. 

1500. Water.— This perhaps is 
more often adulterated than any other 
article of coiwumption. As a rule the 
water snpplietl by the companies to the 
large towns is exceedingly pure, that 



supplied by the London companies 
bemg analyzed every month by « 
Government official ; but the adultera- 
tion chiefly rests with the consumer or 
householder, in not keeping thedstenn 
clean ; dust, soot, and even dead mice, 
cockroaches, &c, being allowed to 
contaminate the water ; also by per- 
mitting the overflow pipe to be con- 
nected with the soil pipe, or drain, 
whence the water absorrn poisonous 
gases. The overflow pipe should in 
all cases be entirely disconnected with 
all drains. The cisterns should, if 
possible, have a cover, and be cleaned 
out thoroughly at least every three 
months. In })}aces where the water is 
drawn from wells great care should be 
taken that the well cannot be con- 
taminated by any drain or cesspool 
leaking into it. Many cases of serious 
illness, notably diphtheria, have been 
traced to this caiu»e. When there is 
the least reason to doubt the purity 
of the well all the water for drinking 
purposes should be boiled before using, 
and no time should be lost in having 
it examined by an experienced analyst. 
All water that is used for drinking 
should be first filtered through a 
reliahU filter. Small glass filters for 
the table can now l^ obtained in 
every town for two or three shillings. 

1600. OTHER EVILS BE8IDS8 
"ABTJLTEEAnOKS." 
The butcher cannot adulterate the 
beef and the mutton, but he can send 
home short teeight ; and in casting up 
a bill, he can make mistakes in 
reckoning the odd ounces ; and the 
baker, b^des putting alum into the 
bread, to make it white and retaia 
water, can send home defideot weight; 
the same with the grocer, and the 
greengrocer, and the coal merchant ; 
the publican can give short measure, 
and froth up the jwrter to fill the jug 
and disguise the shortness of quantity ; 
and the draper can slip his scissors on 
the wrong side of his finger, and 
make a yard contain only thirty-three 
inchest We don't mean to say thai 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A8 THS VIRTim lUf Tttll IHtB, ^JCtL t» THE FRUIT. 



tbej do thia^ nor do we mean to Bsr 
that they don't We argne, that people 
ottghi U> poetess the meane ofaBcertain- 
ing v)1io among shopkeepers are hoTtestf 
and who are not ; then the just would 
meet With justice, and the unjust 
Would suffer for their own sins. 

1601. uttktitEtn cottiAnxtsi 

Iir tAltIO08 FOODS. 

Bread contains eighty^ nutritious 
Tiarts in 100 ; meal, thirty-four in 
loo ; French beans, ninety- two in 
loo ; common beans, eighty -nine in 
loo ;pea8, ninety-three in 100; lentils, 
ninety-four in 100 ; cabbages ana 
turnips, the most aqueous of all the 
vegetables compared, produce^ only 
eignt pounds of solid matter in 100 
pounds ; carrots and spinach produce 
fourteen in the same quantity ; whilst 
100 pounds of potatoes contain twenty- 
five pounds of dry substance. From 
a general estimate it results, that one 
pound of good bread is equal to two 
and a half or three pounds of pota- 
toes J that seventy-nve pounds of 
bread and thirty of meat may be sub- 
stituted for 300 pounds of potatoes. 
The other substances bear the fol- 
lowing proportions : four parts of 
cabbage to one of potatoes ; three 
parts of tnniips to one of potatoes ; 
two parts of carrots and spinach to 
one of potatoes ; and about three 
ports and a half of potatoes to one of 
rice, lentils, beans, French beans, and 
dry peas. 

1002. UtlLITT Of FBTJIT. 

Instead of standing in any fear of a 
generous consimiption of ripe fruits, 
we regard them as conduciye to health. 
tfo one erer lived longer or freer from 
disease by discarding the fruits of the 
land In which he finds a home. On 
the contrary, they are necessary to 
the preservation of health, ana are 
themore designed to make their ap- 
pWtfftnce at the verr time when the 
condition of the body, opetated upon 
by deteriotfiting causes not always 
understood, requires theh: renovatiTe 
influenceSL 



1608. BlAoklierTiMI flre tvty bene* 
fieial in cases of dysentery. The berries 
are healthful eating. Tea made of the 
roots and leaves is good ; and syrtip 
made from the berries excellent. 

1604. Sl06 Wllld is usefOl ih cased 
of diarrhoea, the astringent propertied 
of tills fhiit tending to counteract 
relaxation of the bowels. It is made 
by steeping sloes in watet-, And letting 
them stand therein until ft thick 
coating of mildew is formed on the 
sitrface. This is removed, ftnd the 
liquor is then strained and bottled, 
and tightly corked doWn. Not mote 
than from half a wine-glansful to a 
wine-glassfttl should be taken when 
required. 

1601a. Sloe C^in.— Get a two- 
gallon jar, and put into it one gallon 
of gin, three quarts of sloes, 24 lbs. of 
lump sUgar, i oz. of bitter almonds. 
Lay it by for three months, taking 
care to suake it two or three times a 
week. Then strain it and bottle it, 
sealing the bottles carefully. 

1606. OBflXBTAirOES OF Ttt 
BIKKEB tAlLE. 

i A dinner table should be Well 
laid, well lighted, aud alwatrs afford 
a little spare room. It is tetter to 
invite one friend less In number, 
than to destroy the comfbrt of the 
whole party. The room should be 
warmed to the right heat; before 
brinffing in the cloth or other af tides 
for the table, have the grate swept, 
and the sideboard and mantelpiece 
dusted. 

ii. The laying out of a table must 
greatly depend upon the nature of 
the dinner or sufmcr, the taste of the 
host, the description of the company, 
and the apphances fKmsessod. it 
would be useless, therefore, to lay 
down specific rules. The whiteness 
of the table-cloth, the clearness of 
^lass, the volish of plate, and the 
judicious distribution of ornamental 
groups of fruits and fiowers, are matten 
aeserving the utmost attention. 

Hi A aidebostd will gteatly reliere 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



828 



wrmcisMs spabx no onv. 



a crowded table, as manj things 
incideutal to the successive courses 
may be placed upon it until they are 
reauired. 

IT. A Bill of Fare or Menu at 
large dinner parties, where there are 
several courses, should be provided, 
neatly inscribed upon small tablets, 
and distributed alM)ut the table, so 
that the diners may know what there 
is to come. 

T. Napkins should be folded neatly. 
The French method, which is very 
easy, of folding the napkin like a fan, 
placing it in a glass, and spreading 
out the upper part, is verv pleasing. 
But the English method of folding it 
like a slipper or a mitre and placmg 
the bread inside its folds is convenient 
as well as neat 

Ti. Brefid should be cut into thick 
squares, the last thing after the table 
18 laid. If cut too early it becomes 
dry. Small dinner rolls are very con- 
venient A tray should be provided, 
in which there should be a further 
supply of bread, new, stale, and 
brown* For cheese, pulled bread 
should be provided. 

tIL Carving-knives should be 
sharpened before the dinner com- 
mences, for nothing irritates a good 
carver, or perplexes a bad one, more 
than a knife which refuses to perform 
its office and there is nothing more 
annoyin|[ to the company than to see 
the carving-knife gliding to and fro 
over the steel while tne dinner is 
getting cold, and their appetites are 
being exhausted by delay. 

Tin. At large dinner parties the 
carving is usually done at a side table 
by a professional carver, but when 
this plan is not adopted joints that 
require carving should be set upon 
dishes sufficiently large. The space 
of the table may be economized by 
setting upon small dishes those things 
that do not require carving. 

ix. The vegetables should be placed 
upon the sideboard, and handed round 
by those who wait upon the guests. 

a. Geese, turkeys, poultry, sucking- 



pigs, &C., should be cabvzd bbtorx 
BEING 8BT ON TABLE ; especially in 
those cases where the whole or the 
principal part of such dishes is likely 
to be consumed. 

xL Ladies should be helped before 
gentlemen, and the waiters should 
present dishes on the left hand; so 
that the diner may help himself with 
his right 

xiL Wine should be taken after 
the first course ; and it will be found 
more convenient to let the waiter 
serve it, than to hand the decanters 
round, or to allow the guests to fill 
for themselves. 

ziii. Waiters should be instructed 
to remove whatever articles upon the 
table are thrown into disuse by 
the progress of the dinner, as soon as 
they are at liberty. 

ziT. Finger-glasses, or glass bowls, 
filled with water, slightly scented or 
not, as may be preferred, and slightly 
warm in winter, and iced in summer, 
should be placed before each guest 
with the dessert plate. 

XT. When the dessert is served, the 
wine should be set upon the table, 
and the decanters passed round by the 
company. 

1006. A COUKTBT DDTirSB 
PABTT. 

Sydney Smith thus describes the 
delights of a dinner party in the 
country : — 

"Did you ever dine out in the 
country ? What misery human beings 
inflict on each other under the name 
of pleasure! We went to dine last 
Thursday with Mr. , a neigh- 
bouring clergyman, a haunch of 
venison being the stimulus to the 
invitation. We set out at fiTe o'clock, 
drove in a broiling sun, on dusty 
roads, three miles, in our best gown? ; 
found sauire and parsons assembled 
in a small hot room, the whole house 
redolent of frying ; talked, as is our 
wont, of roads, weather, and turnips ; 
that done, began to grow hun^, 
then MriouB, then impatient At 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HABTT AKOLER L0BB8 THE FISH. 



829 



last a stripling, eyidently caught up 
for the occasion, opened the door and 
beckoned our host out of the room. 
After some minutes of awful suspense, 
he returned to us with a face of much 
distress, saying, 'The woman assisting 
in the kitchen had mistaken the 
soup for dirty water and had thrown 
it away, so we most do without it; 
we all agreed perhaps it was as well 
we should, under the circumstances; 
at last, to our joy, dinner was 
announced; but oh, 'Ye gods, V as 
we entered the dining-room what a 
gale met our nose! the venison was 
nigh — the venison was uneatable, and 
was obliged to follow the soup with 
all s|)eea. Dinner proceeded, but 
our spirits flagged under these 
accummated misfortunes. There was 
an ominous pause between the first 
and second course; we looked each 
other in the face — ^what new disaster 
awaited us t The pause became fear- 
ful. At last the door burst open, 
and the boy rushed in, calling out 
aloud, 'Please, sir, has Betty any 
right to leather I?* What human 
gravity could stand this? We roared 
with faughtei ; all took part against 
Betty, obtained the second course 
with some difficulty, bored each other 
the usual time, ordered our carriages, 
expecting our postboys to be drunk, 
and were grateful to Providence for 
not permitting them to deposit us in 
a wet ditch." 

1607. HINTS OH CABYIHG. 

Sufficient general instructions are 
here given to enable the carver, by 
observation and practice, to acquit 
himself well The art of carving does 
not consist merely in dissecting the 
joints sent to table, but in the judicious 
and economical distribution of them, 
and the grace and neatness with 
which this distribution is effected. 
Every dish should be sent to table 
properly garnished (where needed), 
and the carver should preserve the 
neatness of the arrangement as much 
as poasible. 



lOOa Fried Fifhshouldbe divided 
into suitable slices, before the fire, as 
soon as it leaves the frying-pan. 

1609. Cod's Head and Shonlden. 
—The thick part of the back is best. 
It should be carved in unbroken slices, 
and each solid slice should be accom- 
panied by a bit of the sound, from 
under the back-bone, orfrom the cheek, 
jaws, tongue, &c., of the head. 

1610. Hake, if sent to table, 
simply boiled, is served as cod. The 
better way of dressing hake is to cut 
it transversely to the length into slices 
about one 'inch in thickness. These 
should be fried and sent to table 
garnished with parsley. 

1611. Turbot— Strike the fish- 
slice along the back-bone, which runs 
from head to tail, and then serve 
square slices from the thick part, 
accompanying each slice with some 
of the gelatinous skin of the fins 
and thin part, which may be raised by 
laying the fish-slice flat 

1612. Brill is served in the same 
manner. 

1618. John Dory is also served 
in the same way. This fish has a 
favourite piece on the cheek, and the 
fin is a delicacy, like that of the 
turbot. 

Epicure Quin used to say, "Of 
all the banns of marriage I ever heard, 
none gave me half such pleasure as 
the union of delicate Ann-chovy with 
good John Dory," — Kitchiner. 

1614. Plaice and Flat-ilih 
generally are served in the same 
manner. 

1616. Solei, when laige, may be 
served as turbot; but when small 
they should be sliced across. 

1616. Bed Knllet— Divide them 
lengthwise into two parts, if the fiah 
is too lar^ for one. The liver is a 
great dehcacy, and must be fairly 
apportioned, while there is delidous 
picking in the head and brain. 

1617. Salmon. — Serve a slice of the 
thick with a wmXUt slice of the thin 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



aso 



TRAviii Hom-ni, om gotr», on «Affr, on west, 



purt Kmp th« iUktfl of the thick 
part M uiiOTokAii is potsible* 

1618. lUelUttel shoald be aerred 
in pieoM out throagh the side when 
tbc^ are hkrge. If smell, they roaj 
be oiTided through the beck-bone^ ftnd 
serred in halree. The shoolder part 
is considered the best. A boiled 
mackerel should neyer be divided 
through ; but a broiied mackerel, 
being split, should be eut through, 
bones and alL 

1019. BaddMk Md eifiet are 
serred ae directed for mackerel. 

Id20. Whiting are usually fried 
and curled; they should be cut in 
halves across the back, and served. 
The shouldef-part is best. 

1621. Self are usually cut into 
seveiul pieces, either for stewing or 
frying. The thick parts are considered 
best 

163S. Tront, if smaU, are served 
whole ; if large, they may be divided 
through the back-bone and served in 
halfes. The same applies to perch and 
other smaller fresh-water fisn. 

1623. ^ike «nd Jtek should be 
served in tliick unbroken pieces taken 
ttota the side or shoulder of the fish 
liccompanied by a piece of the stuffing 
with which tnese fish are usually 
filled. 

1624. Bemarka.— In carving fish, 
a fish-slice should always be used, 
not a steel knife. The roes of 
mackerel, the sound of cod, the head 
of carp, the cheek of John Dory, the 
liver 01 cod, &c., are severally con- 
sidered delicacies, though not by all 
persons. 

1625. Saddle of Mtittoo. — Cut 
thin slices parallel with the back^ 
bone; or slice it obliquely from the 
bone to the edge, and serve with each 
portion, a piece of fat from the region 
of the kidneys. 

1626. HAnneh of Mtttton or 
Yeniion. — Make an indsion across 
the knuckle-end, right into the bone, 
«Dd set free the grsvy. Then out 



thhi aUces the whole lencth of tho 
hannch. Serve pieces of fiit with 
slices of lean. The incision along the 
haunoh is called " Aldeman's Walk.** 

1627. Knnrp Of Sifloln of Beet— 
The undercut, called the "fillet," is 
exceedingly tender, and some carvers 
will turn the joint and serte the flUet 
first, reserving the meat on tlw ofTfef 
part to be eaten cold. The fiuot 
should be cut ti-ansversely into thick 
slices like a tongue; as also should 
the fat at the thin end, a portion 
being served with each slice at lean. 
From the upper part, whether hot of 
cold, the slices should be cut length- 
ways from top to bottom, so that the 
fat and lean may be distributed in faif 
proportions. 

1628. Bibs of Beef are carved in 
the same way as the sirloin ; but there 
is no fillet. 

1620. Bound of Bief- First cnt 
awa^ the irregular outside pieces, to 
obtain a good surface^ and then servo 
thin and oroad slices. Serve bits o£ 
the odder fat with the kao. 

1680. Brirket of Boe£— Cat off 
the outside, and then serve long 
slices, cut the whole length of tho 
bones. 

1681. Shoulder of Kntton.— Make 
a cross incision on the fore-part of the 
slioulder, and serve slices from both 
sides of the incision ; then cut slices 
lengthways along tlie shoulder-blade. 
Cut iat slices from the round comer. 
Another and more economical way 
is to cut slices from the under mrt 
when first brought to table. The 
joint then presents a better appearance 
when cold. 

1662. Leg of Xntton.— Make an 

incision acrose the centre, and serve 
from the knuckle-side, or the oppositSf 
according to choice. The Itnuekle- 
side will oe generally found well donOi 
and the opposite snle underdone, for 
those who prefer it. 

1684. Loin of Kntton.— Cut down 

between the boneSi into chopa« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A mam's own BOirSlB IS StttL tfift StST. 



sal 



1686. (laArt«t9fL«m1>.— Lftvthe 
knife flat, and out off the shouider. 
The proper point for incision will 
be indicated oj the position of the 
shoulder. A httle lemon jtdce may 
be sqneezed over the divided part, 
and a little cavenne pepper, and the 
shoalder transferred to another dish, 
for the opposite end of the table. 
Next sepaiute the brisket, or short 
bones, by cutting lengthways along 
the breast. Then serve from either 
part as desired. 

1686. Loin of Toal may be cut 
across through the thick part ; or 
slices may be taken in the direction 
of the bones. Serve pieces of kidney 
and fat with each plate. 

1687. Villet of Tetl is carved as 
a round of beef. The browned bits 
of the ontside are esteemed, and 
should be shared among the company, 
with bits of fat, and of forcemeat from 
the centre. 

1638. Breast of Yeal should be 
divided by cutting the brisket, or 
soft bones, the same as the brisket of 
lamb. When the sweetbread domes 
to table with the breast, a small piece 
should be served on each plate. 

1689. Snekiaff Tig should be 
sent to table in two halves, the head 
divided, and one half laid at each 
end of the dish. — ^The shoulders and 
legs should be taken off by the 
obvious method of laying the knife 
under them, and lifting the joint out. 
They may be served whole, or di? ided. 
The ribs are easily divided, and are 
considered choice. 

1640. Tongues are cat across in 
tolerably thick slices. 

1641. Calves' Heads are carved 
across the cheek, and pieces taken 
from any part that is come-at-able. 
The tongue and brain sauce are served 
separately. 

1642. Xnvskls of Teal is carved 
by cutting off the outside pieces, and 
then obtaining good slices, and appoT' 
tioning tae fat to the lean^ aoolng 



bits of the sinew that lis sround ths 
Joint. 

1648. Lsf of Pork is carted as 
a ham, but in thicker slices; when 
stuffed, the stuffing must be sought for 
under the skin at the large end. 

1644. loin of Potk is carved the 
s&me as a loin of mutton. 

1645. Spare-rib of fork is carved 
by separating the chops, which should 
previously have been jointed. Cut as 
far as the joint, then return the knife 
to the point of the bones, and press 
over, to disclose the joint, which may 
then be divided with the point of the 
knife. 

1646. Sams are cut in very thin 
slices from the knuckle to the blade. 

1647. Phsasants. — Carve the 
breast in slicea Then take off the 
legs and wings. 

1648. Fowls.— Fix the fork firmly 
into the breast, then slip the knife 
under the legs, and lay it over and 
disjoint; detach the wings in the same 
manner. Do the same on both sides. 
The smaller bones require a little 
practice, and it would be well to 
watch the operations of a good carver. 
When the merry-thouffht has been 
removed (which it may be by slipping 
the knife through at tlie point of the 
breast), and tne neck-bones drawn 
out, the trunk may be turned over, 
and the knife thrust through the 
back-bone. 

1640. Partridges ars best carved 
bv cutting off the breast, and then 
dividing it. But for more economical 
carving, the wings may be cut with a 
small breast slioe attached. 

1600. Woodoooks and Snipes may 
be cut right through the centre, f5rom 
head to tail. Serve with each pirrtion 
a piece of the toast upon which they 
come to table. 

1651. Pigeons ma^ be carved as 
woodcocks, or as partridges. 

1662. Tnrkey.— Cut slices firom 
eaeh side of the breast down to th<f 
ribs; the legs may then be removed, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



882 



BASH PB0MI8X8 ABE ILL TC KKEP. 



and the thighs diWded from the drum- 
sticks, which are generally tough ; hut 
the pinions of the wing are Teiy good, 
and the white part of the wing is pre- 
ferred by many to the breast The 
stuffing IS usually put in the breast ; 
but when truffles, mushrooms, or 
oysters are put into the body, an open- 
ing must be made into it oy cutting 
through the apron. 

1658. CNK>to. — The apron must be 
cut off in a circular direction, when a 
glass of port wine, mixed with a tea- 
spoonful of mustard, may be poured 
into the body or not Some of the 
stuffing should then be drawn out, 
and, the neck of the goose being 
turned a little towards the carver, 
the flesh of the breast should be 
sliced on each side of the bone. The 
wings may then be taken off, then 
the legs. The other parts are carved 
the same as a fowl. 

1664. Daoks may be carved, when 
large, the same as geese; but when 
young, like chickens. The thi^h joints, 
however, lie much closer mto the 
trunk than those of fowls. 

1666. Hares should be placed with 
their heads to the left of the carver. 
Slices may be taken down the whole 
length of the back ; the le^, which, 
next to the back, are considered the 
beet eating, may then be taken off, and 
the iiesh divided from or served upon 
them, after the small bones have been 
parted from the thighs. The shoulders, 
which are not much esteemed, though 
sometimes liked by sportsmen, may 
be taken off by passing the kniie 
between the jomt and the trunk. 
When a hare is young, the back is 
sometimes divided at the joints into 
three or four parts, after being freed 
from the ribs and under-skin. 

1666. TO ICAXS DES8EBT ICS8. 
— Directions for freezing are given in 
pars. 1663-1667. 

1667. Strawberry Cream lee.— 
Take one pint of strawberries, one 
pint of cream, nearly half-a-pound 
of powdered white sugar, the juice 



of a lemon ; mash the fruit through 
a sieve, and take out the seeds : mix 
with the other articles, and freeze. 
A little new milk added makes the 
whole freeze more quickly. 

1668. Baspberry Cream Io«.~ 
The same as strawberry. These ices 
are often coloured by cochineal, but 
the addition is not advantageous to 
the flavour. Stmwberry or raspberry 
jam may be used instead of the fresh 
fruit, or equal quantities of iam and 
fniit employed. Of course the quan- 
tity of sugar must be proportionately 
diminished. 

1669. Strawberry- Water lee.— 
One pound of strawberries, the juice 
of a lemon, a pound of sugar, or one 
pint of Bjfong syrup, half-a-pint of 
water. Mix, first rubbing the fruit 
through a sieve, — and freeze. 

1660. Baspberry-Wattr lee is 
made in precisely the same manner 
as Strawberry-water ice. 

1661. Lemon- Water lee.— Lemon 
juice and water, each half-a-pint; 
strong syrup, one pint: the rind of 
the lemons shoula be rasped off, 
before squeezing, with lump sugar, 
which is to be added to the juice; 
mix the whole ; strain after standing 
an hour, and freeze. Beat up with a 
little sugar the whites of two or three 
eggs, and as the ice is beginning to 
set, work this in with the spatula, 
which will be found to much improve 
the consistence and taste. 

1662. Orange-Water lee is made 
in the same way as lemon-water ice. 

1668. TBIEZnia WITH ICE. 

The use of ice in cooIin|^ depends 
upon the fact of its requinng a vast 
quantity of heat to convert it from a 
solid into a liquid state, or in other 
words to melt it ; and the heat so 
required is obtained from those objects 
with which it may be in contact. A 
pound of ice reqmres nearly as much 
neat to melt it as would be sufficient 
to make a pound of cold water boiling 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A OHSERFITL 8HTLB 18 BAJJOK FOR BRKAKFAST. 



888 



hot ; hence its cooling power is ex- 
tremely great. Bat ice does not 
begin to melt until the temperature is 
above the freezing point, and there- 
fore it cannot be employed in freezing 
liquids, &c., but only in cooling them. 
If, however, any substance is mixed 
with ice which is capable of causing 
it to melt more rapidly, and at a 
lower texnperature, a still more intense 
cooling efiect is the result ; such a sub- 
stance is common salt, and the degree 
of cold produced by the mixture of 
one part of salt with two parts of 
snow or pounded ice is greater than 
thirty d^^rees below freezing. 

In nuucing ice-creams and dessert 
lees, the following articles are 
required : — Pewter ice-pots with 
tigntly-fitting lids, furnished with 
handles ; wooden ice-pails, to hold 
the rough ice and salt — the pails 
should be stoutly made, about the 
same depth as the ice-pots, and nine 
or ten inches more in diameter, with 
a hole in the side, fitted with a good 
cork, in order that the water from the 
melted ice may be drawn off as re- 
quired. In addition, a broad spatula, 
about four inches long, rounded at 
the end, and furnished with a long 
wooden handle, is necessary to scrape 
the frozen cream from the sides of the 
ice-pot, and for mixing the whole 
smoothly toffether. 

When making ices, place the mix- 
ture of cream and fruit to be frozen in 
the ice-pot, cover it with the lid, and 
put the pot in the ice-pail, which 
proceed to fill up with coarsely- 
pounded ice and salt, in the proportion 
of about one part of salt to tnree of 
ice; let the whole remain a few 
minutes (if covered by a blanket so 
much the better), then whirl the pot 
briskly by the handle for a few 
minutes, take off the lid, and with the 
spatula scrape the iced cream from the 
sides, mixing the whole smoothly; 
put on the hd, and whirl again, re- 
peating all the operations every few 
minutes until the whole of the cream 
is well frozen. Great care and con- 



siderable labour are required in stir- 
ring, so that the whole cream may be 
smoothly frozen, and not in hard 
lumps. When finished, if it is re- 
quired to be kept any time, the melted 
ice and salt should be allowed to 
escape, bv removing the cork, and the 
pail filled up with fresh materials. It 
is scarcely necessary to add, that if 
any of the melted ice and salt is 
allowed to mix with the cream, the 
latter is spoiled. 

1664. PBEEZING WITHOXTT lOB. 

From the difficulty of obtaining ice 
in places distant from laige towns, 
and in hot countries, and from the im- 
practicability of keeping it any length 
of time, or, m fact, of Keeping small 
quantities more than a few hours, its 
use is much limited, and many have 
been the attempts to obtain an efficient 
substitute. For this purpose various 
salts have been employed, which, 
when dissolved in water, or in acids, 
absorb a sufficient amount of heat to 
freeze substances with which they 
may be placed in contact. 

Many of the freezing mixtures which 
are to be found described in books are 
incorrectly so named, for although 
they themselves are below the freezing 
point, yet they are not sufficiently 
powerful to freeze any quantity of 
water, or other substances, when 
placed in a vessel within them. In 
order to be efficient as a freezing 
mixtnre, as distinguished from a cool- 
ing one, the materials used ought to 
be capable of producing by themselves 
an amount of cold more than thirty 
degrees below the freezing point of 
water, and this the ordinary mixtures 
will not do. 

Much moro efficient and really 
freezing mixtures may be made by 
using acids to dissolve the salts. The 
cheapest, and perhaps the best, of 
these for ordinary use, is one which 
is freouently employed in France^ 
both tor making dessert ices, and 
cooling wines, &c It consists of 
coarser-powdered Glanber salt (sol- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



•M 



TO n miTSiNT 18 m bmt kxvshvs. 



pfaftto of aodiiim), on whieh it ponred 
about two-thirds its voight or spirit 
of salts (bydroehlorio acid). TIia 
mixtnrt should be raado in a wooden 
▼•sael, as that is preferable to one 
made of metal, which eonduots the 
external heat to the materials with 
great rapidity ; and when the snb^ 
stanoe to be cooled is olaeed in the 
mixture, the whole should be sovered 
with a blanket, a piece of old woollen 
carpet doubled, or some other non- 
conducting material, to prevent the 
aooees of the external warmth ; the 
yesael used for icing wines should not 
be too large, that there maj be no 
waste of the freezing mixture. This 
combination produces a de^^ree of cold 
thirty degrees below freezing ; and if 
the materials are bought of any of the 
wholesale druggists or drysalters, it is 
exceedingly economical. It is open, 
however, to the very great objection, 
that the spirit of salt ii an exceedingly 
oorrodve liquid, and of a pungent, 
disagreeable odour : this almost pre- 
cludes its use for any purpose except 
that of icing wines. 

1666. Hitrata of Ammonium as 
a Wnninf Miztnrs. — Another sub- 
stance, which is free from any corrosive 
action or unpleasant odour, is nitrate 
of ammonium, which, if simply dis- 
solved in rather less than its own 
weight of water, reduces the tempera- 
ture about twenty-five degrees below 
freezing. The objections to its use 
are that its frigorifio power is not 
sufficiently great to freeze readily; 
and if it be required to form dessert 
ices, it is requisite to renew the 
process, at the expiration of a quarter 
of an hour, a second time, and, if 
the weather is very hot, and the 
water used is rather warm, even a 
third or fourth time. Again, nitrate 
of ammonium is a very expensive 
salt One great recommendation, 
however, attends its use, namely, that 
it may be recovered again, and used 
any number of times, by simply 
boiling away the water in which it 



is dissolved, by a gentle fins, until 
a small portion, on being remoysd, 
crystallizes on oooiing. 

1666. Waddoff Soda as a Frseiiat 
MiKtnre. — If, however, nitrate of 
ammonium in coarse powder is put 
into the coobr, and there is insm 
added twice its weight of fredily- 
erushed wsshing soda, and an eqoal 
quantity of the coldest water that 
can be obtained, an intensely powerful 
frigorifio mixture ii the result, tha 
cold often falling to forty degraea 
below freezing. This is ^ far the 
most efficacious freezing mixture that 
can be made without the use of ice 
or acids. But, unfortunately, it has 
an almost insuperable objection, that 
the nitrate of ammonium is decom- 
posed by the soda, and cannot be 
reeovered by evaporation ; this raises 
the expense to so great a height, that 
the plan is practically useless. 

1667. tal Awmaniae as a Frasa- 
iag Miztara. — If the ordinaiy sal 
ammoniac of the shops is used, it will 
be found both difficult to powder, and 
expensive ; in fact, it is so exceedingly 
tough, that the only way in which 
it can be easily divided, except in a 
drug mill, is by putting as iaige a 
quantity of the salt into water, which 
is actually boiling, as the latter will 
dissolve; as the solution cools, the 
salt orystallizes out in the solid form, 
and if stirred as it oools, it separates 
in a state of fine division. As this 
prooess is troublesome, and as the sal 
ammoniac is expensive, it is better to 
use the crude muriate of ammonium, 
which iM the same substance as sal 
ammoniac, but before it has been 
purified by sublimation. This ii not 
usually kept by druggists, but may be 
readily obtained of any of the artificial 
manure merchants, at a very mo<lerate 
rate; and its purity may be readily 
tested by placing a portion of it on 
a red-hot iron, when it should fly 
off in a yapour, leaving soaroely any 
lasidue. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FltlDE GOSn MOIS THAN HTJNQIB, THIRST, OR COLD.. 



$85 



1666. BvnsBJ^m, 

}660. GIDEB is a pleasant and 
refreshing beverage made from the 
juice of the apple, and with persons 
In good health is not unwholesome 
when drunk in moderation. By 
persons who suffer from rheumatism 
or indigestion, however, it should be 
carefully ^voided, nor should it be 
^runk by persons when they are over- 
heated, as it is apt to cause colic and 
other disagreeable symptoms. 

1670. To ¥*ke Ci4er.— The pro- 
cess of ma)ving cider varies in different 
Wilities, but in every case essentially 
consists of the collection of the fruit, 
and the ei^piession »nd fermentation 
of the juice. The collection qf the 
ftnU should not be commenced before 
It has become suflScicntly mature. 
The apples, ftfter being gathered, are 
usually left for fourteen or fifteen days 
in a l>arn or loft to mellow, during 
vhich time the mucilage is decom- 
posed, and alcohol and carbonic acid 
developed. The expression qf Hu 
mice is the next step in cider-making. 
The apples are ground to a pulp in 
a mill, consisting of two flutea cylin- 
ders of hard wood or cast iron work- 
ing against each other. The pulp is 
afterwards put into coarse, strong 
bags, and pressed with a heavy weight 
80 as to squeeze out all the juice. 
This is then placed in lar^ open tubs, 
and kept at a heat of about sixty 
degrees. After two or three days for 
yiSi^s, eider, and eight or ten days for 
atrong cider, or as soon as the sedi- 
ment nas subsided, the ^^vl^t is drawn 
off into clean casks. Tne casks are 
then stored in a cellar, shaded bam, 
or other cool place, where a low and 
re^lar temperature can be insured, 
and are left to matui*e and ripen until 
the following spring. The refuse pulp 
may be given to pigs and store cattle. 

1671. It Bottle OiAer.— Prepara- 
tory to bottling, it should always 
be eiamined, to see whethsr it is clear 
and sparkling. If not so, it should 
bo clarified, and left tot a fortnight. 



The night previous to bottUog, tho 
bung should be taken out of the eask, 
and tiie filled bottles should not be 
corked down until the day after ; as, 
if this is done at onoe, many of the 
bottles will burst by keeping. The 
best corks should be used. Cham- 
pagne bottles are the best for cider. 
When the cider is wanted for imme- 
diate use, or for consumption during 
the oooler seaaon of tho year, a small 
pieee of lump sugar may be put into 
each bottle before corking it. When 
intended for keeping, it should be 
stored in a cool cellar, when the 
quality will be greatly improved by 
age. 

1672. Cl4a» dwupagw.— Cider, 
eighteen gallons ; spint, three pints ; 
sugar, five pounds. Mix and let them 
rest for a fortnight, then fine with one 
pint of skimnied milk. Bottle iu 
champagne bottles : when opened, it 
will be found to approach very nearly 
to genuine champagne, 

1678. Cidor Cap. — Mix one bottle 
of cider, one bottle of soda water, two 
glasses of sherry, a little nowdered 
sugar according to tote, and a sprig 
of borage. 

1674. PEIBT.— A beverage made 
from poars. The fruit used for this 
purpose should contain a large pro- 
portion of sugar, and be likewise 
astringent, or Uie liquor from it will 
be acetous when it oeasea to be sac- 
charine. In making perr^, the peart 
are pressed and ground in precisely 
the same manner as apples are in the 
making of cider. The method of fer- 
menting perry is nearly the same as 
that for cider; but the former doea 
not afford the same indications as the 
latter by which the proper period of 
raoking off may be known. The 
thick scum that collects on the surface 
of cider rarely appears in the juice of 
the pear, and during the time of the 
suspension of its fermentation, the 
ezoeesive brightness of the former 
liquor ia seldom aten in the latter ; but 
when the fimit hat been regularly ripe, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



886 



FAIR AND SOFTLT GO SURS AND FAR. 



its prodace will generallT become 
moderately dear and qmet in a few 
days after it is made, and it should 
then be drawn off from its grosser lees. 
Tn the after management of peny the 
process is the same as that of cider ; 
out it does not so well bear situations 
where it is much exposed to change of 
temperature. If it remain sound and 
perfect at the conclusion of the first 
succeeding summer it is advisable to 
bottle it, as it retains its good qualities 
best when in bottle. 

1675. HOKE -HADE WDTSS 
from Bhubarb, Unripe Grapes, Cur- 
ranti, Oooseberriei, *«.— The whole 
art of wine-making consists in the 
proper management of the fermenting 
process ; the same Quantity of fruit, 
whether it be rhubarb, currants, goose- 
berries, unripe grapes, leaves, tops, 
and tendrils, water, and sugar, will 
produce two different kinds of wine, 
by varying the process of fermenta- 
tion only — that is, a dry wine like 
sherry, or a brisk beverage like cham- 

Sagne. The following directions will 
o for rhubarb, or any of the above- 
mentioned fruits. 

1676. English Champagne.— Take 
fifty pounds of rhubarb and thirty- 
seven pounds of fine moist sugar. 
Provide a tub that will hold m>m 
fifteen to twenty gallons, taking care 
that it has a hole for a tap near the 
bottom. In this tub bnuse the rhu- 
barb ; when done, add four gallons of 
water ; let the whole be well stirred 
together ; cover the tub with a cloth 
or blanket, and let the materials 
stand for twenty-four hours ; then 
draw off the liquor through the tap ; 
add one or two more gallons of water 
to the pulp, let it be well stirred, and 
then allowed to remain an hour or two 
to settle, then draw off ; mix the two 
liquors together, and in it dissolve the 
sugar. I^t the tub be made clean, 
and return the liquor to it, cover it 
with a blanket, ana place it in a room 
the temperature of wnioh is not below 
60^ Fahr. ; here it is to remain for 



twenty-four, forty-eight, or more 
hours, until there is an appearance 
of fermentation having begun, when 
it should be drawn ofl' into the ten- 
gallon cask, as fine as possible, which 
cask must be filled up to the bung- 
hole with wator if there is not liquor 
enough ; let it lean to one ^^ide a little, 
that it may discharge itself; if there 
is any liquor left in the tub not quite 
fine, ^MB it through flannel, and fill 
up with that instead of water. As 
the fermentation proceeds and the 
liquor diminishes, it must be filled up 
daily, to encourage the fermentation, 
for ten or ti^elve days ; it then be- 
comes more moderate, when the bung 
should be put in, and a gimlet-hole 
made at the side of it, fitted with a 
spile ; this spile should be taken out 
every two or three days, according 
to the state of the fermentation to al- 
low some of the carbonic acid gas to 
escape. When this state is pass^, the 
cask may be kept full by pouring a 
little liquor in at the vent-hole once a 
week or ten days, for three or four 
weeks. This operation is performed at 
long intervals, of a month or more, till 
the end of December, when on a fine 
frosty day it should be drawn off from 
the lees as fine as possible, and the 
turbid part passed through flannel. 
Make the cask clean, return the liquor 
to it, with one drachm of isinglass 
(pure) dissolved in a little water ; stir 
the whole together, and put the bung 
in firmly. 

Choose a clear dry day in March 
for bottling. The liottles should be 
champagne bottles — common wine 
bottles are not strong enough ; secure 
the corks in a proper manner with 
wire, &c. The liquor is generally 
made up to two or three pmts over 
the ten gallons, which is bottled for 
the purpose of filling the cask as it is 
wanted. The wine contains spirit 
enoiu^ without the addition of 
brandy, which spoils all wines ; a 
proper fermentation producing spirit 
enough. 

The way to obtain a dry wine from 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TRUTH 18 A ROCK LAROE ENOTTOH FOR ALL TO STAIO) UPON. 



337 



these materials is to keep the cask 
constantly filled np to the bung-hole, 
daily or every other day, as long as 
any fermentation is perceptible by 
applying the ear near to the nolo ; the 
bung may then be put in lightly for 
a time, before finally fixing it ; it may 
be racked off on a fine day in Decem- 
ber, and fined with isinglass as above 
directed, and bottled in March. 

1677. Pannip Wine. — Take 
fifteen pounds of sUced parsnips, and 
boil until quite soft in five gallons of 
water ; squeeze the liquor well out of 
them, run it through a sieve, and add 
three pounds of coarse lump sugar to 
every gallon of liquor. Boil the whole 
for three-quarters of an hour. When 
it is nearly cold, add a little yeast on 
toast. Let it remain in a tub for ten 
days, stirring it from the bottom every 
day ; then put it into a cask, in which 
it should remain for a year. As it 
works over, fill it up every day. 

1678. Tnmip Wine. —Take a large 
number of turnips, pare and slice 
them ; then place m a cider-press, and 
obtain all tne juice you can. To 
every gallon of juice add three pounds 
of lump sugar, and half-a-pint of 
brandy. Pour the liquor into a cask, 
and when it has done working, bung 
it close for three months, and draw 
off into another cask. When it is 
fine, bottle, and cork welL 

1679. Blackberry Wine.— Gather 
the fruit when ripe, on a dry day. 
Put into a vessel, with the head out, 
and a tap fitted near the bottom ; 
pour on Doiling water to cover it. 
Mash the berries with your hands, and 
let them stand covered till the pulp 
rises to the top and forms a crust, in 
three or four days. Then draw off the 
fluid into another vessel, and to every 
gallon add one pound of sngar ; mix 
well, and put into a cask, to work for 
a week or ton days, and throw off any 
remaining lees, keeping the cask well 
filled, particularly at the commence- 
ment When the working has ceased. 



bung down ; after six to twelve 
mouths it may be bottled. 

1680. Elderberry Wine.— Gather 
the berries ripe and dry, pick them, 
bruise them with your hands, and 
strain them. Set the liquor by in 
glazed earthen vessels for twelve hours, 
to settle ; put to every pint of juice a 
pint and a half of water, and to evefy 
gallon of this liquor three pounds of 
good moist sugar ; set it iu a kettle 
over the fire, and when it is ready to 
boil, clarify it with the white of four 
eg^ ; let it boil one hour, and when 
it IS almost cold, work it with strong 
ale yeast, and tun it, filling up the 
vessel from time to time with the same 
liquor, saved on purpose, as it sinks 
by workiuff. In a month's time, if 
the vessel holds about eight gallons, 
it will be fine and fit to botue, and 
after bottling, will be fit to drink in 
twelve months. 

1681. ARRACK (ImiUtion). — 
Take one quart of good rum and one 
quart of water, one drachm flowers of 
benzoin, and quarter ounce of sliced 
pine-apple (or half-a-teaspoonful of 
essence of pine-apple). Digest this for 
a fortnight, with occasional stirrings, 
and then add a wineglassful of skimmed 
milk. Shake well for a quarter of an 
hour, and in a day or two decant the 
clear portion. 

1682. SCOTCH PTTKCH, or 
Whisky Toddy.— Pour about a wine- 
glassful of boiling water into a half- 
pint tumbler, and sweeten according 
to taste. Stir well up, then put in a 
wineglassful of whisky, and add a 
wineglassful and a half more boiling 
water. Be sure the water is ^boiling. 
Never put lemon into toddy. The 
two in combination, in almost every 
instance, produce acidity in the 
stomach. If possible, store your 
whisky in the woody not in bottles, as 
keeping it in the cask mellows it, and 
dissipates the coarser particles. 

1688. Athol Brose.— Put a wine- 
glassful of whisky into a half-pint 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



dsd 



KNOWtEDGfi ts TltE WlKG WHEhEBY W£ FtY TO liEAVtN. 



tumbler ; sweeten with a latgo tea- 
spoonful of honey, and fill up with 
milk that has been nearly brought to 
boiling over a clear fire. Remember 
that ** milk boiled is milk spoiled." 

1664. Btittered Bom. — Put a 
wineglassful of ^ood rum into a half- 
pint tumbler, with a lump or two of 
sugar and a piece of butter the size of 
a nlbert Fill up with boiling water. 
This is excellent for hoarseness and 
huskj condition of the throat 

16te. Oiiigftt firandt. — Halfa- 
pound of bruised Jamaica ginger 
should be steeped in a gallon of brandy 
for a fortnight. Strain and make a 
decoctioh of the ginger with one 
gallon of boiling water. Dissolve ten 
pounds of sugar in the decoction, and 
then add the brandy and some finings 
to clear. 

1686. Claret Cup. — Required, 
oiie bottle of sound claret, one bottle 
of soda water, four tablespoonfuls of 
powdered sugar, half-a-pound of 
crushed ice, half-a-teaspoonfUl of 
grated nutmeg, a liqueurglassfUl of 
maraschino, and a sprig of borage. 

Id87. iunmar Cbampane.— To 
four parts of seltzer water aad one of 
Moselle wine (or hock), and put a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar into a 
wineglassful of this mixture ; an effer- 
vescence takes place, and the result is 
ft sort of champagne, which is more 
wholesome in hot weather than the 
genuine wine known by that name. 

1688.— Champagne lemonade, 
composed of two bottles of champagne, 
one bottle of seltzer water, three 
pomegranates, three lemons, and of 
sugar suflBcient, is a princely bever- 
age in hot weather ; only care must be 
taken that perspiration is not hereby 
too much encouraged. 

1689. Baspberrj ^negar.— Put 
ft pound of very fine ripe raspberries 
in a bowl, bruise them well, and pour 
upon them a quart of the best white 
Vine vinof^r ; next day strain the 
liquor on a pound of fresh ripe rasp- 



berries ; bruise them also, and the 
foUowiug day do the same, but do not 
squeeze the fruit, or it wiU make it 
fernunt; only drain the liquor as diy 
as you can from it Finally, pass it 
through a canvas bag, previously wet 
with the vinegar, to prevent waste. 
Put the juice into a stone jar, with a 
pound of sugar, bit)ken into lum[)8« to 
every pint of Juice ; stir, and wheU 
meltea, put the jar into a pan of water ; 
let it simmer, and skim it ; let it 
cool, then .bottle it When cold it will 
be fine, and thick, like strained honey, 
newly prepared. 

1600. Ginger Beer. —The follow, 
ing recipe is taken from the cele- 
brated treatise of Dr. Pereira on Diet 
The honey gives the beverage a pecu- 
liar softness, and from net being 
fermented with yeast, it is less violent 
in its action when opened, but requires 
to be kept a somewhat longer time 
before use. White sugar, five pounds - 
lemon juice, one quarter of a pint ; • 
honey, one quarter of a pound ; ginger, 
bruised, five ounces ; water, lour 
^lons and a half. Boil the ginger^ 
in three quarts of water, for half-an- 
hour, then add the sugar, lemon juice 
and honey, with the remainder of the 
water, and strain through a cloth ; 
when cold add a quarter of the white 
of an egg, and a small teaspoonful ot 
essence of lemon ; let the wnole stand 
four days, and bottle ; it will keep for 
many months. This quantity will 
make 100 bottles. 

1601. Ginger-beer Powders. — 

Blue paper : Carbonate of soda, thirty 
grains ; powdered ginger, five grains ; 
ground white sugar, one drachm to 
one drachm and a half ; essence of 
lemon, one drop. Add the essence to 
the sugar, then the other in^^redienta. 
A quantity should be mixed and 
divided, as recommended for Seidlitz 

Sowders. — While paper: Tartaric acid, 
flirty grains. Diredions. — Dissolve 
the contents of the blue paper in 
water ; stir in the contents of the 
white paper, and drink during effer- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WfllEN W MOTtoK, to ti;stt*6K 1& ^SV. 



tedcence. Ginger-beer powders do not 
meet with sacn general acceptation as 
letnon and kali, the powdered ginger 
rendering the liquid slightly turbid. 

l&XL Lemon and Kali, or Sher- 
bet — Large Quantities of this whole- 
some and refreshing preparation are 
manufactured and consumed every 
summer ; it is sold in bottles, and also 
•8 a beverage, made by dissolving a 
large teaspoonful in a tumbler two- 
thirds filled with water. The ingre- 
dients are — ground white sugar, half- 
a-pound ; tartaric acid and carbonate 
of soda of each a quarter of a pound ; 
essence of lemon, forty drops. All 
the powders should bi well dried; 
add the essence to the sugar, then 
the other powders ; stir all together, 
and mix by passing through a hair 
sieve. Must be kept in tightly-corked 
bottles, into which a damp spoon 
must not be inserted. The sugar 
must be very finely pulverized. 

1606. 8od& Fowden furnish a 
saline beverage which is verv slightly 
laxative, and well calculated to allay 
the thirst in hot weather. Half-a- 
pound of carbonate of soda, and six and 
three-quarters ounces of tai*taric acid, 
supply the materials for 128 powders 
of each sort. Put into blue papers 
thirty grains of carbonate of soda, and 
into white papers tweiity-fivecrains of 
tartaric acid. Dtrec/wms.— Dissolve 
the contents of the blue paper in 
half-a- tumbler of water, stir m the 
other powder, and drink during 
effervescence. 

1604. Seidliti Powders make a 
cooling aperient draught and are 
usually put up in two papers. The 
larcer blue paper contains tartarized 
soda (also called Rochelle salt) two 
drachms, and carbonate of soda two 
scruples ; in practice it will be found 
more convenient to mix the two ma- 
terials in larger quantity by passing 
them twice through a sieve, and then 
divide the mixture either by weight 
or measure, than to make each powder 
separately. One pound of tartarized 



soda, and five ounces and a half of 
carbonate of soda, will tnak6 sixt^ 
powders. The smaller powder, usually 
placed in white papet, consists of 
tartaric acid, half-a-drachni. Di- 
rectioiis for use. — Dissolve the con- 
tents of blue paper in half-a-tumblet 
of cold water, stir in the other poVrder, 
and drink during efiervescence. 

1606. lemonade. — t'owdered 
sugar, four pounds ; citric or tartaric 
acid, one ounce ; essence of lemon^ two 
drachms : mix well. Two or three 
teaspooniuls make a very sweet and 
agreeable glass of lemonade. 

1606. ttilk lemonade.— Dissolve 
three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar 
in one pint of boiling water, and mix 
with them one gill of lemon juice, 
and one gill of sherry, then add three 
gills of cold milk. Stir the whole 
well together, and strain it. 

1607. HATITEAL MINBXAL 
WAT£B8 WITH TKUB 

P&0PSBTIS8. 



ApoUinaris . . 


Table Water ' 


Biebrach . . 


It It 


GeroUtein 


f> »> 


Regfnaris 


»♦ f» 


JohaDDii . 


. Gaseous Water 


Rosbach '. . 


>} ti 


St. Galmier 


ft tt 


Taunus 


• »» »» 


.fiscnlsp . 


Saline Atwrient 


Friedrichshall . 


• tt tt 


Franz Josef 


' M tt 


Himyadi-JanoB . 


• t» It 


Leamington Spa 


tt ft 


Pullna . . 


• t» »t 


Rabinat . 




Oberbnmnea . 


! Saline Lithiated 


Woodhall . . 


„ Bromo-lodlMpd 


Kronenqoelle . 


„ Bodio-lltbiated 


Royat 


„ Artenicated 


Hombiut . 


„ Chalybeate 


OarlflbAd . 


. Alkaline Lithiated 


Contrexeville . 


• tt ti 


Belters . 


Acidulated 


Vals . . . 


• tt tt 


Vichy 


• ' It tt 


Bonnes 


Sulphurous 


Bonrbonle 


Areenical Iron 


SchwalbaAh . . 


ChiOybeate 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



840 



A WORD BXF5RE IS WORTH TWO BSHIKD. 



leOa TO XAXl tea.— Scaia the 
teapot and empty it, then put the tea 
in, allowing one teaspoonful for each 
person with an extra one "for the 
pot." Ponr over it as much boiling 
water as will be required ; let it stand 
for a few minutes before using. Soft 
water is the best, and should be 
freshly boiled, as water that has been 
Doiled several times will not draw the 
strength of the tea properly. Some 
teapots are now fitted with a per- 
forated cup to contain the tea leaves 
and enable them to be removed after 
infusion. 

1699. Another Kethod.— Put in 
the teapot as much water as necessary 
for the first cuns ; put the tea on it as 
in brewing, and close the lid as quickly 
as possible. Let it stand three 
minutes and a half, or, if the quantity 
be large, four minutes, then fill the 
cups. By this method, the aroma is 
preserved instead of escaping with the 
steam, as it does when the water is 
poured on the tea. 

1700. Subttitntt for Creftm in 
Tea or Coifoe. — Beat the white of an 
egg to a ^th, put to it a very small 
lump of butter, and mix well. Then 
stir it in gradually, so that it ma^ not 
curdle. If perfectly mixed, it will be 
an excellent substitute for cream. 

1701 . TO MAKE COPFEE. —Warm 
your coffee-pot and put in two tea- 
8iK)onfuls of^ freshly-ground coffee for 
each half-pint required ; pour in the 
boiling water. Then pour out a tea- 
cupful and put it bacK in the coffee- 
pot Repeat this, and then stand 
the pot on the hob, bid do not allow 
it to boil. The broader the bottom 

• and the smaller the top of the vessel, 
the better the coffee will be. 

1702. Tnrkisli Mode of Making 
CoffM. — The Turkish way of making 
coffee produces a very different resxilt 
from that to which we are accustomed. 
A small conical saucepan something 
like our beer-warmer, with a long 
handle, and calculated to hold about 
two tablespoonfuls of water, is the 



vessel used. The fresh roasted beny 
is pounded, not ground, and about 
a dessertspoonful is put into the 
minute bouer ; it is then nearly filled 
with water, and thrust among the 
embers. A few seconds suffice to 
make it boil, and the decoction, 
grounds and all, is poured out into 
a small cup, which tits into a brass 
socket, much like the cup of an acorn, 
and holding the china cup as that 
does the acorn itself. The Turks seem 
to drink this decoction boiling, and 
swallow the grounds with the liquid. 
We allow it to remain a minute, in 
order to leave the sediment at the 
bottom. It is always taken plain ; 
sugar or cream would be thought to 
spoil it, and Europeans, after a little 
practice, are said to prefer it to the 
clear infusion drunk in France. In 
every hut these coffee boilers may be 
seen suspended, and the means for 
pounding the roasted berry are always 
at hand. 

1708. To Detect Chieory in Oronnd 
CoIEm. — Put a little of the coffee into 
a wineglass with some cold water, 
shake it up, and the coffee will float 
but the chicory will sink. 

1704. CoiSM MUk (For the 
Sick-room). — Boil a dessertspoonful 
of pound coffee in nearly a pint of 
milk a quarter of an hour, then put 
into it a shaving or two of isinglass, 
and clear it ; let it boil a few minutes, 
and set it bv the side of the fire to 
clarify. This is a very fine breakfast 
beverage ; but it should be sweetened 
with sugar of a good quality. 

1706. Iceland Mom Chocolate 
(For the Sick-room).— Iceland moes 
has been in the highest repute on 
the Continent as the most efficaciona 
remedy in incipient pulmonary com- 
plaints; combined with chocolate, it 
will be found a nutritious article of 
diet, and may be taken as a morning 
and evening beverage mixed with 
boiling water or milk. 

1706. COCOA.— For many persons 
cocoa forms a better beverage than 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



MAN DOUBLES HIS BVILS BT BROODINO UPON THEM. 



841 



either tea or coffee, and is conaidered 
more natritioos and easy of digestion. 
Many excellent preparations aiie manu- 
factured and directions for mixing are 
given with each tin or packet 

1707. Alum Whey.— A pint of 
cow's milk boiled with tM'o muchms 
of alum, until a curd is formed. 
Then strain off the liquor, and add 
spirit of nutmeg, two ounces; syrup 
of cloves, an ounce. It is useral in 
diabetes, and in uterine fluxes, &c. 

1708. Barley Water.— Pearl 
barley, two ounces ; wash till freed 
from dust, in cold water. Boil in a 
quart of water a few minutes, strain 
off the liquor, and throw it away. 
Then boil the barley in four pints and 
a half of wat^r, until it is reduced 
one halt If made with Robinson's 
Patent Barley less preparation is 
required. Lemon flavouring renders 
it more palatable. 

1709. Agreeable Efferyesoent 
Briidc for Heartburn, Iko.— Orange 
juice (of one orange), water, and lump 
su^r to flavour, and in proportion to 
acidity of orange, bicarbonate of soda 
about half-a-teaspoonful. Mix orange 
juice, water, and su^r together in a 
tumbler, then put m the soda, stir, 
and the effervescence ensues. 

1710. Apple Water.— A tart 
apple well baked and mashed, on which 
pour a pint of boiling water. Beat up, 
cool, and strain. Add sugar if desired. 
Cooling drink for sick persons. 

1711. Tincture of Lemon PeeL — 
A very easy and economical way of 
obtaining and preserving the flavour 
of lemon peel, is to All a wide- 
mouthed pint bottle half full of 
brandy, or proof spirit; and when 
you use a lemon pare the rind off 
very thin, and put it into the 
brandy, &c. ; in a fortnight it wiU 
impregnate the spirit with the flavour 
very strongly. 

1712. Camomile Tea. — One ounce 
of the flowers to a quart of water 
boiling. Simmer for nfteen minutes 



and strain. Emetic when taken warm; 
tonic when cold. Dosty from a wine- 
glassful to a breakfast cup. Dried 
orange peel added to catnomile flowers^ ' 
in the proportion of half the quantity 
of the flowers, improves the tonic 

1718. HIHT8 OH BBswnra 

The best time of the year for 
brewing is the autumn. The spring 
is also suitable, but less so. It is a 
great object to secure a moderate 
temperature for the cooling of the 
worts, and to insure gradual ^rmenta- 
tion. To those who wish to enter upon 
the practice, without any previous 
knowledge, we would advise their call- 
ing in the aid of some one practically 
acquainted with the process for the 
first operation. By so doing they 
will save a great deal of trouble, dis- 
appointment, and expense. In all 
places, town or country, there are 
persons who have worked in brewing 
establishments, or* in gentlemen's 
families where they have superin- 
tended the operations of the orew- 
house, and the aid of such persons 
would be valuable. With such assist- 
ance, the following recipes will be 
of importance, since many who are 
able to go through the manipulations 
of brewing are unaware of the proper 
proportions to employ : — 

1714. Ale. — ^Take three bushels of 
malt, three pounds of hops, fifty-two 
gallons of water, for two workinos. 
Or, — malt, two bushels and a hau; 
sugar, three pounds; hops, three 
pounds; coriander seeds, one ounce; 
capsicum, a drachm. Thirty-six 
gallons. This gives a pleasant ale, 
with a good body. 

1716. Amber Ale. — ^Three bushels 
of amber malt, three quarters of a 
bushel of pale amber malt, two pounds 
of hops, a tablftspoonful of salt. Three 
mashes, fortv to fifty gallons. Skim, 
and fine with isinglass. 

1716. Burton Ale. — One Quarter 
of pale malt, eight pounds ana a half 
pale hope ; mash three times. Work 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



m 



THINK OF EASE, BUT WORK ON. 



the first mash at 170**, second at 176*, 
third at 160'. Boil the first wort by 
itself; when boiling add three pouD(is 
of honey, a pound apd a half coriander 
seeds, one ounce of salt Mix the 
worts when boiled, cool to 61", set to 
work with a pint and a half of yeast. 
As soon as the liquor gets yeasty, skim 
the head half otf ; rouse the rest with 
another pint and a half of yeast, three- 
quarters of an ounce of bay salt, and a 
auarter of a pound of malt or bean 
nour. This makes a hogshead. 

1717. SfUmbvgk Ale. —Mash two 
barrels per quarter, at 188* ; mash for 
three-quarters of an hour ; let it stand 
one hour, and allow half-an-hour to run 
off. Or, mash one barrel per quarter, 
at 190°; mash three-quarters of an 
hour, let it stand three-quarters of an 
hour, and tap. 

1718. Porttr. — Brown amber and 
pale malt, in equal quantities; turn 
them into the mash-tub. Turn on the 
first liquor at 165*; mash one hour, 
then coat the whole with dry mslt I n 
one hour set the tap. Mix ten pounds 
of brown hops to a quarter of malt, half 
old, half new; boil the first wort briskly 
with the hops for three-quarters of an 
hour, after putting into the copper 
one pound and a half of sugar, and one 
pound and a half of extract of liquorice 
to the barrel ; tnm it into coolers, rous- 
ing the wort the while. Turn on the 
second liquor at 174*, set tap again in 
ait hour. The second wort having run 
off, turn on again at 145*: mash an 
hour, and stand an hour- boil the 
^Qcond wort with the same hops for 
one hour. Turn into the coolers, and 
let into the tub at 64*, mixing the 
yeast as it comes down. Cleanse the 
second day at 80*, previously adding a 
mixture of flour and salt, and rousing 
well. 

1719. Bpruee B^er.— Take one 
pound of sugar, half-an-ounce of 
essence of spmoe, and one gallon of 
boiling water. Mix these thoroughly, 
and when cool add half-a-wineglassnil 
Qf yeast. J^et it stand for a da^ and 



then bottle it When made with lump 
sugar it is called ** white spruce ;'' 
wheu moist sugar or treacle is used, 
'* brown spruce." A pleasant summer 
drink, and anti-scorbutic 

1720. Finlnff fpr leer.— Take 
some sole skins and boil them in a 
little beer. Let them cool down into 
a jelly. When required for use tak^ 
a tablespoonful or two of thb jelly 
(according to the size of your cask) 
and dissolve it in a pipt of beer; stir 
it into the cask, and if there is reason 
to expect that the beer will work 
leave the bung out for a day or so. 

1721. Bottlinf 3ecr.— See that 
the bottles are clean and dry and 
the corks sound. The bottles should 
be filled, but not corked till tbe follow- 
ing day : then pack them upright. 

1722. CHEAP AKD OiMID YW- 
OAB. — To eight gallons of clear rain 
water, add three quarts of molasses ; 
turn the mixtui-e into a cleap, tight 
cask, shake it well two or three times, 
and add three spoonfuls of good yeast ; 
place the cask in a warm place, and 
in ten or fifteen days add a sheet of 
common wrapping jiaper, smeared with 
molasses, and torn into narrow strips, 
and you will have good vinegar. The 
paper is necessary to form the 
** mother," or life of the vinegar. 

1728. HORSSKABIS^ YIITBOAB. 
— l*our a quart of best vinegar on three 
ounces of scrai>ed horseradish, an ounce 
of minced shallot, and one drachm of 
cayenne ; let it stand a week, and you 
wUl have an excellent relish for told 
beef, salads, &c, costing but little. 
Horseradish is in tlie highest per- 
fection about November. 

1724. MINT VIKMAE.— Place 
into a wide-mouthed bottle, fresh, nice, 
clean mint leaves enough to fill it 
loosely ; then fill up the bottle with 
good vinegar ; and after it has been 
corked close for two or three weeks, 
pour it off clear into another bottle, 
and keep well corked for use. Serve 
with lamb when mint capnot Iw 
ol)tained« 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PERSEVERANCE IS THE BRIDGE BY WHICH PIFFICULTY IS OVERCOME. S4S 



1786. CEE8I yiWGAB.— Dry 
«na pound half-an-oimce of cress seed 
(sucn as is sown in the garden with 
mustard), pour upon it a quart of the 
best vinegar, let it steep for ten days, 
shaking it up every day. This is very 
strongly flavoured with cress, and is 
useful for salads, and as a sauce for 
cold meats, &c Celery vinegar may 
be made in the same manner. 

1726. BS81VCE 07 HTJIE- 
EOOXS. — This delicate relish is made 
by sprinkling a little salt over either 
flap or button mushrooms : three hours 
after, mash them, — next day, strain 
off the liquor that will flow from them, 
put it into a stewpan, and boil it till 
It is reduced one half. It will not 
keep long, but is preferable to any of 
the ketchups containing spice, &c., to 

S reserve them, which overpowers the 
avour of the mushrooms. An artificial 
mushroom bed will supply these all 
the year round. 

1727. XTJSHROOHKETCI^?.— 

Mix some moderate-sized mushrooms 
with common salt, stirring them for 
a day or two. Then press out the 
juice, and put in half-an-ounce of 
bruised cloves and half-an-ounce of 
mustard seeds to each gallon : also 
bruised ginger, black pepper, and 
allspice, one ounce of each. Heat 
them until they come to the boil, 
steep them for about a fortnight, 
decant or strain. 

J728. TOJIATOKBTCif^P.— This 

is made from tomatoes in the same 
way as the preceding, adding a small 
quantity of very strong chili vinegar. 

172&. OTSTEB KETCHUP. —Take 

some fresh oysters ; wash them in 
their own liquor, strain it, pound them 
in a marble mortar ; to a pint of 
oysters add a pint of sherry ; boil them 
up, and add an ounce of salt, two 
drachms of pounded mace, and one of 
cayenne ; let it just boil up again, 
skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; 
when cold, bottle it, cork well, aod 
peal it dowi^, 



173a VAl.]frUT K^TC^y.— 

Take two sieves of green walnut shells, 
put them into a tub, mix them up well 
with from two to three pounds of 
common salt, \pt them atand for six 
days, frequently beating and mashing 
them. By this time the shells become 
soft and pulpy, then by banking the 
mass up on one side of the tub, apd at 
the same time raising the tub on that 
side, the liquor will drain clear off to 
the other : then take t^at liquor out : 
the mashing and bankmg-up may be 
repeated as often as liquor is found. 
The quantity obtained will be about 
six quarts. When done, let it be 
simmered in an iron boiler as long as 
any scum arises ; then bruise a quiuter 
of a pound of ginger, a quarter of a 
pound of allspice, two ounces of long 
pepper, and two ounces of cloves. Let 
It slowly boil for half-an-hour wiUi 
the above ingredients ; when bottled, 
let an equal quantity of the spice go 
into each bottle. Before ^rkmg, let 
the bottles be filled quite up: cork 
them tight, seal them over, and put 
them into a cool and dry place for one 
year before they are used. 

1781. SflSSVOB OF CBLSBT.— 

This is prepared by soaking for a rort- 
night half-an-ounce of the seeds of 
celery in a quarter of a pint of brandy. 
A few drops will flavour a pint of 
soup or brotli equal to a head of celery, 

1782. TIVCTUBB OF ALLSPIOB. 

— Bruised allspice, 'one ounce and » 
half; brandy, a pint. Steep for a 
fortnight, occasionally shaking, then 
pour ofl* the clear Uquor. This is 
excellent for many of the uses of all- 
spice, such as making bishop, mulling 
wine, flavouring gravies, potted m^ts, 
e^c. 

1788. FLAVOUEIVO POWPn 

7OE BOXIFS.— Pound in a marble 
mortar half-an-ounca each of dried 
mint and sage, a drachm of celery 
seed, and a quarter of a drachm of 
cayenne pepper; rub them together 
through a fine sieve. This gives a veiy 
savoury relish to pea soup and evei^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



S44 



ONI DOUBT MAT LEAD TO DISBELIEF. 



to gnrueL A drachm of allspice, or 
black pepper, may be pounded with 
the above as an addition, or instead 
of the cayenne. 

1784. H0B8SRADISHP0WBBB. 

— ^The time to make this is daring 
November and December: slice the 
radish the thickness of a shilling, and 
lay it to dry veiT gradually inajDutch 
oven (a strong neat soon evaporates 
its flavour) ; when dry enough, pound 
it and bottle it. 

1786. CT7BBT POWBBB.--Take 

two ounces of turmeric, six ounces of 
coriander seed, half-an-ounoe of pow- 
dered pnoBT, two drachms of cmna- 
mon, SIX drachms of cayenne pepper, 
four drachms of black pepper, one 
drachm of mace and cloves, powdered 
fine, two drachms of pimento, four 
drachms of nutmeg, and an ounce and 
a half of fennel seed ; powder finely, 
mix, dry, and bottle for use. 

1786. Another Curry Powder.— 
Take of coriander seed and turmeric, 
each six drachms ; black pepper, four 
drachms ; fennel seed and powdered 
ginger, each two drachms ; cavenne 
pepper, half-a-drachm ; powder fiiiely, 
mix, dry, and bottle for use. 

1787. Indian Curry Powder.— 
Turmeric, four ounces; coriander 
seeds, eleven ounces; cayenne, half- 
an-ounce ; black pepper, five ounces ; 
pimento, two ounces ; cloves, half-an- 
ounce ; cinnamon, three ounces ; 
ffi^iger, two ounces; cummin seed, 
three ounces; shallots, one ounce. 
All these ingredients should be of a 
fine quality, and recently ground or 
powdered. 

178a CHUTJIEX. — One pound of 
salt, one pound of mustard seed, one 
pound of stoned raisins, one pound of 
orown sugar, twelve ounces of garlic, 
six ounces of cayenne pepijer, two 
quarts of unripe gooseberries, two 
quarts of best vinegar. The mustard 
seed gently dried and braised; the 
sugar made into a syrup with a pint 
of the vinegar ; the gooseberries dried 



and boiled in a quart of the vine^ ; 
the garlic to be well bruised m a 
mortar. When cold, gradually mix 
the whole in a large mortar, and with 
the remaining vin^rar thoroughly 
amalgamate them. To be tied down 
close. The longer it is kept the better 
it will become. 

1789. Wow Wow 8anee.— This is 
excellent for stewed or boiled beet 
ChoD parsley fine ; take two or three 

Sicklea cucumbers, or walnuts, and 
ivide into small squares, and set them 
by in readiness ; put into a sauce- 
pan a piece of butter as big as an egs ; 
when it is melted, stir into it a table- 
spoonful of fine flour, and half-a-nint 
01 the broth of the bc^f ; add a taole- 
spoonful of vinegar, one of mushroom 
ketchup, or port wine, or both, and a 
tablespoonfui of made mustard ; sim- 
mer together till it is as thick as you 
wish, put in the parsley and pickles 
to jget warm, and pour it over the 
bee^ or send it up in a sauce-tureen. 

1740. ANCEOVT SATJCX (d la 
minute), — ^Take a few anchovies and 
cut them up small, two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, three ounces of butter, 
half-a-tumblerful of water, and a 
tablespoonfui of flour. Stir over the 
fire until it thickens, and then pass it 
through a sieve. 

1741. AHCHOVT BITTTEE.— 
Scrape the skin from a dozen fine 
anchovies, take the flesh from the 
bones, pound it smooth in a mortar ; 
rub through a hair sieve, put the 
anchovies into the mortar with three- 
quarters of a pound of fresh butter, a 
small quantity of cayenne, and a 
saltspoonful of grated nutmeg and 
mace ; beat together until thorouglTly 
blended. If to serve cold, mould the 
butter in small shapes, and turn it 
out. For preservation, press the 
butter into jars, and keep cool. 

1742. L0B8TEB BUTTEB is 

made in the same manner as anchovy 
butter. A mixture of anchovy butter 
and lobster butter is considered ex- 
cellent. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A BLIND MAN SHOULD NOT JUDGE OP COLOUR. 



845 



1748. WHITE SAXICE, or Xelted 
Bntter. — Put a dessertspoonful of 
flour and a little salt in a basin, mix 
gradually with a quarter of a Dint of 
cold water, turn it into a small clean 
saucepan, boil for two minutes, stirring 
well, then add an ounce and a half of 
butter cut small and stir till it is 
auite melted. In mixing water and 
flour to form melted butter, a small 
hole should be made in the middle 
and the water then poured into this 
hole. Then stir Tonnd from the centre 
instead of from the side of the basin, 
and the butter will by this means be 
free from lumps. 

1744. BGG SAUCE.— Put the e^gs 
on the fire in cold water, and after 
they have come to the boil, let them 
continue boiling for five minutes. 
Then take them out of the saucepan, 
pour cold water over them, crack the 
shells, and put them into f^'esh cold 
water until they are wanted ; then 
chop them finely and add them tp 
melted butter made as above. 

1745. LIVER SAXICS FOB FISH. 

— Boil the liver of the fish, and pound 
it in a mortar with a little flour, stir it 
into some broth, or some of the liquor 
the fish was boiled in, or melted butter, 
with some chopped parslev, a few 
grains of cayenne, and a little essence 
of anchovy, soy, or ketchup ; give 
the whole a boil up, and rub it through 
a sieve ; a little lemon iuice, or lemon 
cut in dice, may be added, if liked. 

1746. SAUCE FOB FISH— 

Twenty-four anchovies, chopped ; ten 
shallots ; two ounces of horseradish, 
scraped ; four blades of mace ; one 
lemon, sliced ; twelve cloves ; one 
quarter of an ounce of black pepper, 
whole ; one gill of the anchovy liquor ; 
one quart of best vinegar ; one quart 
of water. Let the whole simmer on 
the fire, in a covered saucepan, until 
reduced to one quart, strain, and bottle 
for use. If required for long keeping, 
add a quarter of an ounce of cayenne 
pepper. 



1747. APPLE SATJCE.— Pare and 

core three good-sized baking apples, 
put them into a well-tinned pmt sauce- 
pan, with two tablespoonfuls of cold 
water ; cover the saucepan close, and 
set it on a trivet over a slow fire a 
couple of hours before dinner, — some 
apples will take a long time stewing, 
others will be ready in a quarter of an 
hour. When the apples are done 
enouffh pour off the water, let them 
stand a lew minutes to ffet dry ; then 
boat them up with a fork, with a bit 
of butter about as big as a nutmeg, 
and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar : 
some persons add lemon peel, gratea 
or minced fine,— or boil a small piece 
with the apples. Many persons are 
fond of apple sauce with cold pork, 
goose, and ducks. 

1748. OBILL SAUCE.— To a 
quarter of a pint of gravy add half-an- 
ounoe of butter and a dessertspoonful 
of flour, well rubbed together; the 
same of mushroom or walnut ketchup ; 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; half-a- 
teaspoonful of made mustard, and of 
minced capers; a small quantity of 
black pepper ; a little lemon peel 
grated very thin ; a saltspoonful of 
essence of anchovies ; a very small 
piece of minced shallot, and a little 
chili vinegar, or a few grains of 
cavenne ; simmer together for a few 
minutes ; pour a portion of it over the 
grill, and send up the remainder in a 
sauce-tureen. 

1749. TOKATO SAUCE.— Twelve 
tomatoes, ripe and red ; take off the 
stalk ; cut in halves ; put them in a 
stewpan with a capsicum, and two or 
three tablespoonfuls of beef gravy ; 
set on a slow stove till properly melted ; 
rub them through a sieve into a clean 
stewpan ; add a little white pepper 
and salt, and let them simmer a few 
minutes. — French cooks add an onion 
or shallot, a clove or two, or a little 
tarragon vinegar. 

1750. BEEF GBAYY SAUCE, Or 
Brown Sauce for Bagout, Oame, Poul- 
try, Fifh, *o.— If you want gravy, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



946 



LITTLI B04T9 UTJ9T X^X? KXAE T0X SI^OUS. 



pat in a thick and well -tinned stewpan 
a thin slice of fat ham or bacon, or an 
ounce of butter, and a middling-sized 
onion ; on this lay a pound of nice 
juicy gravy-beef well beaten and 
scored ; cover the stewpan, set it on 
a slow fire ; when the meat begins to 
brown, turn it about, and let it get 
slightly browned (but t€ike care it is 
not at c^ll hunU) : then pour iu a pint 
and a half of boiling water, set the 
mn on the fire. When it boiU, care- 
fully catch the scum, aud then put in 
a crust qf bread toasted brown (don't 
burn it), a sprig of winter savoui-y, or 
lemon thyme and parsley, a roll of 
thin-cut lemon peel, a dozen berries 
of allspice, and a dozen of black 
pepper ; cover the stewpan close, let 
it stew very gently for about two hours, 
then strain it through a sieve into a 
basin. If you wish to thicken it, set 
a clean stewpan over a slow fire, with 
about an ounce of batter in it ; when 
it is melted, dredge into it (by degrees) 
as much flour as will dry it up, stirring 
thom intimately ; when thoroughly 
mixed, pour in a little of the gravy, — 
stir it well together, and add the re- 
mainder by degrees; set it over the 
fire, let it simmer gently for fifteen or 
twenty minutes longer, and skim off 
the fat, &c., as it rises. "When it is 
about as thick as cream, squeeze it 
through a tamis or fine sieve, and you 
will have a fine rich brown sauce, at a 
very moderate expense, and without 
much trouble. Observe — 1 f yon wish to 
make it MtUl more relishing—for 
poultry, you may pound the liver with 
a piece of butter, rub it through a 
sieve, and stir it into the sauoe when 
you pat in the thickening. 

1751. BBLI8H FOB 0X0P8, *e. 

— Pound fine an ounce of black pepper, 
and half-an-oonce of allspice, witn an 
ounce of salt, and halr-an-onnce of 
scraped horseradish, and the same of 
shallots, peeled and qnartered ; pot 
these ingrodients into a pint of mush- 
room ketchup, or walnut pickle, and 
let them steep for a fortnight, and 



then strain it Observe — A teaspoon - 
ful or two of this is generally an 
acceptable addition, mixed with the 
gravy usually sent up for chops and 
hteaks ; or added to thick melted 
butter. 

1762. 04PSK SAUOX.— Put into 
a saucepan two ounces of butter and 
a tablespoonful of flour, and stir them 
over the fire until brown: then add 
about a pint of stock, first akimmins 
the fat off, and add pepper, salt, and 
a little Worcester sauce. Directly the 
sauce boils, put sufficient capers in, 
and boil once more, when it is ready 
for use. 

1768. 8A0E m (unoKuyos. 

— Chop very fine an oimce of onion and 
half-an-ounce of groen sage leaves, put 
them into a stewpan with four spoon- 
fuls of water, simmer gently for ten 
minutes, then put in a teaspoonful of 
pepper and salt, and one ounce of fine 
bread-crumbs ; mix well together : 
then pour to it a quarter of a pint at 
broth, or gravy, or melted butter ; stir 
well togetner, and simmer it a few 
minutes longer. This is an excellent 
relish for roast pork, poultry, geese or 
ducks, or green peas. 

1764. XOCX OEAB.— Take any 
required quantity of good fat mellow 
cheese, pound it well in a mortar, in- 
corporating made mustard, calad oil, 
vinegar, pepper (cayenne is the best), 
and salt sufficient to season and render 
it about the consistence of the cream 
of a crab. Add and mix well half-a- 
pint or more of pickled shrimps, and 
serve in a crab- shell, or on a dish, 
garnished with slices of lemon. 

17^. GABHI8H:B8. 

I. Parsley is the most universal 
garnish for all kinds of cold meat, 
poultry, fish, butter, cheese, and so 
forth. * Horseradish is the garnish for 
roast beef, and for fish in general ; 
for the latter, slices of lemon are 
sometimes laid alternately with the 
horseradish. 

ii Slices of lemon for boiled fowl, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



?IN ANP VX^ XR% T9S Q1B8T wmqcssss. 



S47 



turkey, ^nd fish, and for roast yeal and 
(^Ifshead. 

lit Carrot in slices for boiled beef, 
bot or cold. 

4^. Barberries, fresh or preserved, 
for game. 

V. Red beetroot sliced for cold meat, 
boUed beef, and salt fish. 

yi. Fried smelts as garnish for 
turbot. 

Tii. Fried sansages, forcemeat balls 
are placed round turkey, capon, or 
fowl. 

▼iii. Lobster coral and parsley round 
boiled fish. 

is. Fennel for maokerel^aud salmon, 
either fresh or pickled. 

Y. Currant jelly for game, also for 
custard or bread pudding. 

xi Seville orange or lemon in slices 
for wild ducks, widgeons, teal, and so 
forth. 

zii. Mint, either with or without 
parsley, for roast lamb, either hot or 
cold. 

^. pickled ffherkina, capers, or 
iiniona, for some kinds of boiled meat 
and stews. 

1756. OSSAM WmPPEB.— Take 

the whites of a dozen e^, one quart 
of cream, half-a-pint or sherry, ten 
drops of essence of mnsk, three drops 
of essence of orange peeL Whisk into 
froth and put it in a sieve. Fill 
glasses with the cream, the froth being 
poured on top. 

1757. OoiEieOiiitarci.— Take half- 
a-pint of hot milk, and the same 
quantity of strong coffee, also two 
ounces of sugar. Having dissolved 
the ^ugar iu Uie hot milk and coffee, 
add the same slowly to four eggs 
previously well beaten up. 

1758. DBYOKSHIBB JUimT.— 

Put warm milk into a bowl, turn it 
with a little rennet, then add some 
acalded cre^m, sugar, and cinnamon 
on the tpp, without breaking the 
curd. 



175a JMtJOs motauTim. 

The following particulars have been 
very carefully compiled by experienced 
legal practitioners; great pains have 
been taken to ensure correctness, but 
the publishers do not hold them- 
selves responsible for any possible 
inaccuracies that may arise from the 
passing of new acts, io. 

1760. BequiBitM for a Snoeestftil 
Law Buit — A lady asked an attorney 
what were the requisites for going to 
law. lie replied, ^'Jlrst, you must 
have a good cause ; secondly, a good 
attorney; thirdly, a good counsel; 
fourthly, good evidence; fifthly, a 
good jury; sixthlv, a good judge; 
and laistly, good luck,** 

1761. LAWS OF XMPLOTEIt AHP 
£HPLOt£D. 
1762. Hinng amd Dimiiial.— A 

general hiring of domestic servants 
is construed as a hiring for a year, 
but the hiring ma^ be put an end 
to by either party giving to the other 
one mouth's notice, or in the case 
of the employer one month's wages in 
lieu of notice. As regards govemesges 
and clerks the general hiring is the 
same, but in the absence or special 
arrangement made at the time of 
hiring a three months* warning is 
required. The terms on which clerks 
and superior servants are employed 
being very various, it is desimble 
to have a specific agreement. 

1768. Agreements with Xenial 
Servants need not be stamped; but 
contracts of a higher and t|)eoial 
character should be. 

1764. Agreemenlt rtwuld 1)ear 
Evidence of Kfituality of ^t^reft.-- 
jf one party agrees to ^tay with 
another, and give gratuitous services, 
with the view of acquiring knowledge 
of a business, and the other party does 
not agree to employ and to teadi^ the 
agreement is void, as being without 
consideration. 

1766. An Xmp^oy^r mnat Con- 
traqt to Sxpploy, a» wejl as ^ servw^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



848 



OKI 8T0BT 18 GOOD UNTIL ANOTHBR IS TOLD. 



to servet otherwise the employer may 
put an end Ur the contract at bis own 
pleasure. In such a case a servant 
may be dismissed without notice. 
But where a servant agrees to serve 
a master in a certain cHiiacity for a 
definite time, it must not be implied, 
from this circum»tanoe alone, that 
the master agrees to retain the servant 
in his employ until the expiration of 
that time. 

1766. Agreements to give Per- 
manent Employment are received as 
extending onl^r to a substantial and 
reasonable period of time, and that 
there shall be no immediate and 
peremptory dismiBBal without cause. 

1767. BroakaffOi.— When no 
stipulation is maoe at the time of 
the hiring, or in the agreement, that 
a servaut shall be liable for breakages, 
injuries from neffligeuoe, &c., the em- 
ployer can onfy recover from the 
servaut by due nrocess of law. The 
effect of recent aecisioos is to permit 
deductions to be made from the 
servant's wages for breakages ; and if 
the master is sued for the mil amount 
of the wage<<, he nay oounterclaim 
for the damage. 

1768. It if Advisable to StipuUte 
that, if a servant quit his employ 
before the specified time, or without 
due notice, a certain amount of wages 
shall be forfeited ; otherwise the em- 
ployer can only recover by action for 
damages. 

1769. Liyeriei.— It should be 
agreed that servants deliver these up 
on quitting service. 

1770. nineisof.— If a servant, 
retained for a year, happen within 
the period of his service to fall sick, 
or to be hurt or lamed, or otherwise 
to become of infirm body by the act 
of God, while doing his master's 
business, the roaster cannot put such 
servant away, nor abate any part of 
his wages for such time, unless the 
servant agrees that he may do so. 



1771. Xedieal Attendtneo.-^A 
master is not bound to provide 
medical attendance for his menial 
servants, but if he calls in his own 
medical attendant and instructs him 
to attend the servant he is liable for 
his fees. 

1772. Upon the Death of a 
Servant, his i^ersonal representative 
may claim arrears of wages due, 
unless the contract of employment 
specified and required the completion 
of any particular period. 

1778. Difmiisali.— When the 
hiring of a superior servant is for a 
year, if the servant, prior to the 
expiration of the year, commits any 
act by which he may be lawfully 
discharged, he cannot claim wages 
for the part of the year which he may 
have served. But a menial servant 
may claim up to the date of his 
dismissal, unless his discharge be for 
embezzlement or other felonious acts. 

1774. When a Kaster beoomef 
Bankrupt or Insolvent, the wages or 
salary of any clerk or servaut in his 
employ, not exceeding four months' 
wages or salary, and not more than 
£50, is payable on an equality " with 
twelve months* rates and taxes in 
priority to any other debts." So also 
the wages of any labourer or workman 
not exceeding £25, For any further 
sums due to him, the clerk, servant^ 
or workman must prove against the 
bankrupt's estate tne same as other 
creditors. 

1776. Booeipts should be taken 
for Wages paid.— Where servants 
have been under age, it has been 
held that moneys advanced for fineries 
and extravagances unbecoming to a 
servant did not constitute payment 
of wages, and the employer has been 
compelled to pay again. 

1776. Xoneyi paid to a Karried 
Woman.— The receipt of a married 
woman is a good discharge for any 
wages or earnings acquired or gained 
by her in any employment or occupa- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SAVtKO AFFORDS THE MXANS OF OIVINO. 



840 



tion in which she is engaged separatolj 
from her husband. 

1777. When a Sexruit Beservet 
to Himself Speeial PrlTilegei, such 
as particular portions of his time, the 
hiring becomes special, and cannot 
be governed by the teims of general 
engagements. So, also, where a 
servant stipulates to be exempted 
from particular duties that usually 
belong to his situation. 

1778. Should a Serrant Befoie to 
Perform any duty required from him, 
his right so to refuse will generally be 
determined by the usages prevailing 
among servants of a similar class. 

1779. Porohaie of Goods by 
Servants for Employer. — A servant 
cannot by buying goods for his em- 
ployer's use pledge his master's credit, 
unless his master authorized him to 
do so, or unless the master has pre- 
viously paid for goods bought by the 
servant in like manner on a former 
occasion. If a master contracts with 
a servant to provide certain things 
and pays him for so doing, a trades- 
man supplying the things can only 
sue the servant and not the master 
for his money. 

1780. Besponsibility for Acts of 
Servant.— It is an established maxim 
in law, that whoever does an act by 
the hands of another shall be deemed 
to have done it himself. And hence, 
in many matters, masters are respon- 
sible for the acts of their servants. 
But if a servant does an unlawful act, 
not arising out of the dbcharge of his 
duties to his master, then the employer 
is not responsible. 

1781. A Servant being Sednoed 
from the Employment of a master, 
the latter has a right of action against 
the seducer for losses sustained. 

1782. Giving Charaoters Optional. 
— An employer is not bound to give a 
servant a character, but if he does, 
he must give what he believes to be a 
true one. If he give a false character 
frt>m motives of malioe he will render 



himself liable for an action for libel 
or slander; but the representations 
jpust be proved to be false as well as 
malicious. 

1788. Employers* Liability to 
Workmen for Ixgnries. — By the 
•' Employers' Liability Act," 1880, a 
workman may recover from his em- 
ployer damages for personal injuries 
sustained by him in the course of his 
employment, if the accident happen 
through any one of the following 
causes: — 

i A defect in the way, works, 
machinery, qr plant used in tbe em- 
ployer's business, and which defect 
the employer negligently allows to 
remain unremedied. 

iL The negligence of some super- 
intendent or overlooker in the service 
of the employer. 

iiL The negli^^ence of the foreman 
or other person in the service of the 
employer, whose orders or directions 
the workman was bound to obey and 
did obey. 

iy. The act or omisaion of any 

Serson in the service of the employer, 
one or made in obedience to the 
rules, bye-laws, or instructions of the 
emplover. 

v. The negligence of any person in 
the service <5 the employer, who has 
the charae or control of any signal, 
points, locomotive engine, or train 
upon a railway. 

1784. Hotioe to Employer.— 
Notice in writing of the injury must 
be given to the employer, or sent by 
registered post, within six weeks of 
the injury, giving the name and 
address of the person injured, the 
date of the acciaent, and stating in 
ordinary language tbe cause of the 
injury. 

1785. Actions for Compensation 

to be brought in County Court — Ail 
actions for compensation under the 
above Act must be brought in the 
County Court, and commenced within 
six months of the accident, or, in case 
the workman die and the action is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



850 



SLAKDiek 18 A POtSOK, POR WUtCH 



brought by his repreaentatives, then 
within twelte mohtns fh>m bis death. 
ITBd. The Workmen's Compensa- 
tion Act, 1897 (60 and 61 Vic. c. 37), is 
another Act which enables workmen 
engaged in certain trades therein speci- 
fied to recover damages for injorios 
sustained in the course of their em- 
]>lojmeut, and in the event of the 
death of such workmen through such 
injury enables the dependents of such 
workmen to recover — 

(1) If wholly dependent on his 
earnings, a sum equal to his catn- 
ings in the employment of the same 
employer during the three years 
preceding the injury, or £150, which- 
ever sum be the larger, but not 
exceeding in any case £300. 

(2) If partially dependent, such 
sum, not exceeding in any case the 
amount payable under the foregoing 
provision, as may be agreed upon, 
or in default of agreement, as may 
be determined by arbitration under 
the Act 

(8) If no dependents, the reason- 
able expenses of medical attendance 
and burial, not exceeding £10. 

Proceedings for recovery of damages 
under this Act shall not be maintain- 
able unless notice of the accident has 
been given as soon as practicable 
after the happening thereof, and 
before the workman nas voluntarily 
left the employment in which he 
was injured, and unless the claim 
has been made within six months 
from the accident, or in the case of 
death within six months from the 
time of death. 

N.£. — It is impossible in a work of 
this description to allude to all the 
provisions of this Act Our readers 
should therefore refer to the Act 
itself, or in case of accident should 
consult some respectable solicitor as 
to their rights under the Act 

1787. LAirs 07 UUfSIORD 

AND nVAHT. 
176d. Leases.— A lease is a con- 
l^eyance from the lessor to the lessee 



of premises or lands fbr a specified 
term of years, at a yearly rent, with 
definite conditions as to alterations, 
repairs, payment of rent, forfeitture, 
kc. Being an instrument of much 
importance, it should always be drawn 
by a respectable solicitor» who will 
see that all the conditions, in the 
interest of the lessee, are fulfilled. 

1789. PrecantiOns.— In taking a 
lease, the tenant's solicitor should 
carefully examine the covenants, or 
if he take an under-lease, he should 
ascertain the covenants of the original 
lease, otlierwise, when too Itte, he 
may find himself so restricted in his 
occupation that the premises may be 
wholly useless for his purpose, or 
he may be involved in perpetual diffi- 
culties and annoyances; for instance, 
he may find himself restricted fVom 
making alterations convenient or 
necessary for his trade; he may find 
himself comi>elled to rebuild or pay 
rent in case of fire; he may find 
himself subject to forfeiture of his 
lease, or other penalty, if he should 
underlet or assign his interest, carry 
on some particu&r trade, &c 

1790. Covenant!.— The covenants 
on the landlord's part are usually for 
the quiet enjoyment of the premises 
bv the lessee. On the tenant's part, 
they are usually to pay the rent and 
taxes, to insure against fire, to keep 
the premises in suitable repair; and 
to deliver vip possession when the 
term has expired. 

1791 . Bent and Tazei. —The lessee 
covenants to pay the rent and all 
taxes, except the land and proper^ 
taxes and tithe rent charge, which 
may be deducted from the rent. 

1792. Aatignments. — Unless there 
be a covenant against assignment, la 
lease may be assioned, that is, the 
whole interest of the lessee may be 
conveyed to another, or it may be 
under-let ; if, therefore, it is intended 
that it should not, it is proper to 
insert a covenant to restrain the 
lessee firbm assigning or under-letting. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



It IS I)lfr^!Ct?LT TO I^IND AN ANTlDotK. 



851 



Tenants for terms of years may 
assign or under-let, but tenants at 
will cannot. 

1798. Bepain. — A tenant who 
covenants to keep a house in repair is 
not answerable for its natural decay, 
but is bound to keep it wind and 
water tight, so that it does not decay 
for want of cover. A lessee who 
covenants to pay rent and keep the 
premises in repair, is liable to pay 
the rent although the preniisos may 
be burned down ; unless a stipulation 
to the contrary be inserted in the 
lease. 

17M. HUturancfc. — When insuring 
the premises agftihst damage by lire 
the lessee should also insure for one 
year's rent. 

17d5. Hep^leot of &epain by 
Landlord. — If a landlord covenant to 
repair, and neglect to do so, the 
tenant may do it, and withhold so 
much of the rent. But it is advisable 
that notice thereof should be given 
by the tenant to the landlord, in 
tne presence of a witness, prior to 
commencing the repairs. 

1796. Eight of landlord to 
Enter Premises. — A landlord may 
enter upon the premises (having 
given previous notice, although not 
expressed in the lease), for the pur- 
pose of viewing the state of the 
property. 

1797. Termination of Leases.-— 
A tenant must deliver up poi^session 
at the expiration of the term (the 
lease being sufficient notice), or he 
will continue liable to the rent as 
tenant by sufferance without any 
new contract; but if the landlord 
recognizes such tenancy by accepting 
a payment of rent after the lease 
has expired, such acceptance will con- 
stitute a yearly tenancy ; but previous 
to accepting rent, the landlord may 
bHng nis ejectment without notice; 
for, the lease having expired, the 
tenant is a trespasser. A lease 
covenanted to be void if the rent be 
not paid upon the day appointed, is 



good, unless the landlord inake an 
entry. 

179a Dilapidatioms.— Under the 
ordinary tenants' covenants to keep 
and give up the premises in repair, 
the following appears to be the 
genend rule: — "If repairs can be 
effected they can be so made: but 
if the damage is so great as to render 
repairs impossible, the parts must be 
made good. A tenaUt is bound to 
replace aU broken and loose tiles in 
the roof; to restore all pointing and 
filleting ; to make good (tiiat is renew, 
not repair) all defective brickwork in 
chimneys, walls, para]^t8, kc. ; and 
to replace broken chimney-pots. " 

1*799. Compensation on Termina- 
tion of Lease. — Under the ' * Allotments 
and Cottage Gardens Act, 1887" 
(50 & 61 Vict. c. 26), on the termina- 
tion of a holding the tenant can, 
notwithstanding any agreement to 
the contrary, obtain compensation in 
money from the landlord in respect 
of: — 

(a) Crops, including fruit, growing 
on the holding, and fruit trees and 
bushes which the tenant has planted 
with the previous written consent of 
the landlord. 

(6) Labour and manure bestowed 
on the holding since the last crop 
in anticipKtion of another crop; 
and 

(c) Drains and structural improve- 
ments made with the written consent 
of the landlord. 

If they cannot agree upon the amount 
and time of payment, the question is 
to be settled oy arbitration. 

1800. Married Women, with the 
concurrence of their husbands, may 

Ct leases by deed for any term, 
bands, seised in right of their 
wives, may grant leases for twenty- 
one years. If a wife is executrix, 
the husoand and wife have the power 
of leasing, as in the ordinary case of 
husband and wife. A married woman 
living separate fix)m her husband may 
by taking a lease bind her separate 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



852 



•HE THAT OIVBTH TO THE POOR LENBSTH TO THE LOED.^ 



estate for payment of the rent and 
perfonnance of the covenants. 

1801. Copyholders may not grant 
a lease for longer than one year, 
unless by costom, or permission of 
the lord : and the lease of a steward 
of a manor is not good, unless he is 
duly invested with a power for that 
purpose. 

1802. Tearly Tonanciei. — Houses 
are considered as let for the year, and 
the tenants are subject to the laws 
aflfecting annual tenancies, unless there 
be an agreement in writing to the 
contrary. 

180S. Affrtenunt for taking a House on an 
Ann%uU Tenanep. — Memonuidum of Agree- 
ment, entered Into this d«y of 

18 , between R. A., of , and 

L. O., of , aa follows — 

The said R. A. doth hereby let unto the 
said L. O. the dweUing*hoiise, situate in 

, in the parish of , for the 

term of one year certain, and so on from 
year to year, until halfni-year's notice expir- 
ing at the end of the current year of the 
tenancy to quit be given by or to either 

party, at the yearly rent of pounds, 

payable quarterly ; the tenancy to commence 
at day next. 

And the said R A. doth undertake to pay 
the land-tax, the property-tax, and the 
■ewer-rate, and to keep the said house in all 
necessary repairs, so long as the said L. O. 
■hall continue therein. And the said L. O. 
doth undertake to take the said house of 
R. A. for the before-mentioned term and 
rent, and pay all rent, rates and taxes, except 
as aforesaid. The said R. A. to be at liberty 
to re-enter if any rent shall be in arrear for 
31 days, whether such rent has been de- 
manded or not 

Witness our hands, the day and year 
aforesaid. R A. 

Witness, O. G. L. O. 

1804. Payment of Taxes by land- 
lord. — If the landlord agree to pay all 
the rates and taxes, then a different 
wording of the agreement should take 
place, as thus : — 

And the said R A. doth undertake to pay 
•U rates and taxes, of whatever nature or 



kind, chargeable on the sakl boose and 
premises, and to keep the said house in all 
necessary repairs, so long as the said L. O. 
shall continue therein. 

1805. Indemnity from Arrean. — 
If the landlord agree to secure the in- 
coming tenant from all arrears (and 
the tenant should see to this) due on 
account of rent, rates, and taxes, the 
indemnification should be written on 
a separate pap|er, and in something 
like the following terms : — 

1806. Indemni^UaUon againtt Jtoito, HaUSt 
and Taxes in Arrear. — I, R A., landlord of 
a certain house and premises now about to 
be taken and occupifd by L. O., do hereby 
agree to indemnify the said L. O. fttmt the 
payment of any rent, taxes, or rates, in 
arrear, prior to the date of the day at which 
his said tenancy commences. As witness 
my hand this day of — ^ 18 

RA., 
Landlord of the above 
Witness, G. C. premises. 

1807. Agreement for taking a House for 
Three Teart.— Memorandum of an agree- 
ment made the day of , 

18 , between R A., of , and L. O. 

of , as follows :— 

The said R A. doth let unto the said 
L. O. a house and garden (if any) with 

appurtenances, situate in , -in the 

parish of , for three years certain. 

The rent to commence from day 

next, at and under the yearly rent of 

, payable quarterly on the usual 

quarter days, the first payment to be at 
day next. 



The said L. O. doth agree to take the said 
house (and garden) of the said R A., for the 
term and rent payable in manner aforesaid, 
and will also pay all rates, taxes, and assess- 
ments payable in respect of the said pre- 
mises ; and that he will, at the expiration of 
the term, leave the house in as good repair 
as he found it [reasonable wear and tear 
excepted]. The said R A. to be at liberty 
to re-enter, if any rent shall be in arrear for 
21 days, whether such rent has been de- 
manded or not. Witness our hands. 

R A. 

Witness, Q. 0. L. a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PBOVIDX AGAINST A RAINT DAT. 



858 



1806. PftTiiientofBent.— Rentis 
usually pajable at the regular quarter- 
days, namely, Lady-day, or March 
25th ; Midsummer-day, or June 24th ; 
Michaelmas-day, September 29th ; 
and Christmas-day, December 25th. 
It is due at mid-day ; but no proceed- 
ings for non-payment, where the 
tenant remains upon the premises, can 
be taken till the next day. 

1809. Payment of Bent Impera- 
tive. — ^No consideration will waive the 
payment of the rent, should the land- 
lord insist on demanding it Even 
should the house be burnt, blown, or 
&11 down, the tenant is still liable for 
rent; and the tenancy can only be 
voided by the proper notice to quit, 
the same as if tne nouse remained in 
the most perfect condition. 

1810. Demanding Bent — The 
landlord himself is ue person most 
proper to demand rent ; ne may em- 
ploy another person, but if he does, he 
must authorize him by letter, or by 
power of attorney ; or the demand 
may be objected to. 

1811. Beoeipt for Bent— When 
an agent has been duly authorized, a 
receipt from him for any subsequent 
rent is a le^ acquittance to the 
tenant, notwithstanding the landlord 
ma^ have revoked the authority under 
which the a^ent acted, unless the 
landlord should have given the tenant 
due and proper notice thereof. 

1812. Legal Tender.— A tender 
of rent should be in the current coin 
of the kingdom. But a tender of 

*Bank of England notes is good, even 
in cases of distress, and mou^h the 
tender be made on a Sunday, it will 
be a legal one. If the landlord take 
a distress after the rent has been 
tendered it will be illegal, and he will 
be liable to an action. 

1818. Ftirm nf a Ktcdpi for Rent.^'B»- 
ceived of Mr. L. O. the snm of ten pounds 
ten shillings, for a quarter's rent dne at Lady- 
day iMt, for the house, No. , street 

JIO lOt. [Stamp] B. A. 
[Date] 



If the receipt be given by an agent, 
it should be signed — 

G. a. 

Agent for R. A., landlord of the above 
premises. 

1814. Care of Beeeipts for Bent. 
— Be careful of your last quarter's 
receipt for rent, for the production of 
that document bars all prior claim. 
Even when arrears have been due on 
former quarters, the receipt, if given 
for the last quarter, precludes the 
landlord from recovery thereof. 

1816. Hotices. — All notices of 
whatever description, relating to ten- 
ancies, should be in writing, and the 
person serving the said notice should 
write on the back thereof a memoran- 
dum of the date on which it was 
served, and should keep a copy of 
the said notice, with a similar memo- 
randum attached. 

1816. Hotioes to Quit— When 
either the landlord or tenant intends 
to terminate a tenancy, the way to 
proceed is by a notice to quit, which 
IS drawn up in the following ways :— 

1817. Ponh <tf a NoUct to Quit from a 
Tonant to hi* landi^rd.— Sir,— I hereby give 

you notice, that on or before the 

day of next, I shall quit and deliver 

up possession of the house and premises I 

now hold of you, situate at , in the 

parish of — , in the county of > 

Dated the day of , 18 

Witness, O. a L. O. 

To Mr. R. A. 

1818. Notice from Landlord to hi* TenanL 
—Sir,— I hereby give you notice to quit and 
deliver up possession to me of the house and 

appurtenances, situate No. , which 

you now hold of me, on or before — — 
next 

Dated , 18 . 

(Signed) R. A. (landlord). 

To Mr. L. O. 

1819. Form qfNotiet from a Landlord to 
Ju* Tenant to Quit or Pajf an inereoied JUnL 
—To Mr. R A.— Sir,— I hereby give you 
notice to deliver up possession, and quit on 

or before , the [Aen ttaU tJu houM 

or apartmaUl and appartenanoes whioh you 

S 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 



A tttmoKT icAU mm f ail 



mm hold at mtein [kmtri 1h» ihmm ^$tnet, 
dx.]f and in de&ult at your compliance 
therewith, I do and will iniist on your pay- 
ing me for the tame, the [annual or monthly] 

rent of , being an additional rental of 

pounds per annum [over and above the 

pttaent annuixl rental] rent, fbr snch time 
as you shall detain the key and keep pos- 
session over the said notice. 

Witness my hand, this day of , 18 

Witness, G. C. L. O. 

' 18&0. Len^^fVotieereqiired. 

— An opimon is very generally enter- 
tained, that a quarter's warning to 
qnit, where the house is of small 
rental, is sufficient notice ; hut where 
the rent is payable quarterly, or at 
longer intervals, this is a mistake, for 
unless a special agreement is made 
defining the time to be given as a 
warning, six months* notice to quit 
must be given, to expire on the same 
day of the year upon which the ten- 
Ancy commenced. VThere the rent 
is payable weekly or monthly, the 
notice to anit will be good if given 
fbr the week or month, provided care 
be taken that it expires upon the day 
of the week or month of the begin- 
ning of the tenancy. 

1821. Heftifal to Give up Poftef- 

tion. — If a tenant holds over, after 
receiving a sufficient notice to quit, 
in writing, he becomes liable to pay 
double the yearly value ; if he holds 
over after having himself given even 
parole notice to quit, be is liable to 
pay double rent. If he refuses to 
quit, the landlord is not justified in 
putting him out by force, but must 
take proceedings by ejectment If, 
however, the tenant be gone away, 
and the house deserted (no one being 
in possession), the landlord may b« 
justified in breaking into it and 
obtaining possession. 

1822. lOBGtHOi m tOBGJCES. 
1828. Distraiat w. Fundtuit, 
*o. •£ Lodff«r. — The goods of a 
lodger are not liable to distress for 
nut due to ths superior fauidlord. If 



any fomiture, goodS) et chattels of a 
lodger are distrained for rent due to 
the superior landlord, the lodgef 
should immediately serve the superior 
landlord or his bailiff or person dis* 
training with a declaration in writing, 
setting forth that the immediate ten* 
ant ot the house has no interest in the 
things distrained, and that the same 
are the property, or in the lawful 
possession, of such lodger, and also 
settiug forth whether any and what 
rent is due, and for what period, from 
the lodger to his immediate landlord ; 
and the lodger should pay to the 
superior lan£ord, or his bailiff, or 
person distraining, the rent so due 
from him, or so much as shall be suf- 
ficient to diBcharge the claim of the 
superior landlord. The lodger should 
make out and sign an inventory of the 
thinp^s claimed by him, and annex it 
to his declaration. 

1824. AppliMtiMi to Mafiatrata. 

— If, after taking these steps, the 
superior landlord, or his bailiff, should 

f)roceed with a distress upon the 
odger's goods, the lodger should ap- 
ply to a stipendiary magistrate or to 
two justices of the peace, who will 
order his goods to be restored to liim, 
and the superior landlord will also be 
liable to an action at the suit of the 
lodger. 

1886. Irokar Entflring Apart* 
menta. — A broker having obtained 
possession through the outer door, 
may break open any of the private 
doors of the lodgers, if necessary, for 
the purpose of detraining the goods of 
the tenant 

1826. fta&ting Isr a ipaeifta Tnm, 
— If lodgings are taken for a certain 
and specified time, no notice to quit 
is necessary. If the lodger, however, 
continue after the expiration of the 
term, he bec<Hnea a regular lodger, 
unless there is an agreement to the 
contrary. If he owe rent, the house* 
keeper can detain hia goods whilst on 
the premises, or distrain, as a landloi^ 
may distrain the gooda of a tenant 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ttE THAT Ptkra WttH FtRE MAY BB B0BNT. 



SAft 



1887* Lodgers uici Hom^lidlA- 
tn boiisd by the same Lair.— No 
distinction exists between lodgers and 
other tenants as to the payment of 
their rent, or the turning them out of 
ponession ; they are also similarly 
dreumstanced with regard to distress 
for rent, as householders, except that 
(as above mentioned) the goods of 
lodgers cannot be distrained for rent 
due to the superior landlord. 

1828. Weekly Tenanti.— In case 
of weekly tenants, the rent should be 

• paid weekly, for if it is once let to mu 
a quarter, and the landlord accept it 
as a quarter, the tenant cannot be 
forced to quit without a quarter's 
notice. 

1829. Tearly Lodgers. —Lodgings 
by the year should only be taken from 
a person who is either proprietor of 
the house, or holds possession for an 
unexpired term of years. 

1830. Furnished Lodgings. — 
Furnished lodgings are usually let by 
the week, on payment of a fixed sum, 
part of which is considered as rent for 
the apartment, and part for the use of 
the mmiture. In some instances an 
agreement is made for so much per 
week rent, and so much for the use of 
the furniture, and to place all moneys 
received to the account of the furni- 
ture, until that part of the demand 
shall be satisfied, as the landlord can- 
not distrain for the use of his furniture. 

1881. Lodgers Leaying withont 
Votioe. — Persons renting furnished 
apartments frequently absent them- 
selves without apprising the house- 
holder, perhaps with the rent in 
arrear. If thore is probable reason to 
believe that the lodger has left, on 
the second week of such absence the 
householder may send for a policeman, 
and in his presence enter tne lodger's 
apartment and take out the latter's 
property, and secure it until applica- 
tion is made for it. 

1882. Terbal Agreements.— If a 
person make a verbal agreement to 



take lodgings at a fhture day, and 
decline to fulfil hid agreement, the 
housekeeper has no remedy, and even 
the pa3rment of a deposit makes no 
difference. 

1888. Landlord msing Lodger*i 
Apartments.— If a landlord enter and 
use apartments while his tenant is in 
legal possession, without his consent, 
he forfeits his right to reoover rent. 

1884. Lodging! to IMiliodest 
Women. — If lodgings are let to an 
immodest woman, to enable her to 
receive visitors of the male sex, the 
landlord cannot recover his rent. But 
if the landlord did not know the 
character of the woman when he let 
the lodgings, he may recover, but not 
if o/i^ ne knew the fact he permitted 
her to remain as his tenant If the 
woman, however, merely lodges there, 
and has her visitors elsewhere, her 
character will not affect his claim for 
rent. 

1880. B^t Beeov«rablo.— If a 

lodger quit apartments without notice^ 
the landlord can still recover his rent 
by action, although he has put up a 
bill in the window to let them. 

1886. Eemoving Goods.— Remov- 
ing goods from furnished lodgings, 
with intent to steal, is a felony : un- 
lawful pledging is a misdemeanour. 

1887. LiabiUty for Bent.— Where 
the lodger has removed, and there are 
no goo<u whereon to make a levy, the 
rent becomes a debt, and can only be 
recovered as such in the County Court 
of the district. 

18S8. Affreement for Lettinff a Fumishtd 
House or Apartment. Memorandom of an 
agreement made and entered Into thia ■ 

day of , 18 , between R. A., of , 

of the one part, and L. O., of , of the 

other part, as follows :— That tha said R. A. 
agrees to let, and the nid L. O. to take, all 
that messuage or tenement (with the gardea 
and appurtenances thereto) situate at, Aa 
[or if an apartment be the mbjeet qf demUe, 
all the entire first floor, partieularlp deterib- 
ing the other appurtenanea], together with 
all the ftamitore^ flxtuiea, and other things 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



366 



PULT KOT WITH KDOKD TOOLS. 



mentioned and oompriMd in the achedole 

hereonder written, for the space of 

months, to be computed fh>m the day 

of , at tlM rent of pounds per 

quarter, payable quarterly, the first quarterly 

payment to be made on the day of 

next ensuing the date hereof. And 

it is further agreed, by and between the said 
parties, that each party shall be at liberty 
to determine the said tenancy, on giving to 
the other a quarter's notice in writing. And 
the said L. O. agrees, that on the determin- 
ation of the tenancy, he will deliver up the 
said dwelling*house (or the entire first floor, 
Ac), together with all the fixtures and furni- 
ture as afbreeaid, in as good a condition as 
the same now are, reasonable wear and tear 
thereof excepted, and shall and will replace 
any of the crockery and china or other 
utensils that shall be broken or otherwise 
damaged. In witness, tc—{Her« U to/bllov 
HU Inventorjf, or Litt of ArticUt r^errtd to 
mbovt,] 

1889. TOTES OF LOBeEBS. 

The inhabitant occnpierof lodgings, 
of the value of £10 per annum unfur- 
nished, has a right to vote for the 
county ; and the inhabitant occupier, 
as tenant for twelve months ending 
July 16, of lodgings of the value of 
£10 per annum unfurnished, has a 
vote for the borough. Additional 
rooms may be taken during the year 
without vitiating the qualification ; 
but removal from one house to another 
disqualifies. A lodger who is already 
on the register in respect of the same 
lodgings, must send in a claim each 
year on or before July 25. 

1840. BSMSDIES TO BECOYEB 
EEHT. 

^ Distress is the most efficient remedy 
to recover rent, but care should be 
taken that it be done legally ; if the 
distress be illegal, the party lu^eved 
has a remedy by action for damages. 
Excessive distresses are illegal. The 
distrainer ought only to take sufficient 
to recover the rent aue, and costs ; if, 
however, the articles sell for a greater 
sum than is sufficient to pay these, the 
temainder must be returned to the 



tenant, who can demand particulara 
of the sale, and recover the overplus, 
if any. 

1841. Diftretf, Legal and Ille- 
gal. — A distress can be made only for 
rent that is due, and cannot be made 
until the dav after, nor unless it has 
been demanded by the landlord or his 
agent. If a distress be made and the 
goods sold where no rent is due, the 
person distraining is liable for double 
their value. The outer door must not 
be broken open for the purpose of db- 
training, neither can the distress be 
made between sun-setting and sun- 
rising, nor on Sunday, Good Friday, 
or Christmas-day ; nor after the rent 
has been tendered to the landlord or 
his agent A second distress can be 
made, if the value of the first is not 
enough to pay the rent and costs, but 
not if, at the time of making the first 
distress, there were sufficient goods 
upon the premises to satisfy the full 
amount, u the landlord had then 
thought proper to take them. 

The distrainer may not distrain 
fixtures, or ms or water fittings let to 
the tenants oy the gas or water com- 
panies ; goods of strangers delivered 
to the tenant to be worked upon or 
taken care of (in the course of the 
tenant's business) ; perishable articles 
(as meat, &c.) ; the instruments of the 
tenant's trade or profession ; nor things 
in actual use at the time of the 
distress. 

Wearing apparel and bedding of 
debtor and his family, and tools or 
implements of trade to the value of 
£5 are exempt from seizure, except 
where a tenant holds possession after 
term of tenancy or notice to quit has 
expired. 

1842. Days of Grace. 

The tenant has five days of grace 
after the goods have been seized, in 
which to pay the rent and expenses ; 
but failing this the bailiff proceeds to 
call in two appraisers to value the 
goods, and then to sell them for the 
best price he can get 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A BIBD'8 NXST IS A NATURAL EGO-CITP. 



857 



1848. Seitnre of Goods romoyed. 
— GJoods conveyed off the premises to 
prevent a distress may be seized any- 
where within thirty days after the 
removal, and if force is resorted to by 
the landlord, it must be in the presence 
of a constable ; bat goods removed 
before the rent is acto^dly due cannot 
be followed, but the rent can be re- 
covered by action as a debt in the 
County Court, The ^neral rule is, 
that nothing can be distrained which 
cannot be returned in the same con- 
dition as before the distress was made. 

1844. Bankrupt's Bent —In cases 
of bankruptcy not more than one 
jrear's rent is obtainable by distress ; 
if more be due, the landlord is only 
entitled to come in with the rest of 
the creditors for the further sum due. 

1845. Appraisement. — Section 1 
of the Act 2 W. and M., cap. 6, re- 
quiring appraisement before sale of 
^oods, is repealed, and appraisement 
IS not necessary unless demanded in 
writing by the tenant, or owner of the 
goods, who must pay the cost of such 
appraisement and subsequent removal 
of goods for sale. Appraisement made 
by the distraining broker or any 
interested person is illegal 

1846. Charges for Distraint— 
By the 61 and 62 Vic. cap. 21 (Law 
of Distress Amendment Act, 1888), 
no person distraining for rent shall 
take other charges than those here- 
after scheduled : any party charging 
more can be sued for treble the amount 
unlawfully taken. 

£ 9,d. 

Levying a dlstross (under £S0) 8 

[Over £20 and under £50, 8 p.o. 

on the amount; £50 to £200, 

2| p.c. ; above £200, 1 p.c.] 
Man in poeseeslon, per day, if 

rent dne be under £20 . . .046 

Ditto, over £20 6 

(Man to provide his own board in all casee.) 

The above charges are payable on 
account simply of the levy ; if the 
sum dne, witn the above charges, be 
not paid w?thin five days (or fifteen 



days on written request of debtor), and 
the goods are removed and sold by 
auction, all expenses of such removiu 
and sale are deductable from the 
amount realized. 

1847. Broker's Charts.— Brokers 
must in all cases give written particu- 
lars of their char;^. 

1848. BailifBi most hold Certiil- 
oates. — No person may act as a bailiff 
who does not hold a certificate from a 
County Court judge (61 and 62 Vict, 
c. 21, s. 7 ; amended by 68 and 69 
Vict c. 24). 

By the Law of Distress Amendment 
Act, 1896 (68 and 69 Vict c 24, s. 2), 
if any person not holding a certificate 
levies a distress, he is liable on con- 
viction to a fine not exceeding £10, 
and liable also in damages. 

1849. STAXPED AOBEEXSirT& 

— All Agreements for Tenancies of 
whatever length of term, require a 
stamp duty varying with the amount 
of rent The proper stamp duty can 
generally be ascertained at any inland 
revenue office. 

1860. Stamped Doonmenti.— In 

all cases where the law requires a 
stamp, whether for an agreement or 
a receipt, do not omit it. As the 
stamp laws are liable to frequent 
alterations, it is best to refer to the 
tables in the recognized almanacks for 
the year, or to nuike enquiries at the 
stamp offices. 

1851. DEBTOB AHD CBEDHOB. 
1852. BAHKEITPTCT. 

The former distinction between insol- 
vents and bankrupts is now abolished. 
All debtors, traders or not, are now 
subject to the laws of buikmptcy. 
Married Women are now liable to be 
made bankrupt ; but no person under 
age, except under certain circum- 
stances, with the sanction of the 
Receiver. Liquidation by private 
arrangement is abolished. 

1858. Bankrnptoy Proosediiiffi 

commence with a petition, either by 
the debtor himself or by a creditor or 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



u% 



A SWALLOW MASSS NOT 8UMMSB OB SFmiNO-TIMX. 



crediton, AU petitions go before the 
High Comt (or the district County 
Court), and no compoeitioQ or arranffe- 
ment is sanc^onea until after Oie 
debtor has been publicly examined. 
All proceedings are controlled by the 
tJourt For bankruptcy purposes, the 
County Courts have all the powers 
and jurisdiction of the High Court of 
Justice. 

1854. "Aetf of Bankruptcy " 
comprise: — Assignment of property 
tar oeneflt of creditors ; fraudulent 
transfer of property ; leaving, or re- 
maining out of, England, or absence 
from dwelling-house to defeat or delay 
creditors ; having his goods seized 
under an execution ; filing dechiration 
of insolvency or presenting a bank- 
ruptcy petition against self; failure 
to comply with a bankruptcy notice 
to pay a judgment debt ; giving notice 
to creditors of suspension of payment ; 
and having a receiving oraer made 
against one. 

1866. XMMTinff Order. — If a 

debtor commit an act of bankruptcy, 
the Court may, on petition either by 
creditor or (iebtor, make a receiving 
order for the protection of the estate. 
All receiving orders to be advertised 
in the London Oazette and locally. 

1866. FetitiML — A creditor (or 
creditors^ cannot present a petition 
nnleas the debt (or debts) amount to 
£50; the debt must be a liquidated 
sum, payable now or at some future 
time ; the act of bankruptcy on which 
the petition is grounded must have 
ooeurred within three mofUh$ before 
presentation of petition ; and the 
debtor must be domiciled in, or within 
a year before petition have resided in 
or had a place of business in, England. 
If the petitioning creditor is a secured 
creditor, he must in his petition, 
either state that he is willing to give 
up his seoority for the benefit of his 
crisditors, or give an estimate of the 
value of his security. Ko petition can, 
after presentment, oe withdrawn with- 
9at leave of the Court A creditor's I 



petitioB most be aoeompanied by 
affidavits verifying the stateraents 
therein. 

1867. Ofloial Seceiyer.— On a 
receiving order being made, the 
debtor's property vests In the Official 
Reoeiver, who must summon a first 
meeting of creditors, giving to each 
not less than seven cutys' notice of 
time and place in the Gazette and 
locally. 

1868. The Xeetiiig of Creditors 
summoned as above shall consider 
whether a proposal for a composition 
or scheme of arrangement snail be 
entertained, or whether the debtor 
shall be adjudged bankrupt, and the 
mode of dealing with the debtor's 
property. The meeting is to be held 
witnin fourteen days from the date of 
the receiving order. 

1860. Dutiee of Debtor.— The 
debtor must furnish the Official Re* 
ceiver with a full statement of his 
afiairs in the prescribed form, verified 
by affidavit, and all such information 
as the Receiver may require. This 
statement, if made on a deUor't 
petition^ must be submitted to the Re- 
ceiver within thru day$ of the date of 
the receiving order ; if on a eredUor*9 
petUion, within seven days; or the 
debtor will be liable to he adjudged 
bankrupt on application to the Court 
by Receiver or creditor. 

1860. Public Bzaminatioii.— Be- 
fore any resolution or composition is 
approved by creditors, a public ex- 
amination of the bankrupt, on oath, 
must be held by the Court, at which 
the Receiver must be present. 

1861. Oempoiitiom or Seheme of 
Arrangement — The creditors may at 
their first meeting, or any adjournment 
thereof, by spedaL resolution, entertain 
a composition or scheme of arrange- 
ment, and if the same be accepted 
by the creditors, application must be 
made to the Court to approve it, 
the Official Receiver reporting as to 
the terms of the composition or 
arrangement, which the Court wil} 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHAT IS DOVS WELL .XNOVOH, IS BOITX 4)1TICH|LT ENOUGH. 



SM 



approve or reject according to the 
circumstances. 

1863. Be&«lt in Fajaent of In- 
italmtntft in composition or scheme, 
renders the debtor liable to be ad- 
judged bankrupt on application by 
any creditor to the Court 

1868. Adjudication of lank- 
Tnptoy, when a Composition is not 
accepted. — If after a receiving order 
has oeen made the creditors resolve 
that the debtor be adjudged bankrupt, 
or pass no resolution, or do not meet, 
or if a composition or scheme is not 
accepted ana approved within fourteen 
days after the debtor's public exam- 
ination, the Court will adjudge the 
debtor bankrupt, and his property 
shall become divisible among his 
creditors, and shall vest in a Trustee. 
Notice of such adjudication must be 
advertised in the London QoMtte and 
locally. 

1864. Appointment of Tnutee.— 
The creditors of a bankrupt may, by 
ordinary resolution, appoint a Ti-ustee 
of the aebtor*s property. If this has 
not been done prior to abjudication, 
the Official Receiver shall call a 
creditors' meeting for that purpose. 
The creditors may resolve to leave 
the appointment to the committee of 
insnection. The person appointed 
shall give security to the Board of 
Trade, which shall, if it sees fit, 
certify the appointment If no Trustee 
is appointed by the creditors, the 
Board may appoint one. 

1866. A Ooounittea of Iniptetion 
must not exceed five, nor be less 
than three, in number, and must be 
creditors qualified to vote, or their 
authorized representatives. 

1866. Bankrupt must Bender 
OTenr Aiiistance to creditors in realiz- 
ing his property. He must produce 
a clear statement of his affairs at the 
first meeting;. He must be present for 
public examination on the day named 
Dy the Court and the adjournment 
thereof. He must also furnish a list 
of debts due to or from hisL He 



must attend all meetings of creditors, 
and wait on the Trustee when required 
to answer any questions regarding his 
property, and to exeoute all docu- 
ments and to carry out anything that 
may be ordered by the Trustee or 
the Court. 

1867. The Tmitee's Dntiei are to 
manage the estate and distribute the 
proceeds, under regulation of the com- 
mittee of inspection, or of resolutions 
arrived at by the creditors at anv 
general meeting. He has to call 
meetings ^f committee and creditors 
when necessary. He can transfer or 
dispose of the bankrupt's property for 
the benefit of the creditors as the ' 
bankrupt could have done himself 
prior to his bankruptcy. He can 
also carry on the bankrupt's business 
if necessary, compromise or armnge 
with creditors, and sell bankrupts 
property by public auction or private 
contract 

1868. The Tmitee must Bender 
Aeoonnts to the Board of Trade not 
less than twice a year ; and must pay 
all money received into the Bankruptcy 
Estates Account, kept by the Boaixl of 
Trade at the Bank of England, and 
not, in any circumstances, into his 
private banking account 

1869. OertainBebtshayePriority, 
and must be paid in fUll, or as far 
as assets will admit These are — 
parochial and local rates, due at date 
of receiving order, or within a year 
before; assessed land, property, and 
income tax, up to April 6th next 
before date of order, not exceeding 
one year's assessment; wages and 
salaries of clerks, or servants, not 
exceeding £50, due for four months' 
service, and of labourers or workmen 
not exceeding £25 due for two months' 
service. 

1870. Landlord laay Distrain fm 
Bent cither bofore or after bankruptcy, 
but only for aix months' rent if afler 
bankruptcy. Any balance beyond one 
year's rent must be proved as in caae 
of an ordinaij debt, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



860 



TOO UAKT 000R8 SPOIL TRX BROTH. 



1871. Allowanee tor M aJBtenapot 
may be made to bankrnpt by the 
Trustee, with consent of committee of 
inspection, for his support, or for 
services in winding up the estate. 
Where the bankrupt is a beneficed 
clergyman, the Trustee may apply for 
sequestration of profits, and with con- 
currence of the bishop, allow a sum 
equal to a curate's stipend for bank- 
rnpt's services in the parish. In the 
case of officers and civil servants, in 
receipt of salary, the Court directs 
what part of bankrupt's income shall 
be reserved for benefit of creditors. 

1872. A Final DiTidend may be 
deNclared when the Trustee and com- 
mittee of inspection consider that as 
much of the estate has been realized 
as can be done fairly without needlessly 
protracting the bankruptcy. 

1878. Banknipteymay be Declared 
Closed, and order to that etfect pub- 
lished in the London Oazetle, when 
the Court is satisfied that all bank- 
rupt's property has been realized, or 
a satisfactory arrangement or composi- 
tion made with the creditors. 

1874. Order of Discharge may be 
granted by the Court on the appli- 
cation of the bankrupt at any time 
after adjudication. 'The Court may 
suspend or withhold order if bank- 
rupt has kept back property or acted 
fraudulently. 

1875. In Cases of Fraud, the 
bankrupt may be proceeded against 
and is liable to imprisonment for not 
exceeding two years with or without 
hard labour. 

1876. Settlement of Property hj 
a Debtor on wife and chilaren will 
become void if the settler becomes 
bankrupt within two years after date 
of settlement, and within ten years 
unless it can be proved that the 
settler was able to pay his debts when 
settlement was made without aid of 
property settled. This does not apply 
to a settlement made before mama^, 
or after marriage of property accrumg 
in the right of wife, or settlement 



made in favour of purchaser in good 
faith for valuable consideration. 

1877. Arrest of the Debtor may 
be ordered by the Court if, after a 
bankruptcy notice or petition, there 
is reason to believe he is about to 
abscond or to remove, conceal, or 
destroy any of his goods, books, kc, 
or if, after a receiving order, he 
removes an^ goods above the value of 
£5, or if, without good cause, he fails 
to attend the Court for examination. 

1878. BILLS OF SALE. 

The ** Bills of Sale Act," which came 
into operation on November 1, 1882, 
efiects several noteworthy changes of 
the utmost importance. It repeals 
part of the Act of 1878, which repealed 
the Act of 1854. 

1870. The term '*BiU of Sale'* 
inclndea in addition to those assign- 
ments of personal propertv which were 
within its meaning under the Act 
of 1854, '* inventories of goods with 
receipt thereto attached, and receipts 
for purchase-moneys of croods," where 
the goods remain in the possession 
of the seller, and also an agreement to 
give a bill of sale. 

1880. The term "Personal 
Chattels" has dso a wider meaning 
than under the old law, as it in- 
cludes fixtures and growing crops 
when separately assi^ed, and trade 
machinery when assigned, together 
with an interest in land so as to 
require registration. 

1881. Chief Proyitlont of the 
Act — All bills of sale made or given 
in consideration of any sum under £80 
are void. No bill of sale executed 
after the Act shall be any protection 
to the goods comprised therem against 
distress for poor and other paiochial 
rates. 

1882. Instmmentf giving Powera 
of Distress. — Certain instruments 
giving powers of distress are also to 
be registered under the Act to be of 
any validity against the trustees in 
bflmkmptcy or execution creditors. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AT OPEN DOORS BOGS COMB IK. 



861 



1888. BegiBtration of Bills of 
Sale. — Every bill of sale executed in 
England must be registered within 
sewn days of its malung, instead of 
within twenty-one days as under the 
old law. If executed out of England 
the Bill roust be registered within 
seven clear days of the time at which 
it would in the ordinary course of 
post arrive in England if pK)8ted imme- 
diately after the execution thereof, 
and provision is made to prevent the 
evasion of the Act of 1878 by means 
of renewed bills of sale in respect of 
the same debt — a practice much re- 
sorted to up to the passing of that 
Act in order to avoid registration. 

1884. Benewal of Begistration.— 
Registration of unsatisfid bills of sale 
must be renewed every five years. 

1885. Voidanoe of BUI of Sale.— 
A bill of sale executed within seven 
days after the execution of a prior 
unregistered bill of sale, if comprising 
all or part of the same chattels, and 
if given as a security for the same 
debt or any part thereof, will be 
absolutely void. 

1886. Execution in preionce of 
Solioitor. — To prevent necessitous 
persons being inveigled by sharpers 
mto signing biUs of sale for sums in 
excess of advances, or in blank, as has 
been done in some cases, every bill of 
sale had to be executed in the presence 
of a solicitor, but under the JBills of 
Sale Act, 1882, this is no longer 
imperative, the cimdition only affecting 
hula draum under the Act of 1878. 

1887. PBOPEBTY OF MABBIED 
WOMEK. 

A woman married after January 1, 
1883, is entitled to hold all real and 
personal property which she was 
entitled to eitner at or after marriage, 
for her separate use. 

188a Bandngs, fto., of Harried 
Women. — A married woman may 
carry on business separate from her 
husband, and is entitled absolutely 
for her separate use to all wages and 



earnings acquired by her in any em- 
plo^ent, occn|)ation, or trade, in 
which she is engaged, and which she 
carries on separately from her husband, 
and to all mone3r acquired by her 
through the exercise of any literary, 
artistic, 'or scientific skUl, and her 
receipt alone is a good discharge for 
the amount. 

1889. Liability of Husband for 
Wife's Debts. — A husband is only 
liable for tlie debts and liabilities of 
his wife eonircuied before marriage to 
the extent of the property which he 
receives from, or becomes entitled to, 
through his wife. The wife herself is 
liable to the extent of her separate 
property for all debts incurred by her 
either before or after marriage. 

1890. Bepayment of Money, fto., 
borrowod when under Age.— An 
infant, or person under twenty-one 
years of age, is not liable to repay 
money borrowed by him, nor to pay 
for goods supplied to him, unless tney 
be necessaries. Even if a person after 
coming of age promise to pay debts 
contracted during infancy, ne is not 
liable, whether the promise be made 
in writing or not 

1891. BBEACH OF PBOXISB 
OF MABBIAOB. 

Oral engagements and promises to 
marry will sustain an action, unless 
the marriage is limited to take place 
upwards of a year from the making of 
the contract, in which case the agree- 
ment to marry must be in writing. 
No plaintiflf can recover a verdict 
unless his or her testimony shall be 
corroborated by some other material 
evidence in support of the promise. 
Both the plaintiff and the defend- 
ant are now competent witnesses. 
The conduct of the' suitor, subsequent 
to the breaking off the enga^ment, 
would weigh with the jury in esti- 
mating damages. An action may be 
commenced although the gentleman 
is not married. The leng& of time 
which must elapse before action must 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



les 



IDIM VOLKS TAKX TtM MOST FAIK8. 



be reaaonable. A lapie of throe yeftFs, 
or even half that tune, without any 
attempt by the gentleman to roaew 
the acquaintance, would lessen the 
damages very considerably — perhaps 
do awav with all chance of success, 
unless the delay could be satisfactorily 
explained. A promise of marriage is 
not bindlDg if it be obtained, or the 
continuation of the engagement pro- 
cured, by means of a false or fraudulent 
representation, or wilfUl concealment 
from the defendant of the plaintiJT's 
former situation in life, and the 
circumstances of his or her family. 

If a person already married promise 
to marry another who did not know 
of the existing marriage, an action 
may be maintained against such 
married person for breach of promise. 
The mode of proceeding is hj an 
aotion at law. For this a sohoitor 
must be retained, who will manage 
the whole affair to its termination. 
The whole costs, to the verdict of the 
jury, will amount to between £35 and 
£50, besides the expenses of the lady's 
witnesses. If the verdict be in her 
favour, the other side have to pay 
her costs. If the verdict be against 
her, the same rule holds goo(C and 
she must nay her opponent's costs — 
probably from £60 to £70. 

1892. Preliminary Steps. — Before 
legal proceedings are commenced, a 
letter should be written to the gentle- 
jnan, by the father or brother of the 
lady, requesting him to fulfil his 
engagement. A copy of this letter 
should be kept, ana it had better be 
delivered by some person who can 
prove that he did so, and that the 
copy is correct : he should make 
a memorandum of any remarks or 
conversation. 

1803. DIVOBCB A9D OTHSB 
MATSIXOVIAI. CAU8X8. — The 

powers of the Ecclesiastical Court are 
abolished in these cases, which are 
now taken in the Probate, Divorce, 
and Admiralty Division of the High 
9ourt, 



18QC ^ Biv«m 4 mmisd si tkm 
is meant a separation only ; it doip 
not sever the matrimonial tie, so at to 
permit the parties to contract anothw 
marriage. These are now caHXed judi- 
cial separations, (Hm pars. 189^ — 
1901.) 

1806. Bj Soitf of laetitttion of 

XarrisM is meant suits which are 
brought when a person maliciously 
falsely asserts that he or she is already 
married to another, whereby a belidf 
in their marrit^e is spread abroad, to 
the iiyury of the complaining party. 

180a By AbM>liite Divoiee is 
meant a dissolution of the marriage, 
by which the parties are set absolutely 
froo from all marital engagements, 
and capable of subsequent marriage. 
In these oases a decree nisi is first ob- 
tained, which is made absolute after 
the lapse of six months, unless the 
decree should be set aside by subse- 
quent appeal. 

J897* The Oroundi of Pivoroo 
are very various, and in most cases fit 
only for confidential communication 
to a solicitor. In all cases a highly 
respectable professional adviser should 
be employed. 

IBOS. SoMintioE of Huibani 
and Wife. — This may be effected by 
mutual consent, when a proper Deed 
of Separation should be prepared by 
a solicitor, who will see that all proper 
and adequate provision for the wife's 
maintenance during separation are 
inserted. If the husband and wife 
after the date of the deed should live 
together again the deed beoomes null 
and void. 

1800. A Sentonoo of Indiiial 
Soparation may be obtained either by 
the husband or the wife, on the groimd 
of cruelty, or of desertion without 
cause for two years or upwards. To 
constitute wilful desertion on the 
part of the husband, his absence must 
be against the will of his wife, and 
she must not have been a consenting 
party to it, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



90119 U HOHB, BS IT SVIBR BO HOMXLT. 



868 



t 18Q0. Pertwu t^iwf t be Jmiioi- 
•Uy «epiMr»t«d upon th« mere diain- 
clinatioQ of one or both to live to- 
gether. The difiincUnation must be 
proved upon reasons that the law 
recognizes; and the court must see 
th&t those reasons actually e^ist. 

1901, The AmQOQt of CqbU of % 
JndiciU 8epigr^tion or a divorce varies 
m>m ^25 to £500 or more, according 
to the circumstances of the suit, and 
the litigation that may ensue. But a 
person being a pauper may obtain 
relief from the court by suing in 
formd pauperis. Any such person 
must lay a case before counsel, and 
obtain an opinion from such counsel 
that he or sue has reasonable grounds 
for appealing to the court for relief, 
and file an affidavit veriMng the 
&cts as true. The case, with opinion 
thereon, and affidavit, must be sent or 
delivered to the Registrar of the Pro- 
bate Division of the High Court, ac- 
companied by an affidavit as to means. 

1902. Oiq)SB FOU PKOTXCTIOir 
OF WIFB'B PBOPmn.— When a 

Wife is able to prove that her husband 
has deserted her without cause and 
i^nst her will, she may obtain from 
the Matrimonial Court, or from the 
iudge ordinary, an order to protect 
Iter against his creditors, and against 
any person claiming under him, by 
way of purchase or otherwise, any 
property she may acquire by her own 
lawful industry, or may become 
possessed of aiter such desertion. 
When the wife lives in London the 
order may be obtained from a police 
magistrate ; or when she lives m the 
country, from two magistrates sitting 
in petty sessions. 

1900. Ike Order does mot vreTent 
the Hmihand retnnunf to hie Wile, 

but only prevents his taking her earn- 
ings wmle the desertion continues. 

19CH. Tho Order, when obtained, 
puts the wife in the same position 
with regard to ownership of property 
and the right to sue and be sued upon 
Qontracts (that is, all bargams and 



bi^sinesa tranaactiaBs). aa if she had 
obtained the decree of judicial separa- 
tion, placing her. in fact, in the 
situation of a single woman, 

1906. After this Order is made, 
if the husband, or any creditor of his, 
qr person claiming through him by 
purchase or otherwise, should seize or 
continue to hold anv property of the 
wife, after notice of sucn order, the 
wife may bring an action agf^nst her 
husband or such other person, and 
may recover the property itself, and 
double its value in money. 

1906. WILL& 

1907. Sints on makixur it VUl. 
— When a person has resolved upon 
making a will, he should select from 
among his friends persons of trust to 
become his executors, and should 
obtain their consent to act. And it 
is advisable that a duplicate copy of 
the will should be entrusted to the 
executor or executors. Or he should 
otherwise deposit a oopy of hia will, 
or the original will, in the office pro- 
vided by the Probate Division of the 
High Court for the safe custody of 
wills. 

1906. Mmnle Form of WilL — 
This is the last will and testament of 
J— B— , of No. 3, King's Road, 
Chelsea. I hereby give, devise, and 
bequeath to my wife, Marv B— , her 
heirs, executors, and administrators, 
for her and their own uae and benefit, 
absolutely and for ever, all my estate 
and effects, both real and personal, 
whatsoever and wheresoever, and of 
what nature and onalitv soever ; and 
I herebv appoint ner, tne said Marv 
B — , aole executrix oi thia my will. 
In witneaa whereof I have hereunto 

aet my hand thia day of 

-, one thousand eight hundred 



and- 

JOHN B— . 

Signed bv the aaid John B — in the 

presence of us, preaent at the aame 

time, who, in hia preaence, at hia re- 

(|uest, and in the presence of eacl^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



864 



HALF A LOAF 18 BETTIB THAN MO BRXAD. 



other, attest and sabecribe cor names 
as witness hereto. 

JoHK Williams, 15, Oxford Street, 
Westminster. 

Hknrt Jonu, 19, Regent Street, 
Westminster. 

1Q09. Othsr Forms of Wills give 
particular legacies to adolts, or to 
infants, with direction for application 
of interest during minority ; to in- 
fants, ' to be paid when thej reach 
the age of twenty-one without mterest; 
specinc legacies of Government stock ; 
general ^gacies of ditto ; specific 
legacies or leasehold property or 
household property ; immediate or 
deferred annuities ; to daughters or 
sons for life, and after them their 
children ; levies with directions for 
the application of the money ; be- 
quests to wife, with conditions as to 
future marriage ; define the powers of 
trustees, provide for and direct the 
payment of debts, &c. All these 
more complicated forms of wills re- 
quire the superintendence of a pro- 
fessional adviser. 

1910. Wills, to be Valid, can 
only be made by persons at or above 
the age of twenty-one, and in a sound 
state of mind at the time of making 
the last will and testament ; not at- 
tainted of tresson ; nor a felon ; nor 
an outlaw. As regards the power of 
married women to make wills, a 
married woman may make a will, 
disposing, as she may think fit, of all 
property to which she is entitled for 
her separate use. 

1911. Wills must be in Writing, 
signed at the foot or end thereof by 
the testator, or by some other person 
in his presence and by his direction. 
And such signature must be made or 
acknowledged by the testator, in the 
presence of two or more witnesses, 
all of whom must be present at the 
same time, and such witnesses must 
attest and subscribe the will in the 
presence and with the knowledge of 
the testator. 



1912. AltsratioBs in IHlls or 
Codicils require the si^^ture of the 
testator and of two witnesses to be 
made upon the mamn, or upon some 
other part of theiwifl, opposite or near 
to the. alteration. 

9 1918. A WUl or Codidl eannot ba 
altered or revoked, unless throng a 
similar formal process to that under 
which it was made ; or by some other 
writing declaring an intention to re- ' 
voke the same, and executed in the 
manner in which an original will is 
required to be executed ; or by the 
burning, tearinc, or otherwise destroy- 
ing the same by the testator, or by 
some person in his presence and by 
his direction with tne intention of 
revoking the same. Nor can any will 
or codicil, or any part of either, that 
has once been revoked by any or all 
of these acts, be revived again, unless 
it be executed in the manner that a 
fresh will or codicil is required to be. 

1914. Wills are reyoked by 
Marriage. — Every will is revoked by 
the subsequent marriage of the testa- 
tor or testatrix, except a will made in 
the exercise of a power of appoint- 
ment, when the property appointed 
thereby would not, in default of ap- 
pointment, pass to the heir, executor, 
or administrator, or next of kin of 
the testator or testatrix. , 

1915. A Will so Beroked may be 

revived by re-execution, or by cooicil 
o/W the marriage, even on the same 
<iay. 

1916. Ko Stamp required. —There 
being no stamp duty, or tax, on a 
will itself, it shoula be written on 
plain parchment or paper. Nor is it 
necessary, though always advisable 
where means are sufficient, to employ 
a professional adviser to draw up and 
complete the execution of a wilL 

1917. Legacy to lUegitimata 
Child. — If it be intended to give a 
legacy to an illegitimate child, the 
testator must not class him with the 
lawful children, or designate him 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SVBBT man's house IS HIS OASTLX. 



866 



aimplj as the child of his reputed 
parent, whether father or mother, bat 
must describe the child by name as 

the reputed child of or , so 

as to leave no doubt of identity. 

1918. Wearing Apparel, Jewels, 
fto., belonging to a wife, and suitable 
to her rank and degree, are considered 
in law her "paraphernalia'*; and 
though liable* for the husband's debts 
while living, cannot be willed away 
from her by her husband, unless he 
wills to her other things in lieu there- 
of, expressing such intention and de- 
sire in the unlL The wife may then 
make her choice whether she will 
accept the substituted gift, or remain 
possessed of what the law declares her 
eintitied to. 

1919. Whare the Property ii Con- 
ilderable, and is to be left to various 
persons, or in trust for children or for 
charities, the will should always be 
drawn up by a qualified legal adviser. 

1920. Intestacy or Absence of 
Will. — ^The personal property of any 
person deceased (except a married 
woman), left undisposed of, is dis- 
tributed as follows; — (a) If the 
deceased leave a widow and issue, 
one-third to the widow and two- 
thirds equally between the children, 
any issue of a deceased child taking 
between them their parent's share. 
(b) If no widow, but issue, whole to 
issue divisible as in (a), (c) If widow, 
but no issue, and estate, real and 
persoTial, woTth not more than £500, 
whole to widow ; but if worth more 
than £500, widow has proportionate 
charge on real and personal estate for 
£500 and interest at 4% per ann. from 
death, the residue of personal estate 
being distributed as follows ; — One- 
half to widow and one-half to next of 
kin in following order: — i. Father, 
iL Mother, brothers and sisters, and 
nephews and nieces (nephews and 
nieces taking only share which their 
parent would have taken, unless no 
mother, brother or sister are livim 
when they take equally between them, 



vmg, 
tiem), 



iii. Grandfather and grandmother. 
It. Uncles and aunts, y. Cousins and 
great-nephews and nieces, (d) If no 
widow or issue, then the whole goes 
to next of kin in same order as above. 
[N.B. — The above information does 
not apply to Scotland.] 

1921. In the ease of Intestacy of 
a Married Woman, the whole of her 
personal estate passes to her husband. 

1922. TO SSABCE FOB WILLS. 

If you wish to examine a will, the best 
course is to go to "The Wills Oflace," 
at Somerset House, Strand, have on a 
slip of paper the name of the testator 
— this, on entering, give to a clerk 
whom you will see at a desk on the 
right. At the same time pay a shil- 
ling, and you will then be entitled to 
search all the heavy Index volumes 
for the testator's name. The name 
found, the clerk will hand over the 
will for perusal, and there is no diffi- 
culty whatever, provided you know 
ahotU the year of the testator* s death. 
The Indexes are all arranged and 
numbered according to their years. 
Not only the names of those who left 
wills are given, but also of those in- 
testates to whose effects letters of 
administration have been granted. 
There is no charge beyond the shilling 
paid for entering. If you require a 
copy of the will, the clerk will calcu- 
late the expense, and you can have 
the copy in a few days. No questions 
whatever are asked — nor does the 
length of the will, or the time occu- 
pied in reading it, make any difference 
in the charge. Beyond the shilling 
paid on entering, there is no other 
aemand whatever, unless for copying 
the whole or a portion of the wiU. 
One is not allowed to personally make 
copious notes, but merely certain de- 
tails such as the date, names of 
testator, executors, &c. If the de- 
ceased at the time of his death had a 
fixed place of abode within the district 
of any of the District Registries at- 
tached to the Court of Probate, the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



»66 



wturtrt WA«T« UAttB woEttTL WAJrr. 



will may now be prored, or letters of 
adminiBtratioh obtained fh)m the dis- 
trict registrar. There are nnmerous 
district registries, viz., at Liverpool, 
Manchester, Bristol, York, Newcfistle, 
Durham, and other places. If the 
will has not been proved in London, 
it will be found in the registry of the 
district in which the deceased dwelt 
at the time of his death. The uan% 
rules are observed in the eoun^ as ill 
London, with regard to examination, 
&c. The fee— one shilling — is the 
same in all. Having ascertained that 
the deceased left a will, and that it 
has been proved, the next inquiry is, 
• * fFhere was U proved f '* The above 
explanation and remarks apply also to 
the administration granted to the 
effects of those who died without 
wills. 

1928. BAVX OHBQinBB. 
1M4. Otot^ Ohe<iii«a. — If 

cheques have two parallel lines drawn 
across them, with or without the ad- 
dition of the words **dfc Oo." they 
will only be paid to a banker. If, in 
addition, the name of any particular 
banker be written across the cheque, 
it will only be paid to that banker or 
his agent. 

1025. iCeaning of "tot Ke- 
gotiable '' on Oh^qnoi. — If the words 
**Iiot Negotiable** be written across 
a cheque, the lawful holder of the 
cheque is not prevented thereby from 
negotiating it. The effect of these 
words is to prevent any person receiv- 
ing a cheque so marked from acquir- 
ing a better title to it than the person 
had from whom he received it. If, 
therefore, such a cheque has been 
stolen, the thief cannot, by passing it 
away for value, vest in the person so 
acquiring it a good title. 

1996. Pott-dated Chequet. --Like 
any other bill of exchange, a pod- 
dtiedf or artte-dated cheque it not 
invalid by reason only of so oeing post- 
dated or ante-dated, nor if it bear 
date on a Sunday. But a poOt-dfttod 



cheque cannot be legally enforced 
until on or after the date which H 
bears. 

1927. IIICITATIOK Off &X- 
COVEBT OF LAKB Olt BSAl 
BBTAfE. — A person becoming en- 
titled to any land or rettl estate, must 
bring an action to recover it within 
twelve years from the time when his 
right accrued, otherwise his claim 
will be barred by the ** Statute of 
Limitations." 

1928. BmiiDIVO SO0IXTIE8. 

The object of these societies is to 
raise, by subBcriptions, a fund to 
assist the members to acquire fieehold 
or other landed property. The law 
relating to them was consolidated and 
amended by the Building Societies' 
Act, 1874 (37 and 88 Vict. c. 42), by 
the Acts passed in 1875, 1877, and 
1884, and oy the Building Societies* 
Act, 1894 (57 and 58 Vict c. 47). 

The theoty of Building Societies 
is this: — Mousy is raised in small 
amounts from a number of members 
and lent to others on real security, 
either to build or trade, or any other 
purpose. Formerly, the members 
were only allowed to subscribe fixed 
amounts and at stated times, but 
now every opportunity is given to 
vary the powers of investment and 
to facilitate entrance aud withdrawal. 

The repayments are based on a 
scale allowing of payment of principal 
and interest in a certain number of 
years — say fourteen or fifteen; but 
advances on private mortgage or 
repayable at the borrower's conveni- 
ence are gradually becoming more and 
more frequent. 

Under the Act of 1894 (section 1«) 
a society established after the passing 
of the Act shall not cause or permit 
the applicants for advances to ballot 
for precedence, or in any way nako 
the granting of an advance depend on 
any chance or lot. 

By the same Act it is provided that 
a society shall not advance money on 
tho seoaritgr of any freehold. c<fpy' 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Ail Is »0f W>tO THAt OLttt*tt«* 



M 



hold, or leisehold estate which is 
subject to a prior mort^^age, unless 
the prior mortgage is in mrourof the 
society making the advance. 

The Act mrther says that no 
director, secretary, surveyor, solicitor, 
or other oflScer of a society shall, in 
addition to his authorized remunera- 
tion, receive ftom any other person any 
eift, bonus, commission, or benefit, 
for or in connection with any loan 
made by the society. The penalty 
is iS50, and in default ux months* 
imprisonment. 

1029. miiMtitt soomtEd. 

By an Act of 1896 (59 and 60 Vict. 
c. 15), which catne into operation on 
January 1, 1897, the law relating to 
Friendly Societies was amended and 
consolioated, the previous Acts having 
mostly been repealed. Under this 
Act five classes of societies may be 
registered, viz. : — 

(1) Friendly Societies; (2) Cattle 
Insurance Societies; (3) Benevolent 
Societies; (4) Working Men's Clubs; 
and (5) Societies specially authorized 
by the Treasury. No society can be 
registered unless it consists of at least 
seven persons. 

Further, a member may belong to 
more societies than one (imless re- 
stricted by the rules of a particular 
society), but he cannot assure to him- 
self more than ^200 in all, or an 
annuity of more than £60. Again, 
insurances or payments on the death 
of children are limited to jC6 for a 
child under five years of age, or £10 
under ten years. 

Br another Act of 1806 (69 and 
60 Vict. c. 26), the provisions respect- 
ing friendly societies and industrial 
assurance companies which receive 
oontributions and premiumftby means 
of collectors, are consolidated ; and no 
collector may become a memb«r of tho 
committee of management, or voto or 
take part in a general meeting, kc 
1080. JVKEB. 

Unless exempted as stated below, 
•vsiy man batw«en tho i^pBs of fil 



and 60, having (within the county 
in which he lives) £10 in lands, ot 
rents out of them in fee or for life — 
or £20 per annum in leaseholds for 
twenty -one years and upwards — or 
who pays rates of £30 in Middlesex 
(or £20 elsewhere), — or who occupies 
a house having not less than fifteen 
windows — is hable to serve on juries 
in the High Court of Justice ; and in 
all Courts of Nisi Prius, or Assize, 
in the county in which he resides. 

With regaid to the City of London, 
no man may be summoned to de« 
termine issues in the Superior Courts, 
who is not a householder or occupier 
of a shop, warehouse, eounting-house, 
chambers, or office, for tho purpose of 
trade within the City, and !'.avo lands, 
tenements, or personal estate of the 
value of £100. * 

1Q81. Speeial Jnrorft.—Eve^man 
whose name is placed in the Jurors' 
Book for any ooimty in En^and or 
Wales, or for the Ci^ of London, and 
who is an Esquire by law, or of higher 
degree, or a merchant or banker, or 
who occupies a private dwolling-house 
rated at not less than £100 in a town 
of 20,000 inhabitants and upwards 
(or rated at not less than £50 else- 
where), or who occupies premises 
(other than a farm) rated at not lees 
than £100, or a farm rated at not less 
than £300, is qualified and liable to 
serve on special juries. 

1982. Aliens as Infofs who haro 
been domiciled for ten years, or more, 
in England or Wales (if duly qualified 
in other respects) are liable to servo 
on juries and inquests; but no ans 
is qualified to serve as a juror, who 
has been convicted of treason, felony, 
or any infamous crime, unless he has 
been pardoned. Nor is any one Uablo 
to serve on any jury or inquest 
(except a Grand Jury) more than 
once m a year, unless all the juron on 
the list have already been summoned 
to serve during the year. 

1988. Faynoit of 7iirort.-^A 
tpecieU juror is legally entitled to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



M8 



TRX TOADi TH01TOH TTOLT, 18 liHEFVL, 



•ach amount as the judge conaiden 
reasonable; bat as a role special 
jorora receive one guinea each for 
every cause in which they are sworn. 
In the High Court and Ck>unty 
Courts, l5., and at most Assizes, S<L, 
may be claimed by a common juror 
for each action in which he ia sworn. 
Where a "view" by jurors is ordered, 
of " the land or premises affected by 
the action/' a apccial juror is entitled 
to a guinea a day, and a common juror 
to five shillings a day. No fee ia 
allowed in criminal oases, 

19d4. PertoAt exempted from 
■enring on Juries.— Peers, M.P.'s, 
Judges, Clergymen, Roman Catholic 
Priests, Ministers of any congregation 
of Protestant IMssenters and of Jews, 
Barristers, Doctors of Law, Advocates 
of Civil Law (if actually practising), 
Solicitors (if actually practising and 
having taken out their certificates) 
and their Managing Clerks, Notaries 
(in actual practice), Officers of Legal 
Courts, nprks of the Peace or their 
Deputies, Coroners, Gaolers and 
Keepers of Houses of Correction 
and all subordinate Officers of the 
same. Keepers in Public Lunatic 
Asylums, Members and Licentiates 
of the Royal College of Physicians 
(if actually practising). Members of 
the Royal College of Surgeons in 
London, Edinburgh, and Dublin (if 
actually practising), Apothecaries, and 
all registered Medical Practitioners and 
registered Pharmaceutical Chemists 
<if actually practising), Officers of the 
Navy, Aiiny, Militia, or Yeomanry 
on full pay, Master Wardens ana 
Brethren of iJie Trinity House, Pilots, 
Masters of vessels in the buoy and 
light senrioe of the Trinity House, 
the Household Servants of Her 
Migest^, Officers of the Post Office, 
Commissioners of Customs, and 
Officers, Clerks, or other persons act- 
ing in the management or collection 
of the Customs, Commissioners of In- 
land Revenue, and Officers or Persons 
appointed by the Commissioners of 



Inland Revenue, or employed by 
them. Sheriff' Officers, Officers of 
the Rural and Metropolitan Police, 
Metropolitan Magistrates and their 
Clerks, Ushers, Doorkeepers and Mes- 
sengers, Members of the Council of 
the Municipal Corporation of any 
Borough, Justices of the Peace, and 
Officers of the Houses of Lords and 
Commons. 

1086. DOXXSnC PBT8. 

1986. BLACKBIBD8.— The oook 
bird is of a deep black, with a yellow 
bill, and yeUow ring round the eye. 
The female 1:: dark brown. It is dufi- 
cult to distinguish male from female 
birds when young; but the darkest 
generally are males. The same treat* 
ment as given for the thrush (see 
par. 19S8) applies to the blackbird. 

1987. Food for Blaekbirdi.— The 
natural food of the blackbird is berries, 
worms, insects, shelled snails, cherries, 
and other similar fruit ; and its arti- 
ficial food, lean fresh meat, cut very 
small, and mixed with bread orGerman 
paste. 

1988. THBUSHSS.— A cock may 
be distinguished from a hen by a 
darker back, and the more glossy 
appearance of the feathers. The bell^ 
also is white. Their natural food is 
insects, berries, worms, and snails. 
In a domesticated state they wUl eat 
raw moat, but snails and worms should 
be procured for them. Younff birds 
are hatched about the middle of April, 
and fehould be kept very warm. They 
should be fed with raw meat, cut 
small, or bread mixed in milk with 
hemp seed well bruised ; when they 
can feed themselves ^ve them lean 
meat cut small, and mixed with bread 
or German paste, plenty of clean 
water, and keep them in a warm, dry, 
and sunny situation. 

1989. 0AHABIE8.— To distin- 
guish a cock bird from a hen, observe 
tiie bird when it is singing, and if it 
be a cock jrou will perceive the throat 
heaving with a pmse-llke motion, a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8H0BT RX0K0NIN08 VAKS LOKO FBIKND8. 



peciiliarity which is scarcely percepti- 
ble in the hen. Feed youDg canaries 
with white and yolk of hard egg, 
mixed together with a little bread 
steeped in water. This should be 
pressed and placed in one vessel, while 
m another should be put some boiled 
rape seed, washed in fresh water. 
Change the food every day. When 
they are a month old, put them into 
separate cases. Cut the claws of cage- 
birds occasionally, when they become 
too long, but in doing so be careful 
not to draw blood. 

1940. Treatment of Caiiariei.— 
Care must be taken to keep canaries 
very clean. For this purpose, the 
c^e should be strewed every morning 
with clean sand, or rather, fine gravel, 
for small pebbles are cUfsohUely essen- 
tial to life and health in cage-birds : 
fresh water must be given every day, 
both for drinking and bathing ; the 
latter being in a uiallow vessel ; and, 
during the moultine season, a small 
bit of iron should be put into the 
water for drinking. The food should 
consist principally of summer rape seed 
— that IS, of those small brown rape 
seeds which are obtained from plants 
sown in the spring, and which ripen 
during the summer ; large and black 
rape seeds, on the contrary, are pro- 
duced by such plants as are sown in 
autumn and reaped in spring. A little 
ohickweed in spring, lettuce leaves in 
summer, and endive in autumn, with 
slices of sweet apple in winter, may 
be safely given ; but bread and sugar 
ought to be generally avoided. Occa- 
sionally, also, a few poppy or canary 
seeds, and a small quantity of bruised 
hemp seed may be added, but the 
last very sparingly. Cleanliness, 
simple food, and fresh but not cold 
air, are essential to the well-being 
of a canary. During the winter, the 
cage should never be hung in a room 
without a fire, but even then, when the 
air is mild, and the sun shines bright, 
the little prisoner will be refreshea by 
having the window open. The cage 



should never be less than eight inches 
in diameter, and a foot higj^ with 
perches at different heights. 

1041. BTJLLFIKCHE8.— Oldbirds 
should be fed with German paste (see 
par. 1946),'and occasionally rape seed. 
The Germans sometimes give them a 
little poppy-seed, and a grain or t^-o 
of rice, steeped in Canary wine, when 
teaching them to pipe, as a reward for 
the progress they make. Bird organs, 
or flageolets, are used to teach &em. 
They Dreed three or four times a year. 

The young require to be kept very 
warm, and to be fed every two hours 
with rape seed, softked for several hours 
in cold water, afterwards scalded and 
strained, bruised, mixed with bread, 
and moistened with milk. Not more 
than one, two, or three niouthfuls 
should be given at a time. 

1042. inrKSTS.— Cock birds are 
browner on the back than the hens, 
and have some of the large feathers of 
the wings white up to the quills. 
Canary and hemp seed, with occasion- 
ally a little groundsel, water-cress, 
chickweed, &c., constitute their food. 

1048. 8KTLAEK8.— The cock is 
recognized by the largeness of his eye, 
the length of his claws, the mode of 
erecting his crest, and by marks of 
white m the tail It is also a larger 
bird than the hen. The cage should 
be of the following proportions: 
Length, one foot five mcnes ; width, 
nine inches ; hei£;ht, one foot three 
inches. There should be a circular 
protection in front to admit of a fresh 
tun being placed every two or three 
(lays, and the bottom of the case 
should be plentifully and constantly 
sprinkled with river sand. All vessels 
containing food should be placed 
outside, and the top of the cage should 
bo arched and padded, so that the 
bird may not injure itself by jumping 
about. Their food, in a natural state, 
consists of seeds, insects, and also 
buds, green herbage, as clover, endive, 
lettuce, &c., and occasionally berries. 

When confined, they are usually fed 
▲ A 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



170 



riBST BB JTT8T, THUT TOU MAT BB OKinmOUS. 



with a pMte made in the following 
Manner :— Take a piece of stale bread, 
soak it well in water, then squeese 
oat the water and pour boiled milk 
over it, adding two-thirds of the same 
quantity of barley meal well sifted, 
or, what is better, wheat meal. This 
should be made fresh every two days. 
Occasionally the yolk of a hard-boiled 
egg should be crumbled small and 

given to the birds, as well as a little 
emp seed* meal worms, and elder- 
hemes when they can be got. The 
cages of these birds should be kept 
very clean. 

1M4. PAABOTS may best be 
taught to talk by covering the cage 
at mgfat, or rather in the evening, and 
then repeating to them, slowly and 
distinctly, the words they are desired 
to learn. They should not be kept in 
places where they are liable to hear 
disagreeable noises, such as street 
cries, and the whistling and shouts of 
boys at play, for they will imitate 
them^ and become too noisy to be 
tolerated. Parrots may be fed upon 
Boaked breads biscuit, mashed pota- 
toes and rs^ seed. They are fond of 
nuts. They should be kept very clean, 
and allowed a bath frequently. When 
parrots appear sickly in any way, it is 
best to keep them warm, cnange their 
food for a time, and ^ve them luke- 
warm water to bathe m. 

1046. PIOXOVB are ma<tt in- 
teresting pets for persons residing in 
country districts, but in breeding and 
rearing require constant attention and 
care. There are so many distinct 
yarieties, requiring different treat- 
ment, that we cannot afford space for 
them in this volume. 

1046. OEBMAH PASTE for 
cage birds may be made in the follow- 
ing manner : — Boil four eg^ until 
quite hard, then throw them mto cold 
water ; remove the whites and grate 
or pound the yolks until quite fine, 
ana add a pound of white pea meal 
and a tableapoonful of oUve oiL Mix 
the whole up together, and press the 



dough through a tin colander so m 
to form it into small grains like shot 
Fry these over a gentle fire, graduallj 
stirring them until of a light brown 
colour, when they are fit for use. 

1947. IK8XCT8 IV BIKBCA0B8. 

— Susi>end a little bag of sulphur in 
the cage. This is said to be healthful 
for birds generally, as well as useful 
in keeping away insects by which tfaey 
become infested. 

104a 6QinE&SL8.~In a domes- 
tic state these little animals are fed 
with hazel nuts, or indeed any kind 
of nuts ; and occasionally bread and 
milk. They should be kept rery 
clean. 

1040. KAIKTI should be kept 
dry and warm. Their best food ts 
celery, parsley, and carrots ; but they 
will cat almost any kind of vegetable, 
especially the dandelion, milk-thistle, 
kc In spring it is recommended to 
give them tares. A little bran, aad 
any kind of grain occasionally is bene* 
ficial, as too much green food is very 
hurtful. Care should be taken not te 
over-feed them. Uhen f«>d upon dry 
food a little skim milk is good for 
them. Tea leaves also in small qvaa- 
tides may be given to them. 

lOGO. OuiXiJsA pros very much 
resemble rabbits in their mode of 
living, and may be treated in much 
the same manner. They should be 
kept dry, warm, and very clean. 

1061. WHITS UCB are fed upon 
bread soaked in milk, peas, oats, beans^ 
&c, and any kind of nats. 

1062. BILKWOEMS.— The silk- 
worm is a moth which spins its silk in 
forming its cocoon, when about to pass 
from the state of the caterpillar unto 
that of the chrysalis. It comes out of 
the egg about the latter part of May, 
and as the worms will confine them- 
selves to those places where food is 
provided for them, the rapid progress 
of their growth, their curious cha^|es, 
and the production of their silk« 
affMd a most interesting study. We 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TRU8T XOT Tl« MAN WHO PROMISIS WITH AH OATH. 



871 



Mooamand o«r readen to obtein from 
twenty to thirty ailkwormt' eggs. 
They are aboat the gkm of a pin's 
head, and are generally firmly attached 
to tlie paper upon which they were 
kid. A paper tray, about twelve 
iaeties long by eight wide, shoald be 
made by taming up th'^ odgoa of a 
nieee of cardboi^, or of otiif i«l}m, 
into the bottom of this the eggs should 
be pkoed, and whom the time of 
katchintf arrires, they should be 
watched from day to dfay, and some 
young lettuce leayee be provided for 
the young caterpillars. 

Tneaa when first hatched do not 
exceed a quarter of an inch in length 
and commence eating food imme- 
diately. Their growth ie very rapid, 
and when they are about eight days 
old, their heaos become considerably 
enlarged, the^ refuse food, and appear 
in a lethargic state for about tnree 
daya This arises from the pressure 
of their skins, which become too ti^ht 
for the increased size of their bodies. 
As soon as they have cast their skins, 
they will be re-invigorated, and eat a 
large amount of leaves. They cast 
their skins four times in the course of 
their crowth. About the time of the 
secona change of skin, they should 
be provided with mulberry leaves as 
weU as lettuce leaves, and they will 
gradually discard the latter. 

The worm remains in the caterpillar 
stato about six weeks. When full 
grown it ceases to feed, and begins to 
form a loose envelope of silken pipes. 
It should then be taken from the 
paper tray, and each worm be placed 
m a cup 6( twisted paper, hung against 
the wail or in a warm aspect ; when 
it will enclose itself in a ball of silk, 
called a cocoon, within which It 
passes into the chrysalis state. In 
about fifteen days it comes forth in 
the form of a moth. In escaping from 
the coooon it destroys a portion of 
the silk, to prevent which the silk- 
dealers destroy the chrysalis, or un- 
wind the «ilk of the cocoon before the 
ch^niis is brofcen by the wtth* 



£ach moth will prodaoe a large 
numberof eggs ; and the silk soppliMl 
hj the cocoons may be wound off and 
tied into skeins, and these being laid 
between the leaves of books, may be 
preserved for many years. 

1963. TO FAITEV FOIFLTBT.— 

Poultry should be fattened in coops, 
and kept very clean. They should 
be furnished with gravel, but with no 
water, except that with which their 
only food, barley -meal, is mixed. 
Their thirst makes them feat mors 
than they would, in order to extract 
the moisture from the food. This 
should not be put in troii^s, but 
laid upon a board, which should be 
washed clean every time fresh food is 
put upon it. Qround rioe well scalded 
with milk, mixed with a little coarse 
sugar is very fattening. Feed them 
with this in the daytime, but do not 
give them too much at once ; let it be 
rather thick. 

1964. SOeonSIXB M|t FOITL- 
TBT.— It is a bad thing to give fowls 
egg-shells. They supply nothing that 
is not equally well fuminied by lime, 
and especially bricklayers* rubbish, 
old ceilings, kc, Never do anything 
that has a tendency to make them eat 
eggs. They are apt scholars, if they 
find worms in a natural way they are 
good food, but it is a bad plan to give 
thoGi by the handful. 

1966. AQUAinniS.— FuU in- 
structions for Uiestocking and manage- 
ment of fresh or sea water aquariums 
are given in Tk$ Ot>mer Ou^oard, 
volume 23 of the Enquire Within 
Series, price 2«. M. Honlston and 
Sons. 

1966. eOID FIIH.— Great care 
must be taken of gold tish, as they are 
very sensitive ; and hence a loud noise, 
strong smell, violent or even slight 
shaking of tne vessel, will sometimes 
destroy them. Small worms, which 
are common to the water, suffice for 
tiieir food in goasrai ; but the Chinese, 
who briaggoU fish to great perfoctioB. 
tJirow ^io the mJ^ «Mti WU oT 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



872 



A CLinCBT FOOT MAT TBXAB THl RIGHT ROAB. 



paste of which they are Teir fond. 
They gyre them also lean pork, dried 
in the son, and reduced to a very fine 
and delicate powder. Fresh river- 
water should be ffiven them frequently, 
if possible. Gold fish seldom deposit 
spawn when kept in glass vessels. 
lu order to procure a supply, they 
must be put into reservoirs of a con- 
siderable depth, in some part at least, 
well shaded at intervals with water- 
lilies, and constantly supplied with 
fresh water. 

1G67. DOOS.— The best war to 
keep doCT healthy is to let them have 
plenty of exercise, and not to over-feed 
them. Let them at all tiroes have a 
plentiful supply of clean water, and 
encourage them to take to swimming, 
aa it assists their cleanliness. Nal- 
dire's soap is recommended as highly 
efficacious in ridding dogs of neas. 
After using any soap rinse it well off 
with clean water. Properly treated, 
dogs should be fed only once a day. 
Heat boiled for dogs, and the liquor 
in which it is boiled thickened with 
barley meal, or oatmeal, forms capital 
food. 

1068. Diftamper in Boffi.— This 
disease is liable to attack oogn from 
four nionths to four years old. It 
prevails most in spring and autumn, 
and is known by dulness of the 
eye, husky couf^h, shivering, loss of 
appetite and spirits, and fits. When 
fits occur, the dog will most likely 
die unless a veterinary surgeon he 
called in. During the distemper, dogs 
should be allowed to run on tne grass ; 
their diet Rhould be spare ; and a little 
sulphur be placed in tlieir water. 
Chemists whodispense cattle medicines 
can generally advise with sufficient 
safety upon the diseases of dogs, and 
it is best for unskilful persons to 
abstain ^m doctoring them. In 
many diseases dogs will be benefited 
by warm baths. 

1060. Hydrophobia in Dogs is the 
most dreadful of all diseases. The 
first symptoms are attended by thirst, 



fever, and languor. The doc starts 
convnlsivcly in his sleep, and when 
awake, though restless, is languid. 
When a doff is suspected, he should 
be firmly cnained in a place wbare 
neither children nor dogs nor cats can 
get near him. A ny one going to attend 
him should wear thick leather gloves, 
andproceed with great caution. When 
a dog snaps savagely at an imaginary 
object, it IS almost a certain indication 
of madness ; and when it exhibits a 
terror of fluids, it is confirmed hydro- 

Shebia. Some dogs exhibit a great 
islike of musical sounds, and when 
this is the case they are too frequently 
made sport of. But it is a dangerous 
sport, as dogs have sometimes been 
driven mad by it 

1060. Mange in Bogs.— This is a 
contagious disease, which it is difficult 
to get rid of when once contracted. 
The best way is to apply to a veterinary 
chemist for an ointment, and to keep 
applying it for some time after th« 
disease nas disappeared, or it will 
break out again. 

1061. CATS.— It is generally sup- 
posed that cats are more attached to 
places than to individuals, but this is 
an error. They obstinately cling to 
certain places, because it is there they 
expect to see the persons to whom they 
are attached. A cat wiU return to an 
empty house, and remain in it many 
weeks. But when at last she finds 
that the family does not return, she 
strays away, and if she chance then 
to find the family, she will remain 
with them. The same rules of feeding 
which apply to dogs apply also to 
cats. They should not be over-fed, 
nor too frequently. Cats are liable 
to the same diseases as dogs; thongh 
they do not become ill so frec^uently. 
A little brimstone in their milk 
occasionally is a good preventive. 

1062. TO VnjTT BIBD8, 
AHIICALS, 4o. — Large animals should 
be carefully skinned, with the horns, 
skull, tail, hoo£s, kc., entire. Then 
rub the insido of the skin thoroughly 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SVSBT MAK IS THX ABGHITEOT OF HIS OWN FORTUKK. 



87S 



with the mixture of salt, pepper, and 
alnm, and hang un to ory. Large 
birds may be treatea in the same way, 
but should not be put into spirits. 

1968. Small Birds may be pre- 
served as follows : — Take out the 
entrails, open a passage to the brain, 
which should be scooped out through 
the mouth ; introduce into the cavities 
of the skull and the whole body some 
of the mixture of salt, alum, and 
pepper, putting some through the 
gullet ana whole length of the neck ; 
ttien hang the bird in a cool, airy 
place — first by the feet, that the body 
may be impregnated by the salt, and 
afterwards by a thread through the 
under mandible of the bill, till it 
appears to be free from smell; then 
hang it in the sun, or near a fire: 
after it is well dried, clean out what 
remains loose of the mixture, and fill 
the cavity of the body with wool, 
oakum, or any soft substance, ana 
pack it smooth in paper. 

1064. To Olean Staffed Animals. 

Ac.— First brush the specimen well 
with a clothes-brush. Tnen put some 
new bran into a pan and warm it, 
stirring it well to prevent it burning. 
Hub the warm bran well into the 
fur with your hand. Do this three 
or four times, and then brush the fur 
until all the bran is out. 

1966. BIBBS' EGOS. —In selecting 
eggs for a cabinet, always choose those 
which are newly laid ; make a medium- 
sized hole at the sharp end with a 
pointed instrument, and one at the 
olunt end: let this last hole be as 
small as possible; this done, apply 
your mouth to the blunt end, and 
blow the contents through the sharp 
end. If the yolk will not come freely, 
run a pin or wire up into the egg, 
and stir the volk well about; now 
get a cupful of water, and immersing 
the sharp end of the shell into it, 
apply your mouth to the blunt end 
. and suck up some of the water into 
the empty snell ; then put your finger 
and thumb upon the two holes, shako 



the water well within, and after this, 
blow it out The water, will clear 
the egg of any remains of yolk or of 
white which may stay in after blow- 
ing. If the shell is dirty, wash it 
well in soap and water, and use a 
nail-brush to get the dirt off. Nothing 
now remains to be done but to prevent 
the thin white membrane (wnich is 
still inside) from corrupting. Take a 
wineglass and fill it with a solution 
of corrosive sublimate in alcohol, then 
immerse the sharp end of the egg- 
shell into it, keeping the finger and 
thumb which hold the egg just clear 
of the solution. Apply the mouth to 
the little hole at tne blunt end, and 
suck up some of the solution into the 
shell, taking care that none enters 
the mouth. Shake the shell in the 
same manner as when the water was 
in it, and then blow the solution back 
into the glass. The egg-shell will now 
be beyond the reach of corruption; 
the membrane for ever retains its 
pristine whiteness, and no insect will 
ever venture to prey upon it. If you 
wish your egg to appear extremely 
brilliant, give it a coat of mastio 
varnish, put on very sparingly with 
a camel-hair pencil: green or blue 
eggs must be done wiSi gum arabio, 
as the mastic varnish is apt to injure 
the colour. 

1966. FISHES. — Large fishes 
should be opened in the belly, the 
entrails taken out, and the inside well 
rubbed with pepper, and stufled with 
oakum. Small nshes may be put in 
spirit, as well as reptiles and worms. 

1967. INSECTS, &0. —Insects of 
fine colours, and also butterflies and 
moths, should be pinned down in a 
box prepared for tnat purpose, with 
their wings expanded. 

1968. TO BEY BOTANICAL SPS- 
CIXEHS FOE PEE8EEVATI0K.— 

The plants to be preserved should be 
gathered when tne weather is dry. 
Place the ends in water, and let them 
remain in a oool place till the next 
day. When about to be submitted 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



d74 



WHO LOOM Korr unroll mnm bimsklp fttHim. 



to the proeen cf drying, plaot each 
plmiit between Mreral oheets of Uotdiig 
paper, and iron it with a krge smuotn 
heater, pretty stronglj warmed, till 
all the moistnre if dissipated. Colonrs 
nay thua be fixed, whioh otherwise 
become pale, or nearly white. Some 
plant* require more moderate heat 
than others, and herein consists the 
nicety of the experiment; but it is 
generally found that if the iron be 
not too hot, and is passed rapidly yet 
carefully oror the surface of the 
blotting paper, it answers the pur- 
pose equally well with plants of 
almost every variety of hue and 
thickness. In compound flowers, with 
those also of a stubborn and solid 
form, as the Centaurea, some little 
art is required iu cutting away the 
under part, by whioh means the po- 
file and forms of the flowers wilt be 
more distinctly exhibited. This is 
especially necessary when the flowers 
are fixed down with gum upon the 
paper previous to ironing, by which 
means they become almost incor- 
porated with the surface. When this 
very delicate process is attempted, 
blotting-paper should be laid under 
every part excepting tlie blossoms, 
in order to prevent staining the white 
paper. Great care must be taken to 
Keep preserved specimens in a dry 
place. 

1969. TO P&S8EB7S 8SA- 

WBEB8.— First wash the sea-weed in 
fresh water, then take a plate or dish 
(the larger the better), cut your pa])er 
to the size required, place it in the 
plate with fresh water, and spread out 
the plant with a good-sized camel- 
hair pencil in a natural form (picking 
out with the pin gives the sea-weed 
an unnatural appearance, and destroys 
the characteristic fall of the branches); 
then gently raise the paper with the 
specimen out of the water, placing it 
in a slantiug position for a few 
moments, so as to allow the superflu- 
ous water to run ofi"; after which 
place it in the press. The press is 



made with either thin pieces of board 
or pasteboard. Lay on the flnt boaar4 
two sheets of blotting-paper ; on that 
lay your specimens ; place straiglrt 
and smooth over them a j^eoe of old 
muslin, fine cambric, or nnen ; then 
some more blotting-paper, and plaoa 
another board on the top of that, and 
continue in the same way. The blot- 
ting-paper and the mualin should ba 
carefully removed and dried every day, 
and then replaced ; at the same time, 
those specimens that are sufficiently 
dry may be taken away. You can 
either gum the specimens in a scrap- 
I book, or fix them in, as drawings art 
often fastened, by making four slits 
in the )>a£e, and inserting each corner. 
This is by far the best plan, as it 
admits of their i-emoval witliout in- 
jury to the page at any future period* 
Some of the large algss will not adhera 
to the paper, and consequently requiia 
gummmg. After well cleaning and 
pressing, brush the coarser kinds ovar 
with spirits of turpentine, in whidh 
two or three small lumps of gum 
mastic have been dissolved, bjr 
shaking in a warm place : two-thirA 
of a small phial is the proper pro- 
portion, and this will make tne speci- 
mens retain a fresh appeaitmce. 

1970. TO FSXSIBVX FiniGL— 

Recipe of the celebrated botanist, 
William Withering. " Take two 
ounces of sulphate of copper, or bhia 
vitriol, and reduce it to powder ; pour 
upon it a pint of boiling water ; and 
when cold, add half-a-pmt of spirits 
of wine ; cork it well, and call it ' the 
pickle.' To eight pints of water add 
one pint and a half of spirits of wine, 
and call it ' the liquor.' Be provided 
with a number of wide-mouthed 
bottles of different sizes, all well fitted 
with corks. The fungi should be left 
on the table as long as possible, to 
allow the moisture to evaporato ; they 
should then be placed in the pickle 
for three hours, or longer if neces- 
sary ; then place them in the bottles 
intended for their reoeption, and fill 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



KtVSR WALK ONE WAT ANt> I00& AHOTHXft. 



m 



with the liqnoT. They should then 
be well corked and sealed, and ar- 
ranged in order, with their names in 
front of the bottles." 

1971. TO UMXE 8KSLBT0H 
LBAYE0. — The leaves should be put 
into an earthen or glass vessel, and a 
large quantity of rain water poured 
over them; alter this they must be 
left in the open air, and to the heat of 
the sun, without covering the vessbL 
As the water evaporates and the 
leaves become diy, more water must 
be added ; the leaves will by this 
means putrefy, but the time re<^uired 
for this varies ; some plants will be 
finished in a month, othera will re- 
quire two months or 1 eager, according 
to the toughness of their parenchyma. 
When they have been m a state of 
putrefaction for some time, the two 
membranes will begin to separate, and 
the green part of the leaf to become 
fluid ; then the operation of clearing 
is to be performed. The leaf is to be 
put upon a flat white earthen plate, 
and covered with clear water; and 
being gently squeezed with the finger, 
the membranes will begin to open, 
and the green substance will come out 
at the edges ; the membranes must 
be carefully taken off with the finger, 
and great caution must be used in 
separating them near the middle rib. 
when once there is an opening 
towards this separation, the whole 
membrane follows easily ; when both 
membranes are taken off, the skeleton 
is finished, and it has to be washed 
clean with water, and then dried be- 
tween the leaves of a book. 

1978. TO TAKE IMPBSSSI0K8 
OF LXAVX8.— Prepare two nibbers 
by tying up wool or any other soft 
substance in wash-leather ; then pre- 
pare the colours in which you wish to 
§rint leaves, by rubbing np with cold- 
rawn linseed oil the tints that are 
required, as indigo for blue, chrome 
for yellow, indigo and chrome for 
green, &c Get a number of leaves 
the size and kind you wish to stamp, 



then dip the rubbers into the paint, 
and mb them one ov«r the other, ao 
that you may have but a small 
quanti^ of the compontion upon the 
rubbers. Having warmed a leaf be- 
tween your hands, that it may be 
pliable, plaoe it upon one rubber and 
moisten it cently with the other ; 
take the leaf off and apply it to the 
substance on which you wish to make 
the imprint ; upon the leaf place a 
piece of white paper, press gently, 
and a beautiful impression of all the 
veins of the leaf will be obtained. 

1979. Another Method Qf Taklnir 
Leaf ImpresflioiLi. — Hold oiled paper 
in the smoke of a lamp or of pitch, 
until it becomes eoated wita the 
smoke ; to this paper apply the leaf of 
which you wish an impression, having 
previously warmed it between your 
hands, that it may be pliable. Place 
the lower surface of the leaf upon th» 
blackened surface of the oil-paper, 
that the numerous veins, which are 
so prominent on this side, may receive 
from the paper a portion of the smoke. 
Lay a paper over the leaf, and then 
press it gently upon the smoked paper 
with the fingers, or with a small roUer 
covered with woollen cloth, or some 
similarly soft material, so that every 
part of the leaf may come in contact 
with the sooted oil-paper. A coating 
of the smoke will adhere to the leaf. 
Then remove the leaf carefully, and 
place the blackened surface on a sheet 
of white paper, or in a book prepared 
for the purpose, covering the leaf with 
a clean slip of paper, anopressing upon 
it with the fingers, or roller, as before. 
With care excellent impressions may 
be thus obtained. 

1980. MODELinre nr oobx, 

FAPEB, FLA0TBB OF FABI8,WAX, 

Ac. — Modelling, in a geueral sense, 
signifies the art of constructing an 
original pattern, which is to be ulti- 
mately carried out on an enlarged 
scale, or copied exactly. When 
models are constructed to give a 
miniature representation of any great 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



876 



BITTEB 00 KOUIO) THAN FALL IKTO THE DITCH. 



work, eleTfttion, or topographical 
informatioD, they shoola be con- 
stmoted on a toale, which should be 
appended to them, so that a better 
iaea may be obtained of the propor- 
tions and dimensions. 

1961. Tli0 MateriaU need in 
modelling are plaster of Paris, wax, 
whiting, patty, clay, pipeclay ; com- 
mon and factory cinders; sand of 
various colours ; powdered fluor-spar, 
oyster-shells, bricks, and slate ; gums, 
acacia and tragacanth ; starch ; paper, 
white and brown, cardboard ana miU- 
bofud; cork sheets, cork raspings, 
and old bottle-corks ; ffutta-percha ; 
leather and leather chips ; wood : 
paints, oil, water, and yaniish ; moss, 
lichen, ferns, and grass ; talc, window 
and looking-glass; muslin and net; 
chenille ; canled wool ; tow, wire ; 
hay and straw ; Tarious varnishes, 
glue, and cements. 

1082. The Tools consist of brushes 
for paints, varnishes, and cements ; 
two or three bradawls ; a sharp pen- 
knife ; a chisel, hammer, and 
punches; scissors and pencil. 

1068. To Xodel Caves in Cindera. 
— Arrange the cinders in such a man- 
ner as to resemble the intended 
design ; then cover in such parts as 
rei^uire it with brown paper soaked in 
thm glue until quite pulpy. Wheu 
nearly diy, dust over with sand, 

Eowdered brick, slate, and chopped 
chen or moss, touch up the various 
parts with either oil, water, or varnish 
colours ; and if necessary, form your 
trees of wire, covered with brown 
paper and moss, glued on. A cave 
constructed in the above manner, on a 
laige scale, and the interior sprinkled 
witn powdered fluor-spar, or glass, is 
very eflfective by candle-light. To 
imitate water issuing from the cave, a 
piece of looking-glass should be glued 
on the stand, and the edges sur- 
rounded by glue, and paper covered 
with sand. 

1064. StalaetitM may be repre- 
sented by rough pieces of wood, which 



must be smeared with glue, and 
sprinkled with powdered fluor-spar, 
or glass. 

1065. To Model CavM in Cork.— 

Construct the framework of wood, and 
fill up the outline with old bottle- 
corks. The various projections, re- 
cesses, and other minutue, must be 
affixed afterwards with glue, after 
being formed of cork, or hoUowed out 
in the necessary parts, either by burn- 
ing with a hot wire and scraping it 
afterwards, or bv means of a sharp- 
pointed bradawL Various parts of 
the model must be touched up with 
oil, water, or varnish colours ; and 

Eowdered brick, slate, and chopped 
chen, or moss, dusted on as usuaL 

1086. Wooden Modeli are con- 
structed rouchly in deal, according to 
the proper design, and the various 
fine parts afterwards affixed with glue 
or brads. In forming the finer purts, 
a vast amount of unnecessary labour 
may be saved, and a better effect 
obtained, by burning much of the 
outline, instead of carving it. By this 
plan, deeper tones of colouring, facility 
of operating, and saving of time and 
labour, are the result. In common 
with other models, those constructed 
of wood require the aid of lichen, 
moss, powdered slate, &c, and colours, 
to complete the effect. 

1087. Starch-Paite Modeli are 
formed in the usual way, of the fol- 
lowing composition : — Soak gum tra- 
gacanth in water, and when soft, mix 
it with powdered starch till of a 
proper consistence. It is much im- 
proved by adding some double-refined 
sugar finely powdered. When the 
model is finished, it must be coloured 
correctly, and varnished with white 
varnish, or left plain. This is the 
composition used oy confectioners for 
modelling the various ornaments on 
cakes. 

1088. Andent Citlei may be 
modelled in cork or starch-paste, in 
the same manner as directed above. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BZAMPLBS BO NOT ATJTHOSIZX 8IN& 



877 



ld89. Modern Citiei are better 
made of cardboard, starch -oaste, or 
pipeclay; the houses, public build- 
ings, and other parts being con- 
structed according to scale. 

1900. Honses should bo cut out 
of a long, thin strip of cardboard, 
partially dlTided by tnree strokes of a 
penknife, and glued together ; this 
must afterwards be marked with a 
pencil, or pen and ink, to represent 
the windows, doors, stones, &c. ; and 
the roof— cut out of a piece of square 
cardboard, equally and partially di- 
vided—is then to be glued on, and 
the chimney — formed of a piece of 
lucifer match, or wood notched at one 
end and flat the other — is to be glued 
on. 

1091. Cathedrali, Chnrohei, and 
other Pablio Boildingi are made in 
the same way, but require the addi- 
tion of small chips of wood, ends of 
lucifer matches, cork raspings, or 
small pieces of cardboard, for the 
various ornaments, if on a large scale, 
but ouly a pencil-mark if small. 
When constructed of starch-paste 
or pipeclay, the material is rollea flat 
on a table or marble slab, and the 
various sides cut out with a sharp 
penknife ; they are then gnramed 
together, and coloured properly. 

1992. The Windows of Eouiei or 
of buildings can be made of talc or 
thin glass, covered with net or muslin. 
The mimes of the windows are made 
of cardboard, neatly cut out with a 
sharp penknife. 

1993. Paper Composition for 
Modelling. — Reduce paper to a smooth 
paste by boiling it in water ; then add 
an equal weight each of sifted whiting 
and good size ; boil to a proper con- 
sistence, and use. 

Or, take equal parts of paper, paste, 
and size, sufficient finely- powdered 
plaster of Paris to make into a good 
paste, and use as soon as possible after 
it is mixed. This composition may 
be used to cast architectural orna- 
ments, busts, statues, &c., being very 



light, and susceptible of a c 
but it will not stand weatl 



i polish, 



1994. Monuments, Anolent or 
Modem, and Sains should be con- 
structed of cork, according to the 
directions given above, and when it 
is necessary to represent the moulder- 
ing walls covered with moss or ivy, a 
little green baize flock, or moss chip- 
pings, should be attached by mucilage 
to the part ; and oftentimes a brush 
of raw sienna, combined with vamisht 
requires to oe laid underneath the 
moss or flock, in order to improve the 
efiect. Prostrate columns and huge 
blocks are efiectively represented in 
cork, and should be neatly cut ont 
with a sharp knife, and the various 
parts supposed to be destroyed by ace 
picked away with a pin or blunt jcnue 
afterwards. 

1996. Xnstio-Work Seats, &o., 
may be constructed of wire twisted to 
the proper shape and size, and then 
covered with gutta-percha, rendered 
soft by being dippea in hot water. 
The gutta-percha should be twisted 
round the wire previously warmed, 
and gently heated over a spirit lamp, 
or dipped again into hot water, so as 
to allow the various parts to be covered 
with it. When the model is finished, 
it should be touched up here and 
there with oil colours — green, yellow, 
sienna, and Venetian red — according 
to fancy, and the eflect produced wiU 
be very good. 

1996. TO MODEL FLOWERS DT 
WAX. — There is no art more easily 
acquired, nor more encouraging in its 
immediate results, than that of model- 
ling flowers and fruit in wax. The 
art, however, is attended by this 
drawback — that the materials required 
are somewhat expensive. 

1997. Materials required will cost 
from 20s. to 80s., and may be obtained 
at most fancy repositories in large 
towns. Persons wishing to commence 
the art would do well to inqmre for 
particulars, and see spedmens of ma- 
terials; because in tnis, as in eveiy. 



Digitized by 



Google. 



878 



ax THIT KIOLICTB TIM1» TIMC WILL NSOLSCT. 



other ponuit, there are noTelties and 
improvements being introdneed, whiefa 
BO Dook oaa give an idea of. 

1996. Fetals and lecTM are made 

?f sheets of colonred wax, which may 
e parchased in packets of assorted 
colours. They are frequently made 
by thin sheets of wax pressed upon 
leaves of embossed calico. Leaves of 
various descriptions are to be obtained 
of the persons who sell the materials. 

1909. Tka IteiM are made of wire 
of suitable thicknewet, covered with 
silk, and overlaid with wax. 

2000. Goplea for Kodelf.— Ladies 

will often find among their discarded 
artificial flowers, leaves and buds that 
will serve as the base of their wax 
model, but Natural Flowers are the 
best guides to the construction of a 
flower, and far better than printed 
diagrams or patterns. Take a flower, 
say a tulip, a tom, or eomeUia, If 
possible, procure tu>0 flowera, nearly 
alike ; and carefully pick one of them 
to pieces ; lay the petals down in the 
order in which they are taken from 
the flower, and then cut paper pat- 
terns f^m them, and number t&em 
from the centre of the flower, that 
you may know their relative positions. 

The perfect flower will guide you in 
getting the wax petals together, and 
will enable you to give, not only to 
each petal but to the conUmr of the 
flower, the characteristios which are 
natural to it In moat cases, they 
are merely pressed together and held 
in their places by the adhesiveness of 
the wax. They should be cut singly, 
and the scissors should be frequently 
dipped in water, to prevent tne wax 
adhering to the blades. 

The scraps of wax that fall from 
the cutting will be found useful for 
making seeid vessels, and other parts 
of the flowers. 

2001. Leavef of Flowvn.— Where 
the manufactured foundations cannot 
be obtained, patterns of them should 
be cut in paper; the venous appear- 



anoe may be imparted t* the wax by 
pressing the leaf upon it 

2002. Spriga of ?Uatt.— In the 
construction of these, it is moat 
important to be guided by sprigs of 
the natural plant, as various kinai of 
plants have many di^rent ebMuoter- 
istics in the grouping of their flowere, 
leaves, and brancnes. 

2008. Seleotitii of Wftx.~When 
about to copy a flower, take care in 
the selection of good sheets of wax, 
and see that their colours are precisely 
those of the flower you desire to imi- 
tate. For the tints, stripes, and spots 
of varie^ted flowers, you \f\\X be sup- 
plied with colours among the other 
materials, and the application of them 
is precisely upon tne principle of 
water-colour painting. 

2004. Kofixixuro mm. *•., 

m WAX.— For the imitating of fruit 
in wax, veiy diflerent rules are to be 
obeerved. The followins directions 
may, however, be generally followed: 
— The material of which moulds for 
waxen fruit should be composed is the 
h€8t plaster of Paris, such as is used 
for piaster casts, &c. If the plaster 
is faulty, the results of the modelling 
will of course be more or less faulty 
also. 

The use of an elastic fruit in early 
experiments often leads to a want of 
accuracy in the fii*st steps of the opera- 
tion, which causes very annoying 
difficulties afterwards ; and therefore 
a solid, inelastic body — an egg boiled 
hard — is recommended as tne first 
object to be imitated. 

2005. Caiting Xgg in Wftz.-^For 

the first experiments common yellow 
wax may be used as the material, or 
the ends of half-burnt wax candles. 
Tlio materials of the hard (not tallow) 
composition mould candles will also 
answer. 

2006. MakiBff tho Monldt— IVml 

Half. — Having filled a small pudding 
basin about three-quarters full of 
damp sand (the fijier the better), lay 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO tton AKt> gTBIVJ 10 THK WAY TO TRIlfVX. 



879 



the 6ffg leBffthwajs in tlie sand, so 
that milf of it is abore, and half 
below, the level of the sand, which 
should be perfectly smooth round it. 
Then in another baain, which should 
be half full of water, mix the plaster 
in quickly till it comes to the consist- 
ency of thick cream, then pour the 
whole upon the egg in the first basin. 

While the half mould thus made is 
hardening thoroughly, carefully re- 
move every particle of plaster from 
the basin in which it was mixed, and 
also from the spoon which has been 
used. This is highly important, sinoe 
a small Quantity of plaster which has 
set will aestroy the quality of a second 
mixing if it ismcor^Jorated therewith. 
In about five minutes the half mould 
will be fit to remove, which may be 
done by turning the basin up with 
the rignt hand (taking care not to lose 
the sand), so that the mould falls into 
the left hand. The e^ should then 
be gentljr allowed to fall out of the 
mould ; if, however, it adheres, lightly 
scrape the plaster from the edge of 
the mould, and then shake it out into 
the hollow of the hand. The mould 
or casting must be "trimmed" ; that 
is, the sand must be brushed from the 
flat surface of the mould with a nail- 
brush very lightly, without touching 
the extreme and sharp edges where 
the hollow of the mould commences. 
Then upon the broad edge from which 
the sand has been brushed, make four 
equidistant hollows (with the round 
end of a table-knife), Hka the deep 
impression of a thimble's end. These 
are to gnide hereafter in the fixing of 
the second half of the mould. The 
egg should now be replaced in the 
casting, the edges of which with the 
holes should be thoroughly lubricated 
with sweet oil, laid on with a feather, 
or, what is better, a large camel-hair 
brush. 

Second Half. — Into the small pud- 
ding basin from which the sand has 
been emptied, place with the egg 
uppermost the half mould, which, if 
^e operation has been managed pro- 



\ shouM ^ olose at the edges to 
te side of the Tessel ; then prepare 
some more liquid plaster as before, 
and pour it upK)n the egg mud mould. 
Completion of MouUL--'ln due time 
remove the whole from the basin ; the 
halves will be found readily separable, 
and the egg being removed, the rooula 
will be ready to cast In, after it has 
been set asicle for an hour or two, so 
as to completely harden. This is the 
simplest form of mould, and all are 
made upon the same principle, 

2007. OMtlng 1b Wmi — Every 
large object to be imitated in wax should 
be oast hollow; and therefore, thouffh 
the transparent lightness required In 
the imitation of fruits is not requisite 
in an artificial egg, the egff may be 
cast upon the same principle as a 
piece or fruit, in the following manner. 

i. The two pieees of the plaster of 
Paris mould must be soaked in hot 
water for ten minutes. 

ii The wax should in the meantime 
be very slowly melted in a small tin 
saucepan, with a spout to it, care beine 
taken not to allow it to boil, or it will 
be discoloured. As to the quantity 
of wax to be melted, the following b 
a general rule : — A lump, the size of 
the object to be imitat^ placed in 
the saucepan, should be sufficient for 
casting twice, at least 

Hi. As soon as the wax is melted 
thoroughly, place the saucepan on the 
hob of the grate, and taking the parts 
of the noonld f^m the hot water, 
remove the moisture from their sur- 
faces by iM^ing them gently with a 
handkerchief or soft cloth. The mould 
must not be wipedy but only pressed. 
If the vHiUr has not been hot enough, 
or if the drying is not performed 
quickly, the mould will be too cold, 
and the wax will congeal too rapidly, 
and settle in rid|;es and strealu ; on 
the other hand, if the wax has been 
made too hot, it will adhere to the 
mould, and refuse to oome out 
entire. 

It. Having laid the two halves of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



880 



WX SELDOM BSPBNT OF HAVING SATIN TOO LITTLE. 



the mould so that there can be no 
mistake in fitting the one in its exact 

Slaoe quickly on the other, pour from 
iie saucepan into one of the half 
moulds as nearly as much wax as will 
fill the hollow made by the model 
(egg), quickly fit the other half on the 
top of it, squeeze the two pieces tightly 
together in the hand, and, still hold- 
ing them thus, turn them over in 
every possible position, so that the 
wax wnich is slowly congealing in the 
internal hollow of the mould may be 
of equal thickness in all parts. Hav- 
ing continued this process at least two 
mmutes, the hands (still holding and 
turning the mould) may be immersed 
in cold water to accelerate the cooling 
process. The perfect concealment of 
the wax may be known after a little 
experience by the absence of the sound 
of fluid on shaking the mould. 

T. As soon as the mould is com- 
pletely cooled, the halves may be 
separated carefully, the upper beins 
lifted straight up n*om the under, and 
if the operation has been properly 
managed, a waxen egg will be turned 
out of the mould. 

vi The egg will only require trim- 
ming, that is, removing the ridge 
which marks the line at which the 
halves of the mould joined, and 
polishing out the scratches or ine- 
qualities left by the knife with a piece 
of soft rag, wet with spirits of turpen- 
tine or spirits of wine. 

2008. Colouring the Wax.— While 
the wax is yet on the hob, and in a 
fluid state, stir into it a little jlake 
white, in powder, and continue to stir 
the mixture while it is being poured 
into the half mould. It will bo found 
that unless the fixing and sliaking of 
the moulds is managed quickly, the 
colouring matter wiU settle on the 
side of the half into which the mix- 
ture is poured ; a little care in manip- 
ulation is therefore sgain requisite. 
The colouring of the wax is a matter 
which comes easily enough by experi- 
ment. Oranges, lemons, large goose- 



berries, small cucumbers, &c., kc,, are 
excellent objects for practice, 

2009. Method of Hardening Ob- 
Jeets in Plaster of Paris.~Take two 
parts of stearine, two parts of Venetian 
soap, one part of pearlash, and twenty- 
four to thirty parts of a solution of 
caustic potasn. The stearine and soap 
are cut into slices, mixed with the 
cold Ive, and boiled for about half-an- 
hour, being constantly stirred. When- 
ever the mass rises, a little cold Ive 
is added. The pearlash, previously 
moistened with a little rain water, is 
then added, and tlie whole boiled for 
a few minutes. The mass is then 
stirred until cold, when it is mixed 
with so much cold lye that it becomes 
perfectly liquid, and runs off the spoon 
without coagulating and contracting. 
Previously to using this composition, 
it should be kept for several days well 
covered. It may be preserved for 
years. Before applying it to the 
objects they should bo well dusted, 
the stains scraped away, and then 
coated, by means of a thick brush, 
with the wash, as long as the plaster 
of Paris absorbs it, and left to dry. 
The coating is then dusted with a 
soft brush. If the surface has not 
become sl)iuing, the operation must 
be re()cated. 

2010. ** Plastiline ** for taking 
Casts. — This is a new compound for 
taking casts of organic remains found 
in the earth. Hitherto W^wax, pure 
or mixed with paraffin and ozokerite 
dentists' modelling composition, glue, 
gelatine, melted sulphur, or plaster of 
raiis have been used. Plastiline, in- 
vented by Professor Luigi Giudico, 
of Genoa, is of secret composition, but 
resembles clay or putty, and is made 
in three varieties, diftering in hard- 
ness, the medium. No. 2, l^ing fittest 
for impressions of fossils. It can be 
softened with vaseline or sweet oiL 
The modelling tools of sculptors are 
employed with it ; and otherwise it is 
very convenient Plaster caste can be 
made from it 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ES WHO SERVES WELL NEED NOT BE AFRAID TO ASK HIS WA0E8. 881 



2011. IXPBS8SI0K8 FBOM 
COHrS. — Melt a little isinglasB-glue 
with brandy, and pour it tlunly over 
the medal, ^c, bo as to cover its 
whole surface ; let it remain on for a 
day or two, till it has thoroughly 
dried and hardened, and then take it 
otf, when it will be fine, clear, and 
hard, and will present an excellent 
impression of the coin. It will also 
resist the efifects of damp air, which 
occasions other kinds of glue to soften 
and bend if not prepared in this way. 

2012. DIAPHAHIS. 

This is a beautiful, useful, and in- 
expensive art, easily acquired, and 
producing imitations of the richest 
stained glass, in every varietv of 
colour and design. A peculiar kind 
of paper is rendered semi-transparent, 
upon which designs are printed in 
glass colours {vitre de couleurs)^ which 
will not change with the light. The 
paper is apphed to the glass with a 
clear white varnish, and when dry, a 
preparation is finally applied, which 
increases the transparency, and adds 
brilliancy to the effect. 

2018. Materials Bequired.— The 
pinted sheets of desi^ ready for 
immediate use are easily procurable 
at a very moderate price, and comprise 
a great variety of styles and subjects ; 
some consist of medallion centres of 
Watteau figures, &c. , and are intended 
to be surrounded by semi-transparent 
half-light designs, which add greatly 
to the efl*ect of the centre pictures. 
Many thousands of designs are issued, 
and include borders, comer-pieces, 
&c. The other articles required are 
some clear white varnish, some liqueur 
diaphanie, brushes, a palette knife, 
and ivory paper-knife. 

2014. Praetical Instmotionf. — 
Choose a fine day for the operation, 
as the glass should bo perfectly dry, 
and unaffected by the humidity of the 
atmosphere. If you have a choice, it 
is more convenient to work on your 
glass before it is fixed in the frame. 



If you are working on a piece of un- 
attached glass, lay it on a flat table 
(a marble slab is preferable), over 
which you must previously lay a piece 
of baize or cloth to keep tne glass 
steady. The ^lass being thus fixed, 
clean and polish the side on which 
you intena to oprate (in windows 
this is the inner side), then wil^ your 
brush lay on it very equably a good 
coat of the prepared varnish ; let this 
dry for an hour, more or less, accord- 
ing to the dryness of the atmosphere 
and the thickness of the coat of var- 
nish ; meantime cut and trim your 
designs carefully to fit the glass (if it 
is one entire transparent sheet you 
will find little trouble) ; then lay 
them on a piece of paper, face down- 
wards, and damp the back of them 
with a sponge, applied several times, 
to equalize the moisture. In this 
operation arrange your time so that 
your designs may now be finally left 
to dry for fifteen minutes before appli- 
cation to the glass, the varnish on 
which has now become tacky or sticky, 
and in a proper state to receive them. 
Apply the printed side next to the 
class without pressure ; endeavour to 
let your sheet fall perfectly level and 
smooth on the glass, so that you may 
avoid leaving creases, which would m 
fatal. Take now your palette-knife 
and press out all the air-bubbles, com- 
mencing in the centre, and working 
them out at the sides ; an ivoiy stick 
will be found useful in removing 
creases; you now leave this to dry, 
and after twenty-four hours apply a 
slight coat of the liqueur diaphanie, 
leaving it another day, when, if dry, 
apply a second coat of the same kind, 
which must be left several days; 
finally, apply a coat of varnish over 
all. 

If these directions are carefully 
followed, your glass will never he 
affected by time or any variations in 
the weather ; and can be washed the 
same as ordinary stained glass, to 
which, in some respects, it is even 
superior. 



Digitized by 



Google 



S89 



FATHSA AKD KOTHIK AR« KIKD, BUT GOD T8 KIKDKR. 



2016. Apflkatiom ^f Btapkaait. 

— All kinds of acreMiB, Ump-Bhidet 
9o4. glaattt, Unterns, kc, ie,, nay 
be deconted in this wfty, ms heat will 
produoe no effect upon them. 

2016. VmXlUUnX U a process 
of imitating painting on glass similar 
to Diaphanie. 

2017. ronCSOlUHIS it a pro. 
oeas of like natoje by which glass 
plates, Tases, &c., are made to resemble 
porcelain. 

20ia DEOALOOIUVII.— This 

recently discovered and beautifal art 
oonsisU in transfeirln^ prepared col- 
oured pioturee to gutse, porcelain, 
china, wood, silk, furniture, plaster 
of Paris, alabaster, ivory, paper, paper- 
hanffiugs, windows, tea-trays, oil- 
cloth, and all kinds of fancy articles, 
proyided they possess a smooth sur- 
face ; the result being an exact re- 
semblance to painting by hand. The 
art itself is simple ai^ ingenious, «nd 
while affording agreeable oocnpati<m 
to ladies, it may be made to serve 
many nseftil purposes, on account of 
the numerous objects which will admit 
of being thus ornamented. 

2019. KateriALi Eaqnired. 

i. A bottle of transfer vamish for 
fixing the drawings. 

ii A bottle of ligfat varnish to pass 
over the drawings when fixed. 

iU. A bottle of spirit to clean the 
brushes, and to remove those pictures 
which majr not be successful. 

It. A piece of beaver doth about 
nine inclMs square. 

T. A paper-knife and roller. 

vi Two or three camel-hair brushes. 

▼it A basin of water. 

Till. A bottle of opaque varnish. 

2020. InstructionB.— Thoroughly 
clean and free from grease the article 
to be decorated ; then, having cut off 
the white paper mar^n of the draw- 
ing, give a very li^ht coating of 
transror varnish to the parts to be 
transferred, being espeemlly oareM 
to cover the whole of the ooloored 



portion, b«t not to allow it to tonch 
the blank naper. When the vamisk 
is first applied it is very liquid, and 
must remain ten minntea, tiie best 
condition for tmnsfurring being when 
the varnish is only just sticky, with- 
out being too dry ; then lay the draw- 
ing, face downwaids, on the object to 
be ornamented, taking care to place it 
at once where it is to remain, as it 
would be spoilt by moving. Moisten 
the cloth with water, and lay it gently 
on thediawing, which has lieen previ- 
ously laid in its place on the object to 
be decorated ; then mb it over with 
the paner-knife or roller, eo as to 
cause tne print to adhere in every 
pait; this done, remove the cloth, 
well soak the paper with a camel-hair 
brush dipped in water, and immedi- 
ately after lift the paper by one comer, 
and ffently draw it off. The picture 
will be left on the object, while the 
paper will come off perfectly white. 
tare must be taken that the piece of 
doth, without being too wet, is suffi- 
dently so to saturate the paper com- 
pletely. The drawing must now be 
wash^ with a camel-hair brash, in 
clean water, to remove the surplus 
varnish, and then left till quite orv. 
On the following day, cover the 
picture with a light coat of the fixing 
varnish, to give brilliancy to the 
colours. 

2021. To Ornament Bark-eolomrod 

Objeets. such as the bindings of 
books, Kussia leather, blotting-cases, 
leather bags, Ac, the picture must be 
previously covered witn a mixture of 
opaque wnito varnish, taking care not 
to pass beyond the outline of the de- 
sign. On the following day, proceed 
according to the instructions ^ven in 
the preceding paragraph. 

2022. To oruMient Silk, Paper, 
or Axticles which will not bear wet- 
ting. — Varnish the picture with the 
transfer varnish, as previously ex- 
plained, fdlowing the outline of the 
design, then allow it to dry for an 
honr or two ; when qnite diy, pass % 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



OO TO BED WITH THE LAMB AKD RI« WITH THE LABK. 



S8S 



dtaip tponge orer the entire Borfue 
ci the sheet, so as to remove the com- 
position which sarrounds the piotare, 
and yr\nck may spoil the object Let 
the paper diy onee more, and Tarnish 
the pietuTB aoain with the transfer 
▼amish : in about ten minutes, place 
it &ce downward on the object to be 
decorated, and rub it with the paper- 
knife or roller, over tlie whole of its 
■orfaee. Finally, moisten the paper 
with a wet brush, allow it to remain 
sufficiently long to become moist, then 
strip the paper off. To remote a tpoiU 
pichirefrom any obf'eci, dip a soft rsg 
in the essence, and rub it over the 
surface. 

20Q8. 9esi|ni Appropriate for Be- 
ealcomaaia. — English flowers of every 
variety, bouquete, tropical birds, 
flowers and fruits in imitation of 
aquatint ; gariands with cnpids after 
Watteau, and garlands with birds; 
domestic scenes ; fruit, flowers ; medal- 
lions, Ooliiic initials and monograms, 
fleur-de-lis ; borders various. 

2024. Etraldic BMaloomaaiA is 
an extendi application of this art, 
the arms and crests being emblazoned 
in their proper colours according to 
the rules of heraldry, and prepared 
for Decalcomanie. Armorial bearings, 
thus embellished, serve admirably to 
ornament and identify the books of a 
library and pictures of a gallery, to 
decorate menus for dinners, the invita- 
tions to a soir^, &a By their brilliant 
colours they give an elegant effect to 
the table decorations. 

2065. TSXBLA. OOTTA PAIHT- 
ni0. — Terra Cotta is an Italian term 
for "burnt earth." Bricks are a 
coarse kind of terra cotta. The 
Natural History Museum at Kensing- 
ton is built entirely of terra cotta 
diabs. Terra Cotta vases of the early 
and late Etmscan priod, such as 
thoee in the Britisn Museum, are 
priceless. These are painted in vari- 
ous designs, and burnt in. The 
Boulton Wars is a close, if not exact, 
ra p teae n tatton of dMse matcUoss 



specimens. Tsm Cotta painting is 
simply vasea and plates of red terra 
ootta, painted in Greek designs with 
ordinaiy black painty and then var- 
nished, or plates painted with a similar 
medium, in flowers of varions oolonrs. 
These last, of course, ars no imitations 
of the antique. 

202a AHGL0JAPAHE8X 
VOEK. — This is an ele^^t and easy 
domestic art. Take yellow withered 
leaves, dissolve gum, black paint, 
oopal varnish, kc Any articles, such 
as an old tea-caddv, flower-pots, fire- 
screens, screens of all descriptions, 
work-boxes, &c, may be ornamented 
with these simple materials. Select 
perfect leaves, dry and press tliem be- 
tween the leaves of books ; rub the 
surface of the article to be ornamented 
with fine sand-paper, then give it a 
coat of fine black paint, which should 
be procured mixed at a colour-shop. 
When dry rub smooth with pumice- 
stone, and give two other eoats. Dry. 
Arrange leaves in any manner and 
varied, according to taste. Gum the 
leaves on the under side, and press 
them upon their places. Then dis- 
solve some isinglass in hot water, and 
brush it over the work. Dry. Give 
three coats of copal varnish, allowing 
ample time for each coat to dry. 
Articles thus ornamented last for 
years, and are very pleasing. 

2027. OBVAmsVTALLSATHEE 
WOBK. — An excellent imitation of 
carved oak. suitable for frames, boxes, 
vases, and ornaments in endless 
variety, may be made of a description 
of leather called basil. The art con- 
sists in simply cutting out this material 
in imitation of natural objects, and 
in impressing upon it by simple tools, 
either with or without the aia of heat, 
such marks and characteristics as are 
necessary to the imitation. The tools 
required are ivory or steel points of 
various sizes, punches, and tin shapes, 
such as are nsed for confectionery. 
The points may be made out of the 
hnadtea of nld tootli-lirtishes. Begin 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



884 



HS DOBTR WELL WHO DOBTH GOOD 



with a simple object, and proceed by 
degrees to those that are more com- 
plicated. Cut oat an ivy or an oak 
leaf, and impress the yeina upon it ; 
then arrange these in groups, and 
affix them to frames, or otherwise. 
Before cutting out the leaves the 
leather should be well soaked in 
water, until it is quite pliable. When 
dry, it will retain the artistic shape. 
Leaves and stems are fastened toother 
b^ means of liquid glue, and var- 
nished with any of the drying var- 
nishes, or with sealing-wax dissolved 
to a suitable consistency in spirits of 
wine. Wire, cork, gutta-perdia, bits 
of stems of trees, &c., may severally 
be used to aid in the formation of 
groups of buds, flowers, seed-vessels, 

202a ET€HIHO OB SVOSAYIKO 

OK IVOEY.— The ivory should be 
covered with wax, and then oil of 
vitriol used for etching fluid. 

2029. TO BLEACH IVOBY.— 

First rub it with finely-ground pumice- 
stone and water. Then, while it is 
moist, expose it (under a bell-glass) 
to the sun, to prevent dryn^s and 
cracking. Repeat this until the de- 
sired effect is produced ; or the ivory 
may be bleached by dipping it for a 
little while in water containing a 
small quantity of sulphurous acid, 
chlorine, or chloride of lime ; or also, 
by exposing it, while moist, to fiimes 
of burning sulphur, mixed with air 
to reduce their strength. 

2080. ABTIFICIAL IVOBY, TO 
HAKE. — Make a fine paste of isin- 

flass, finely-powdered egg-shells, and 
randy. Impart the required colour 
to it, and while it is warm pour it 
into well-oiled moulds, and leave it 
until it becomes hard. 

2031. PEOTOOBAPHY. 

This art has of late years become 
exceedingly popular among amateurs 
of both sexes, and it is remarkable 
how many of one's friends possess 
cameras, and how soon they acquire 



the art of using them with success. 
The camera is a useful and pleasant 
companion in our rambles, and by its 
means we can record many pleasant 
incidents which have occurred during 
a holiday, many pieces of beautifiu 
scenery, and, more especially, the 
features of our friends and relatives. 

Beginners must not be discouraged 
by a few early failures ; for since the 
introduction of the dry-plate process 
the taking and development of a 
photograph is a comparatively easy 
matter, to say nothing of the deanli- 
neas of the new process, as compared 
with the old. 

Cameraft are generally made in the 
following three sizes: — whole plate, 
half plate, and quarter plate; the 
most useful being the half plate, aa it 
is sufficiently large for portraits, and 
is also a very convenient size for 
landscape views. A really good one 
should be secured at a cost of about 
£6, but frequently it may be had 
for considerably less than that sum. 

Of course it is impossible, in the 
space of an article of this kind, to 
explain the process of taking and 
developing a picture, and the only 
thing IS to refer the reader to some 
of the very cheap and useful hand- 
books on the subject. 

2032. FAKCY KXEBLEWOBK. 

Although there is a continual change 
in designs and materials for fancy 
needlework of every description, the 
fundamental principles on which this 
kind of work in all its various branches 
is executed remain the same. These 
are briefly set forth in the following 
series of instructions on this subject. 

2033. CBOCHETEZFLAIKED.— 

Whether as a simple trimming, as an 
elaborate quilt, or as a fabric, almost 
rivalling Point Lace, it is popular 
with every woman who has any time 
for fancy work, since it is only need- 
ful to understand the stitches, and 
the terms and contractions used in 
writing the descriptions of the different 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TO TH08X or HIB OWN BROTHERHOOD ; 



885 



deognsy to be enabled to work them 
without difficulty. 

2084. Stitohei tiaad in Crochet— 
These, with their abbreviations, are : — 
Chain stitch, Ch, ; Sirigle crochet, S. ; 
Ihuble crochet, Dc. ; Treble stitch, 
Tr,, and Double and Treble Long, 

i. Chain Stitoh, or Ch.— Hook the 
cotton into a loop, and keep on loop- 
ing the cotton throogh a previoos 
stitch till a succession of chains are 
made to form a foundation. 

IL Single Crochet, or 8.— This 
occurs only in working designs ; the 
hook is inserted in a stitch, and the 
cotton is pulled through that and the 
cotton which is on the hook at the 
same time ; it thus makes a close 
tie. 

iii Double Crochet, or Dc— With 
cotton on the hook insert the latter 
into a stitch, draw the cotton through ; 
there are now two loops on the hook, 
take up the cotton on the hook, and 
with cotton again upon the hook draw 
it through two loops. 

iv. Treble .Stitch, or Tr.— With 
the loop of last stitch on the hook, 
twist tne cotton over the hook, place 
the latter through a stitch, draw the 
cotton through, then put the cotton 
over the hook, draw the cotton through 
two loops, and again through two 
loops. 

T. Double and Treble Long. — 
With the hook in a loop, twist the 
cotton twice or three times over the 
hook, and draw the hook successively 
through either two or three loops. 

2086. Square Crochet is also 
sometimes used. The squares are 
either open or close. An open square 
consists of one Tr, two Cn, missing 
two on the line beneath, before mak- 
ing the next stitch. A close square 
has three successive Tr's. Thus, any 
given number of close squares, fol- 
lowed bv an open, will have so many 
times three Tr's ; consequentiy any 
foundation for sauare crochet must 
have a number tnat can be divided 
by three 



2086. To Increase or lecrease. — 
For the former two stitches may be 
worked in the same loop; for the 
latter, either miss a stitch of the pre- 
ceding row, or crochet two together. 

2087. To Join on a Thread.— 

Joins should be avoided as much as 
possible in open work. In joining, 
finish the stitch by drawing the new 
thread through, leaving two inches 
for both ends, which must be held in. 

2088. To TTse several Colours.- 

Hold the threads not in use on the 
edge of the work, and worl^ them in. 
Change the colour by beginning the 
stitch in the old colour, and finishing 
it with the new, continuing the work 
with the latter, holding in the old. 
If only one stitch is wanted in the 
new colour, finish one stitch, and 
begin the next with it ; then change. 

2089. To Join LeaTCi, 4c.— When 
one part of a leaf or flower is required 
to be joined to another, drop the loop 
from the hook, which insert in the 
place to be joined; draw the loop 
through and continue. 

2040. To Work over Cord. —Hold 
the cord in the left hand with the 
work, and work round it, as you would 
over an end of thread, working closely. 
When beads are used they must be 
first threaded on silk or thread, and 
then dropped, according to the pattern, 
on the wrong side of the work. This 
side looks more even than the other ; 
therefore, when bead purses are worked 
from an engraving, they are worked 
the reverse of the usual way, viz. from 
right to left 

2041. Oriental Crochet, some- 
timet termed Tricot— This is worked 
by just making a chain the length re- 
quired. Then put the hook t&ough 
a loop of the chain, pull the wool 
through without twistmg it, and so 
continue to the end, keeping all the 
stitches on the hook. In returning, 
twist the wool over the hook, pull it 
through the first loop, twist the wool 
again over the hook, pull it throu^^ 

98 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SB6 



HB BOITR nmit WHO DOTR BtSSS 



the next, and ao contiune to the end. 
There will now be a row of flat loops, 
but not on the edge. Work exactly 
as at the first row which was worked 
with the chnin row, but take up the 
loops instead of the chain stitches. 

2042. VETTUrO SXPLAIHED — 

The beauty of netting consists in its 
firmness and regularity. All joins in 
the thread must be made in a very 
strong knot ; and, if possible, at an 
edge, so that it may not be perceived. 
Stitches in netting are always counted 
by knots. 

2043. Implementa mad in Net- 
ting. — These are a netting needle and 
a mesh. In filling a netting needle 
with the material, be careful not to 
make it so full that there will be a diffi- 
culty in passiug it through thestitches. 
The size of the needle must depend on 
the material to bo employed, and the 
fineness of the work. Steel needles are 
employed for every kind of netting 
except the very coarsest They are 
marked from 12 to 24, the latter being 
extremely fine. The fine meshes are 
usually also of steel ; but, as this 
matenal is heavy, it is better to em- 
ploy bone or wooden meshes when 
large ones are required. Many meshes 
are flat ; and in using them the tcidih 
is given. 

2044. Diamond Kettiiig.— The 
first stitch in this work is tenned 
diavumd netting, the holes being in 
the form of diamonds. To do the first 
TOW, a stout thread, knotted to form 
a round, is fastened to the knee with a 
pin, or passed over the foot, or on the 
hook^ sometimes attached to a work 
cuahion for the purpose. The end of 
the thread on the needle is knotted 
,to this, the mesh being held in the 
left hand on a line with it. Take the 
needle in the right hand ; let the 
thread come over the mesh and the 
third finger, bring it back under the 
mesh, and hold it between the thumb 
and first finger. Slip the needle 
through the loop over the third finger, 
under the mesh and the foondaSon 



thread. In doing this a loop will be 
formed, which must be passed over 
the fourth finger. Withdraw the 
third finger from the loop, and draw up 
the loop over the fourth, gradually, un- 
til it is quile tight on the mesh. The 
thumb should be kept firmly over the 
mesh while the stitch is lleing com- 
pleted. When the necessary number 
of stitches is made on this foundation, 
the future rows are to bo worked back- 
wards and forwards. To form a 
voundf the first stitch is to be worked 
into immediately after the last, which 
closes the netting into a circle. 

2045. Bound Betting is very 

nearly the same stitch. The diflbr- 
ence is merely in the way of putting 
the needle through the loop and 
foundation, or other stitch. After 
passing the needle through the loop. 
It must be brought out, and put 
dotcnwards through the stitch. 1 nis 
stitch is particularly suitable for 
purses. 

2046. Square Ketting is exactly 
the same stitch as diamond netting, 
only it is begim at a comer, on one 
stitch, and increased (by doing two in 
one) in the last stitch of every row, 
until the greatest width required is 
attained. Then, by netting two 
stitches top^ther at the end of every 
row, the piece is decreased to a point 
again. When stretched out, all the 
holes in this netting are squares. 

2047. Darning on Ketting. — 
Square and diamond netting are the 
most frequently used, and arc orna- 
mented with patterns darned on them, 
in simple darning or in various point 
stitches. In the latter case it forms 
a variety of the sort of work termed 
Guipure (TArL 

2048. TATTIKO EXPLAIHXD. 

The only necessary implements are 
a thin shuttle or short netting- needle, 
and a gilt pin and ring, united by a 
chain. The cotton used should be 
strong and soft There are three 
available sizes, Nos. 1, 2, and 8. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THB STRAKOBR IK HIS WRSTCHEDNB88. 



387 



Attention should be paid to the man- 
ner of holding the hands, as on this 
depends the grace or awkwardness of 
the moyement. Fill the shuttle with 
the cotton (or silk) required, in the 
same manner as a netting needle. 
Hold the shuttle between uie thumb 
and first and second fingers of the 
right hand, leaving about half-a-yard 
of cotton unwound. Take up the 
cotton, about three inches from the 
end, between the thumb and first 
finger of the left hand, and let the 
end fall in the palm of the hand ; pass 
the cotton round the other fingers of 
the left hand (keeping them parted a 
little), and bring it again between the 
I thumb and forefinger, thus making a 
'circle round the extended fin^rs. 
There are only two stitches in tatting, 
called respectively the English and 
the French stitch, and they are usually 
done alternately. 

2040. English Stitoh.— Let the 
thread between the right and left 
hands fall towards you ; slip the shut- 
tle under the thread between the first 
and second finders ; draw it out rather 
(quickly, keeping it in a horizontal 
line with the left hand. You will find 
a slipping loop is formed on this 
cotton with that which went round 
the fingers. Hold the shuttle steadily, 
with the cotton stretched tightly out, 
and with the second finger of the left 
hand slip the loop thus made under 
the thumb. 

2050. French Stitch.— Instead of 
allowing the cotton to fall towards 
you, and passing the shuttle doum- 
wardsj the cotton is thrown in a loop 
over the left hand, and the shuttle 
passed under the thread between the 
first and second fingers upioards. The 
knot must be invariably formed by the 
thread which passes round the fingers 
of the left hand. If the operation is 
reversed, and the knot formed by the 
cotton connected with the shuttle, 
the loop will not draw up. This is 
occasioned by letting the cotton from 
the shuttle hang loosely instead of 



drawing it out and holding it tightly 
stretched. When any given number 
of these double stitches are done, and 
drawn closely together, the stitches 
are held between the first finger and 
thumb, and the other fingers are with- 
drawn from the circle of cotton, which 
is gradually diminished by drawing 
out the shuttle until the loop of 
tatting is nearly or entirely closed. 
The tatted loops should be quite close 
to each other, unless directions to the 
contraiy are given. 

2061. OmameiLtal Edging.— The 
pin is used in making an ornamental 
edge, something like purl edging, 
thus : — Slip the ring on the left-hand 
thumb, that the pin attached may be 
ready for use. After making the re- 
quired number of double stitches, 
twist the pin in the circle of cotton, 
and hold it between the forefinger and 
thumb, whilst making more double 
stitches ; repeat The little loops 
thus formed are termed pkota, 

2062. Trelbil Tatting.— This is 
done by drawing three loops up 
tightly, close together, and then 
leaving a short space before making 
more. The trefoil is sewed into 
shape afterwards with a needle. 

2068. To Join Loops.— When two 
loops are to be connected, a picot is 
made in the firsts whenever the join 
is required. When you come to the 
corresponding part of the second loop, 
draw the thread which goes round the 
fingers of the left hand through the 
picot with a needle, pulling through a 
loop lar^e enough to admit the shuttle. 
Slip this through, then draw the 
thread tight again over the fingers, 
and continue trie work. In many 
patterns a needle is used to work over, 
m button-hole stitch, the thread 
which passes from one loop to another. 
A long needleful of the same cotton 
or silk used for the tatting is left at 
the beginning of the wonc, and a 
common needle used to buttonhole 
over bftrs wherever they ocoiuv 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



888 



T«T BMT, OH ! BEST OF ALL DOTH HK 



2064. KHITTnr0 SZPLAIVSI). 

We recommend our readers to attain 
perfection in this branch of fancy 
work, because, above all others, it is a 
resource to those who, from weak 
eyes, are precluded from many kinds 
of industrial amusement, or who, as 
invalids, cannot bear the fatigue of 
more elaborate work. The ract is 
that knitting does not reauire eyo^ 
sight at all ; and a very little practice 
ou^t to enable any one to knit whilst 
ref^ing, talking, or studying, quite 
as well as if the fingers were unem- 
ployed. 

2066. Implements for Knitting. 
— These are pins of ivory, bone, or 
steel. The latter are most commonly 
used, and should have tapered points, 
without the least sharpness at the 
extremity. Take care to have needles 
and cotton or wool that are suitable to 
each other in size. The work of the 
best knitter in the world would appear 
ill done if the needles were too fine or 
too coarse. In the former case, the 
work would be close and thick ; in 
the latter it would be too much like 
a cobweb. 

2066. To **Caft on."— Make a 
loop, and put it on the left needle, 
put the nght needle through this 
loop. Twist the cotton or wool over 
the right needle and draw it through 
the loop, then transfer this loop just 
made, from the right needle to the 
left ; repeat this process till you have 
made the number required. 

To Faiton on. — Twist the two ends 
of the thread together, and knit a 
few stitches with both; or make a 
strong weaver's knot 

2067. Plain Knitting.— Slip the 
point of the right-hand needle in a 
loop, bring the thread round it, and 
wtth the forefinger push the point of 
the needle off the loop so that the 
thread just twisted round forms a new 
one on the right hand. 

206a Pnrling.— The right-hand 
needle is slipped in the loop infnnU 



o/the left-hand one, and the thread, 
after passing between the two, is 
brought round it ; it is then worked 
as before. The thread is always 
brought forward before beginning a 
purled stitch, unless particular direc- 
tions to the contrary are given. 

2060. To Inoreaso. — There are 
several ways of doing this. If only 
one stitch is to be increased, bring the 
thread between the pins and knit the 
following stitch. This will form an 
open stitch or hole in the following 
row. To make a close increase, piS 
up the loop below the next stitch to 
be knitted, and knit it. To increase 
one stitch when the row is being 
seamed, the thread will be in front of 
the pin ; pass it quite round the pin 
to the front again. 

2060. To Deoreato. — Take one 
stitch off ifk-ithout knitting ; knit one, 
then slip the point of the left-hand 
needle in the unknitted stitch and 
draw it over the other. It is marked 
in recipes d. 1. To decrease 2 or 
more, slip 1, knit 2, 8, or more to- 
gether, <u one, and pass the slip stitch 
over. 

2061. To Join a Rovnd.— Four or 
five needles are used in round work, 
such as socks, stockings, &c. Cast 
on any given number of stitches on 
one needle, then slip another needle 
in the last stitch, before casting any 
on it ; repeat for any number. When 
all are cast on, knit the first 2 stitches 
off on to the end of the last needle. 
One needle is always left unused in 
casting on for a round. 

2062. ToOastofe:—Enit2 stitches; 
with the left-hand needle draw the 
first over the second ; knit another ; 
repeat Observe that the row before 
the castinpf off should never be very 
tightly kmtted. 

2068. To Knit Three Stitohee to- 
p^ether, so that the centre one shall bo 
in front — Slip 2 off the needle to- 
gether, knit tne third, and draw the 
others over together. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHO HELPS A FALLEN ENEMY. 



88d 



2064. ToBaiie a Stitoh is to knit 
the bar of thread between the two 
stitches as one. 

2066. To Pick np a Stitch.— With 
the left-hand pin pick up the loop 
below the next stitch to be knitted, 
knit it and bring to the right pin. 

2066. To Slip a Stitoh is passing 
a stitch from the left pin to the right 
without knitting it. 

2067. To Seam a Stitoh.— Place 
the pin in the stitch to be seamed, 
having the point towards you. Pass 
the thread quite round the pin, take 
the pin with the stitch on it out at 
the back, and repeat. 

2068. Abbreviations need in pat- 
terns.— K, knit ; P, purl ; D, decrease; 
K 2 t, knit two together ; P 2 t, purl 
two together ; M 1, make one. 

2060. MACRAIC^ EXPLAJVSB. 

Macram^work, called also) "knotted 
fringe," and *' Mexican lace/' consists 
in luiotting, interweaving and tying 
together threads or strings made for 
the purpose. This work is strong and 
durskble, and can be used in such a 
variety of ways that it is well worth 
the trouble of learning. It is im- 
possible to describe the method of 
working without the aid of diagrams 
or patterns ; these, however, may be 
readily procured. 

Haterials Eequired.— Awell.stuff- 
cd,weighted, oblong cushion, with pegs 
at the ends, to fix and wind long 
foundation threads on; some large 
glass-headed pins and a crochet needle 
to pull the tnread through when re- 
quired. Either silk, wool, cotton, 
gold thread, or cord can be used, but 
proper Macram^ thread, which can be 
purchased at almost any fancy shop, 
18 most recommended. 

2070. FANCY EMBROIBEBT 
AND CANVAS WOBK. 

Embroidery, properly speaking, 
includes every sort of ornamental 
work done with a sewing needle 
of any kind ; but in its popular ac- 



ceptation, it applies only to the orna- 
mentation of any article from drawn 
or marked patterns — whatever may 
be the material employed. Berlin 
or canvas work, on the contrary, is 
the usual designation of all kinds of 
embioidenr or canvas, done by count- 
ing threadSy and frequently by the aid 
of a painting on checked paper. We 
will begin b}r describing some of the 
former varieties. 

2071. Appliqn^.— In this, the 
simplest style of embroidery, the pat- 
tern is in one material, laid on an- 
other which forms the ground. In 
this way muslin is worked on net, 
velvet is laid on cloth, or on another 
velvet, and cretonne designs cut out 
and laid on another material, the 
edges bein^ either sewed over, or 
omamentea with fancy cord, braid, 
gold thread, or any other appropriate 
material. 

2072. Braiding-— This is another 
very eas^ style of ornamentation : a 
pattern is first traced on the material 
and a narrow silk or worsted braid 
neatly sewn over the lines. Gold and 
silver braid enter largely into various 
sorts of decorated needlework, and the 
Victoria braid, of cotton, which has 
something of t^e appearance of satin 
stitch, is also effective, but consider- 
able care is required to put it on evenly 
and firmly. The stitches should be 
taken across the braid. This makes 
it lie fiat 

2078. White Embroidexr, or em- 
broidery on muslin, is used for a great 
variety of articles of ladies' drca«». 
The pattern is in either satin stitch, or 
from left to right, formed of holes cut 
out of the muslin, and sewed over 
with embroidery cotton. The great 
art in working is to make the holes 
all of the same size, and to take the 
stitches closely and regular. 

2074. Satin Stitoh is a smooth 
raised work, used for leaves, flowers, 
&c. It is done by first tracing the out- 
lines accurately with soft cotton, then 
taking stitches from point to point 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



890 THEKE 18 KO QtLlKP LIKE THE GRIEF WHiGB DOES NOT 8PEAIL 



of the part to be raised, so as to have 
the greatest thickness of cotton in the 
centre, and sewing it over, in stitches 
taken closely together, but slightly 
slanting, and completely across the 
part outlined. The veining of leaves 
IS generally formed by taking the 
stitches from the vein to the edge, 
first on one side and then on the 
other. The borders of embroidered 
muslin collars, &c., are usually finish- 
ed with buttonhole stitch, worked 
either the width of an ordinary but- 
tonhole, or in long stitches, and raised 
like satin stitch. Eyelet holes are 
made by piercing round holes with a 
stiletto, and sewing them round. 

2076. Fancy Stitohei. — There are 
many fancv stitches introduced into 
muslin work, but these require to be 
practically taught. 

2076. Frame for Embroidery. — 
The kind of frame on which musUn is 
most easily worked, consists of two 
hoops of wood, about eight inches in 
diameter. One is rather smaller than 
the other. On it the muslin is 
stretched, and the larger one being 
slipped over it, and fitting tightly, 
keeps the muslin in its place. 

2077. Patterns may be drawn on 
cloth, muslin or other materials, with 
a pen dipped in a liquid made of stone- 
blue ana sugar mixed with water to 
the consistency required. 

2078. Embroidery on Satin, fte. 

— Satin, velvet, and plush are em- 
broidered in coloured silks, gold and 
silver bullion, chenille, pearls, &c. A 
very fashionable style is the work 
with ombre or shaded silks. 

2079. Shading in Silks. —It re- 
quires considerable care to work well 
with ombre silks, to avoid incorrect 
shading. Nature should be followed 
as closely as possible. Not only must 
the form be carefully preserved, but 
the lights and shades must be dinposed 
in an artistic manner. For infitance : 
the point of a leaf is never the darkest 
part, nor should the lower leaves and 



flowers of a group of the same kind be 
light. 

2060. Stem or Crewel Stitoh is 

that used for stems and for ordinary 
filling- in of flowers and arabesques, 
and also for outlining. Instead of 
working from richt to left, the stitches 
are smoother if worked from left to 
right. In stems a long stitch is made, 
and then a second, half-way the length 
of the first, and half-way beyond it, 
till a stem is formed ; and to complete 
it work from right to left, placing the 
needle under a stitch of the stem, not 
of the material, and so work back upon 
the top of the previous stitches. In 
the stem first worked only the tiniest 
piece of the material is taken ui> on 
the needle, so that the wool or silk is 
all on the surface. 

2061. Stem Stiteh in Flowers, fte. 

— In flowers and arabesques the stem- 
stitch is worked straight, but each 
stitch differing in length from the 
other, so as to make the wool smooth. 
Commence the work at the lowest part 
of the petals, and work upwards to the 



2082. SpUt Stem Stitoh.— Having 
worked one stitch, in making the 
second, split the first stitch in the 
centre with the needle. In the stitch, 
the thread is continued under the 
material. 

2088. Conohing is a laying down 
on the outline of the design, a thick 
strand of filoselle, or coi-d or wool or 
silkofanykiud,and then over-stitching 
it down with a fine silk of the same, 
or a contrasting colour. 

2084. Basket-work and Biaper 
Stitch. — These are done with gold, 
silver, or silk cords, stitched on the 
material in patterns, with silk of 
another, or of the same colour. The 
cords are just passed through the back 
of the work to its surface ; either one, 
two, or three at a time are held in 
place by the left hand, the over- 
stitching being done by the right 
hand. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ICAKS BAY WHILE THE StTK SHimM. 



891 



2086. StitohM in Oanvai Work. 
— There are five kinds of stitch used 
in canvas work — Cross Stitch^ Tent 
Stitch^ Tapestry Stiichy Oerman Stitch, 
and Irish Stildi. 

2086. Crou Stitoh is generally 
known. The needle is brought up 
in one pole of the canvas and down 
on another, two threads higher and 
more to the right. The slanting 
thread is then crossed in the opposite 
direction. A cross stitch covers two 
threads in each direction: 

2087. Tent Stitch occupies one- 
fourth the space of cross stitch. It 
is taken from one hole to the next 
above, and on the right hand side of a 
previous stitch. 

2068. Tapestry Stiteh crosses two 
threads of the canvas in the length, 
and one in the width. It is some- 
times called Gobelin stitch, because 
it resembles somewhat the Gobelin 
tapestry. It is not suited for coarse 
canvas, and, in working from a Berlin 
pattern, two straight stitches must be 
counted as one square cross stitch. 

2089. German Stitch is worked 
diagonally, and consists of the first 
part of a cross stitch, and a tent stitch 
alternately worked. 

2000. Irish Stitch is worked 
parallel with the selvedges of the 
canvas. Kone of the stitches cross 
the threads in the width. In the first 
row, take the thread alternately over 
four and two threads; in all future 
rows take the stitches over four 
threads, — which, as they rise, first 
from the long and then from the 
short stitch, will produce the same 
appearance in others. 

2001. Framee for Canyae Work. 
— Wooden frames are sometimes used 
for keeping the canvas in shape while 
being worked. These should be strong 
enough to ensure their not warping. 

2002. To Frame Canvai.— After 
herringboning the raw edges of the 
canvas, sew them, hy the thread, to 
the webbing of the frame,— that is, 



to the top and bottom. Then stretch 
the ends till the canvas is extended 
to its utmost length, put in the pegs, 
and brace the sides with fine twine. 
If the canvas is too long for the frame, 
and any part has to be rolled over the 
end, let the wood be first covered with 
a few thicknesses of silver paper. 

2098. Stretchinff Work.— Should 
a piece of work be a little drawn when 
taken out of the frame, damp the back 
well with a clean sponge, and stretch 
it again in the frame in the opposite 
direction. 

2094. Stiffening Work.— Wet the 
wrong side thoroughly with gum water 
or gum tragacanth, and dry it before 
a fire (the wet side nearest the fire), 
before removing it from the frame. 

2096. Canvai Work on Cloth.— 
Sometimes, to save the trouble of 
grounding, a design is worked on 
cloth, over which canvas is laid. In 
this case, the cloth must be carefully 
damped, to remove the gloss, before 
it is put into the frame. Then, as 
cloth will always stretch much more 
than canvas, it must be cut a little 
smaller both ways. The raw edges 
of the cloth should be turned in, and 
tacked to the canvas before they are 
framed. Some people withdraw the 
threads of canvas after the work is 
done ; but it has a much richer efiect 
if the threads of canvas are cut close 
to the outer stitches ; and if there are 
any small spaces in the pattern, where 
the ground should be seen, they may 
be worked in wool of the colour of the 
ground. 

Whenever Berlin-work is done on 
any solid thick material, as cloth, 
velvet, &c., a needle should be used 
with an eye sufficiently large to form 
a passage for this wool. This prevents 
the latter f^om being crushed and 
impoverished as it passes through. 

2096. MATEEIALS USED nr 
EMBBOIBEBY AKD CAKYAS 
WOBJL— These may be classef* under 
the names of fancy cotton, wooj, silk, 
chenille, and braid ; beads, and a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



892 



BI A FRimD TO VIRTtnt—A 8TRAN0BE TO VIC*. 



variety of other fancy materials, are 
also broaght into use. We describe 
some of the most useful. 

2007. Fancy Cottoni.— A great 
variety of coloured cottons for em- 
broidery and crewel work, such as 
"flourishing thread," "lustrine," &c., 
are now n^e which so closelv re- 
semble silk that it is diflScult to 
detect the difference, and as they are 
cheaper, and in many cases clean 
better, they are naturally much used. 

2098. Berlin Wool is a beautiful 
material for canvas work. It is ma<1e 
only in two sizes, 4-thread and 
8-thread, called single and double. 
Berlin wools are eitner dyetl in one 
colour, or in shades of the same colour, 
or (very rarely) in shades of several 
colours. Technically, a silk or wool 
dyed in shades of the same colour, 
going gradually from light to dark, 
and from dark to light again, is termed 
an cmbre^ or ahwied wool or silk, 
whereas chine is the term employed 
when there are several colours used. 
There are, also, what are called short 
and Umg shades ; that is, in the former 
the entire shades, from the lightest to 
the lightest again, will occur within a 
short space, a yard or so ; whereas, in 
long shades the gradation is much 
more graduallv made. We notice 
these apparently trifling ditferonces 
that readers may comprehend the im- 
portance of obtaining precisely the 
proper materials for each design. 
These wools should never be wound, 
as handling cnishes the pile and spoils 
its appearance. 

2000. Pleecy Wool is the sort of 
wool used for jackets and other large 
articles. Some of the tints are quite 
as brilliant as those of Berlin wool. 
It is made in 8, 4, 6, 8, and 12 threads, 
and is much cheaper than German 
wool. It does very well for ground- 
ing large pieces of canvas work. 

2100. Shetland Wool is very fine 
and soft, is much used, and prized for 
shawls and neckties and for veils. 



2101. Eis WooL— -A pure Oerman 
wool of silky brightness, is used for 
the same purpose as Shetland wool 
excepting for veils. It is also used 
instead of silk for embroidering on 
velvet, for tea cosies, cushions, kc» 

2102. Andalusian Wool is less 
thick than Berlin wool, and is used 
for cuffs and shawls. 

2108. Scotch Fingering Wool is 

used for knitting stockings and socks, 
and gentlemen's kilt hose. 

2104. Thin Lambi' Wool and 
WheeUnff Tarn. — Scotch yams, used 
principally for children's socks and 
stockings. 

2106. Merino Wool is the produce 
of a Spanish breed of sheep. French 
Merino is made from this peculiarly 
soft wool: so also Berlin wool, used 
for canvas embroidery. 

2106. Angola Wool.— The pro- 
duce of an African breed of sheep ; is 
a soft haiiT wool Is used for making 
Angola orCashmere shawls, andgloves, 
valued for their extreme softness ana 
warmth. It is also used to make 
plush ; and in France to produce lace 
which rivals that of Chaiitilly and 
Valenciennes, and at a lesser price. 

2107. Camel-hair Wool is the 
production of the Llama, or Al-Lama, 
a native of South America. 

2108. Alpaca Wool is produced 
from the Al-raco, or Peruvian sheep. 
This creature is also a species of 
camel, though different in shape. 

2100. Other kinds of Wool — 
There are also other names given to 
wools by the vendors or manufac- 
turers: for instance, "The Peacock 
Wool" and "The Coral Wool" are 
trade marks, and not particular wools. 

2110. Embroidery Silk is bright 
and lustrous, and composed of two 
rather loosely-twisted large threads. 
Sadler* s Silk and Furse Silk have 
three threads. Sewing Silk has two. 
Tailor's Twist throe threads. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PLEASUSS 18 PREOARIOITS, BUT VIRTUE 18 IMMORTAL. 



898 



2111. FUoseUe Silk as used in 
needlework, is two-thread silk, or 
"tram." Eight or ten of these slightlv- 
twisted thrfNids form a strand of silk, 
so that, according to the purpose 
re(^uired, one, two, or more threads 
of it can be used for embroidery. This 
is glossy as satin. 

2112. Floii Silk consists of several 
filaments of untwisted silk sufficient 
to make a strand of silk. It is used 
for working on the surface of wool 
stitches to heighten the effect and 
give brilliancy. 

2118. Chanille is of two kinds. 
Chenille d broder (the finest sort), and 
chenille ordinaire^ which is stiff, and 
about the thickness of a quill: both 
are round. The extreme richness of 
the appearance of chenille makes it 
suitable for any "^ork requiring great 
brilliancy; as the plumage of birds, 
some flowers, and araMsques. It 
requires very careful handling. 

2114. Arrasene is a perfectly 
flat silk— chenille — and is used fox 
embroidery on all descriptions of 
material. 

2116. Braids are of various kinds. 
Russian silk braids are generally em- 
ployed for dresses, slippers, &c. ; but 
for many of these pur|)oses the Albert 
braid manufactured in England is 
much richer and far more effective. 
Russian silk braid is generally narrow, 
and the plait is of that kind which is 
termed Urecian — all the strands going 
from the edge to the centre. In French 
braid, on the contrary, the plait of 
every two strands pass over eacn other. 
French braid, in silk, is very little 
used in this country. Slippers and 
other small articles worked in braid 
have the effect greatly improved bv 
laying a gold thread on one or botn 
sides of the braid. 

2116. Yiotoria, Adelaide, or 
Coronation Braid (for the same article 
has been called by all these names), 
is a cotton braid, which, when laid on 
net or muslin, looks something like 



satin stitch. It is composed of thick 
and thin parts alternately, and is made 
in only two sizes. 

2117. Albert Braid is a sort of 
silk cord, made in many beautiful 
colours. It is intended for either 
application, or braiding, and being 
raised, looks extremely well, with 
very small outlay of time or 
money. 

2118. Ck>ld and Silver Braids are 
often used in Mosaic work, and for 
slippers, blotting-oises, kc The 
Mosaic braid, which is comparatively 
cheap, is generally used. 

2110. 0old andSilver Embroidery, 
to Clean.-;- This work can be cleaned 
with spirits of wine, either pure or 
mixed with water. Some persons use 
^n. Alkaline or acid liquids are, 
u^jnrious and generally spoil the 
article. 

2120. Beads in Canyas Work 
have the treble merit of being at once 
brilliant, durable, and attractive. 
Transparent, white, or silver beads are 
usually worked with white silk, but 
clear glass beads, threaded on cerise 
silk, produce a peculiarly rich effect 
by the coloured silk shining through 
transparent glas& The silk used must 
be extremely fine, as the beads varv 
much in size. A change of material, 
which might appear of no consequence 
whatever, would completely spoil the 
effect of the design. 

2121. Canvas fbr Crossstitch 
Work. — The Penelope is most 
generally used. There are different 
degrees of fineness, determined by 
the number of double-crossed threads 
that may fill the space of one inch. 

2122. Elephant Penelope Canyas 
is extremely coarse — fitted for working 
rugs and eight or twelve- thread wools. 

2128. Silk Canvas requires no 
grounding; it is made of a cotton 
thread overcast with silk, and resembles 
coarse even-threaded cheese cloths, but 
is silky. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



9U 



WHIH AtOKS, WC SAVC OTTlt TfiOtTOflTB TO WATOH t 



2124. LUSTRA PAIHTUr0 is an 

invention that in appearance mach 
resembles silk enibroiaery ; the out- 
line of a design is sketched either on 
Roman satin or any smooth fabric, 
and then bronze powders of various 
colours are rubbed in with a pre- 

?iration which is a tnule secret, 
he leaves and stems are outlined in 
silk, Tendering the imitation more 
complete. 

2126. TAPS8TBT PAUmK0 is 

an imitation of the famed Gobelin 
tapestry, which is hand-woven over 
fine cord. The imitation is painted 
on a machine- woven rep canvas : the 
term rep is a corruption of the Saxon 
terra wrepp, or rape^ a cord, Dutch 
roopt from which we get the word 
rope. In the Gobelins the shading 
of the different tints of wool that 
form a picture, or other designs, are 
put in by hand work, or shuttles 
moved by the hand, and on the wrong 
side of the picture, and the thread^ 
of wool, the weft run longitudinally, 
not horizontally, so that when the 
design is finished the picture is turned 
horizontally, and is complete. In 
Tapestry Painting the rep of the 
canvas is from right to left (horizontal), 
and this is then painted over and 
forms a picture in imitation of the 
Gobelin tapestry. The latter is so 
named after its French inventor, Giles 
Gobelin, about 1520. The house in 
which he lived was purchased by 
Louis XIV. for a manufactory of 
tapestry for adorning palaces, the 
designs for which were drawn by 
Le Brun, a celebrated French painter, 
about 1666. Her Majesty Queen 
Victoria has caused a school to be 
established at Windsor, where the art 
of making "Gobelin Tapestry" is 
successfully taught 

2126. Tapestryof Auxerre.— This 
town, in the northern part of the pro- 
vince of Burgundy, was once famous 
for its tapestry of a peculiar make. 
The design was handwoven in small 
patches of colour, and then was sewed 



together at the back to form the 
picture. TapeuBtry painting in bloeka 
or masses of a single colour succeMfolly 
imitates this tapestry. 

2127. 8IWIH0 MACEnrXS. 

These exceedingly useful modem in- 
ventions, which perform the operation 
of sewing much more expemtiously 
than can be accomplished by hand, 
are now almost inaispensable requi- 
sites in every home. The ordinary 
Family' Machine is usuallv made so 
as to be worked by treadle or hand, 
and is supplied with various appli- 
ances for binding, cording, hemming, 
quilting, tucking, gathering, Ac A 
really good and serviceable machine, 
with the usual accessories, and case, 
can be purchased for from £4 to £6. 

2128. oxionrTs. 

The term "cement" includes all 
those substances employed for the 
purpose of causing the adhesion of 
two or more bodies, whether origin- 
ally separate, or divided by an acci- 
dental fracture. As the various sub- 
stances that may require cementing 
differ very mucfi in texture, &c., a 
number of cements possessed of very 
different properties are required, be- 
cause a cement that answers admir- 
ably under one set of circumstances 
may be perfectly useless in others. 
The general principles upon which the 
succass or failure of cementing usually 
depends are : — The different parts of 
a solid are held together by an attrac- 
tion between their several particles^ 
which is termed the attraction of co- 
hesion. This attraction acts only 
when the particles are in the closest 
possible contact : even air must not 
be between them. If, after breaking 
any substance, we could bring the 
particles into as close a contact as 
before, and perfectly exclude the air, 
they would re-unite, and be as 
strongly connected as ever. But in 
general this is impossible ; small par- 
ticles of grit and dust get between 
them; the film of interposed air 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



m otm ^AictLtiES, otm rsMnEtiB ; akd m nootm, otm TONotriEs. 895 



oannot be removed ; and thus, how- 
ever firmly we press the edges of a 
broken cup t<^thery it remains 
cracked china still. The cohesion 
between the particles of the cement is 
very much less than the adhesion of 
the cement to other bodies ; and if 
torn apart, the connected joint gives 
way, not by the loosening of the ad- 
hesion, but by the layer of cement 
splitting down the centre. Hence the 
important rule that the less cement 
in a joint the stronger it is. To unite 
broken substances with a thick cement 
is disadvantageous, the object being 
to bring the surfaces as closely to- 
gether as possible. The general prin- 
ciples that ought always to be borne 
in mind having been mentioned, the 
manufacture and uses of some of the 
more useful cements may be described. 

2129. Konth Glue.— The very 
useful preparation sold under this title 
is merely a thin cake of soluble glue, 
which, when moistened with the 
tongue, furnishes a ready means of 
uniting papers, &c. It is made by 
dissolving one pound of fine glue or 
gelatine m water, and adding nalf-a- 
pound of brown sugwr, boiling the 
whole until it is sufficiently thick to 
become solid on cooling; it is then 
poured into moulds, or on a slab 
slightly greased, and cut into the 
required shape when cool. 
' 2130. Liquid Glue. — The liquid 
glue of the shops is made by dissolving 
shellac in water, by boiling it along 
with borax, which possesses the pecu- 
liar property of causing the solution 
of the resinous lac. This preparation 
is convenient from its cheapness and 
freedom from smell ; but it gives way 
if exposed to long-continued damp, 
which that made with naphtha resists. 

2181. Common Glue. —This is 
prepared from the chippings of the 
hides, hoofs, &c., of animals. They 
are first soaked for two or three weeks 
in lime water, and afterwards boiled 
and skimmed ; the solution is then 
strained through baskets and gently 



evaporated to a due consistence, then 
cooled in wooden moulds, cut into 
slices, and dried upon nets. 

2182. To Kelt Glue.— This should 
always be done in a glue-pot or double 
vessel, to prevent its being burned, 
which injures it very materially. It 
is difficult to heat the glue m the 
inner vessel to the boiling point ; this, 
however, can be obviated by employing 
in the outer vessel some liquid which 
boils at a higher temperature than 
pttre water, sucn as a saturated solution 
of salt (made by adding one-third as 
much salt as water). This boUs at 
224** Fahr., or 12** above the heat of 
boiling water, and enables the glue in 
the inner vessel to be heated to a 
much higher temperature than when 
pure water is employed. If a satur- 
ated solution of nitre is used, the 
temperature rises still higher. 

2188. Xarine Glue.— In point of 
strength, all ordinary cements yield 
the palm to Jeffery's Patent Marine 
Glue, a compound of India-rubber, 
shellac, and coal-tar naphtha. Small 
quantities can be purchased at most 
of the tool warehouses, at cheaper 
rates than it can be made. The 
colour of this glue, however, prevents 
its being mucn used. 

2184. Diamond Cement. — Soak 
isinglass in water till it is soft ; then 
dissolve it in the smallest possible 
quantity of proof spirit, by the aid of 
a gentle heat ; in two ounces of this 
mixture dissolve ten grains of ammo- 
niacum, and whilst still liquid add 
half-a-drachm of mastic, dissolved in 
three drachms of rectified spirit ; stir 
well together, and put into small 
bottles for sale. Directions for Use. — 
Liquefy the cement bv plun^ng the 
bottle in hot water, and use it directly. 
The cement improves the oftener the 
bottle is thus warmed ; it resists the 
action of water and moisture perfectly. 

2185. Btoe Flonr Cement — An 
excellent cement may be made from 
rice flour, which is at present used for 
that purpose in China and Japan. It 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



806 



FSWER ACQUAINTAKCES, AND MORE FBIXNBB. 



18 only necessary to mix the rice floor 
intimately with cold water, and 
gently simmer it over a fire, when it 
readily forms a delicate and durable 
oement, not only answering all the 
purposes of common pa^te, but ad- 
mirably adapted for joining together 
paper, cards, &c., in forming the 
various beautiful and tasteful orna- 
ments which afford much employment 
and amusement to the ladies. When 
made of the consistence of plaster-clay, 
models, busts, bas-relievos, kc, miy 
be formed of it ; and the articles, 
when dry, are susceptible of high 
polish, and are very durable. 

2186. lime and Sgg Cement.— 
The white of an egg, well beaten with 
quicklime, and a small quantity of 
very old cheese, forms an exceUeut 
substitute for cement, when wanted 
in a hurry, either for broken china or 
old ornamental glass-ware. 

2187. Colonrletf Cement for 
China, Olau, fte.— This cement, being 
nearly colourless, possesses advan- 
tages which liquid p;Iue and other 
cements do not. — Dissolve half-an- 
ounce of gum acacia in a wineglass of 
boiling water ; add plaster of Paris 
sufficient to form a thick paste, and 
apply it with a brush to the parts 
required to be cemented together. 

2188. White Lead as Cement — 
Cracked vessels of earth en wai-e and 
glass may often be usefully, though 
not ornamentally, repaired by white 
lead spread on strips of calico, and 
aeoured with bands of twine. 

2189. Coagnline. — An exceed- 
ingly strong, and at the same time a 
transparent and colourless cement is 
made by Messrs. Kay, Brothers, of 
Stockport, and is sold by most fancy 
stationers and chemists under the 
name of Coagnline. It is easily and 
quickly applied, and will be found 
extremely serviceable in repairing 
^lass, china, and stone articles. It is 
inexpensive. 

2140. Bed Cement, which is cm- 
ployed by instrument makers for 



cementing glass to metals, and which 
is very cheap, and exceedingly useful 
for a variety of purposes, is made by 
melting five parts of black resin, one 
part of yellow wax, and then stirring 
m gradually one part of red ochre or 
Venetian red, in fine powder, and 
previously toell dried. This cement 
requires to be melted before use, and 
it adheres better if the objects to 
which it is applied are warmed. 

2141. Cement for Leather and 
Cloth. — An adhesive material for 
uniting the parts of boots and shoes, 
and for the seams of articles of cloth- 
ing, may be made thus :~Take one 

i>ound of gutta-percha, four ounces of 
ndia-rubber, two ounces of pitch, one 
ounce of shellac, two ounces of oiL 
The ingredients are to be melted 
together, and used hot. 

2142. Cement for Blcrole Tjrret. 

Take two parts of asphalt and one 
part of gutta-percha, and melt them 
together. When quite hot put it on 
the wheel, which should also be 
warmed, and then fit on the tyre. 

2148. A Soft Cement for Corkf, 
useful for covering the corks of pre- 
served fruit and other bottles, is 
made by melting yellow wax with an 
equal quantity of resin, or of com- 
mon turpentine (not oil of turpentine, 
but the resin), using the latter for a 
very soft cement, and stirring in 
some dried Venetian red. 

2144. Mastic Cement.— This is 
employed for making a superior coat- 
ing to inside walls, but must not be 
confounded with the resin mastic It 
is made by mixing twenty parts of 
well-washed and sifted sharp sand 
with two parts of litharge and one of 
freshly burned and slaked quicklime, 
in fine dry powder. This is made 
into a putty, by mixing with linseed 
oil. It sets in a few hours, having 
the appearance of light stone ; and 
we mention it, as it may be fre- 
quently employed with advanta^ in 
repairing broken stonework (as steps), 
by filling up the missing pi^ts. The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SVXRY ONI BA8TBTH TRB FAT HOO, WRILX THX LBAK ONS BTTRITSTH. 897 



employment ofBoman cement, plaster, 
&c, for masonry work« hardly comes 
within the scope of this volume. 

2145. Paste is usually made by 
rubbing up flour with cold water, and 
boiling ; if a little alum is mixed 
before boiling it is much improved, 
being less clammy, working more 
freely in the brush, and thmner, a 
less quantity is required, and it is 
therefore stronger. If required in 
large quantity, as for papering roonui, 
it may be maae by mixing one quartern 
of flour, one quarter-pound of alum, 
and a little warm water ; when mixed, 
the requisite quantity of boiling water 
should be poured on whilst themixtui-e 
is being stirred. Paste is only adapted 
to cementing paper ; when used it 
should be spread on one side of the 
paper, which should thea be folded 
with the pasted side inwards, and 
allowed to remain a few minutes be- 
fore being opened and used; this 
swells the paper, and permits its 
being more smoothly and securely 
attached. If kept for a few days, 
paste becomes mouldy, and after a 
short time putrid ; this inconvenience 
may be obviated by the use of the 
following — 

2146. Permftiient Pasta is made 
by adding to each half-pint of flour 
paste without alum, fifteen grains of 
corrosive sublimate, previously rubbed 
to powder in a mortar, the whole to 
be well mixed; this, if prevented 
from drying, by being kept in a 
covered pot, remains good any length 
of time, and is therefore convenient ; 
but unfortunately it is extremely 
poisonous, though its excessively 
nauseous taste would prevent its 
being swallowed accidentally. It 
possesses the great advantage of not 
being liable to the attacks of insects. 

2147. 7BEHCH POLISHES. 

L Vaphtha Pelith. — Shellac, three 
pounds ; wood naphtha, three quarts. 
Put the shellac in the naphtha and 
let it dissolve. 



ii. Spirit Polish. — Shellac, two 
pounds ; powdered mastic and sanda- 
rac, of each one ounce ; copal varnish, 
half-a-pint; spirits of wine, one 
gallon. Digest in the cold till 
dissolved. 

2148. IHK8.— There are many 
recipes published for making ink ; the 
following is as useful and economical 
a mode of producing good ink as any 
of them — 

2149. Writbig-Ink.— Boa eight 
ounces of galls in coarse powder, and 
four ounces of logwood, in thin chips, 
in twelve pints of rain water for one 
hour ; strain the liquor, and add four 
ounce-s of green copperas, three ounces 
of powdered gum arable, one ounce of 
blue vitriol, and one ounce of coarse 
sugar; stir the mixture until the 
whole be dissolved, then let it sub- 
side for twenty-four hours ; strain it 
ofl" speedily, and put it by in stone 
bottles for use. 

2150. Ink Powder is formed of 
the diy ingredients for ink, powdered 
and mixed. Powdered galls, two 
pounds ; powdered green vitriol, one 
pound ; powdered gum, eight ounces. 
Two ounces of this mixture will make 
one pint of ink. 

2151. Bed Writing Ink.— Best 
ground Brazil wood, four ounces; 
diluted acetic acid, one pint ; alum, 
half-an-ounce. Boil the ingredients 
slowly in an enamelled vessel for one 
hour, strain, and add an ounce of 
gum. 

2152. Indian Ink.— Take finest 
lamp-black and make it into a thick 
paste with thin isinglass ; size it, then 
mould it, and scent with a little 
essence of musk. 

2158. Marking Ink.— There are 
several recipes for this ink, but the 
following is said to be one of the best 
of its kind :— Dissolve separately, one 
ounce of nitrate of silver, and one and 
a half ounce of best washing soda in 
distilled or rain water. Mix the 
solutions, and collect and wash the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



898 



lYKRT PEA H1LP8 TO FILL THE PECK. 



precipitate in a filter; whilst still 
moist, nib it up in a marble or Wedg- 
wood mortar with three drachms of 
tartaric acid ; add two ounces of dis- 
tilled water, mix six drachms of white 
sugar, and ten drachms of powdered 
gum-arabic, half-an-ounce of archil, 
and water to make up six ounces in 
measure. 

2154. Ink for Zino Oarden- 
Labeli. — Verdigris, one ounce; sal-am- 
moniac, one ounce ; lamp-black, half- 
an-ounce ; water, half-a-pint. Mix 
in an eiurthenware mortar, without 
using a metal spatula. Directions, — 
To be sliaken before use, and used 
with a clean quUl pen, on bright zinc 
^ote. — Another kmd of ink for zinc 
is also used, made of chloride of 
platinum, five grains, dissolved in 
one ounce of distilled or rain water ; 
but the first, which is much less ex- 
pensive, answers perfectly, if used as 
directed, on clean bright zinc. 

2166. TBACme PAPEB. — Mix 
together by a gentle heat, one ounce of 
Canada balsam, and a quarter of a pint 
of spirits of turpentine ; with a soft 
brush spread it thinly over one side 
of good tissue paper. The composition 
dries quickly, is very transparent, 
and not greasy, and, therefore, does 
not stain the paper to which it is 
applied. 

2166. TO DESTROY BATS. 

The following recfpe originated 
with Dr. Ure, and is highly recom- 
mended as the best known means 
of getting rid of these most obnoxious 
and destructive vermin. — Melt hog*s- 
lard in a bottle plunged in water, 
heated to about 150 degrees Fahren- 
heit ; introduce into it half-an-ounce 
of phosphorus for every pound of lard; 
then add a pint of proof spirit, or 
whisky ; cork the bottle firmly after 
its contents have been heated to 150 
degrees, taking it at the same time 
out of the water, and agitate smartly 
till the phosphorus becomes uniformly 
forming a milky-looking 



liquid. This liquid, when cooled, will 
a£ford a white compound of phosphor- 
us and lard. As the spirit spontane- 
ously separates, it may be poured oflf 
and used again for the same purpose. 
This compound, on being warmed 
very gently, may be poured out into 
a mixture of wheat Hour and sugar, 
incorporated therewith, and then 
flavoured with oil of rhodium, or with 
oil of aniseed, &c. The dough, being 
made into pellets, is to be laid into 
rat holes. Being luminous in the 
dark it attracts their notice, and be- 
ing agreeable to their palates it is 
readily eaten, and proves certainly 
fatal. 

Note, — Chloride of lime is a good 
preventive, as rats have an extreme 
aversion to it. 

2167. TO KUL BEETLES. 

i. Place a few lumps of unslaked 
lime where they frequent 

ii. Set a dish or trap containing a 
little beer or syrup at tne bottom, and 
place a few sticks slanting against its 
sides, so as to form a sort of gangway 
for the beetles to climb up it, when 
they will go headlong into the bait 
set for them. 

iii Mix equal weights of red lead, 
sugar, and flour, and place it nightly 
near their haunts. This mixture, 
made into sheets, forms the beetle 
wafers sold at the oil shops. 

2168. To Kill Cookroaohet.— A 

teacupful of well-bruised plaster of 
Paris, mixed with double the quantity 
of oatmeal, to which a little sugar 
majr be added. Strew it on the floor, 
or in the chinks where they frequent. 
Speaking of these insects. Josh 
Billings says: — "The cockroach iz 
one ov the luxurys of civilizashun. 
Their food seems to consist not so 
much ov what they eat az what they 
kan git into ; and often finding them 
ded in the soup, at mi boarding house, 
I have cum tew the painful con- 
clusion that the cockroach kan't swim, 
but that he kan float for a longtime." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BOOKOMT 18 THB HOrSEHOLD MINT. 



809 



2169. Id Destroy Ants.— Drop 
aome quicklime on the mouth of their 
nest, and wash it in with boiling 
water; or dissolve some camphor in 
spirits of wine, then mix with water, 
and pour into their haunts ; or to- 
bacco-water has been found effectual. 
They greatly dislike strong scents. 
Camphor, or a sponge saturated with 
creosote, will prevent their infesting 
a cupboard. To prevent their climb- 
ing up trees, place a ring of tar about 
the trunk, or a circle of rag moistened 
occasionally with creosote. 

Sprigs of winter-green or ground - 
ivy will drive away red ants ; and 
wormwood will serve the same purpose 
for black ants. 

2160. TO BESTBOY BUGS.— 

Spirits of naphtha rubbed with a 
small painters* brush into every part 
of a bedstead is a certain way of get- 
ting rid of bugs. The mattress and 
binding of the bed should be ex- 
amined and treated in the same way^, 
as they generally harbour more m 
those parts than in the bedstead. 
Three pennyworth of naphtha is 
sufficient for one bed. 

2161. Poison Ibr Bugs. —Mix 
proof spirit, one pint ; camphor, two 
ounces ; oil of turpentine, four ounces ; 
corrosive sublimate, one ounce. 

A correspondent says, •* I have 
been for a long time troubled with 
bugs, and never could get rid of them 
by any clean and expeditious method, 
until a friend told me to suspend a 
small bag of camphor to the bcKi, just 
in the centre, overhead. I did so, 
and the enemy was most effectually 
repulsed, and has not made his ap- 
pearance since — not even for a recon- 
naissance ! ** This is a simple method 
of getting rid of these pests, and is 
worth a trial to see if it be effectual 
in other cases. 

2162. TO KILL FUSS. 

i Take half-a-teaspoonful of black 

ipper in powder, one teaspoonful of 

sugar, and onetable^^oonfal of 



cream ; mix them well together, and 
place them in the room on a plate» 
whero the flies are troublesome, and 
they will soon disappear. 

ii. Cold green tea, ver^ strong, and 
sweetened with sugar, will, when set 
about the room in saucers, attract 
flies and destroy them. 

lii Twenty drops of carbolic acid 
evaporated on a not pan or shovel 
will generally drive nies out of a 
room. 

2168. Blue-bottles may be kept 
away from a meat-safe by placing a 
plate containing some water and per- 
manganate of potash near the door 
of the safe. 

2164. Xosquitoei can be driven 
out of a room by holding over a lamp 
a piece of camphor gum, about the 
size of a nutmeg or walnut 

216 6. BEMEDYF0BBLI8TEBXD 

FEET.— Bub the feet, on going to 
bed, with spirits mixed with tallow, 
dropped from a lighted candle into 
the palm of the hand. 

2166. BITKIOVB may be checked 
in their early development by binding 
the joint with adhesive plaster, and 
keeping it on as long as any imeasi- 
ness is felt The bandaging should 
be perfect, and it might be well to 
extend it round the foot An in- 
flamed bunion should be poulticed, 
and larger shoes be worn. Iodine, 
twelve grains, and lard or spermaceti 
ointment, half -an -ounce, make a 
capital ointment for bunions. It 
should be rubbed on gently twice or 
thrice a day. 

2167. COBKS.— Any remedy for 
these ludnfnl growths, to be effectual, 
must include removal of the usual 
cause — pressure by tight or ill-fitting 
boots. Strong acetic acid may be 
used, but great care is nec^sary in 
applying it, to avoid burning the 
adjacent parts. Soft corns may be 
cured by extract of lead. 

2168. Celandiae is an excellent 
remedy for corns. It is harmleae mmL 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



400 AT KIORT, NATURX 18 IN MOTTRNINO FOR THE LOSS OF THE BUV, 



easily applied. Any chemist will 
supply it 

2160. SaTmrmre.— This fre- 
quently arises from the unequal 
strength of the eyes, the weaker eye 
being turned away from the object, to 
avoid the fatigue of exertion. Cases 
of squinting of long standing have 
often been cured oy covering the 
stronger eye, and thereby compelling 
the weaker one to exertion, or cor- 
recting the eyoa with properly-selected 
glasses. 

2170. COD-UVXR OH.— This 
very beneficial drug, formerly so un- 
popular on account of its rank odour 
and nauseous taste, has of late years 
largely increased in consumption 
through the skilful manipulations of 
modem science in its preparation, 
whereby both the smell and the flavour 
have bieen almost entirely removed, 
rendering it capable of being taken by 
even the most delicate stomach. It is 
extremely efficacious in cases of con- 
sumption and debility, checking the 
emaciation, regulating the appetite, 
and restoring vitality. Coffee, new 
milk, and orange wine, whichever the 
patient may fancy, are among the 
b€»t mediums for taking the oil. 

2171. OFFEHSIVS BREATH, 
Remedy for. —From six to ten drops 
of the concentrated solution of chloride 
of soda in a wineglassful of pure 
spring water, taken immediately after 
completing the morning toilet. In 
some cases, the odour arising from 
carious teeth is combined with that 
of the stomach. If the mouth be 
well rinsed with a teaspoonful of the 
solution of the chloride in a tumbler 
of water, the bad odour of the teeth 
will be removed. 

2172. Breath tainted by Onions. 
— Leaves of parsley, eaten with 
vinegar, will prevent the disagreeable 
consequences of eating onions. 

2178. AH IMFROMFTU TRAVXL- 
LIHO-OAF.— Take your pocket hand- 
kerchief, and laying it out the ftdl 
square, double down one-ihird over 



the other part Then raise the whole 
and turn it over, so that the third 
folded down now shall be underneath. 
Take hold of one of the folded comers, 
and draw its point towards the centre ; 
then do the same with the other, as 
in making a cocked-hat, or a boat, of 
paper. Then take hold of the two 
remaining comers, and twisting the 
hem of the handkerchief, continue to 
roll it until it meets the double 
comers brought to the centre, and 
catches them up a little. Lift the 
whole, and you will perceive the form 
of a cap, which, when applied to the 
head, will cover the head and ears, 
and, being tied under the chin, will 
not come oflf. Very little practice 
will enable you to regulate the sice of 
the folds so as to fit the head. 

2174. TO PREVEHT OALUHe 

IH IHYAUBS.— The white of an egg 
beaten to a strong froth ; then drop 
in gradually, whilst you are beating, 
two teaspoonfuls of spirits of wine ; 
put it into a bottle, and apply occa- 
sionally with a feather. 

2176. TO OLEAH ARTISTS' 
BRUSHES. — Artists' brushes used for 
oil-colours should not be allowed to 
dry, but the paint should be squeezed 
out on the palette, and the brush 
cleaned with turpentine or oil. Some 
artists clean their brushes with soap, 
rubbed into a lather. 

2176. IHDOOR OAMES. — [See 
also Evening Pastimes, pars. 48 to 
78, and Card Games, pars. 79 to 187.] 

2177. BAGATELLE is played on 
an oblong board usually from six to 
ten feet long by a foot and a half to 
three feet in width. The bed of the 
table is of slate covered with a fine 
green cloth ; and at the upper end, 
which is rounded, there are nme holes 
or cups, numbered from 1 to 9, thus : — 

5 

8 2 

8 9 7 

4 6 

1 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A OITP MUST BB BITTKB THAT A SMILE WILL NOT SWEETEN. 



401 



Into these holes ivory balls are driven 
by a leather-pointed cne. The plaver 
stands at the lower end of the table ; 
and his object is to hole the balls 
successively into the several cups. 
Nine balls are used, eight white and 
one coloured, or seven white with two 
coloured balls. The coloured ball is 
placed on a spot just in front of the 
1 hole ; and the game is played as 
follows. 

2178. Bulei of Bagatelle. 

i Any number of persons may play, 
whether singly or on sides. 

iL Each player strings for lead, and 
he whose ball falls into the highest 
hole b^ins. 

iii. The winner of the lead plavs 
the nine balls successively up the 
table from baulk, first strikmg at the 
coloured ball on the spot 

iv. The coloured ball must be first 
struck ; and the rest of the balls are 
played up to the holee^ the sum total 
of all the noles filled being the striker's 
score. 

▼. The coloured ball counts double 
when holed, and each white ball 
scores towards game a number corre- 
sponding to that marked in the hole 
(when two coloured balls are used, 
each counts double). 

vi A ball rebounding beyond the 
baulk Une, or forced off the table, is 
put aside and not re-used in that 
round. 

vii Any number of rounds agreed 
on ■ may be played, and the highest 
aggregate total by a player or by 
partners wins the game. 

2179. The French Oame (or Sans 
Egal) is played as follows:— The 
pbver who wins the lead takes four 
oalls, leaving the other four for his 
opponent, and placing the coloured 
ball on the spot. He plays at it from 
baulk, and scores all he can. The 
other player then strikes up one of 
his balls, and so on alternately ; the 
maker of the highest number of points 
winning. The game is 101. While 
the coloured ba& is on the table, it 



must be struck, and when it is holed 
it counts double, in addition to any 
other score made by the same stroke. 
If either placer hole his adversary's 
ball he forfeits to him the number 
scored by the stroke. If he fiEiil to 
strike the black ball he forfeits five 
points. The rules as to rebounding 
balls, foul strokes, &c, are the same 
as in the ordinary game. 

2180. Old Camion Game, some- 
times played on a table without holes 
or pockets, consists entirely of cannons 
— two balls struck in succession by 
the player's balL The game, 50 or 
100 up, each cannon counting two 
points, is played with three balls 
only— a white, spot- white, and black 
(or red) ball When played on the 
ordinary bagatelle table, the holes 
filled alter making a cannon score to 
the player. One point is forfeited for 
missing the white, five points for 
missing the red ; and all points made 
without a cannon. The players go 
on alternately, the first who scores the 
stipulated number winning the game. 

2181. The Iriah Oftini is played 
with three baUs. It consists of win- 
ning hazards and cannons only. The 
cannon counts two, and the haizard the 
number of the hole into which a ball 
is put 

2182. Misfiifippi, Tron Xadame, 
Cookamaroo, and other toy-games, are 
sometimes played on the bagatelle 
table ; but they need no desonption. 
To play well at any of the games, 
however, requires great care and nicety. 
Much depends on the maimer of hold- 
ing and using the cue, and the slij^ht 
degree of force employed in making 
the stroke. Some experts are able to 
fill all the holes at one essay, placing 
the coloured baUs in the 8 and 7 at 
the first stroke, and then pla3ring 
direct at the cups or at the cushion, 
till all the balls are holed. 

2188. BILLIABD8. 

This well-known game of skill ia 
played on a rectangular table measor* 

00 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



408 



WHXUC KBASOK EtTLKS, AFPinTB OBKYS ; 



ixig tweWe feet long by six broftd, 
with thret iTory balLi,— white, spot- 
white, and red; the object being 
to drire one or other of them into 
either of the six pockets, snd to strike 
one ball against the two others. The 
first stroke is known as a hazard, and 
the second as a cannon. The instru- 
ment for striking at the ball is a long 
tapering stick called a cue ; and the 
game is scored by hazards, cannons, 
misses, and forfeitures. The ball 
struck with the cue is known as the 
player's ball ; the ball played at as the 
object balL A ball struck into a 
pocket ii a winning hazard ; the 
player's ball falling into a pocket after 
contact with the white or red, is a 
losing hazard. Three principal games 
are plaved on the billiard table — the 
English game, or BUliardSf Pyramids^ 
and Pool 

2184. InffUtli Billiarda— the 
best of all the games — is usually 
played 60 or 100 up. The points 
are thus reckoned— three for each red 
hasard, two for each white hazard, 
and two for each cannon. A coup— 
that is, running in a pocket, or otf the 
table without striking a ball — is for- 
feiture of three points ; a miss gives 
one point to the adversary. The game 
commences by striking for lead and 
choice of balls. The red ball is placed 
on the spot at the top of the table, and 
the first plaver either strikes at it with 
his own oall, playing from baulk, or 
elves a miss. Every time the red ball 
u pocketed, it is replaced on the spot 
He who makes a hazard or cannon 
goes on playing till he fails to score. 
Then the other goes on, and so they 
play alternately till one or other com- 
pletes the required number of points, 
and wins the game. 

8186. Pyramidf is a game played 
l>y two persons, or by four in sides, 
two agamst two. Fifteen coloured 
balls are placed in the form of a tri- 
angle or pyramid, aciunUly touching 
one onoiheTf with the apex towards 
the player thus — 



W 



The centre of the apex ball covers the 
second or pyramid spot The game 
consists entirely of winning hazards, 
and he who succeeds in pocketing the 
greatest number of balls wins. The 
first player plays at the pyramid with 
the white ball from baulk, and if he 
succeeds in pocketing one of the 
coloured balls scons one point and 
proceeds to play with the white ball 
upon any other ball until he fails to 
pocket one, when his adversarv con- 
tinues the game until he also fails to 
score. If a player either pockets the 
white ball or misses the other balls he 
forfeits one point and also loses his 
turn. 

2186. Pool.— A game played by 
several persons, consisting of winning 
hazards only. Each player subecribes 
a certain stake to form a pool or gron 
sum, and st starting has tnree chances 
or lives. He tlien draws haphazard 
from a bap one of a series of marked 
or coloured balls, and the game pro- 
ceeds thus : The white ball is placed 
on the spot, and the red is played on 
to it from baulk. If the player pocket 
the white he receives the price of a 
life from the owner of that ball ; but 
if he fail, the next player (yellow) 
plays on the red ; and so on alter- 
nately till all have played, or till a 
ball is pocketed. When a ball is 
pocketed the striker plays at the ball 
nearest his own, and goes on playing 
as long as he can score. The first 
player who loses his three lives can 
siar : that is, ho can purchase as many 
lives as are held by tne lowest number 
remaining in the pool. The order of 
play is usually red upon white, yellow 
upon red, green upon yellow, brown 
upon green, blue dpon brown, black 
upon blue, spot-wnite upon black, 
wnite upon spot-white ; and this order 
is retained so long as all the original 
players remain in the game. When 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHIW APPBTITS OOMICANDB, THB POOKXT TATS. 



40i 



the number of players is reduced to 
two, they can, if they possess au 
equality of lives, as two each, or one 
each, divide the stake ; or they may 
by agreement play out the game for 
the entire pool. 

2187. BlaokPoolis ordinary pool 
with the addition of a black ball, 
which is placed on the centre spot. 
When, after pocketing the ball proper 
to be played on, the black is struck 
into a pocket, each player pays the 
price of a life to the striker. 

218a Skittle Pool is pool with 
three balls and twelve little skittles, 
placed in order round the table. A 
stake is determined on, and a price 
paid out of the pool for every skittle 
knocked over aher striking a ball. 
An amusing game for a party of ladies 
and gentlemen. 

2180. Singlo Pool is the game of 
Pool, but played by two persons, each 
having one ball and trymg to pocket 
his opponent's for a money stake upon 
each life. 

2100. Shell Out or Penny Pot is a 
game of pyramids {see par. 2185), 
played by any number of players, 
who each pay a penny to the player 
pocketing a coloured ball, but any 
player accidentally pocketing the 
white ball has to pay a penny to each 
of the other players. 

For the scientific principles of 
Billiards, and the full rules of the 
several games played on the bUliard- 
table, the reader is referred to the excel- 
lent little shilling volume. Billiards 
Made Easy^* and to other elaborate 
treatises. 

2101. BOSS; OS TEE FIFTEEir 

PUZZLE.— Apparently simple, this 
game is really difficult of solution. 
Fifteen cubes of wood, severally 
marked from 1 to 16, an placed indif- 

• BUliards MatUBasy. With the Scientific 
Principles of the Spot-stroke, and the Side- 
stroke, IkmiliarlT explained, niostrated by 
diagnuns. With a chaptor on Bagatelle^ 
Houkton •ii4 Sods. 1«. 



ferently in a box made to hold sixteen; 
thus — 



9 


11 


3 


7 




1 


2 


3 


4 


8 


14 


10 


15 


5 


6 


7 


8 


6 


12 


13 


2 


9 


10 


11 


12 


5 


1 


4 




13 


14 


15 





The puzzle consists in sliding the 
cubes from square to square, without 
lifting them or removing them from 
the box, until they are placed in their 
natural order. It is easy enough to 
move the squares up to 12 ; but to 
get the last three into order is often a 
puzzle indeed. If the figures fall in 
either of the following positions — 13, 
15, 14 ; 14, 18, 16 ; or 16, 14, 13— 
the problem is unsolvable ; it follows, 
therefore, that the last row must be 
either 14, 15, 18 ; or 15, 13, 14. If 
you get the cubes into either of these 
positions, you can easily bring them 
right ; but if you cannot, tho only way 
is to begin the game all over again. 

2192. THE THntTT-FOITB PUZ- 
ZLE.— This is an adaptation of the 
old magic square, which amused the 
philosophers of old. A sketch of it 
appears in Albert Durer's painting of 
Melancholia. Sixteen discs or squares, 
numbered from 1 to 16, are placed 
indifferently on the table— or they 
may be in the fifteen box ; and the 
puzzle is to so arrange them as to 
make the sum of the figures add up 
to 84, whether counted up, down, 
across or angularly. Here is the solu- 
tion : — 



1 
IF 


15 


14 


4 




1 


8 


13 


12 


6 


7 


9 


14 


U 


2 


7 


8 


10 


11 


5 


4 


5 


16 


9 


13 


3 


2 


16 


15 


10 


3 


6 



This is the simpleBt; but a mora 
elaborate plan is to so anrnoM tbe 
fibres that any form of theblooks 
will fonn a aquaro sum of .M. Bee 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



404 



LrmX 00MF0RT8 BKQBT KUOH HAPPIKI88. 



the annexed eolation, which the in- 
gemoQS may still farther complicate: — 



16 


3 


2 


13 


6 


10 


11 


8 


9 


6 


7 


12 


4 


15 


14 


1 



2108. 70Z AHD 01S8S.— This 
old-&ahioned came is played on a 
solitaire board. Seventeen geese 
occupy the npper pu*t of the board 
lines, with the fox in the middle, 
thus — 

O — O — O 



pr 


) — c 

—i 


) — c 


D — o — o 
— o — o 

1 











The object of the game ia to confine 
the fox in a comer, so that he cannot 
move. The geese march forward in 
straight lines, not on the diagonals; 
and whenever a goose is on the spot 
next the fox, the latter can take him, 
as in draughts, by jumping over to 
the vacant spot beyond. The fox can 
move backwards, forwards, or side- 
ways on the straight lines ; but the 
^eese must go forward, and are not 
allowed to retreat Properly played, 
the geese must win ; but when the 
number of geese is reduced to six, it is 
impossible for them to confine the 
fox. There are several wavs of play- 
ing the game, by placing the fox and 
l^eese in other positions, or by insist- 
ing on the fox catching all the geese. 
In the latter case, the fox chooses his 
own starting place. The game may 



also be played with eight geese and a 
fox. 

2104. THB EOTAL GAXE OF 
0OO8X. — In the old German game 
the figure of a goose is printed on a 
large sheet of paper, and divided into 
63 squares or divisions. The object 
of the players, — any number of whom 
may join m the game — is to make $S 
points by successive throws of two 
dice. A pool is made by equal con- 
tributions by the players, the first of 
whom gdninff the required number 
wins. The players throw alternately 
and add each individual throw to that 
already made. Each player's position 
is shown on the goose by a counter, a 
wafer, or any small article. Any 
number beyond 63 sends the thrower 
back as many points as he exceeds 68. 
Thus if he were 58, and by a 6 and 5 
he threw eleven he would go forwuxi 
5 squares to 6S, and back 6 squares 
from ^Z, In addition to this, certain 
numbers on the goose are barred ; and 
if the player make them he is fined 
two counters, which are added to the 
pool The numbered goose is sold at 
most toy shops, but a numbered 
draughtboard will serve as welL 

2106. OBSTACLES, OS DDTIHO- 
ROOK GOLF. 

This is played by two or more per- 
sons (four or six make the best game) 
on an ordinary dinine-table, covered 
with a green baize cloth, on which the 
" obstacles," such as hedges, banks, 
&c., are placed with a ring between 
each. 

The object of the game is to see who 
can get round the course first, and is 
played with large and small counters, 
the small counters being made to 
jump forward by drawing the larger 
counters across them until the pressure 
on the edge of the small one causes 
it to be ''snicked" away from the 
pl^er. 

Each player on starting places his 
counter on the starting line, and in 
his turn snicks it over the fence or 
other obstacle. Only one try is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GOOD AND QUICKLY SELDOM MSST. 



405 



allowed, until all the other players 
have had their turns, when it comes 
round to the first player again. 

Only one snick at a time is allowed, 
except on entering a rine, when the 
player may hare one snick at the next 
fence. 

When the player has cleared a fence, 
he must smck his counter inside a 
ring, before attempting to clear an- 
other fence from the line a(^oining 
the ring. 

The second and third fences are 
usually larger than the others, and in 
trying to clear these the counter often 
becomes lodged on the platform of the 
fence. In tnia case the player may 
(1) try to clear the remainder of the 
fence from the spot where his counter 
lies, or (2) he may snick his counter 
back to a fsYourable position and 
from'there try a fresh shot. 

If the small counter should chance 
to rest edgeways on a rin^, the player 
may with the counter, neld m nis 
right hand, push the small counter 
over the edge and into the hole, tak- 
ing the ring in his lejl hand. 

Should the small counter fall on the 
floor, it is to be picked up and placed 
close to the edge of the table, m line 
with the spot where it started from 
and the spot where it felL 

2196. OTTT-DOOB PA8TIXE8. 

2107. ABCHEBT. 

This sport was greatly encouraged 
in olden days, and it ia still a favourite 
pastime with a good many people. 

The Bows are made of Lance- wood. 
Yew, Hickory, Snake-wood, &c., and 
one should be selected which is adapted 
to the player's height and strength. 
A man's bow may naye a pull of fifty 
or sixty pounds, out a lady, as a rule, 
will find a pull of thirty to thirty-six 
pounds quite sufficient A good 
weight of pull for general use is forty- 
two pounds for distances of not more 
than one hundred yards, and fif^ 
pounds for longer distances. The 
distance of the string from the centre 



of the bow when strung should be 
between fiye and six inches. 

The arrows used should be pro- 
portioned in length and weight to the 
bow for which they are intended. 
For bows of five feet, twenty-four inch 
arrows are used ; for five feet nine inches, 
twenty-seven inch arrows, and for six 
feet, from twenty-eight to thirtyinches. 
The notches should be lined with horn. 
The feathers are of goose or turkey, 
and three in number; one is of a 
different colour to the others and is 
called the "cock" feather; this is 
always to be placed uppermost. 

The part of the string which receives 
the arrow is whipped with silk, to 
prevent the stiing Deing rubbed and 
weakened. 

The usual mark is a target some four 
feet in diameter, placed at distances 
varying from fifty to one hundred 
yards or more. The target has a gold 
centre, surrounded by rings of red, 
blue, black, and white, witii an out- 
side border of green. The gold, when 
hit, scores nine ; the red, seven ; the 
blue, five ; black, three ; and white, 
one ; and the player who scores the 
greatest value m hits wins the match. 

There are over one hundred archery 
clubs in Great Britain, one of the 
oldest (except the Honourable Artillery 
Company) being the Royal Toxophilite 
Society, which was founded in 1780. 

In the act of shooting with the bow 
the whole muscles of the body are 
called into play, and it is particularly 
necessary that the legs should be 
planted firmly on the ground, other- 
wise the body will be thrown off its 
et^uilibrium and the aim destroyed. In 
discharging the arrow from the bow 
the string Siould be quickly loosed but 
without a jerk or jar, nor should the 
hand or elbow be either elevated or de- 

Sressed, for the slightest derangement 
1 the delivery of the arrow weakens 
its aim. The archer should study the 
wind so as to make allowances for the 
various currents of air. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



406 



THXT 0A9 OOITQUIB WHO BBtllVB THKT OAK. 



210a L4WV BILLIAXM OS 
TBOCO.— This it ft game thftt may be 
pUjed by mny nam tor of penont in ft 
hma or open spftoe. The implements 
ftre wooden bftUa ftnd long-hsndled 
enet, tX the ends of which ftre spoonlike 
oTftls of iron. In the centre of the 
ground is fixed ft ring of iron, which 
moves freely on ft pirot, the spike of 
the ring being driven into ft piece of 
wood let into the ground. The wooden 
ball is lifted from the ground bj meftns 
of the spoon-ended cue, ftnd thrown 
towftrds the ring— the object of the 
plftyer being to pass the ball through 
the ring ; and he who succeeds in 
makinff any given number of points 
by fairly ringing his ball, or cannoning 
against the other balls, wins the game. 
Cannons are made by the player strik- 
inff two balls successively with his own 
ball fairly delivered from his spoon. 
Considerable skill is required in 
throwing the ball, as the ring, turning 
freely on its pivot, twists round on 
being struck, and to '* make the ring," 
it is necessary that the ball be thrown 
fairly through its centre. But in 
order to ffet nearer to it a judicious 
player wul endeavour to make two or 
three cannons, if the balls lie within a 
convenient distance and at a proper 
angle to each other. 

The game is played fifteen, twenty- 
one, or any other determined number 
of points. The bftlls should be per- 
fectly round ftnd smooth. They sre 
generftUy made of boxwood or lignum 
vitae, and weiffh about three to five lbs. 
each ; the buls, cues, kc, are sold by 
most dealers in croquet implements. 

2109. BnUf of Lawn Billiardi. 

L The game may be plaved by two 
or more persons, each of whom is 
provided with a ball and a cue. When 
more than two play, sides aro chosen, 
and the side which first makes the 
requisite number of points wins the 
game. 

IL The players stand in a drole, in 
the centre of which is set up the pivot- 
ing. 



ilL Eaeh player starts from any 
portion of the circle distant not \&m 
than four yards from the ring. Tha 
first player lifts his ball vath the 

rn-cue, and throws it towards 
ring ; each of the others taking 
his turn alternately— the balls remain- 
iue on the ground where they stop 
rolling. 

iv. If the first player fail to "maka 
his ring," the next goes on, who may 
either throw at the ring or at the ball 
in the circle. 

▼. Partners may ftssist eftch other in 
getting near the ring ; but no player, 
at starting, may step within font 
yards of the ring. 

tL T«» points are counted for every 
cannon, and three for every fairly- 
made ring ; and successive points are 
reckoned for any number of rings or 
cannons. 

Tii Each player goes on till he fails 
to cannon or nng his ball, when tha 
next plays ; and so on, till the required 
number of points are made. 

▼ill. One point is taken off tha 
player's score for every foul stroke. 
Foul strokes are made by touching a 
ball with hand or person while it is in 
play ; by playing with a wrong ball ; 
oy playing out of turn ; by overturning 
the rinff ; and by making two or mora 
stei)s while tbro^iing the ball. 

ix. Each plftyer, after the start, 
must go on m>m the place at which 
his ball was left after the previous 
stroke. 

z. All disputed points must be 
settled by the umpire, whose deoisioii 
is final. 

zi No ball in play must be removed 
from its position except by a stroke 
from another ball, and every ball is 
considered to be in play while it is 
within the circle, which may be of 
any dimensions chosen by the plajrers 
previous to the commencement of the 
game. 

2200. CROQVST. 

This out-door pastime is of oom- 
parativelv modem creation, and nntjl 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GRBAT TALKKBS ARB KOT ORBAT DOERS. 



407 



?mte lately was very much in vogue, 
t may be played by persons of all a^es 
and of eitner sex ; but it is especially 
adapted for ladies and vonng persons, 
as it demands bat slight personal 
exertion, while it afforas delightM 
and health-giving sport. 

The CTound is preferably a grass plot 
of an oblong form ; but an ordinary 
iawn or expanse of even turf will 
answer the purpose, so long as it is 
of sufficient extent for the operations 
ofthe game. 

The implements are balls, mallets, 
starting and turning pegs, croquet 
clips or markers, hoops or arches. 

Arrangement of the Hoops.— The 
starting peg is driven in at one end 
of the ground, and the taming peg 
at the other extremity. Between 
these p^ the hoops are fixed at 
distances of about eight or ten feet 
apart, and so arrang^ as to afford 
good opportunities for the display of 
address and skill on the part of the 
players. 

The game consists in striking the 
balls from the starting peg through 
the hoops up one side of the ground 
to the peg at the opposite extremity, 
and then back again through tne 
hoops on the other side to the starting 
peg. The game may be played by any 
number of persons not exceeding eight. 
A larger number renders the game 
tedious. The best number is four. 
If two only play, each player may 
take two balls, and when as many* as 
eight play, there should be two sides 
or sets. Each player takes a mallet, 
ball, and croquet clip of a distinctive 
colour or number, the clip bein^ used 
to indicate the hoop at which, m his 
turn, he aims. The division into sides, 
choice of balls, mallets, ftc, is deter- 
mined by the players among them- 
selvee. 

2201. Lawi of Oroqnet 

i. There shall be no restriction to 

the number, weight, size, shape, or 

material of the mallets : nor as to the 

l^ttitude or position of the striker : nor 



as to the part of the mallet held, pro- 
vided the ball is not struck with the 
handle, nor the mace stroke used. 
The balls used in matches must be 8f 
inches in diameter. 

ii The plavers shall toes for choice 
of lead and of balls : and in a succes- 
sion of games shall take the lead 
alternately and keep the same baUs. 

iiL In commencmg, each ball shall 
be placed at one foot from the first 
hoop in a direct line between the pegs, 
and a ball having been struck is at 
once in play, and can roquet another 
or be roqueted, whether it shall have 
made the first hoop or not. 

iv. A stroke is considered to have 
been taken if a ball is moved in the 
act of striking, but should the player 
in taking aim have struck it acci- 
dentally, and the umpire be satisfied 
that the stroke was accidental, the ball 
is replaced and the stroke taken again. 
If a oall be moved in taking aim, and 
then struck again without being 
replaced, the stroke is foul. 

▼. If the player make a foul stroke 
he loses his turn and all the points or 
roquets made therein, and the balls 
remain where they lie, at the option 
of the adversary. The following are 
considered foul strokes : 

{a) To strike with the msllet an- 
other ball instead of, or besides one's 
own in making the stroke. (5) To 
spoon, that is, to push a ball without 
an audible knock, (c) To strike a ball 
twice in the same stroke, (d) To 
touch, stop, or divert the course of a 
ball when in play and rolling, whether 
this be done by the striker or his 
partner, (e) To allow a ball to touch 
the mallet (or any part of the player's 
person) in rebounding from a peg or 
wire. (J) To move a ball which lies 
close to a peg or wire by striking the 
peg or wire (*.«. to touch with the 
mSlet a wire or peg in making the 
stroke), (g) To press a ball round a peg 
or wire (crushing stroke), (h) To play 
a stroke after roquet without taxing 
croquet, (i) To fiul to move both balls 
\n taking oroqoet. {k) To croquet i 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



408 



W0B08 OPTEK DO MORE THAK BLOWS. 



ball which the striker ia not entitled 
tocroqnet 

Ti. A pUjer oootinnes to pUr so 
long M he makes a point or hits a balL 
A point consists in making a hoop or 
hitting the turning peg in order. 

wiL The ball has made its hoop 
when, having passed through from the 
playing side and ceased to roll, it 
cannot be touched bj^ a straight-edoe 
nlaced across the wires on the side 
m>m which it was played. 

TiiL A player who hits a ball must 
take croquet : that is, must strike his 
own ball while in contact with the 
other, so as perceptibly to stir both. 
In doing this he is now not allowed to 
place his foot on his balL A playor, 
when his turn comes round, may hit 
and croquet each ball in succession, 
and can do this again after each point 
made, but between the points can only 
take croquet once off each ball. 

ix. A playing ball which hits an- 
other after making a point is in hand, 
and the striker can score no point till 
he has taken croquet. After hitting 
another a ball mav be stopped by any 
])layer ; but should it, in rolling, dis- 
place any of the other balls, such balls 
must remain where they are driren. 

z. When, at the commencement of 
a turn, two balls are found touching, 
roquet is deemed to be made, and 
croquet must be taken at once. 

xL When a player, in his stroke, 
hits one or more balls, he must take 
croquet off the ball that is struck 
first ; but if he has hit two simul- 
taneously, he may choose from which 
of them he will take it, and in both 
cases a second hit is reauired before he 
can take it fh)m the otner ball. 

xii Should the ball in making its 
hoop strike another that lies beyond 
the hoop and then pass througn it, 
the hoop and the hit count to both ; 
but, should any part of the ball that 
is liit have been lying beneath the 
hoop, the croquet must be taken, but 
the noop does not count 

ziii A rover which strikes or is 
driven by another ball against the 



winning peg is out of the game, and 
must be removed from the ground. 

ziv. A player who pegs out a rorar 
by a first hit cannot take croquet btaa 
ii as the ball is out of the game, and 
ho is not entitled to another stroke. 

XT. Should a player play out of 
his turn, or with a wrong ball, and 
this be discovered by his antagonist 
before a second stroke in error has been 
made, the turn is lost, and all points 
made after the mistake, and the balls 
shall remain as they lay at the time 
the mistake was discovered, or be 
replaced to the satisfaction of the 
antagonist. But if he has made a 
second stroke before the error is dis- 
covered, he continues his break, and 
the next player follows with the ball 
that is next in rotation to the one 
with which he hss played, and is 
liable to lose his turn, and all points 
made therein, if he plays with that 
which would have been the right b&U 
if no mistake had been made. 

xtI Should a player make the 
wrong hoop by mistake, or croquet a 
ball that he is not entitled to croquet, 
and the mistake be discovered before 
he has made a second stroke, he loses 
his turn, and any point so made in 
error ; but if he has made a second 
stroke before the discovery, he shall 
be allowed to continue his break. 

XTii In order to prevent the oc- 
currence of the errors noticed in the 
above rules (Nos. xv. and xvi), a 
player is bound, upon being spp^ed 
to, to declare truly what is his next 
hoop or point in order, and is entitled 
to demand of his antagonist what he 
had played last, and to insist upon his 
clip beingproperly placed. 

xviiL When cups are used they 
should be moved by the umpire, or 
with his cognizance, at the end of 
each turn, and their position shall be 
conclosiye as to the position of the 
balls in the game. 

xix. Should a ball in play be acci- 
dentally stopped or diverted by the 
Iumpiie, he places it where he considers 
that it would have rolled ta Should 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BIOINNINO AKD KNDIKO 8HAXS HAimS. 



409 



it be stopped by a player, it will reet 
with tlie side opposed to that player 
to say whether the ball shall remain 
where it stooped, or be placed by the 
umpire, or the stroke be taken again. 

zx. If a ball lies within a mallet's 
length of the boundary, and is not the 
playing ball, it must at once be put 
out throe feet at right angles from the 
boundary ; but if it is the playing ball, 
it may, at the discretion of the player, 
either be put out or played from where 
it lies. 

zxL If it is found that the height 
of the boundary interferes with the 
stroke, the player may, at the umpire's 
discretion, oring in the balls a longer 
distance than three feet, so as to allow 
of a free swing of the mallet. Balls so 
brought in must be moved in the line 
of aim. 

xxiL Should a plaver, in trying to 
make his hoop, knock a wire out of 
the ground with his ball the hoop 
does not count. The ball must be 
replaced, and the stroke taken again ; 
but if by the same stroke a roquet be 
made, the striker may elect wnether 
he will claim the roquet or have the 
balls replaced. 

yxiii. Any player may set upright 
a peg or hoop except the one next in 
order ; and that, however loose, awrv, 
or slanting it may be, must not be 
altered except by the umpire. 

xxiv. No ball may be moved be- 
cause of its lying in a hole or on bad 
ground, except by the umpire or with 
his permission. The ball must be 
put oack — i. e. away from the object 
aimed at — and so as not to alter the 
line of aim. 

' zxv. Where there is no umpire 
present, permission to move a ImiII, or 
to set up a hoop or peg or other in- 
dulgence for which an umpire would 
have been appealed to, must be asked 
of the other side. 

zxvL The decision of the umpire 
shall in all cases be final. His duties 
are : (a) To move the clips, or see 
that they are properly moved ; (6) to 
decide on the application of the laws ; 



(c) to keep the score, and if asked by 
a player, to disclose the state of it ; 
{d) to replace balls sent off the ground, 
or to see that they are properly re- 
placed; {e) to adjust hoops or pegs 
not upright, or to see that they are 
properly adjusted. But he shall not 
give his opinion, or notice any error 
that may be made, unless appealed to 
by one of the players. 

2202. Terms Used in Croquet. 

1. Boquet. — To strike another ball 
with your own. 

ii Croquet, — When two baUs are 
in contact, the player strikes the other 
away, either with or without putting 
the foot on his own ball, as may be 
previously arranged. 

ilL A loose croquet ia made by 
striking your opponent's ball without 
putting your foot on your own balL 
In takmg ** two off" it is, however, 
necessary that the ball should be seen 
to move. 

iv. Wired, — When a ball is in con- 
tact with a hoop, so as to prevent it 
going through. 

▼. Bridge Bail,— OnB that has 
passed the first arch. 

vi Dead Ball,— One in hand after 
having roqueted another. 

vii To Peg,— To play for either of 
the pegs in regular order. 

▼ili The Tour, — The run given to 
each player till he fails to strike 
througn a hoop 

ix. To Dismits a ball is to croquet 
it to a distance. 

X. Bjoner, — You become a rover 
when you have completed the hoops 
from point to point, and instead of 
hitting the starting-peg and retiring, 
you prefer to strike your ball to any 
part of the ground, croqueting fnen^ 
or foes. 

zi The terms side stroke, straight 
stroke, followinff ball, over-running a 
bridge, &c., explain themselves. 

2208. LAWV B0WL8. 

This game is usually played by 
teams of three or four players on each 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



410 



ONX Kim WOKD MAT TITmif AMIDM A TOimiMT OF ANOKR. 



aide, each pUjer haring two bowls 
OBiially made of lignum viUe, and 
about four and a halfinches in diame- 
ter. The came is commenced hj the 
leader bowling a white ball, called the 
"jack," towards the opposite side of 
the lawn, and the object of the 
players is to bowl their bowls so that 
they may stop as near the white ball 
as possible. The game consists of 
any number of points that may be 
agreed on, and the team having the 
balls nearest to the white one, count 
one point for each of such balls. 

2204. LAWV Txinni. 

This fashionable and delightful 
game, suitable for both ladies and 
gentlemen, is generally played on a 
lawn or grass plot by two, three, or 
four players, with balls and racauet- 
bats. The object of the game is to 
strike the ball into a part of his 
opponent's court in such a way that 
he cannot return it direct or on its 
first bound. The court or ground may 
be of any size consistent with the 
lawn, the base lines being marked out 
by chalk, or tapes sliffhtly pinned to 
the turf, which should be frequently 
mown and rolled. The mode of play 
may be seen from the following lead- 
ing rules, which are now generally 
accepted by all players. 

2205. Bales of Lawn Tannia. 

L The courtf for a single-handed 
game, should be 78 feet long and 27 feet 
wide, and for a double-handed game 
the same length, but 86 feet wide, 
divided across the centre hy a fut 
attached to two upright posts. The 
net should be 8 feet 6 inches high at 
the posts, and 8 feet at the centre. 
At each end of the court, parallel 
with the net, are the base lines, whose 
extremities are connected by the sitie 
lines. The half-court line is half-way 
between the side lines and parallel 
with them. The service lines are 21 
feet from the net and parallel with it 

ii. The halls should be 2^ inches in 
diameter, and Som^oes in weight, 



Md. The choice of sides and the 
right of serving during the first gamea 
are decided by toss. 

It. The players stand on opposite 
sides of the net. The player who first 
delivers the ball is call^ the server^ 
the other the striker-oiU. 

V. At the end of the first game the 
striker-out becomes server, and the 
server striker-out, and so on alter- 
nately in the subsequent games of the 
set. 

tL The server stands with one foot 
beyond the base line, and delivers the 
service from the ri^ht and left courts 
alternately, b^nnmg from right. 

▼ii The balls served must, with- 
out touching the net, drop within the 
service line, half-court line, and side 
line diagonally opposite to that f^om 
which the striker serves it. 

▼iii. If the service be delivered 
from the wrong court it is 9L/aulL It 
is also a fault if the server does not 
stand in the manner as stated abore, 
or if the ball served drop in the net 
or beyond the service line, or if it 
drop out of court, or go in the wrong 
court 

ix. A fault may not be taken, that 
is, played back to the server. 

X. After a fault, the server shall 
serve again from the same court, 
unless it was a fault because served 
from the wrong court. A fault may 
not be claimed after the next service 
has been delivered. The striker- out 
may not volley the service. Volley- 
ing is striking the ball back before it 
has touched the ground. 

zi The ball, having been returned, 
must be kept in play either by volley- 
ing it, or striking it back after the 
first bounce. A ball bouncing twice is 
out of play. 

zii If, in serving, the ball touch 
the net and ^ over into the proper 
court, it is called a let and counts to 
neither server nor striker-out 

xiii The server scores if the striker- 
out volley the service, or fail to rettim 
the service in such a way that the ball 
would fall within the opponents* court, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A GOOD WORD 18 AS 806V SAID AS AH ILL ONX. 



411 



zlv. Two consecutive faults count 
t stroke against the server. 

zv. If the ball when in play touch 
either player it scores a stroke for his 
opponent. 

zyL The first stroke won by either 
player scores 15 to that player ; the 
second, won by the same player, 
raises his score to 80 ; his third stroke 
to 40, and his fourth counts game. If, 
however, the players have both scored 
40, it is called deuce, and the next 
stroke won by either is called advan- 
tage to the winner of it, and if he also 
win the following stroke he scores 
game. Should he lose it the score 
returns to deuce. The player winning 
two consecutive strokes directly fol- 
lowing a de%ice scores game. 

xvii Whichever player first scores 
six games is considered to win the 9et, 
except as follows : 

If both players win five games, the 
score is games aU^ and the next game 
won by either player is advarUage 
game for that player. If the same 
player win the next game, he wins the 
set ; if he lose the next game the score 
is again gam^ ail, and so on until one 
wins the two ^ames following gam^ 
cUl, when he wins the set. 

2206. Thr«6-Hand6d and Tour- 
Eanded Lawa Tennii. 

i. The laws as given above apply 
equally to these games. The differ- 
enoe in the width of the court has 
been stated. 

iL In Four-handed Tennis the 
players deliver the service in turns : 
thus supposing A and B are partners 
opposed to C and D; A serves in the 
first game, C in the second, B serves 
in the third, and D in the fourth, 
and so on. 

iii. In Three-handed Tennis the 
single player serves in each alternate 
game. 

iv. No player may return a service 
that has been delivered to his partner. 
2207. BADIONTOK. 

This game is a somewhat similar 
pue to Lawn Tennis, but is placed 



with shuttlecocks instead of btlls^ and 
over a higher net. 

2208. BASEBALL. 

This, the national game of America, 
is a modification of the English game 
of rounders, and (as in the Utter 
game) the players use a bat and ball, 
and run round bases. A diamond- 
shaped ground, ninety feet square, is 
marked out, and bases are set out on 
or within each angle of this diamond, 
called ?iome, first, seooTid, and third 
bases. 

The hall weighs from 5 to 5i 
ounces, and it is 9 to 9^ inches in 
circumference. 

The bat is round, and measures 
about 42 inches in len^h, and is not 
more than 2) inches in diameter at 
its thickest end. 

Each team has nine players, and 
what is called the home team has the 
right of first innings, each player 
tt&ng the bat in regular order. The 
player taking the bat is called the 
striker, or batsman, and his team is 
really the defensive team, the field 
team being the attacking side. 

The puSutr stands about the centre 
of the diamond ; the catcher in rear of 
the home base ; the fir^ baseman close 
to the first base, on the right of the 
catcher; the second and third base- 
men, near the second and third bases ; 
short stop, about half-way between 
these ; and the outfielders at the 
right, centre, and left fields, about in 
line with first, second, and third bases 
respectively. 

The field side having taken their 
proper places, the pitcher delivers the 
bal( wtdc\i to constitute a fair ball 
should pass over the home base, not 
lower than the batsman's knee, nor 
higher than his shoulder. The ball 
is delivered as fast as the pitcher can 
send it, and is generally an under- 
hand delivery. A practised player can 
impart great twist to the bail. A fair 
ball is counted as a strike, no matter 
whether the batsman plays at it or 
not, and after receiving four £air ballq 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



412 



HX LIARNS MTOH WHO STUDIIS OTHER ION ; 



the batsman most ran, or he can be 
pat ont. If, howeyer, five on&ir 
ballB hare been given the batsman is 
entitled to a baM. 

The object of the batsman is to 
drive the ball oat of the fielders' 
reach, and far enough away to allow 
hira to ran roand the bases withoat 
being pat oat. If he can do that he 
scores a ran. The batsman may ose 
each base as a resting place, and is 
allowed to stay at any base nntil he 
can slip to the next one, or a succeeding 
batsman drives the ball so far as to let 
him ran with safety — for if a ranner 
is touched with the ball by a fielder he 
is out, except when at a base. All three 
bases may be occupied at the same 
time, but when a following batsman 
becomes a ranner, the runner on the 
first base must proceed to the second 
base, which must be left for him to 
take, or else he is put out. 

If a striker's ball is caught before 
it touches the ground, a runner must 
return and touch the base last occu- 
pied. The first batsman is succeeded 
m rotation by others, until three of 
the batting side are out, when the 
field side take the bat. When nine 
equal innings have been played, the 
side scoring the most runs wins the 
match. 

A batsnum can only run for a fair 
hit, i. e, s, ball struck within the 
lines of the diamond between the 
home and first and third bases ; but 
he can be caught out either on a foul 
hit or a fair one. If after a fair hit 
or over four strikes the ball is fielded 
to the first base before he can get 
there, he is out. 

2209. PV8H-BAIL. 

This game, introduced at Harvard 
University, America, somewhat re- 
sembles football in some of its features. 
7%e ball is a large afiSur, being 6 feet 
8 inches in diameter, and weighing 
120 lbs. : it is a bladder of india-rubber 
covered with leather. Notwithstand- 
ing its size, however, it can be easily 
moved. It may only be poshed with 



the shoulder, no other means being 
allowed. 

A line \b drawn across the centre of 
the field in which the game is played, 
dividing its length into two parts. 
At 20 yards distance from this, on 
each side, is drawn another line. The 
space between these lines is the field 
of play, and the two outside lines may 
be taken to constitute the goals. The 
length of the lines may be agreed upon. 

The game is played by sixteen 
players, eight on each side. The 
game is started by placing the ball in 
the middle of tne centre line, the 
players standing round it. Then the 
** centre" of each side stands imme- 
diately behind the ball, with two 
other players, called respectively a 
"ffuard" and •* tackle," on either 
side of him. 

On the outside of these are two 
"forwarda" The captain, who acts 
as " full-back,*' stands a few paces in 
the rear of the other players, and 
directs his men from that position. 

Cleverness in combination is the 
principal secret of the game, the 
object of the players being to find 
the weak spot in their adversaries' 
defence, and to force the ball in that 
direction. Of course, the ball is not 
upon the ground at all times during 
tne game. It frequently is forced 
upon the shoulders of the players, and 
comes down again very often where 
least expected, necessitating close at- 
tention to it. 

After two minutes' play, time is 
called, when the team that has pushed 
the ball into the other's grouna score 
as follows : — 

If they have pushed the ball 5 yards 
beyond the centre line, they take one 
point ; if 10 yards, ttoo points ; if 15 
yards, three points ; and if 20 yards 
(by that means crossing the line). Jive 
points. 

2210. FOOTBALL. 
2211. THE A8B0CIATI0K GAMS. 

The ground from eoal to goal should 
not exceed 200 yards, or be less than 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HX ALSO LSABN8 MITOH WHO STUDIES HIirSXLF. 



418 



100 yards in length, and the width 
should be e(^ual to half the length. 
The boundanes are marked out by the 
goal lines at each end, and the tonch 
lines at each side, and by flags at each 
comer. A line is also drawn 6 yards 
from each goal post, and another 12 
yards from the goal lines. The centre 
of the ground is also indicated, and a 
circle of 10 yards radius is described 
round it. 

T?ie Goal Pasta are placed, on the 
goal lines, 8 yards apart, with a bar 
across them 8 feet from the ground. 

21ie Ball has an average circumfer- 
ence of not more than 28 inches, or 
less than 27 inches, and it weighs 
from 13 to 15 ounces. 

T?ie Game is played with sides of 
11 men each ; the players being usually 
the goal-keeper, 2 backs, 8 hsif-backs, 
and 6 forwards. In this game only 
goals count, and to score a goal the 
call must pass between the goal posts 
tinder the bar, 

2212. KodeofPlay. 

L The option of kicking off and 
the choice of goal is decided by toss- 
ing, and the game is commenced with 
a place kick from the centre of the 
ground in the direction of the adver- 
saries* goal line. The other side is 
not allowed to come within 10 yards 
of the ball till it has been kicked off, 
nor may any player pass the centre 
of the field towards his adversaries* 
goal before the ball is kicked off. 

ii. Upon a goal being scored, the 
losers kick off m the same way ; but 
upon changing ends at ha^-time the 
ball is kicked off by the side which 
did not originally do so. 

iii. To obtain a goal the ball must 
neither be thrown, knocked on, nor 
carried. Should the ball strike a goal 
or boundary post, or the goal bar, and 
rebound into the ground, it iBvaplayy 
but if it crosses goal or touch line, 
either along the ground or through 
the air, it is <m^ qfplay. 

iy. If the ball be played behind ffoal 
line by an opponent, it must be ki(3ced 



off by one of the players behind whose 
line it went, witnin six yards of the 
goal post which is nearest the spot 
where the ball went out But if 
played behind by one of the home side 
it must be kicked off by an opponent 
from within one yard of the comer 
flag nearest to which it went out. 

▼. When the ball is in Unuh^ a player 
who is not on the side that kicked 
it must throw it in from the spot on 
the line at which it went out He 
must face the ground, having both feet 
on the line, and throw the Iml in over 
his head, in any direction, using both 
hands. It is in play as soon as thrown 
in ; but the thrower must not play it 
until it has been played by some other 
player. 

yi A goal cannot be scored from a 
free kick (the penalty for handling the 
ball, or off-side play), or fix>m a comer 
kick described aoove. 

yii Should any player cany, knock 
on, or handle the ball, under any pre- 
tence, a free kick is awarded to the 
opposing side ; the goal-keeper, how- 
ever, may, within his own half of the 
ground, use his hands in defence of 
his goal, either by knocking on or 
throwing, but not carrying the balL 

yilL The goal-keeper may be 
changed during the game, after notico 
to the referee. 

ix. No tripping, hacking, or jump- 
ing at a player is allowed, nor may a 
player use nis hands to hold or push 
an opponent, or play in such a way as 
is likely to cause iiyury. A player 
may not charge an adversary from 
behind, unless such adversary be fietc- 
ing his own goal, and also, in the 
opinion of the referee, intentionally 
impeding his adversary. 

X. It is not allowable to charge 
the goal-keeper, except when he is 
touching the ball, or obstracting an 
opponent 

xi. If any flayer wilftdly holds, ' 
pushes, or tnps an opponent, or 
handles the ball, within 12 yards of 
his own goal-line, the referee must 
award 9kp€niiUykickXoih.t other side^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



414 



LSABN SOMXTHINOy BYBN FROM FAILtTKBl. 



zii For a penalty kick th« ball ia 
placed anywhere the kicker chooses 
on the 12-jard line, all the players 
(except the defencUng goal-keeper) 
having to stand not less than six 
yards from the said line on the op- 
posite side from the goaL 

2218. Terms usad in this Gams. 

L A place-kick is one made at the 
ball whilst on the ground, in such 
position as the kicker may like to 
place it. 

ii A free kick is one made whilst 
the ball is on the eround, in any 
direction the player cnooses, none of 
his opponents being allowed to como 
within 6 yards of the ball, unless 
they are standing on their own goal 
lino. 

ill Racking is intentionally kick- 
ing a player. 

IV. Tripping is throwing, or trying 
to throw down an adversary by the use 
of one's legs, or by stooping in front 
of him. 

▼. ^an^Ztn^ means playing the ball 
with the hand or arm. 

▼i Holding is the obstruction of a 
player by the hand or any part of the 
srm extended from the body. 

▼ii. Carrying is taking more than 
two steps while holding die ball. 

▼iiL Toxich is that i^irt of the field 
on either side of the ground, beyond 
the line of play. 

2214. THE SVeBT OAXE is 

played by 1 5 players on each side. The 
field is 110 yards in length by 76 yards 
in breadth. The boundaries are the 
goal lines at the ends, and the touch 
lines at the sides. The goals are two 
posts exceeding 11 feet in height, 18 
feet 6 inches apart, with a cross-bar 
10 feet from the ground. 

The Players consist of one full back, 
three three-quarter backs, two half- 
backs, and nine forwards. The cap- 
tain may, however, draw from the 
forwards for extra strength behind the 
scrimmage. 

The BaU is an oval one of tha fol- 
lowing measurements : — 



Length circumference, 80 to 31 inchas. 
Width „ 26ito26 „ 

Weight . . . . 12 to 18 ooncea. 

2216. The Mods of Play. 

L The respective captains toss for 
the kick-off, or choice of goids, and 
the match is decided by a majority 
of points. If no point is scored, or 
the ntmiber be equal, the match is 
drawn. A goal is scored when the 
ball LB kicked over the cross-bar ; but 
it must not go over either of the goal 
posts. 

IL After choice of goals the ball is 
kicked off from the centre of the ground 
in the direction of the opponents' goal, 
and is then in play, remaining so 
until stopped either by the ball going 
into touch, by a fair catch, or some 
point being scored, or the game being 
stopped by the referee for some 
infringement of rule. 

iiL The game is divided into two 
parts or halves, each part usually 
lasting 85 to 40 minutes. At the 
expiration of the first half, half-time is 
called by the referee's whistle, and 
after a brief interval play is started 
again by the ball being again placed 
in the centre of the grouna, and 
kicked off by the side losing the toss 
at the commencement of the game. 

iv. Whilst the ball is in plav it 
may be either kicked or picked up 
and nm with according to the dis- 
cretion of the player, provided always 
the player is on side. A player is not 
on side if he is not behind the ball 
whilst it is being kicked or run 
with. 

▼. The ball may be passed from 
player to player, provided always it is 
not passed fonoard to the player 
receiving it 

Ti. A ball is in touch when it is 
kicked or carried across the touch 
lines. It \b then brought again into 
play as follows: One player on the 
side other than the one who kicked 
the ball into touch, but in the case 
of being carried into touch, on the 
aide of the player carrying it, shall 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHSN THX roX PBSACSU BBWARB OF TOtm OEESE. 



416 



throw ont the ball at a ri^ht ancle 
to touch line, the opposing siaes 
meantime haring formed wnat is 
known as a '*line ont,'* i.e, facine 
each other in parallel lines ; or the ball 
may be bonnced out, i.e. bouncing 
the ball on the field of play, and then 
catching it, and then either passing 
it, running with it, or kickii^ it, as 
opportunity serves, or a scrimmage 
may be formed at right angle from 
point of touch not more thsin fifteen 
yards from said point. 

▼ii. A acrimmage is when the 
forwards on either side combine 
together round the ball and try to 
push their opponents back towards 
their own goal, and is broken up 
immediately the ball comes out of the 
scrimmage. 

viii It is incumbent in every game 
to have two Touch Judges and a 
Beferee. Toiich Judges shall carry 
a flag, shall take opposite sides of 
the ground, and shall immediately the 
ball crosses the line into touch hold 
up their flag at that point Hie 
JKeferee shall carry a whistle, the blow- 
ing of which stops the game, and his 
duty is to see the game fairly played 
and to stop it on any infrmgement 
of rule. He also has power to order 
any oflending player on the ground, 
and his decision on any point is 
final. 

iz. In addition to the penalties 
recognized by the Rugby Union, one 
which is in vogue amongst northern 
clubs is now generally regarded with 
approval, i.e. to penalize touch. Thus 
the side other than the one kicking 
into touch, instead of bringing the 
ball into play in one of the ways 
before named, kicks it out from touch 
in the direction naturally of their 
opponents* goal, the effect of this 
bemg to make the game more open and 
to do away largely with scrimmages. 

X. A drop Jack is made by drop^Mng 
the ball to the ground and kicking it 
immediately it rises. 

xi. A jfiuce kick is effected by 
kicking the ball after it has been set 



in a dent in the ground, made to keep 
it steady. 

22ia Xethod of Seoring. 

1. A Try, counting three points. 
This is gained by the player who 

first puts his hand on the nail on the 
ground behind his opponents* goal 
Une within the field of play. The 
ball may either be carried or kicked 
across the line. 

2. A Goal from a try, counting 
five points. 

Tms is obtained by bringing the 
ball out in direct line from the place 
the try was secured, and then Kick- 
ing it over the opponents* cross-bar, 
without touching any player in its 
flight 

8. A Penalty Goal, counting four 
points. 

This is obtained by the same pro- 
cess as a goal, the kick being awaraed 
to the side not offending, under the head 
of penalties, of which the following 
are the chief: — 
i. Picking out the ball from the 

scrimmage. 
li Lifting the feet before the ball 

is in the scrimmage. 
ilL Wilfully obstructing his op- 
ponents* play by standing 
off-side in a scrimmage, i,e. a 
player not being in the scrim- 
mage standing on his opponents' 
side of the play, and not behind 
the ball, 
iy. By not immediately placing the 
Inll on the ground and play- 
ing it after being held. 
4. OUuar Goals, counting four 
points. 

These are obtained by a player 
kicking a goal from the field of play, 
no try having been got, and are of 
two lands— a dropped goal and a goal 
from a free kick. 

A dropped goal is when a player 
from the field of play kicks the ball 
over the cross-bar, Uie ball having 
touched the ground first. A free 
kick is awarded for a fiur catch of 
the ball during the play without its 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



410 



HA8TT OLIMBBBS HAVB STFDDBK FALIA 



toachiiig the groimd after being kicked 
by an opponent, the player making 
the eaten and at the Mune moment, 
without moving, registering it by 
TP*rking the spot in the ground with 
his foot. 

2217. OOLF. 

This is a Scottish game of great 
antiquity, and is pla^^ upon tracts 
of jBprouna eoTered with short gnuBs, 
called ** links," ** golf course, or 
"golf green." 

A number of small holes are cut 
in the ground at distances rarying 
fh)m one hundred to five (or even 
six) hundred yards from one another, 
according to the extent and character 
of the course. This is called a circuit, 
or *' round," and a full links usually 
consists of eighteen holes; but a 
course very frequently contains fifteen, 
twelve, nine, and six holes. The size 
of the holes as fixed by the laws of 
ffolf is 4i inches in diameter and at 
least 4 inches deep. 

The game is played either by two 
persons or four (two against two), the 
two players in tiie latter case playing 
alternately. 

At various points along the 
* * round, ** * * teeing-grounds " dre mark- 
ed oif, from which the players begin 
the play to each hole, and at points 
of 100 to 600 yards from the teeinp;- 
grounds, are the ** putting-greens " m 
which the holes are cut into which 
the ball is to be played. 

Flags are set in these holies to 
indicate their position, and they must 
be capable of being taken out when 
the hole is being piaffed for. 

There are also various obstructions 
(either natural or arti6cial) called 
"hazards" and "bunkers"; these 
are generally between the teeing- 
grounds and putting-greens, and con- 
sist of mounds, sanaholes, rushes. Ice. 
They are intended as a punishment 
for badly-played balls, and sometimes 
lie right across the line of play, or in 
some cases on either side of it. 



22ia Mode of PUy. 

Commencing at a few yards in front 
of the " home hole " on the first teeinff- 
ground, each player drives his biol 
towards the first hole, his object being 
to put the ball into the hole in 
fewer strokes than his opponent 

The ball has to be struck aa it 
happens to lie on the ground, except 
in playing off from a nole, when it 
may be Ue*d, i, e, placed on the top of 
a httle heap of sand called a tetf. If 
the two players make an equal number 
of strokes in holeing the ball, the hole 
is said to be "halved," and there is 
no score ; but if one player holes the 
ball in fewer strokes than the other, 
he gains that hole, and has the right 
of making the first stroke for the 
next hole, or, as it is termed, takes 
"the honour." So the players con- 
tinue until the entire round nas been 
traversed, the game being won by the 
player who has taken most holes. It 
IS often agreed that the match shall 
consist in completing the round in 
the fewest strokes. The player who 
is about to make an equal number of 
strokes with his opponent is said to 
play the like ; if he plays one more 
stroke than his opponent, he plays 
the oddSy and if two strokes more, tioo 
more, and so on. 

2219. Implements Beqnired. 

The halls are made of gutta-percha 
painted white, in order that they may 
De easily seen, and they weigh a trifle 
under two ounces. 

The clubs consist of a shaft and 
head spliced together, made of lance- 
wood or hickory. The head is weighted 
with lead, and has a piece of horn 
fixed to the front of the sole. Some- 
times the ball lies in such a position 
that a club with an iron head has to 
be used. 

The usual number of elubs employed 
is seven, but some players use ten, or 
even twelve, and each player has an 
attendant caUed a eaddie to carry his 
clubs, and tee the bsJls for him. 

The principal clubs are the Driver, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WHXK wnns sinks, words swim. 



417 



Brassy-Nibliekt Putter, CUek, Iran, 
MashU and Iron Niblick, The fiist 
three are made wholly of wood, and 
the others have iron heads. Then 
there are the Spoons Gong, mid, and 
short), Driving Cleek, Driving Mashie, 
Putting Cleek, Putting Iron, Metal 
Putter, Driving Putter, Driving Iron, 
and Lofting Iron. These all have 
iron heads, with the exception of the 
Driving Putter and the Spoons, 

2220. CTCLIKO. 

This pastime has of recent years 
become immensely popular, and there 
is no doubt that, taken in moderation, 
it is a most health-giying recreation. 
That it is a great favourite with the 
ladies there is no possible manner of 
doubt, as is shown by the great in- 
crease of late years in the number of 
^y riders. Given a modest and 
weu-made costume, a lady's figure is 
shown to ^reat advantage if she is a 
graceful nder. We cannot say so 
much for the so-called "rational" 
attire. 

There are many excellent cycling 
dubs, one of the best known being 
the " Cyclists' Touring Club. " These 
greatly facilitate the taking of ex- 
tendea tours throughout the United 
Kingdom, and also on the Continent, 
as tnoy make special srrangements, 
for the benefit of their members, with 
good hotels in the various principal 
towns ; they also have caution-posts 
fixed at the top of hilb that are 
dangerous for cyclists to ride down. 

Circles are liable to a variety of 
accidents, even the best made machines 
coming to grief under certain circum- 
stances. Among these may be men- 
tioned one that is caused by want of 
oil, and is called ''firing." The 



friction makes the bearing hot, and 
after a time the metal expands, and 
the bearing is useless. The best thing 
is to lay some cloths, soaked iu boiling 
water, round the part, and when the 
bearing is unfixed, give it a good oiling. 

If the screw connected with Uie 
steering-rod works loose, a hairpin 
may be placed in the hole and twisted 
round for temporary use. A broken 
crank is a very awkward dilemma, 
and is generally due to a flaw in the 
metal. The only thin^ to be done is 
to tie the crank up with string, and 
make for the nearest railway station ; 
or if fortunate enough to find a black- 
smith, and the cnmk is a solid one, 
get him to weld it together. 

Loose tyres may be remedied by 
holding a gas-jet under the rim till 
the cement oozes out. The tyre should 
then be pressed home, tied round, and 
left for a day, to set Of course, if 
there is no cement left in the rim, we 
must make, or buy some. The recipe 
given in par. 2142 will be found 
useful. 

Punctures in tyres caused by glass, 
flints, nails, or thorns, are very annoy- 
iug as they cause delays, but they can 
usually be remedied by the rider, who 
should always carry with him a small 
handy set of tools and requisites 
which are supplied by the cycle manu- 
facturers in neat leather wallets, which 
can be strapped on to their machines. 

Messrs. Honlston and Sons have 
brought out a series of Handy Pocket 
Maps, specially intended for Cyclists 
and Tourists in England and Wales. 
They are clear, accurate, very con- 
venient in size, and cheap, being only 
fourpence each. A list of these maps 
will be found in the advertisement 
pages at the end of this book. 



DO 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



418 



THAT THOXT MATBBT Hf JtHUI NO MAH, DOTB-LtKX Wt, 



2221. STAMP DUnSS OH BIUS 
OF SZCHAHeS, fte. 

Bill of Exchange, Draft, or 
Order for the payment of 
money on dumand, at sight Duty, 
or on preaentation, for anjf £ *. d, 
amount. 1 



Bill of Rxchange, and Pro- 
missory Note of any other 
kind whatsoever (except a 
Bank Note), drawn, payable, 
endorsed, or In any manner 
negotiated in the United 
Kingdom— 

Notabove £5 

Above £5 and not above 10 

10 „ 25 

25 » 60 I 



50 
75 



75 
100 



And for every additional JBIOO or frac- 
tional part of £100, 1<. 



2222. PS&cnrTAeiS OB BIB- 
C0UHT8. 

Showing the Reduction per £ on Dlscotuita 
allowed for Cash Purchases, at Rates 
ranging from 1 to 50 per cent. 



«. d. 



O^p.cisO 1 per£ 

!* 

? 
I' 

1 

1 
1 

1 5 
1 6 
1 7 

1 11 

2 



1^ 



^ 

5 

6 

7 

8} 

91 
Oil 

1 



«. (f. 

11 pals2 2iper« 



12 

12i 

13 

14 

15 

17* 

20 

22i 

25 

27* 

30 

32| 

35 

374 

40 

42J 

46 

47* 

50 



2 9i 

3 



3 
4 
4 
5 
5 
6 
6 
7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 
10 



2228. TABLE OF THE HUXBXB OF DATS, FBOMAinr DAT OF OITB 
MONTH TO THE BAKE DAT OF AKT OTHEB MOHTH. 



Prom 


Jan. Fpb. Mar! Apr] May June 


JuIjAim:. 


S«»p.' Oct.;NoT. 


Dec 


To ilan^iary 


365 334 


306 


275 


245 


214 


184{153 


122 


98 


61 


31 




February 


31 365 


337 


306 


276 


245 


215 1 184 


153 


123 


92 


62 






March 


59 28 


365 


334 


304 


273 


243j212 


181 


151 


120 


90 




April 


90 59 


31 


365 


335 


304 


274J243 


212 


182 151 


121 








May 


120 89 


61 


30 


365{334 


304 273 


242 


212 181 


151 




June 


151 120 


92 


61 


31 J365 


335|304 


273 


243 212 


182 




' 


July 


181 150 1 122 1 91 


61 


30 


365 


334 


303 


273,242 


212 


August 


212 181 


153 122 


92 


61 


31 


365 


334 


304 1 273 


243 




September 


243 212 1 184 1 153 


123 


92 


62 


31 


365 


335 


304 


274 




October 


273 


242|214|183 


153 


122 


92 


61 


30 


365 


334 


304 




November 


304 


273|245,214 


184 


153 


123 


92 


61 


31 


365 


335 




December 


334 1 303 1 275 1 244 


214 1 183 


153 


122 


91 


61 


30 i-V^I 










' 








,.. 



trSR OF THE ABOVE TABLE. 
What is the ncunber of days from 10th of October to lOtb Jolj? 

Look in the upper line for October, let vour eye descend down that eolomn till yoa come 
July, and you will And 27S days, the exact number of days required. 
AjpUn, Bequired the number of days from 16th of February to 14th Aognst } 

Under Februarr. and opposite to Ancust, is igi days. 

Fnmi which subtract the difference between 14 and 19 3 days. 

The exact number of days required is mdayt. 

^- 9-7-g^apTmr. if the last day of FebmazyoooMS between, addons dsj for the dajo 



opposite to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



AND 8EEPENT-LIKB, THAT NONE MAY INJtmE THM. 



410 



2224. FOB MI8TBS88B8 AlTD SSRVAirTS: TABLE OF BXPEH8ES, 
nrCOMB, AHD WAOES. 

Showing cU one vi€W what anf ium^ from Jl to £1,000 per Annum^ i$per Da^, Week, or 

Month. 



^1 




4 


k >> 


4 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 


Per 




PW 


Per 


d. 


Month. 


Week 


Day. 


Year. 


Montji. 


Week. 


Day. 


«. d. 


«. d. 


£ M. 


d. 


<. d. 


«. d. 


£ «. 


£ i. 


d. 


£ $. d. 


£ $. d. 


I 


1 8 


4i 


Of 


8 8 


14 


C 


3 2 


in 


18 18 


1 11 


6 


7 ^ 


10 


1 ic 


2 6 


7' 


1 


8 100 14 


2 


3 3 


19 


1 11 


£ 


073} 


10 


2 C 


3 4 


9 


14 


9 00 15 





3 510 6 


20 


1 13 


4 


7 8j 


Oil 


2 2 


3 6 


9 


l] 


9 90 15 


9 


3 7 6 
3 10 6 


25 


2 1 


E 


9 7 


14 


2 10 


4 2 


Oil 


ll 


10 0.0 16 


8 


30 


2 10 


C 


Oil 6* 


17 
2 2 


3 C 


5 


1 1 


2 


10 10 17 


6 


4 7 ( 


40 


3 6 


8 


15 4} 


3 3 


5 3 


1 2 


2 


11 00 18 


4 


4 3 71 
4 5: ' 71' 


50 


4 3 


4 


19 2! 


2 9 


3 10 


5 10 


1 4 


^'\ 


11 lliO 19 


3 


60 


5 


C 


1 3 1 


3 3i 


4 


6 8 


1 6 


2) 


12 01 





4 7 


8 


70 


5 16 


£ 


1 6 11 


3 10 


4 4 


7 


1 7 


2! 


12 121 1 





4 10 


^ 


80 


6 13 


4 


1 10 9 


4 4 


4 10 


7 6 


1 8 


3' 


13 0,1 1 


8 


5 


90 


7 10 





1 14 7 


4 11 


5 


8 4 


1 11 


3 


13 13|1 2 


9 


5 3 


9 1 


100 


8 6 


8 


1 18 5 


6 6 


5 5 


8 9 


2 0} 


5 


14 Oil 3 


4 


5 U 


9 ' 


200 


16 13 


4 


3 16 11 


10 11 


5 10 


9 2 


2 1 


3 


14 14 1 4 


6 


5 7 


9 


300 


25 


C 


5 15 4 


16 5 


6 


10 


2 3 


4 


15 01 5 





5 9 


9 


400 


33 6 


8 


7 13 10 


1 111 


6 6 


10 6 


2 5 


4 


15 151 6 


3 


6 


010 , 


600 


41 13 


4 


912 3 


1 7 4| 


6 10 


10 10 


2 6 


4 


16 


L 6 


8 


6 1 


01c, 


600 


50 





11 10 9 


1 12 10} 


7 


11 8 


2 81 


4 


16 16 


[ 8 





6 5 


on , 


700 


68 6 


& 


13 9 2 


118 4| 


7 7 


12 3 


2 10 


4 


17 


L 8 


4 


6 6 


on 


800 


66 13 


4 


15 7 8 


2 3 10 


7 10 


12 6 


2 10j^ 


5 


17 171 9 





6 10 


iir 


900 


75 





17 6 1 


2 9 3} 
2 14 9} 


8 


13 4 


3 r 


5J 


18 


1 10 


0^ 


6 11 


11 1000 


83 6 


8 


19 4 7 



2226. IBTEBEST TABLE FOB 8AYIH08, DITE8THEHT8, &e. 

Showing lehcU any gum^froni £\ to £500, roUl produce for a given number of day^ which may 
^x ^*»»»p'« addition, eaiculated at £5 per cent, for Months or Years, for sums up to 
£5,000 or any other ainotmt 





1 


1 


1 


1 


1 


^ 

i 


1 


1 


1 


1 


20 Days. 


30 Days. 


£ 


rH 


Ol 


to 


^ 


10 





e^ 


00 


0) 


s 






«. d. 


i. d. 


$, d. 


«. d 


«. d. 


«. d. 


«. d. 


«. d. 


«. d. 


«. d. 


£ », d. 


£ *. d. 


1 


00 


00 

















04 


04 

q 
q 


04 


01 





2 


00 


00 



















o| 





1 


1 


3 


00 


00 



















1 


2 


4 


00 


00 














1 


1 


1 


2 


3 


5 


00 


00 














1 


14 
1 
1 


14 
1 


1 


3 


4 


6 


00 


00 











1 


1 


1 


3 


5 


7 


00 


00 








1 


1 


1 


2 


2 


4 


6 


8 


00 


00 





1 


1 


1 


1* 


2 


2 


2 


5 


7 


9 


00 


00 





1 


1 


1 


2 


2 


2 
2 


2 


5 


8 


10 


00 








1 


1 


1 


2 


2 


3 


6 


9 


20 


00 


1 


1 


2 


3 


3 


4 


6 


6 


6 


1 r 


17 


30 


00 


1 


2' 


3 


4 


5 


6} 


7 


8 


9 


17 


2 5 


40 


01 


02 


3} 


5 


6 


7 


9 


10 


OU 


1 1 


2 2 


3 3 


50 


01 


03 


4 


6 


8 


9 


OIU 
1 1} 


1 r 


1 2 


1 4j 
1 7 


2 8 


4 1 


60 


01 


03 


5 


7 


91 
Olli 


Oil 


iel 


1 5 


3 5 


4 11 


70 


02 


04 


6 


9 


1 1 


1 4 


1 8 


111' 


3 10 


5 9 


80 


02 


05 


7 


OlOi 
11} 


1 1 


1 3 


U 


1 9 


1 11 


2 2 


4 4i 


6 9 


90 


02 


05 


8 


1 2} 


1 5 


1 lU 


2 2 


2 5 


4ir 


7 4 


100 


03 


06 


9 


1 1 


1 4} 


1 7 


iir 


2 2| 


2 5 


2 8 


OlOlS 
16 ^ 


8 3 


200 


06 


1 1 


1 7 


2 2 


2 8i 


3 3 


3 10 




4 11 


5 5 


016 5 


300 


09 


22! 


2 5 


3 3 4 IJ 


4 11 


5 9 


6 6| 




8 2 


14 7 


400 


11 


3 3 


4 4 5 5J 


6 6| 
8 2} 


7 8 


8 ? 


9 1^10 lli 


1 iir 


112 10 


SOO 


14^12^ 


4 1} 


5 5|i 6 10 


9 7 


10 lU 


12 mi 81 


17 4} 


2 11 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



420 



THX OBOAT 18 ILL SAYXD THAT SHAMES ITS HASTES. 



222a nrTBBSST TABLE FOB OHX YBAB. 

Bjf this TiMe wdimiUd eaicvdationt map be made. Tku$, tojlnd inttrttt on J1,2S0 per annumt 
add turns aiven for £1,000, £200, and £50. 2 per cent, u found bp taking half <tf 4 p,e. : 
8 p.e.t bjf douUing 4 p.e.; 74 p.c, by adding 5 to 2^ p.c, and $0 on. 



II "* "• 


8 P.c 


^ p.c. 


4 p.c. 


5 p.c. 


it 


2i p.c. 


3f.c. 


31 p.c. 


4p.a 


5p^ 


£ 


£ «, tL\£ J. 


ft 


£ *. rf.'£ jr. 


.t£,. £ 


£ J. (/. 


£ M. d. 


£ #. 


rf. 


£ ». d. 


£ «. 


1 


60 


70 8^0 


9/0 1 60 1 10 


1 16 


2 2 





2 8 


3 


2 


1001 


2, 1 4| 1 


7 2 70 1 15 Oi 2 2 


2 9 





2 16 


310 


S 


1601 


9 2 l|0 2 


4 3 8U' 2 0! 2 8 
2 4 »:»: 2 5 2 14 


2 16 





3 4 4 G 


4 


2 


U 2 


4; 2 9j 5 


3 3 





3 12 4 10 


5 


2 6 


U 3 


3 6 10 4 


iO 5 100, 2 10 3 3 10 





4 0! 5 


6 


3 


3 


7 4 2i,0 4 
2 4 10|0 5 


9i|0 6, 200! 5 6 0! 7 





8 010 


7 


3 6 


4 


7il0 7 


3«X) 7 10 9 010 10 





12 


15 d 


8 


4 


U 4 


9i 5 7; 6 


4|!0 8 

2|:0 9 


400,10 012 014 


016 0,20 C 


y 


4 6 


5 


4f0 6 3J0 7 


50G 12 10 15 17 10 


0|20 025 C 


10 


5 


6 


lO 7 8 





10 60015 0^18 21 


0!24 030 


^ 


10 


12 


14 16 





1 Q 700 17 10 21 24 10 
1 lOj 800 20 024 28 


028 035 C 


JU 


15 


J 18 


110 14 





032 040 C 


40 


1 


1 4 


1 8 il 12 





2 90022 10 27 31 10 


036 045 C 


60j 


15 


1 10 


il 15 [2 





2 10(1000 25 0130 35 


40 050 





2227. B] 


sadt: 


Rxcxoimro ob icabketiko table. 




No. 


2d, 


2R 


^d, 


4t/. 


44d. 


6d. 


54^. 


bd. 


f>kd. 




9. d. 


«. <L 


«. c/. 


». d. 


». (L 


«. d. 


«. d. 


«. d. 


». d. 


». d. 


2 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


1 


1 1 


3 


6 


74 


9 


OlOJ 


1 


1 14 


1 3 


1 4i 


1 6 


1 74 


4 


8 


10 


1 


1 2^ 


1 4 


1 6 


1 8 


110 


2 


2 2' 


5 


10 


1 OJ 


1 3 


1 54 


1 8 


1 104 


2 1 


2 34 


2 6 


2 84 


6 


1 


1 3 


1 6 


1 9 


2 


2 3 


2 6 


2 9 


3 


3 y 


7 


1 2 


1 64 


1 9 


2 Oi 


2 4 


2 74 


2 11 


-3 24 


3 6 


3 94 


8 


1 4 


1 8 


2 


2 r 


2 8 


3 


3 4 


3 8 


4 


4 4 


9 


1 6 


1 lOi 


2 3 


2 74 


3 


3 4i 


3 9 


4 U 


4 6 


4 10^ 


10 


1 8 


2 r 


2 6 


2 11 


3 4 


3 9^ 


4 2 


4 7 


5 


5 r 


11 


1 10 


2 ^ 


2 9 


3 24 


3 8 


4 14 


4 7 


6 04 


5 6 


5 lU 


12 


2 


2 6^ 


3 


3 6 


4 


4 6 


5 


5 6 


6 


6 6 


13 


2 2 


2 84 


3 3 


3 9k 


4 4 


4 lOi 


5 5 


5 111 


6 6 


7 04 


14 


2 4 


2 11 


3 6 


4 1 


4 8 


6 3 


5 10 


6 6 


7 


7 7 


28 


4 8 


5 10 


7 


8 2 


9 4 


10 6 


11 8 


12 10 


14 


15 2 


66 


9 4 


11 8 


14 


16 4 


18 8 


21 


23 4 


25 8 


28 


30 4 


No. 


7d. 


7kd. 


U, 


Bid. 


9d. 


Bid, 


lOil. 


104<Z. 


\ld. 


ll^d. 




*. d. 


M. d. 


t. d. 


». d. 


». d. 


». d. 


*. d. 


«. d. 


8. rf. 


«. d. 


2 


1 2 


1 3 


1 4 


1 5 


1 6 


1 7 


1 8 


1 9 


1 10 


1 11 


3 


1 9 


1 104 


2 


2 14 


2 3 


2 4^ 


2 6 


2 7i 


2 9 


2 104 


4 


2 4 


2 6 


2 8 


2 10 


3 


3 r 


3 4 


3 6 


3 8 


3 10 


5 


2 11 


3 14 


3 4 


3 6J 


3 9 


3 114 


4 2 


4 4i 


4 7 


4 94 


6 


3 6 


3 9 


4 


4 3 


4 6 


4 9 


5 


5 3 


5 6 


5 9 


7 


4 1 


4 44 


4 8 


4 1U 


5 3 


5 tk 


5 10 


6 14 


6 5 


6 8i 


8 


4 8 


5 


5 4 


5 8 


6 


6 4^ 


6 8 


7 


7 4 


7 8 


9 


5 3 


5 7J 


6 


6 4i 


6 9 


7 14 


7 6 


7 lOi 


8 3 


8 7i 


10 


5 10 


6 3 


6 8 


7 r 


7 6 


7 11 


8 4 


8 9 


9 2 


9 7 


11 


6 6 


6 104 


7 4 


7 94 


8 3 


8 84 


9 2 


9 7i 


10 1 


10 6i 


12 


7 


7 6 


8 


8 6^ 


9 


9 ? 


10 


10 6 


11 


11 6 


13 


7 7 


8 14 


8 8 


9 24 


9 9 


10 34 


10 10 


11 44 


11 11 


12 5^ 


14 


8 2 


8 9 


9 4 


9 11 


10 6 


11 r 


11 8 


12 3 


12 10 


13 r 


28 


16 4 


17 6 


18 8 


19 10 


21 


22 2 


23 4 


24 6 


25 8 


26 10 


56 


32 8 


35 


37 4 


39 8 


42 


44 4 


46 8 


48 


61 4 


53 8 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



8H0BT RB0K0NINQ8 MAKE LONG FRIENDS. 



421 



2228.— 7BSNCH WEIGHTS AHD MSASXTBES AND THSOt 
SH0LI8H EQUIVALENTS. 



Metris I 


KiLOMKTBES 




Grammes 


KlLOORAMMXS 




TO 




TO 




TO 




TO 




YARDfl. 




MILX& 




Grains. 




Pounds. 


1 


Yards. 


1 


MUes. 


i 


Grains. 


n 


Pounds 
Avoirdupois. 


1 


1-093 


1 


-621 


1 


15-432 


1 


2-204 


2 


2-187 


2 


1-243 


2 


30-865 


2 


4-409 


3 


3-280 


3 


1-864 


3 


; 46-297 


3 


6-614 


4 


4-374 


4 


2-486 


4 


61-729 


4 


8-818 


5 


5-468 


5 


3107 


5 


77-162 


5 


11-023 


6 


6-561 


6 


3-728 


6 


92-594 


6 


13-228 


7 


7-655 


7 


4-350 


7 


106-006 


7 


15-432 


8 


8-749 


8 


4-971 


8 


123-459 


8 


17-637 


9 


9-842 


9 


5-592 


9 


138-891 


9 


19-842 


10 


10-936 


10 


6-214 


10 


154-323 


10 


22-046 


11 


12-030 


11 


6-835 


11 


169-756 


11 


24-250 


12 


13123 


12 


7-456 


12 


185-188 


12 


26-455 


13 


14-217 


13 


8-072 


13 


200-620 


13 


28-660 


14 


15-310 


14 


8-699 


14 


216-053 


14 


30-865 


15 


16-404 


15 


9-321 


15 


231485 


15 


33-069 


16 


17-498 


16 


9-942 


16 


246-917 


16 


35-274 


17 


18-591 


17 


10563 


17 


262-350 


17 


37*478 


18 


19-685 


18 


11-185 


18 


277-782 


18 


39-683 


19 


20-779 


19 


11-806 


19 


293-214 


19 


41-888 


20 


21-872 


20 


12-428 


20 


306-647 


20 


44-092 


30 


32-808 


30 


18t41 


30 


462-971 


30 


66-139 


40 


43-745 


40 


24-855 


40 


617-294 


40 


88-185 


. 50 


54-681 


SO 


31-069 


50 


771-617 


50 


110-231 



1 GTamme =» 15*43 grains. 

1 Kilogramme = 2 lbs. 3^ oza. 

1 Ounce Troy = 31-1 grammes. 

1 Ounce Avoir = 281 grammes. 

1 Pound , = 45S| grammes. 

1 Quarter „ - 12-70 kilogr. 

1 Ton „ = 1016 kilogr. 

1 Metre «= finches. 

1 Kilometre = lO&J yards. 



1 Yard « 911 centimtres. 

1 Frano per Kilogramme » 4|<i. per lb., or 
40b. 7]d. per 

CMTt. 

Is. per Pound b. 2 fr. 76 o. per 

kilocramme. 

1 Franc per Metre ........ ■» 8|d. per yard. 

Is. per Yard — 1 fr. 37 c per 

metre. 



Although the gramme is the established unit of weight, the kilogramme is most 
frequently used. 



XSASTTBSS OF LEVOTH. 

French. Bnglith Equiv. 

Millimetre aOOOth of a metre) 0-03937 in. 
Centimetre (100th of a metre) 0-39371 ,, 
Decimetre (10th of a metre)... 3-93706 „ 

Metre (the unit of length) 1-09363 yds. 

Decametre (10 metres) 10-936 „ 

Hectometre (100 metres) 109*363 „ 

Kilometre (1000 metres) 0*621 mile. 

The unit is the metre, and is the ten- 
millionth part of a meridian aro from the 
pols to the equator. 



XSA8TJBE8 OF SOUDITT AHD 
WEIGHT. 

French, RnglUh Equiv, 
D^dst^aOthofast^) ... 3-5317 eu, ft. 
Bt^re (cubic metre) 35-3166 ^ ^^ 



Milligramme (1000th of a gr.l 



0-0154 



gnis. 



Centigramme (100th of a gr.) 154^1 
Decigramme (10th of a grm.) l-6^y40 , 
Gramme (the unit of weight) 15 A323 ! 
Decagramme (lOjgrammes)... 15^'5234 
Hectogramme Gjw grammes) 3-5291 oz'ar 
Kilognunme G^OO grammes) 2-2057 lbs. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



422 A CLBAR 00N8GIKNCS FBABB NO ACCUSATION. 



"ENQUIRE WITHIN." 

BY THE EDITOR. 
( JFriUm on thepyhlication of the Four Hundred and Thirtieth Thouaand,) 

Only a few short years have sped 
Since I this work of love begun ; 

By thousands sought, by millions read. 
All their approving smiles IVe won. 

Now, while reflecting on the past, 
My day of life seems closing in, 

Let me, while powers of reason last, 
« Enquire Within.*' 

Oh, ye — who gentle are and fair — 

Who to these modest pages turn, 
To raise a smile, to soothe a care. 

Or some moot point of duty learn, — 
Forget not this : that whilst you live. 

Your hearts may yield to pride or sin, 
Take, then, the warning here I give, — 
"Enquire Within.** 

Would you acquire the greatest peace — 
The sweetest joy — this world can give? 

Bid hatred, pride, and envy cease. 
And learn a Christian's life to live ; 

Each eve, before your eyelids close, 
And slumbers of the night begin. 

That your own heart may find repose, 
"Enquire Within.** 



o 
9 




10 




11 




12 


*i 


13 


7 


14 


8 . 


28 


16 4 


56 


32 8 1 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



INDEX 



OP 



ENQUIRIES. 

The Numbers in this Index refer to the Paragraphs, not to the Pages, 



No. 



A FBW Wordi on Words 1565 

Abbreviations ased in 
Knitting Patteins 2068 

Absorbents, Use of.. 625 m 

Accentuation of Words. 168 
Meaning of Words 
variedby 169 

Accidents 737 

Apoplexy and Fits .... 756 
Articles to Keep at 

Hand 738 

Bleeding from Nose... 747 
Choking from Pish- 

Bone 751 

Compression of Brain 750 

Concussions 749 

Contusions 745 

Cnts and Wounds 744 

Dirt in the Bye 740 

Dii«located Thumb 743 

Driving 789 

Drowning. 753 

Drunkenness 755 

Fainting, Hysterics, 

Ac. 752 

Hffimorrhage or Bleed- 
ing 746 

Hanging 754 

Iron or Steel in the 

Bye 742 

Lightning and Bun- 
stroke 758 

Lime in the Bye 741 

Scalds and Bums 739 

Suffocation firom gas, 

Ac 757 

Violent Shocks 748 

Accidents. Cautions for 
Prevention of 788 (i-xxlil) 

Accounts should be ittid 
regularly 362 (ii) 

Acetate of Ammonia, Uses 
of. 611 0) 

Acetate of Potassa, Uses 
Qt. , ,..,..,. 610(2) 



No. 

Acids, Poisoning by 770 

Acrostics 49 

Double 60 

Triple 61 

Acting Cliantdes 55 

Acts of Bankruptcy ... 1854 
Addresses of Persons of 

Distinction 190-199 

Addressing Ambass- 
adors 198 

Governor of Colony... 197 

Judges, Ac 195 

Municipal Officers ... 199 
Nobility and Gentry.. 193 
Officers of Army and 

Navy 196 

Petitions 200 

Queen or King 191 

Royal Princes 192 

TlieClei^ 194 

Addj^ssing Letters 189 

Adhesive Phwter, to 

Make 696 

Adjective, Misuse of 165 (iii) 
A(^udication of Bank- 
ruptcy 1863 

Adulterations 1584-1599 

Bread 1585 

Butter 1586 

Butterine and Mar- 
garine 1587 

Cayenne Pepper 1588 

Chocolate and Cocoa. 1589 

Coffee 1590 

Honey..'. 1591 

Milk 1598 

Mustard 1993 

Oatmeal 1994 

Otiier evils besides ... 1600 

Pepper 1595 

Sausages 1596 

Tea 1597 

Vinegar 1598 

Water 1599 

Advice to Swimmers ... 796 

to Toung Ladies 1568 

Affectation, a Form of 
Prid« ., ,..,.., 1539 



No. 
Agreeable, Art of being 1531 
Agreeuient for taking a 

House for one yenr 1803 
For taking a House for 

three years 1807 

Form of Indemnifica- 
tion fh>in Arreers ... 1806 
For letting a Furnished 

House* 1838 

Making Taxes Pay- 
able by Landlonl... 1804 
Agreements, Stamped... 1849 
Ague, Treatment for .... 529 
Air, Pure, what com- 

liosedof 627 

Aitchbone of Beef, to 

Cook 31 Oiil' 

AUbnster, to Polish ... 3M 

to Stain 1274 

Alcohol as a Stimulant 603 (i) 

Ale, to Brew 1714 

Amber 1715 

Burton 1716 

Bdinburgh 1717 

Alkalie^ Poisoning by.. 775 

All Fours, Game of 100 

I^wsof 102 

Maxims for 103 

Scoring in 101 

Allopathic Treatment... 653 
Allopathy, Principle of. 652 
Allowance for Mainten- 
ance for a Bankrupt . 1871 
Allspice, Tincture of ... 1732 

Almond Confection 380 

Blanched 1208 

Custards 1193 

Flavouring 1207 

Icinar for Wedding 

Cake 1169 

Paste 1209 

Pounded 1209 

Pudding 1132 

Sponge Cake 1165 

Aloes. Properties of 609 (xi) 

Alpaca Wool 2i08 

Alteratives, Use of... 625 (2) 
J^nm Kye-wnsbes ^, 572 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



424 



AN INDIX 18 A KIT TO A TRKASURT. 



No. 

Alum, CXmitetion 381 

Oande 417 

Potatioe 702 

Whey 1707 

AmbMMdon, to AddnM 196 

Amerlcanimff 175 

AmittonU, Um of... 6M Q) 

Bi-earbonato (M <2) 

BoluUon 604 (Z) 

Ainmoniaciun, Uses of 612 (l) 
AmtnonUtad Bmbroca- 

tions 387, 366 

Amiuing Cockney itma.. 172 

ProvinoUUeau 171 

Anesimins 52 

Analeptics, Propertiee 

of 625 (3) 

Anchoviee, Britiah, to 

Make 1272 

Anchovy Butter 1741 

Sauce 1740 

Toaet 1036 

Andaluaian Wool 2102 

Anglo-JMMUiese Work... 2026 

Angola Wool 2106 

Angostura Bark, Uses of 

605(5) 

Animals, to Stuff 1962 

Annealing Glass 341 

Anodynes,Propertiesof 625(4) 
Antacids, Properties of 625(5) 

Effects of. 617 

Antalkalies, Effects of.. 618 

Citric Acid Q) 

Tartaric Acid ^ 

Properties of 625 Q>) 

Anthelmintics, Uses of 621 

Cowhage 0) 

Male Fern Root m 

Oauiboge f3i 

Santonine (4) 

Properties of 625 (7) 

AntibTUotis Medicines, 

Properties of. 625 (8) 

Antimonlal Powder, Use 

of. 611@ 

Antimony In Medicine 611 (2) 

Poisoning 766 

Antirheumatics, Uses 

of. 625(9) 

Antiscorbuties, Uses 

of. 625(10) 

Antiseptics, Uses of 625 (11) 
Antispasmodic Mix- 
ture 466 

Electuary 390 

Powder 467 

Antlspaamodica, Uses 

otZZ 626(12) 

List of 604 

Ammonia, or Sal Vo- 

UtUe 

AssafoetkU 

Bark 

Bicarbonate of Am- 
monia (2) 



No. 
Antispasmodics, List of 

Camphor 

Oalbanum 

Opium Qi 

Oxide of Zinc (l! 

Seftqoicarbunate of 

Zinc (8) 

Sulphuric Ether .... (3) 

Valerian (b) 

Ants, to Destroy 215d 

AparUuents, Brokers 

entering 1825 

Aperient rills 571 

Tonic 673 

Aperients for Children 570 

for IntanU 574 

UseftU 669 

Uses of 625(13) 

Aphides, to Destroy 228 

Apoplexy, Prescription 

for 568 (iAvii) 

Treatment of 484. 756 

Aptwtrophe, Use of ... 183 (i) 
Apparatus to relieve 

Pressure 723 

Appetite 1378 

Handel's 1379 

Apple Bread 836 

and Rice Dumplings 1118 

Cake for Children 1521 

Dumplings..... 365 (Ix) 1117 

Fritte™ 1147 

Marmakde 1211 

Pie 1114 

Cold to Re-dress 1145 (Z) 

Pi'dding 1116 

Boston 1119 

Sauce 1747 

why eaten with Pork 

and Goose 1414 

Water 1710 

Apples in S\Tup 1217 

Dried 1227 

to Store 1226 

with Custard 1218 

Appliou^ Embroidery... 2071 

Appraisements 1845 

Aprirots, Candied 1228 

in SjTup 1216 

Apricot Jam 1222 

Jelly 1202 

April, Food in Season in 36 
Aquariums, Domestic... 1955 

Archery 2197 

Arithmorems 53 

Aromatic Mixture 450 

Aromatics, Uses of 625 (14) 

Arrack(imitation) 1681 

Arrasene.forembroidery 2114 
Arrowroot as a demul- 
cent 622(6) 

Almonds, tc Confec- 
tions, Ac 622(6)380 

Blancmange 1195 

JellT 1199 

Arsenic. Poisoning 763 

Art of being Agreeable 1531 



No, 
ArticbokM, to Pickle... 1264 

toBofl 970 

Articles of Food, to 

Choose 1-28 

Reooired for Mixing 

Medicines 577 

Artiflcial Ivorr, to Make 2030 

Mushroom Beda 220 

Artists' Brushes, to 

aean 2175 

Asparagus, to Boil 969 

Soup 1052 

AssafcBtida, Uses of 604 (4) 
Asterisk, why used... 183 (vQ 
Asthma, Symptoms of 666 
Homoeopathic Treat- 
ment 666 

Treatment for 483 

Astringent Gaigle... ...... 414 

PiUa 447 

Astringents, List of. 606 

Cate<'liu O) 

Chalk (6) 

Kino , aS 

Logwood (4) 

Oak Bark (3) 

Rose Leaves (5) 

Uses of 625(15) 

White Vitriol i 

AtholBroee ..„ 1663 

Attenuants, Uses of 625 (lb} 
Au^tust, Food in Season 40 

Anxerre Tapestry 2126 

Avoid Affectation 1538 

DispUy of Jewellery 1565 

Disputation 1548 

Drunkenness 1560 

Envy 1547 

Excess of JewelleiT 1563 

Falsehood 1535 

111 Temper 1536 

Inconsistency 1534 

Intermeddling 1533 

Pride 1537 

Self-praise 1546 

Swearing 1540 

TeUing Idle Tales 1545 

Vulgarity 153« 



BackgamnMULOame ofl 13B 
Bacon and Hams, to 

Cure 1246 

Another Method. 1246a 

Glazing for 1247 

Bacon, to Choose 17 

toBoU 914 

Relishing Basbera 1038 

Badminton 2207 

Bagatelle... 2177 

Cockamaroo. »... 2182 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



H0KX8TT 18 A STUONO fiTAPF TO LBAN UPON, 



425 



Na 
Bagatelle, French Game 2179 

IriahGame 2181 

MiMigsippi 2182 

Old Cannon Game...» 2180 

Roles ot 2178 

Tron Madame 2132 

Bailiffs must be Certifl. 

cated 1848 

Baked Briaket of Beef... 995 

Pears «. 1219 

Baking 917-919 

MeaiandPoaltiy 918 

Pies, Cakes, *e 919 

Baking Powder, Use of 843 

How to Use 845 

Recipes for 844 

Baldness, Pomade for 1341 
Erasmus Wiliion's Lo- 
tion 1342 

Remedy for 485 

When Caused hj Ill- 
health, or Age 486 

Balls and Evening 

Parties 1459 

Balls for Cleaning 

Clothes 1300 

Balsamics, Effects of 625 OT) 

Banbury Cakes Il77 

Meat for 1178 

Bandages » 704 

Circular 708 

tor the Belly 714 

for the Chest 713 

for the Foot 717 

for the Hand 715 

for the Head 716 

for the Leg and Foot 718 

Handkerchief. 719-722 

Oblique 710 

Reversing or Recur- 
rent 712 

Simple and Compound 706 

Single-headed 707 

Sizes of. 706 

Bpiiml 711 

Tb conflne ends of ... 709 
Bandoline or Fixature... 1343 

Bank Cheques 1923-1926 

Bankruptcy, Laws of 

1852-1877 

Banns of Marriage 1463 

Banting on Corpulence 1384 

Baptismal Name 1482 

Bark, Angostura 606 (5) 

Oak, In Medicine ... 606 (3) 
Femvian, Uses of In 

Medicine 604(7) 

Barley Broth 1042 

Pudding _ 1134 

Water 1708 

Bam Dance ^.^... 157 

BarometeiB 799 

Aneroid 801 

Chemical 803 

Jjeech 802 

Mercurial 800 

Notes on 806<i-ix) 



Na 

Barometers, Phial 804 

When highest 806 (vi) 

When lowest 806(vlii) 

Why called Weather 

Glass 8050) 

Why fall denotes Rain 

805 (iv) 
Why rise denotes fine 

Weather 805 (y) 

BaseballMSame of 2206 

Basket Work Embroi- 
dery 2084 

BasUngs for Meats 4c 935 

Bath Buns 1182 

Bathing, Cramp in 796 

Baths 1361 

Vapour 1361a 

Batter Pudding 1126. 1127 

French for Frying ... il45a 
Beads for Canvas Work 2120 

Be a Gentleman 1541 

Beans, French, to Boil 966 

to Pickle 1256 

Haricot, to BoU 968 

Beating Carpets 291 

Bed-curtains Injurious 

364 (vii) 
Bedrooms, to Scour, 

Hints on 252 

Beds Aired, to Test... .» 256 
fur the Poor, to Make 248 

to Keep Aired 255 

Beef, Aitchbone, Econ- 
omy of 31Ciii) 

Aitchbone, to BoU ... 906 

Alaraode 1000 

Beet Season for 30 

Bones, Roasted 997 

Brisket, Economy of, 31 (ii) 

to Bake 163(6 

to Carve 996 

to Stew 922 

Broth 1045 

Babble and Squeak ... 965 

Collared 1005 

Curried, Madras way 1004 
Economy of Various 

Joints 31 

Essence 1068 

Extract 1066 

Fore-quarter, Joints of 30(0 

Fresh, to Stew 921 

Glaze, to Prepare 1059 

Gravy Sauce 1750 

Hashed 991 

Heart, to Cook 31 (vill) 

Hind-quarter, Joints 

otZ 30 m 

Hints on Choosing ... 12 
Leg and Shin. Econo- 
my of. 31 fvj) 

Lobsconse 966 

Loss in Roasting 860 

in Boiling 861 

Minced, » 985 

Potted 1065 

Ribs, Economy of... 31 (vii) 



No. 
Beef, Ribs Boned and 

RoUed 865 

to Carve 1628 

to Roast 864 

Rissoles 987 

Round, to Carve 1629 

Economy of 31 (i) 

Rump, Economy of 31 Ovi 
Salted, Plain Boiled... 960 

Round, to Boil 907 

Stewed with Pork 976 

Sausages 1096 

Soot^ Mode of Divi- 
sion 30 (ii) 

Silver Side 31 (i) 

Sirloin, ^Economy of 31 (viii 

to Carve 1627 

to Roast 863a 

Soup, French 979 

Tea 1057 

To]> Side of Round ... 31 (i) 
Various Joints of, de- 

Bcrilied « 30 

Veiny Piece, Economy 

of. 31 (V) 

When in Season 30 (i) 

With Mashed Potatoes 964 

Beer Poultice 702 

Bee-sting to Cure 232 

BeeUes, to KiU 2157 (i-iU) 

Beetroot, to Pickle 1263 

Bella ve with Respect ... 1554 

Be Hearty 1553 

Be Honest 1543 

Be Kind in LitUe 

Things 1549 

Bellows, How to U8e...806(v) 

Bella, Electric « 817 

Be Obliging 1558 

Be Polite 1550 

Be Punctual 1552 

Berlin or German Wool 2066 

Be Sociable 1551 

Beverages 1666-1712 

Alum Whey 1707 

Apple Water 1710 

Arrack (imiUtion) ... 1681 

AtholBrose 1685 

Barley Water 1706 

Buttered Rum 1684 

Camomile Tea 1712 

Champagne Lemonade 1688 

ader 1669 

Champagne 1672 

Cup 1673 

to Bottle 1671 

to Make 1670 

(HaretCup 1686 

Cocoa 1706 

Coffee Milk 1704 

to Make 1701 

Turkish Mode 1702 

Drink for Heartburn 1709 

Ginger Beer 1690 

Ginger Beer Powders 1691 

Ginger Brandy 1685 

Home-made Wines ... 1675 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



426 



STUDT NOT TO BKAUTITT THY FACX, BUT THY MIND. 



Na 




No. 


No. 


English CtaampftgM 1676 


BinU, to keep ttom 
FWt Buds 


2S0 


BoUinfl Water Neo^niy 
toMakeTea 14S2 


Home-m«de Pannlp 


to Stair 


1962 


Bone.toSUin 1275 


Wine 1677 


Births, BegistraUon of 1478 


Bonnet, to Bleach 1288 


Home-omde Black- 


at deaT. 


1479 


to Clean 1298 


berry Wine , 1679 


Biscuits, Excellent 


1187 


to Dye 12B0 


Home-made Elder- 


Arrowroot 


1188 


to Preserve 368 (ii) 

Boots and Slioes, Care of 1447 


berry Wine 1680 


Ginger, and Cakes... 


1139 


Home-made Turnip 


Picnic 


1191 


Polish for 1449 


Wine 1678 


Wine 


1192 


to Stop Creaking ... 145U 


Iceland Mom Choco- 


Bites of Insects 


786 


Waterproof for 1451 


late 1706 


Mad Animals 


78b 


Boot-top Liquid 1450 


Lemonade 1696 


Snakes 


784 


Borax, and its Uses 


Lemon KaU or Sherbet 1692 


Blackberry Wine 


1679 


1394-1405 


Milk Lemonade 1696 


BUckbirds 


ia% 


As an Antiseptic 1305 


Natural Mineral 


Food for 


1937 


For Cleansing 1386 

For Keeping Meat, Ac 1399 
For Killing Insects ... 1397 


Waters and their 


Black Cloth, Reviver 




Propertiea 1697 


for 


356 


Perry 1674 


Dimught 

HogPuddlng 


572 


In Cookery 1396 

In the Garden 1403 


Raspberry Vinegar ... 1689 


1028 


Scotch Punch 1682 


Silk Reviver 


1440 


In the Uundry 1400 


SeidliU Powders 1694 


Blacking for Leather 
ChJrs, Ac 




In the N>rsery 1402 


8 kU Powders 1693 


355 


In the Toilet 1401 


Bummer Champagne... 1687 


for Stoves, to Make... 


313 


Boss, or Fifteen Puxzle 2191 


Tea, to Make 1698 


Liquid 


1448 


BoUnical Specimens, to 


Tea, Another Method 1699 


Paste 


L448n 


Dry 1968 


Substitute for 


BUdder, Inflammation ol 


517 


Botany Bay Wood, to 


Cream 1700 


Blancmange 


1194 


imiUte 1281® 

Bottles, to Clean 309 


Tincture of Lemon 


Arrowroot 1195 

Blankets, to Keep... 364 (ix) 


Feel 1711 


Bottling and Fining 273 

Bowels^ Inflammntion of 518 


to Detect Chicory in 
Coffee 1703 


Bleaching Ivory 


2029 


Bleeding 72e 

Dry Cupping 


>, 746 


BraidiM 2072 

BraidsTVarious 2115 


Beverage for Hot 
Weather 1387 


727 


from Nose, to Stop ... 


747 


Albert 2117 


B^zique, Game of ... 125-131 


Ordinary Cupping 

Blight, to Clear from 


728 


Gold and Silver 2118 


Cautions 129 




Victoria 2116 


Forfeits 128 


Rose Trees 


222 


Brain, Compi-ession of.. 750 


Pour-handed 131 


Blistered Feet, Remedy 




Inflammation of 519 


Marriages, Sequences, 


for 


2165 


Water on the, Treat- 


Ac?: „ 127 


Blotched Face, Wash for 


552 


ment 565 


ModeofPlav 127 


Blue Mould in Cheese... 


1417 


Brasses, Ac, to Clean... 329 


Tenna and Cotmt ing. . . 126 


Unsuitable to Brun- 




Brass Kettle, to Clean 363 (xf) 
on Furniture, to Clean 330 


Three-handed 130 


ettes 


1429 


Bicycle Tyres, Cement 


Veils Preserve Com- 




Ornaments, to Clean 287 
Breach of Promise of 


for 2142 


plexion 


1430 


Bilious and Liver Com- 


Blue-botUe Flies, to 




Marriage 1891-1892 


plainU 487 


Keep away 


2163 


Bread Making 825 

Adulterated, to Detect 1585 


Attacks, Homceopa- 


Bluestone, Use of 619(1) 

Boanls, to Scour 252, 318 


thic Treatment 656 


and Jam Pudding 1122 


Billiards, Game of 2183 


Boiling, Directions... 906-916 


Apples in Bread 836 

As Hot as an Oven .. 841 


English 2184 


Aitchbone of Beef... 


908 


Bills of Sale 1878-1886 


Bacon 


914 


Baking Powders, Use 


Execution before So- 


Fowls 


913 


of 843 


licitor 1886 


Ham 


911 


Fancy Rolls 839 


Instruments giving 


Hints About 


916 


French Bread and 


Power of Disti-ess... 1882 


I^ of Mutton 


909 


Rolls 838 


Meaning of the Term 1879 


Loss Resulting fh)m 


861 


Indian Corn Flour ... 832 


Personal Chattels 1880 


Neck of Mutton 


910 


Nutritious Properties 


Provisions of the Act 1881 


Round of Salt Beef ... 


907 


of 1601 


Registration of 1883 


Size of Pots 9a 


'^l 


Pieces of, to Use... 365 Cn) 
Plain Bread 826 


Renewal of Registrar 


Table of Times for 


tion 1884 


Time for Fresh-killed 




Potatoes in Bread ... 835 


Voidanceof. 1885 


Meat 9)6 ai) 


Pudding 1121 

Pulled Wad 837 


Bills, Stamp Duties on 2221 
Birdcages, fnsecU in ... 1947 

Birds' Eggs, to Keep 1965 

Motft Tender Limbs of 1418 


To Reckon Time 




Needed 906 m 


Pure and Cheap 829 


Turkey 


^ 


Rice in Bread 834 


Boils, Treatment for .,- 


488 


K^e and Wheat Flour 8$9 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE 8WKBTB8T BOSS P0B6B88IS THB SHARPWT THORN. 



427 



No. 

BrMd MftUng; 8all7 
Laim Tea Cakes ... 840 
UnfienneDted Bread... 828 

With Bran Water 831 

With German Yeast... 827 
With Lime Water 830 

Breakages by Servants, 
Laws Respectlnff 1767 

Breakfiut, Should be 
Punctual 361 (T) 

Breath, if Offensive, 

Cure for 2171 

Tainted by Onions, 
Cure for 2172 

Brewing, Hinto on 1713-1724 

Brewis, Made of Crusts, 
Ac 365 (vii) 

Bright Steel, to Preserve 
fk-om Rust 332 

Brimstone, Flonr ot as 
an Aperient 575 

Brisket of Beef Baked.. 996 
to Cook 31 (ii) 

Britannia Ifetal, to 
Clean 329 

British Anchovies, to 
Make 1272 

Broccoli or Cauliflower, 
to Pickle 1260 

Brogue, Irish, Hints to 

Cure 173 

' Scotch, Hinto to 

Cure 174 

Broiled Ham or Bacon . 1037 

Fowl 930 

Goose 931 

Kidneys 1031 

Steak or Chop 928 

Steak, Macbeth's Re- 
cipe 929 

Broiling or Grillinif... 927-931 

Broken Leg, Splinto for 724 
Window Panes, to 
Remove 272 

Broker's Charges 1847 

Bronchitis, Homoeopa- 
thio Treatment 657 

Bronzed Chandeliers, 
Ac., to Clean 328 

Broth, Barley, Scotch... 1042 

Beef 1045 

for Infiuits 1510 

Brown Gravy 1061 

Paper for Packing 247 (i) 
Stock low 

Bruises, Wonnds. dtc. 
Homoeopathic Treat- 
ment 658 

Brunswick Black, to 
Make 312 

Brushes, Artiste', to 
Clean 2175 

Bubble and Squeak 985 

Buckskin Gloves, to 
Clean 1437 

Buckthorn as a Medi- 
cine 600(10) 



No. 

Bugs, Poison for 2161 

to Destroy 2160 

Building Societies 1928 

BuUflnches, Care of 1941 

Bunions, Remedies for 2166 

Buns, Bath 1182 

Cross 1185 

Currant 1184 

Lemon 1186 

Plain 1183 

Bui^gundy Pitch, as a 

Blister 614 @ 

Bums, Cure for TSO 

Burton Ale^to Brew ... 1716 
Business. JBUnto upon 

entering 1583 

Man, Habito of. 1582 

Butter, Anchovy 1741 

Bad, to Remedy 1242 

Lobster 1742 

Salt, to Freshen 1241 

to Keep 1240 

Why produced by 

Churning 1416 

Buttered Rum 1684 

Butterflies and Moths, 
to Destroy 229 



Cabbsge, to Pickle 1259 

to Prepare for Boil- 
ing 941 

to Preserve Colour of 940 
Water, to Prevent 
Unpleasant Smell 

of 261 

Why Boiled in two 

Waters 1410 

Cabinet Pudding 1123 

Cakes and Biscuite 1155-1192 

Almond Sponge 1165 

Banbury 1177 

Meat for 1178 

Belvidcre 1172 

Cheap Plum 1158 

Cheese 1180 

Mixture for Lemon 1181 

Drop 1161 

Ginger 1190 

Gingerbread 1163 

Luncheon 1159 

Mixed Fruits 1167 

Nice Plum 1157 

Plum 1156 

Seed, Plain 1162 

Shrewsbury 1179 

Soda 1160 

Sponge 1164 

Tea 1171 

Wedding 1168 

Almond Icing fbr... 1169 

Sugar Icing for 1170 

Yule 1166 



No. 

Calf 8 Foot Jelly 1197 

Calfs Head Pie 1076 

Calfs Head, to Carve ... 1641 

CaUsandVisite 1457 

Calomel, Uses of ... 604 (12) 
Calves' Heads, Knuck- 
les, Feet, Heart, Ac 31 (ix) 

Camel-hair Wool 2107 

Cameras for Photogra- 
phy, Ac 2031 

Camomile, Use of ... 605 (3) 

Tea „ 1712 

Camp Cookery.. S75-981 

Camphorated Balls for 

Chaps 489 

lilniment ^^ 400 

Ointment 435 

Camphor in Homoeo- 
pathy 662 

for Internal Use ... 604 (9) 

The Uses of 603 @ 

Canadian Hams, Ac 17 

Whist, Game of 107 

Canaries, Treatment of 

1939,1940 

Candied Apricoto 1228 

Candles, Hinto on 823 

Candle-light, to Read 

by 364 (xi) 

Cane-bottom Chairs, to 

Clean 303 

Cantharides, Uses in 

Medicine 614 Q) 

Canvas for Cross-stitch 2121 
Elephant Penelope ... 2122 

Silk 2123 

Canvas Work, Hinto 

on 2085-2006 

Cross-stitch 2066 

Frames for 2091 

German Stitch 2069 

Irish Stitch 2090 

on Cloth 2095 

Stitches in 2085 

Tajiestry Stitch 2088 

Tent Stitch 2067 

toI-Yame 2092 

to Stiffen 2004 

to Stretch 2003 

Cai)er Sauce 1752 

Cap for Travelling, Im- 
promptu 2173 

Capping Lines, Game of 73 
Carbolic Powder and 

Fluid 645 (4) 

Carbonate of Soda, 

Uses of 617 

Card Games, Various 79-137 
Carded Cotton for Dress- 

iURS 696 

Cardoons, to Boil 943 

Care of Clothes, Hinto 
on ... 342-350, 1432-1454 

Booto and Shoes 1447 

Fura 1446 

Gloves 1434 

Intkmto , 1490 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



428 



BU8TB0DIB8 NKVER HAVB ANTTHINO TO DO. 



No. 

Care of Linen 277 

Men's H»tfl 1433 

Carminatives, Sffecte 

of 625 (18) 

Carpets, Colours to 

Choose in 238 

to Beat 291 

to Clean 288 

to Extract Grease 

from 290 

to Sweep 292-294 

Carriage Acddents 789 

Carrnts, Cold, to Dress. 966 

PoulUce 702 

Pudding 1131 

Bonv 1053 

to Boll 942 

Carving. HinU on 1607-1655 

Beef, Brisket of 1630 

Ribs of 1628 

Round of. 1629 

Sirloin of 1627 

Brill 1612 

Calves' Heads 1641 

Cod's Head and 

Shoulders 1609 

Ducks 1654 

Bels 1621 

Fish, Remarks on ... 1624 

Fowls 1648 

Fried Fish 1608 

Goose 1653 

Haddock and Gurnet. 1619 

Hake 1610 

Haras 1646 

Hares 1655 

John Dory 1613 

Jjamb, Quarter of 1635 

Mackerel 1618 

Mullet, Red 1616 

Mutton, Haunch of... 1626 

Leg of 1632 

Loin of. 1634 

Saddle of. 1625 

Shoulder of 1631 

Partridges 1649 

Pheasants 1647 

Pigeons 1651 

Pike and Jack 1623 

PUioe and Flat Fish.. 1614 

Pork, Leg of 1643 

Loln^ 1644 

Spai^Ribof 1645 

Salmon 1617 

Soles 1615 

Sucking Pig 1639 

Tongues 1640 

Trout 1622 

Turbot 1611 

Turkey 1652 

Veal, Breast of 1638 

Fillet of 1637 

Knuckle of 1642 

Loin of 1636 

Whiting 1620 

Woodcocks 1650 

Cash versus Credit 1578 



No. 

Casks, to Sweeten 274 

Cassino, the Game of ... 115 
Cast Iron Work, to Pre- 
serve 285 

Csstor Oil, Use of. 609 (3) 

Casts, taken with Plas- 

tiUue 2010 

Catching Cold, to Avoid 1369 
Catch the Ten, or Scotch 

Whist 91 

Catechu, Uses of. 606 Q) 

Caterpillars, to Destroy 223 
Cathartics, Properties 

of 625 G9) 

CaU, Careof 19i5l 

CauliBowers, to Pickle 1260 
Cautions for Preventing 

Accidents 788 

in Visiting the Sick... 790 
Celandine for Corns ... 2168 

Celery, Essence of 1731 

to boil 944 

Cements, iui. 2128-2144 

Coaguline 2139 

Colourless, for China, 

Glass, Ac 2137 

Common Glue 2131 

Diamond 2134 

for Bicycle Tyres 2142 

for Leather and Qoth 2141 

Lime and Egg 2136 

Liquid Glue 2130 

Marine Glue 2133 

Mastic 2144 

Mouth Glue 2129 

Red 2140 

Rice Flour 2135 

Soft, for Corks 2143 

to Melt Glue 2132 

White Lead as 2138 

Ceremonies, why Expe- 
dient 1528 

Certificates of Death ... 1485 
Chair Frames, to Clean 299 
Chairs, Cane, to Clean 303 

Chalk, Uses of 606^ 

Champagne, Cider 1672 

BngliA 1676 

Lemonade 1688 

Summer 1687 

Changes of Temperature 639 
Chapped Hands, to Pre- 
vent 489 

Characters to Servants, 

not Compulsory 1782 

Cluunades 54 

(Acted) 55 

Words Suiteble for ... 56 
Charcoal asanAntiHeptic 1390 

As a Disinfectant 1389 

As a Purifier 319 

Danger of Sleeping 

near Burning 788 (ix} 

For Wounds, Ac ifeS 

In Cooking 937 

Poultice 702 

Respintors 1392 



No. 
Charcoal Ventilators ... 1301 
Charges for Distraint ... 1846 

Charts, to Varnish 268 

Cheap Calico not Econo- 
mical 368 0) 

Fuel 809 

Cheese, Blue Mould in 1417 

Cakes 1180 

Lemon Mixture for 1181 
Chemical Barometer ... 803 

Remedies 615-625 

Chenille for Embroidery 2113 

Cheques, Bank 1983 

Crossed 1924 

Not Negotiable 1925 

P.«t.dided 1925 

Cherry Brandy 1231 

Chess, Laws of 75 

Chicken and Ham 

Patties 1094 

Pulled 1009 

Chicken-Pox, Treat- 
ment for 490 

Chilblains, Remedies for 491 

Broken 492 

Homoeopathic Treat- 
ment 660 

Children, Aperients for 570 

Cookery for 1506-1526 

Discipline of 1505 

Dresses, to Render un- 
inflammable 792 

Drink.Hintson 1496 

Feet, to Keep Dry, tc. 

364 (iv) 
Need for Watching... 788 n) 

Sleep 1501 

Washing of 1503 

Chimney on Fire, to Ex- 
tinguish 793 

Smoking, to Prevent 263 
China Ornaments, Ac, 

to Clean 340 

Teapots, Best to use 276 

Chintzes, to Wash 1306 

Chloride of Lime Disin- 
fectant 645(3) 

of Zinc Uses In Me- 
dicine 619(3) 

Chlorine Poisoning 771 

Chocolate, Adulteimtion 

of 1589 

Iceland Moss 1705 

Choice of Articles of 

Food \ 1-28 

of Friends 1529 

of Names 1481 

Choking, Treatment for 751 
Cholera, English, Treat- 
ment 532 

English and Asiatic, 
Homoeopathic Treat- 
ment 661(i-U)662 

Rules for Prevention 

642 (i-xxil) 
Choosing Carpets, Hints 
on 238 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LKT ALL THIKOS HAVX THSIR PLA0X8. 



429 



No. 

Chora, ReUsh for 1751 

Chrfitenings 1480 

Christian Names of Men 806 

of Women 807 

Cltfonograms or Chrono- 
graphs S7 

Chutaiey 1738 

Cider, to Make, tc. 166^-1671 

Champagne 1672 

Cnp .!Z7. 1673 

Cinematograph 821 

Citric Acid, Uses of ...618 Q) 

Claret Cup. 1686 

Cleaning, Hints on, 1291-1301 

Carpets 289 

Clothes, Balls for 1300 

Cleanliness 1357 

Hints on 363 

Mahomedan 1359 

Personal 1358 

The Doctor's Bet 1360 

Clergy, to Address 194 

Clocks, to Oil 266 

Cloth, Worked orer 

Canvas 2095 

Black, to Dye 1284 

to Clean 1293 

Reviver for 356 

to Remove Grease 

from 350 

Clothes, Hints on 368 

Best Adapted for Hot 

Weather 1420 

Closets to Clear from 

Moths 346a 

Perfttmefor 1319 

Clothing, to Disinfect 648 
to Preserve from 

Moths 346 

doiids, to Forecast 

Weather 797 (iU) 

Clyster, Prescription for 

568(20) 

Coaguline Cement 2139 

Coal Ashes, to Preserve 

808 (vi) 
When Best to Buy 

808 (vjO 
Cockneyisms, Amusing 17^ 
Cockroaches, to Kill ... 2158 

Josh Billings on 2158 

Cocoa, as a Beverage ... 1706 

Cod, to Carve 1641 

to Choose 4 

Cod-liver OiL Properties 

of 2170 

Best way of Taking... 2170 
Codicil, or Alteration of 

Wills 1912,1913 

Ooflfee Custard 1757 

Chicory in, to Detect 1703 

Milk 1704 

Stains to Remove from 

Linen 347 

to Make 1701 

Turkish Mode of Mak- 
ing 1702 



No. 
Coins, to take Impres- 

sionsftom 2011 

Cold Bacon, Baliahing 

Rashers of 1038 

Cream 1327 

Fowl, Nice way to 

Cook 1013 

In the Head, Homooo- 

pathlo Treatment ... 659 
Meat Broiled with 

Poached Eggs 1019 

Poultry or Rabbit, to 

Dress 1007 

Sweet Dishes, Re- 
mains of. 1145(i-iil) 

Colic, Homoeopathic 

Treatment 663 

Collared Beef. 1005 

Collops, Minced 1095 

Collyria, or Bye-washes 

370-378 

Colocynth, Use of 609(9) 

Colon, Value of the 179 

Colouring Wax Fruit ... 2008 
Colourless Cement for 

Glass, Ac 2137 

Colours Most Suitable 

for Carpets 238 

of Dresses, to Pre- 
serve when Washing 1438 
SuiUble to Dark 

People 1452 

Taken out by Acid, 

t(» Restore 363 (xiU) 

Comforts, Home, Hints 

for 36(W68 

Commerce, Game of. 114 

Common Glue 2131 

Compensation Act, 

Workmen's 1786 

Composition in Bank- 
ruptcy 1861 

Compound Alum Eye- 
wash 372 

Compresses 699 

Concussions, Treatment 

for 749 

Condolence, Visits of... 1495 
Conduct, Hints on 1527-1575 

Rules of 1530 

Confections and Eloo- 
tuariea, List of... 37&-390 

Almond 380 

Alum 331 

Black Pepper 383 

Castor Oil and Senna 387 

Cowhage 384 

Cream of Tartar 389 

Orange 382 

Senna No. 1 385 

Senna No. 8 386 

Sulphur and Senna ... 388 
Constipation, Homoeo- 
pathic Remedies ... W 

Treatment for 496 

Consumption, Treat- 
ment for 497 



No. 

Conondnuns 58 

Conversation^Hints on 187 
Convulsions, Homoeopa- 
thic Treatment 665 

Treatment for 488 

A Curious Case 499 

Cookery for Children 

1506-1526 
for Soldiers, Sailors, 

Ac 975-881 

Miscellaneous 962-1272 

Cooking Instruments 846-853 

Dutch Oven 853 

Frying Pan 848 

Gridiron 848 

Meat Hook and Jack 851 

Oven 852 

Saucepan and Stew- 

pnn 847 

Spit 850 

Processes of 862-981 

Theory of. 857-861 

Cooling Drinks 459-460 

Tamarind No. 1 459 

Tamarind No. 2 460 

O'pper Poisoning 764 

Coppers, to Clean 329 

Cordiahi, Effects of ...625 (20) 
Cores of Apples best left 

in for Dumplings 365 (vfii) 
Cork, to Model Caves in 1965 
Corks, Soft Cement for 2143 

Cornish Dialect 171 m 

Corns, Remedies ibr 21oy 

CeUndinefor 2168 

Corpulence, Treatment 

for 1384 

Correct Speaking, Hints 

for 166,1559 

Corroborants, Effects of 

625^) 

Cosmetic 1344 

Cossack's Plum-pndding 981 
Cottons, Fancy, for Em- 
broidery 2097 

Couching in Embroidery 2063 
Cough, Common, Reme- 
dies for 494,495 

Another Remedy 568 

Homoeopathic R«rme- 

dies 666 

Counsels for Husbands 1574 

for Wives 1575 

for the Y..ung... 1667 (i-vii) 
Country Captain (Fried 

Chicken) 1012 

Dinner Party 1606 

CJoveringR for Preserves 1221 
Cowliage as a Medicine 621 (1) 

Crab, Mock 17M 

to Choose 9 

Cramp in the Legs, Re- 
medy for 600 

Crape, to Clean 1442a 

to bo Kept Dry 368 (ill) 

to Remove Water 
Stains fh>m 1442 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4dO 



POH AOa AXD WANT 8AVI WHtLS YOIT lUY. 



No. 

Cnyflsh, to Choose 9 

Creaking Boots, ^., to 

Stop 145U 

Cream in Tea, Substi- 
tute for 1700 

of T&rtar, Use of ... 609 Q2} 

PnncAlces 1150 

Whipped 1756 

Credit p. Cash 1678 

Creditor and Debtor, 

lAwsof 1851-1890 

Cremntion 1493 

Creosote Lotion 432 

Cress Vinegar 1725 

Crewel Worlc 20eO-2a32 

Cribbage, Game of 9S 99 

Crochet Explained 2035-2041 

Cro<iuet, Game of 2200 

Laws of 2201 

Terms Used in 2202 

Cross Buus, Hot 1135 

Cross-stitch Work 2086 

Croup, Homoeopathic 

Remedies 667 

Treatment for 501 

Crumpets, to Make 1175 

Crying of Infante 1499 

Crj^iMfraphy 59 

Cucumbers, to Pickle ... 1261 

Culinary Economy IC^ 

Cuif, Use of, in Fruit 

Pie 1115 

Curing of Hams and 

Bacon 1246 

Currant Buns 1184 

Jelly 1203-1206 

Wine 1675 

Curried Beef, Madras 

Way 1004 

Eggs 1015 

Meat, Poultry, Ac. ... 1014 

Oysters 1016 

Curry Powders 1735-1736 

Indian 1737 

Curtains and Uphol- 

sterv. Choice of 240 

Custard, Baked 11!5 

Boiled 1136 

Coffee 1757 

Cutaneous Eruptions ... 651 
Cute, Ac, Treatment of 744 
Cj'cling 2220 



Dahlias, to Protect fWtm 
Earwigs 233 

Damages, Employers' 
LiabUitT to Workmen 1783 

Damask Covert, to Clean 293 

Damp Bed, to Test 236 

Clothes, Danger of 
Wearing 788 (xi) 



No. 

Damp Sheets, Danger of 1376 
BitnationB, Remedy... 1388 
Walls,- Remedies for. . . 251 

Dances, Described ... 141-163 
Bam Dance, Ameri- 
can 157 

Caledonians 144 

Circassian Circle 154 

Circular Walta 153 

Country Dance, La 

Polka 161 

Galop 147 

Higliland Reel 162 

lolanthe 153 

Lancers 143 

Mazurka 143 

National Quadrille ... 159 

Polka 155 

Quadrilles, First Set 142 

Redowa Waltz 149 

Schottische 156 

Sir Roger de Coverley 160 

Spanish Dance 145 

Terms Used in 163 

Valse Cellarius 150 

Waltz (A trois temps) 151 

(k deux temps) 152 

Cotillon 146 

Dandelion Dcoction ... 394 

Darning on Netting 2047 

Daughters, Training of 1569 

Days, Table of Number 

between Given Dates 2223 

Deafness, Remedies for 502 

Deaths, CertiUcates of 1485 

Intimations of 1486 

Registration of, at 1483 
Sea 1484 

Debt, Don't run into ... 1S79 
Josh. Ruling's Ad- 
vice 1580 

Debtor and Creditor, 
Laws of 1851-1890 

Pebte, Husband's Liabi- 
lity for Wife's 1889 

Decaleomanie, or Trans- 
fer Pictures 2018-2023 

Designs for 2024 

Heraldic 2042 

Instructions for 2020 

Materials required ... 2019 

onDarkObjecte 2021 

to Apply to Articles 
which cannot be 
wetted 2022 

DecapiUtions and Cur- 
toilmente 60 

December, Food in 
Season 44 

Decoctions, Medicinal... 391 

Chiraaphila 392 

Dandelion 394 

Logwood 393 

to make 687 

Decorative Work, &c. 

2012-2027 

Delicacies in Fish 1624 



No. 

Demoleenta, Properties 

and List of 62S 

Tragacanth ^^Q) 

Linseed 622 0^ 

Marah-Mallow 622 ^ 

Mallow 622(4) 

Liquorice 622(5) 

Arrowroot 622 (6) 

Uses of. 625 (gj 

DentifHce, Camphorated 1330 
Myrrh 1331 

Deobstruente, Use of 625 ^3) 

Dessert Ices, to Make 

1666-1662 

Detergents, Use of ...625 (24) 

l)evilU'<l Turkey, Ac ... 1034 

IVvonshire Junket 1758 

Dew, a Sign of Fair 
Weather 797 (i) 

Dialecte, Provineial...l70-171 
Cockney 172 

Diamond Cement 2134 

Netting 2044 

Diaper Stitch Embroi- 
dery 2064 

Diaphanie, for Decora- 
tions, Ac 2012 

Application of 2015 

Materials Required ... 2013 
Practical Instructions 2(HL4 

Diaphoretia», List of ... 611 
Acetete of Ammonia 611 (1) 
Antimony, Tartar 

Emetic ^^^® 

Antimonial Powder 611 (3i 

Sarsaparilla 611 ?4) 

Effecte of. 625 (25) 

Diarrhoea 532 

Homcropathic Re- 
medies 656,663 

Diet in Hot Weather ... 1386 

Digestion of Medicines... 585 

Digestives, Properties of 

626(26) 

Dlluente 623 

Dining Tables, to Polish 

301.302 

Dinner Napkins, to Fold, 

Ac 1605 (v} 

Parties, to Arrange ... 1458 

Party, a Country 1606 

Pills 568(2) 

Table, Observances of 

1605 (i-xv) 

Dirt in the Eye, to Re- 
move 740 

Dirty Hearth, a Sign of 
Bad Housekeeping 363 (ii) 
Windows, a Sign of 
Neglect 363 (iii) 

Discipline of Children... 150& 

Discounte or Percent- 
ages, Table of 2222 

Discutlente, Properties 
of 625(27) 

Diseases, Treatment of 

482-^7 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THS&fi A&S KOKfi tOOJL BtJT BVOB AS OOD DtSOWNS. 



431 



No. 
Diseases, Homoeopathle 

Treatment 654-^86 

Diseased Matton, to 

Detect 14 

Pork, to Detect 16 

Dish Covers, to Clean... 331 
Disinfect, to. Clothing 648 
Persons after Fever, 

&c 649 

Rooms do. ... 647 

Disinfectants 644 

for Drains 646 (1-3) 

for Sick Rooms ...645(1-6) 

for Sinks 262 

Dislocated Thumb 743 

Dissenters, Marriage of 1464 

Distemper in Dogs 1953 

Distraint, Appraisement 1845 
Bailiffs' Certificates... 1848 

Biinknipt's Rent 1844 

Broker's Charges 1847 

Charges for Distraint 1846 

Days of Grace 1842 

Le^tl and Illegal 1841-1848 
on Lodger's Furniture 1823 
Reparation for Un- 

]&yrm 1824 

Seizure of Goods Re- 
moved 1843 

Diuretics, Properties 

and List of 610 

Nitre 610(1) 

Acetate of Potas8a...610 (2) 

Squills 610(3) 

Juniper 610(4) 

Oil of Turpentine ...610(5) 

Eflfectsof. 625 f^) 

Diving, Advice on 79o 

Divorce. Separations, 

Ac 1©3-1905 

Documents, Stamped ... 1850 

D<Mp», careof 1957 

Distemper in 1958 

Hydrophobia in 1959 

Mange in 1960 

Domestic Pets 1935-1961 

Pharmacopoeia 369 

Rules 359 

Surgery 687-758 

Whys and Wherefores 

1404-1430 

Dominoes, Game of 140 

Don't Run into Debt 1579 

Double Acceutuation of 

Words 168, 169 

Acrostics 50 

Drastics, Effects of ...625 (29) 
Draughts, Rules of Game 7o 
DredgingB for Roast 

Meats 936 

Dress, Faded, to Bleach 1303 

for Females J 1431 

When on Fire, How to 

Act 791 (yiil) 

press Well 1561 

Dresses, to Render Un- 
able 792 



No. 
Dresses, to Preserve 

Colour when Washing 1438 
Dresshigs, Materials for 691 
Rules for Applying 

«8(i-vliiJ 

Surgical 689 

Drink for Children 1498 

Drinking Water, to Test 257 
Drinks, Medicinal ... 468-460 

Drop Cakes 1161 

Dropsy, Treatment for 603 
Drowning, Treatment 

for 753 

Drugs, Preparation of 580 
Their Duses and 

Properties... 601 

Drunkenness, Apparent 

Death from 755 

Avoidance of 1660 

Drying Herbs 45 

Dry Warmth, to Apply 725 

Duck, Stuffing for 1067 

Wild, to Dress 1068 

Ducks, Cold, to Dress.. 1007 

Ragout of 1006 

Sauce for 1069 

to Carve 1654 

to Choose 23 

to Hash 1011 

Wild or Tame, to 

Detect 23 

Dumplings, Apple 1117 

Rice 1118 

Dutch Oven, to Use ... 853 
Dwarf Plants, to Culti- 
vate 221 

Dyeing 1282-1290 

Bonnets 1290 

Calico, Linen, Ac 1283 

Cloth 1284 

Feathers 1285 

Gloves 1286 

Hair 1335-1338 

Leather 1287 

Mordants for 1282a 

Observations on 1282 

Silk 1288 

Wool 1289 

Dysentery,Homoeopathic 

Treatment 669 

Dyspepsia, or Indiges- 
tion, Homoeopathic 

Treatment 670 

Allopathic Remedy... 515 



E 

Early Rising, Advan- 
tage of. 1377 

Economy of 1576 

Earnings of Married 

Women 1888 

Earwigs, to keep from 

DahUas 233 



No. 

Bat Slowly 364(1) 

Bating in Moderation ... 641 

Ecarte, Game of 120 

Rules of 122 

Three-handed 121 

Economy, Hints on 362 

Culinary 1086 

of Certain Joints of 

Beef 31 

of English Method of 
Cutting up Beef... 30 (il) 

of Fat 924 

of Fuel 808 

of Sliaking Carpets 

often 363 (iv) 

Edging, Ornamental, 

Tattmg 2051 

Eels, to Carve 1621 

Effects of Poisons 760 

EgKs, Birds', to keep ... 1965 

Curried 1015 

Pickled 1270 

Sauce 1744 

Scrambled 1100 

Shells for Poultry ... 1954 

to Cast in Wax 2005 

Eighty, the Game of ... 108 

Eis Wool 2101 

Elderberry Wine 1680 

Blderflower Lotion 422 

Electric Belh! 817 

Incandescent Lamps. 815 

Light, to Fit Up 816 

Lighting 814 

Electuary, Use of. 379 

Antispasmodic 390 

Elephant Penelope Can- 
vas 2122 

Embrocations and Lini- 
ments 395-402a 

Embroidery and Canvas 

Work 2070-2123 

Appliqu* 2071 

Basket-Work and 

Diaper Stitch 2084 

Braiding 2072 

Couching 2085 

Fancy Stitches 2075 

Frames for 2076 

Gold and Silver, to 

Clean 2119 

on Satin, Velvet, Ac.. 2078 
Patterns, to Draw ... 2077 

Satin Stitch 2074 

Shading in Silks 2079 

Split Stem Stitch 2062 

Stem, or Crewel 

Stitch 2080 

Stem Stitch in Flow- 
are 2081 

White 2073 

Emergency Cards....!.... 688 

Emetic, Tartar 611 @ 

Emetics, Properties of.. 606 

Ipecacuanha 606 (1) 

Mustard 606 r 

Uses of 685 < 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



432 



WIT 18 Tin UOHTNnrG OF THE MIND. 



Na 

Smigimntt. ItsreUen, 
Ac, Cookery tor ... 975-881 

BmmeiugognM, Pro* 
portiesof. 625 (Si) 

BmomenU dMoribad ... m 
Uaei of. 625 (32) 

Employer and £mploT. 
ed.Lftwiof 176M786 

Enamelled Leather, to 
Poliah 1449a 

Enamel Paint 367 

Encruiting of Water in 
Kettles, to Prevent... 260 

Enemas, Uses and List 

of 40M11 

AsaafoBtida 411 

Castor OU 408 

Laxative 404 

Nutritive 405 

OU 410 

Opium 409 

Oniinaiy 407 

TurpenUne 406 

Englisli Cholera 632, 642, 661 

Hams, the Best 117 

Method of Cutting up 
Meat 30 

Enigmas 61 

Epilepsy.tTreatment for 504 

Epispastlcs and Rube- 

lacients 614 

Cantharides 614 Q) 

Burgimdy Pitch... 614 (2) 
Effects of 625(33) 

Bpistolarv Correspond- 
ence, Hints on 188 

Epsom Salts. Use of 609 (14) 

Errhines, Properties of 

625^} 

Errors in Speaking i6o 

Correction of. 166 (1-202) 

Eruptions on SIcin, Pre- 

scrijition 505 

On the Face, Reme- 
dies for 505 

Treatment for ... 551, 552 

Erysipelas, Treatment 
for 506 

Eacharotics, Ums of ... 619 
Bluestone, Sulphate 

of Copier 619 

Lunar Caustic 619 (2) 

CHilorifie of Zinc ... 619 (3) 
Properties of 625TO) 

Essence of Celery 1731 

of Mushrooms 1726 

Etching, or Engraving 
on Ivory 2028 

Ether, Use of 603(3) 

Sulphuric, Use of.. 603 (4) 

Nitric, Use of 603 (5) 

Compound Spirit of 603 (6) 
Sulphuric, Use of In- 
temallv 604 (8) 

Etiouette. tiints on 145S-1486 

Encnre, Game of 123 

Ruleaof 124 



No. 

Bvmponting Lotion 427 

EVening^^irties, Eti- 
quette <^. 1459 

Pastimes 48-78 

Evenings, Social 47 

Exclamation, Note De- 
nned 183 (iv) 

Executors to WiU 1907 

Exercise Active 1364 

Benefit of 634 

Hintoon 1362-1368 

Passive 1365 

Points to be Observ- 
ed 1363 

Time for Taking 1366 

Walking 1368 

Expectorants, Uses of 612 

Ammoniacum 1 

ProperUes of 625 (36) 

Tolu 2 

Expenses of Funerals... 1494 

Table for Income, Ac 222A 

Extemporized Splints... 724 

Extracts, to Make 588 

Eye, Dirt in, to Re- 
move 740 

Iron or Steel Spicule 

in, to Remove 742 

Lime in, to Remove.. 741 
Eyelashes, to Improve.. 1334 
Eyes, Inflame^!, Remedy 

/or 526 

Weak and Sore, 

Remedy for 507 

" Eyea," Game of. 74 

Eye-washes, Vsrious 370-378 

Acetate of Zinc 375 

Alum 371 

Compound Alum 372 

Compound Zinc 378 

Ordinary 373 

Sulphate of Zinc 376 

Ziuc and Camphor ... 377 
Zinc and Lead 374 



Face, Blotched, Wash 

/or 552 

Eru]>tions on. Re- 
medy for 606 

Faintness, to Relieve ... 508 
Falling into Water, how 

to Act 796 

Falseliood, .to be Avoid- 
ed .•. 1535 

Fancy Needlework 2032-2123 

Stitches In Em- 

broidery 2075 

Fat in Meat, a Sign of 
its being Young and 

Tender 1406 

to Economise 934 



No. 
Feather-beds, Care of 

364 (vW} 

Feathers, to Dye 1285 

Orebe, to Clean 1297 

White Ostrich, to 

Clean 1296 

Febrif^iges, Uses of. 625 (37) 
February, Food in Sea- 
son 34 

Feet, Blistered, Remedy 

for 2165 

Importance of Keep- 
ing Warm 364 (lii) 

Warm Bathing of. 

Healthy 1358 

Female Dress, Hints 

on 1431 

Fern Root, Male, Use 

of 621 (2) 

Fever, Common, Reme- 
dies for 493-568 

How Frequently 

Caused 1367 

Intermittent 529 

Prescriptions for 568 

Scarlet, Treatment of 546 

Typhus 564 

Fevers, Homoeopathic 

Treatment 671 

Fifteen Puxzle 2191 

Fig Pudding 1129 

Filoselle Siflt 2111 

Filter, Charcoal 1389 

Filtering Medicines,^ 583 
Finger Glasses, Use of 

1605 (xiv) 

R'ngs, Care of 1455 

Tight, to Remove... 1464 
Fining aud Bottling ... 273 
Fire for Cooking, to 

Make aear 806 (iii) 

(Urates, Slow Com- 
bustion 808 (viii) 

Gtiards, Advantage of 

361 (viii) 

How to Light 808 (i) 

Irons, Ruin^to Clean Wo 
Fires How to Reguhite806 (ii) 
in Chimney, to Ex- 
tinguish 795 

Precautions in Case of 791 
to Escape fh>m ... 791 (xii) 
Fish, Gold, Treatment 

of 1956 

Poisonings by 782 

Sauce 1745, 1746 

to Carve 1624 

to Choose 2-11 

to Fry 935 

to Preserve 1966 

to Stuff 1966 

When in SesHon 33-44 

Fixature for Hair 1343 

Flatulency, Homoeopa- 
thic Remedies 670.672 

Flavouring, Almond ... 1207 
Powder for Soups ... 1733 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BX NOT THS FIB8T TO QUARESL WITH A TRISND. 



438 



No. 

Fleecy Wool 2099 

Flesh, why some It 

White, and other Red 1407 

Flies, to Kill 2162 

Floating in Water 796 

Floors, to Remove 

Stains from 348 

Floes Silk 2112 

Flour of Brimstone 575 

Flotur, Rye and Wheat 833 
Flowers of the Months :— 



Jan. ... 206 
Feb. ... 207 
March 208 
April ... 209 
Mjiy ... 210 
June ... 211 



July ... 212 
Aog. ... 213 
Se^ ... 214 
Oct. ... 215 
Nov. ... 216 
Deo. ... 217 



er8,t 

Wax, to Make ... 1996-2003 
Fluid, Proportion Re>. 

quired in Food 630 

Fbod, Articles of; to 

Choose 1-28 

and Exercise, Ration- 

ale of 628, 634 

Dr. Samuel Johnson 

on „ 856 

fbrlnfimts 1497 

fbrChildron 1506-1526 

Hints on 365 

Nutriment in Various 1601 

to Choose 1-28 

Why Required 628 

When in Season 32<44 

Jan. ... 33 July 39 



Feb. ... 34 
Mar. ... 35 
April 36 
May ... 37 
June... 38 



Aug... 
Sept... 
Oct. .. 
Nov. .. 
Dec.. 



Fbotball, Game of 2210 

Association Qame ... 2211 

Mode of Play 2212 

Terms Used 2213 

Rugby Game 2214 

Method of Scoring . 2216 

Mode of Play 2215 

Forced Vegetables, 

When in Season 33-44 

Forcemeat Balls 1066 

Forks, and Knives, to 

Clean 314 

Fowls,.Cold, to Dress 

1007-1010 

to Carve 1648 

to Choose 21 

to Fatten Quickly ... 1953 

to Grill 930 

Fox and Geese, Game of 2193 
Frames, Gilt, to Pre- 
serve 249 

for Ctaivas Work 2091 

for Bmbroidery 2076 

Freckles, to Disperse 

5^554 

Freesingwithloe 1663 

without Ice 1664 



No. 
Freezing Mixtures 1665-1667 

FrenchBatter 1145a 

Beans, to Cook 966 

to Pickle 1256 

Measures compared 

with English 2228 

Polish forBoots, Ac 1440 

Polishes 2147 (i, ii) 

Naphtha 2147 <i) 

Spirit 2147 (ii) 

Rolls to Make 838 

Fresh-water Fish, to 

Choose 7 

Fresh-killed Meat,iTime 

for Cooking 906 (10 

Friar's Omelette 1153 

Fried Kidnqrs 1032 

Friendly Societiee 1929 

Friends, C^ioice of 1529 

Fritters 1146 

Apple 1147 

Oyster HOB 

Potato 1148 

Frivolity or Tatting 2048-2053 
Frost-bite, Ac, Treat- 
ment for 509 

Frozen Meat, How to 

Ckwk .?. 906 

Frugality, Dr. Franklin 

on 1577 

Fruit Buds, to Protect 

ftom Birds 230 

Blackberries 1603 

Cake U67 

forCJhildren 1517 

Pie. UseofCSupin ... 1115 
Stains on Idnen, to 

Remove 344 

to Bottle 1224 

to Model in Wax 2004-2008 
to Preserve, Hints 

on 1225 (i-iv) 

Utility of 1602 

When in Season 33-44 

Frying, Rationale of ... 932 

Flrii 933 

Pan, to Use 849 

Fuel, Cheap 809 

Economy of 808 

Full-point, Nature of 182, 183 
Fumigator, Disinfecting 645 
Funeral Oeremoniesl487-1485 

Cortege 1491 

Expenses 1494 

Gloves 1488 

Hatbands and (3oaks 1489 

Mourning 1490 

Walking 1488 

Fungi. 'Poisonous, to 

Distinguish 974 

to Preserve 1970 

Furnished House, 
Agreement for Let- 
ting 1838 

Lodgings, How Let... 1830 
Fiimishing the House, 
Hints on 237 



No. 

Furniture, to Clean 299 

Polish, Good 281 

Rosewood, to Polish . 300 
Stains, to Remove 320, 321 

to Polish 2B0 

Varnished, to Take 
SpoUoutof ... 363 (xii) 

Furs, Care of. 1446 

to Clean 1294 

to Rid of Moths 1445a 



(3albanmn, Uses of. 604(5) 

(falling in Invalids, to 

Prevent 2174 

(Samboffe as a Medicine 621(3) 
(}ame Pies and Puddinm, 

Ac aOT&.1084 

Ragout of 1006 

Time-table fbr Hang- 
ing 904 

to Mash 1010 

When in Season 33-44 

Games fbr Indoon 2176-2196 

Baoatelle 2177 

<}ockamaroo 2182 

French Game 2179 

Irish (Hme 2181 

Mississippi 2182 

OM (}annon (Same... 2180 

Rules of 2178 

Trou Madame 2182 

Billiards 2183 

Bhick Fool 2187 

English 2184 

Pool 2186 

Pyramids 2185 

Shell Out, or Penny 

Pot 2190 

Single Pool 2189 

SkitUe Pool 2188 

Boss, or Fifteen 

Puxzle- 2191 

(3srd(3ames 79-137 

Fox and Geese 2195 

Obstacles, or Dining- 
room (3olf 2195 

Royal (3ame of Goose 2194 

Thirty-fbur Puzsle ... 2198 

Garden Labels. Ink fbr 2154 

Stands, Paint 357 

The Kitchen 218 

Gardening "Moral" in 

Verse :235 

Operations for the 
Tear .206-218 



Jan. ... 206 
Feb. ... ap7 
March 206 
April... 809 
Mby ... 210 
June ... ^11 



July ... . 
Aug... 
Sept. , 
Oct .. 
Nov... 
Dec .. 



212 
213 
.214 
215 
216 
217 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LmUB mU)K18 TELL ORIAT OAKI. 



No. 
Ottgl* Ibr SaUvrntioii ... 416 

▲ddnUted 413 

Alum 417 

Amtngrat 414 

tot Inflkmed Throftt... 419 

MyiTh 418 

Tonlo and StimuUnt 416 

Q«ntl6f, Various 412-419 

OarDo and Shalloto, to 

Pickle 1268 

Garnishes, Various 1755 

Oas Globes, to aean ... 338 
Hints on the Use of... 812 

Lights 811 

Meter, How to Bead.. 813 

Stoves 810 

Geese, to Carve 1653 

to Choose 22 

to Cook 803, 981. 1007, 1011 
CMatine "Graphs," Be- 

clpesfor a03a 

General StbnnlanU ...600-606 
Oentian, as a Tonic ...606 (a) 
German Paste for Birds I9w 

Gherkins, to Pickle 1262 

Gilt Frames, to Preserve 249 

toBcstore 260 

Glnfer Beer, to Make ... 1690 

BeerPowden 1691 

Biscuito 1189 

Brandy 1685 

Cakes 1190 

Uses of in Medicine... 613 
Girls, Management of ... 1569 
Glass, Colooriess Ce- 
ment for B137 

Bottles, to Clean 309 

Ground, to Imitate ... 265 
Ornaments, to Clean 340 
Stoppers, to Loosen 275 

to Anneal 341 

to Break in Any Shape 271 

to Wash 307 

Vessels, to Purify 306 

Glauber's Salt, Use of 609 Q5) 
Glaaing for Hams, Ae.... 1247 

Gloves, Care of 1434 

Buckskin, to Clean ... 1437 

Kid, to aean 1435 

Another Way 1436a 

to Dye \.... 1286 

Washleather, to Clean 1436 

Glue, Common 2131 

Liquid 2130 

Marine 2133 

Mouth 2129 

to Melt 2132 

GoM and Silver Braid... 2118 
and Silver Embroidary, 

to Clean 2119 

and Silver Laoe, to 

Clean 1462 

Gold Fish, Treatment of 1966 
Golden Hints for Hause- 

wives 36(M68 

Q<^, Game of. 2217-2U9 

Dining-room Gftme ... 8186 



No. 

Goose, Broiled 931 

Cold, to Dress 1007 

Marbled 1104 

Moclc 1002 

Boyal Game of 2194 

Stuffing for 1067 

to Carve 1653 

to Hash 1011 

to Roast 893 

Gooseberry Jam 1220 

Wine 1675 

Gossiping 1666 

Gout Mixture 448a 

PiUs 447a 

Treatment for ,.. 610 

Governor of Colony, to 

Address 197 

Grammar, Brrors in...l66-166 

Grape Wine 1676 

Grapes, to Pickle 1268 

Grass Lamb, when in 

Season 30 (Iv) 

Grate, Brunswick Black 

tor 312 

Gravel, Remedies for ... 611 

Gravy, Brown 1061 

Soup 1046 

Sydney Smith's Opinion 

of 1069 

Grease on Books or 

Paper, to Remove... 361 
on Velvet or Cloth, to 

Remove 360 

Spots from Cloth 1444a 

trom Silk 1441 

Scouring Drops for re- 
moving 349 

to Remove fix>m Car- 
pets 290 

Green Suitable for Fair 

People 1486 

Greengage Jam 1222 

Greens, to choose 938 

Gridiron, How to Use... 848 

GriUed Fowl 930 

Goose 951 

Steak, Ac 928-929 

Grill Sauce 1748 

Grouse, Salmi of 1071 

to Roast 896 

Grubs, to Destroy 227 

Guinea Pigs, Care of >.. 1960 
Gum Arabic Mucilage... 480 

Starch 1316 

Gun or Pistol, Danger of 

Pointing 788(im 

Gunpowd^, Danger of 788 (iv) 



H, Lettar, Wnigmaa on 186 
H. Menorandum for its 
bae „ 186 



No. 

H or DO H! Its Use 
and Abosa ftUly Ex- 
plained 18S 

Hemorrhage, How to 
Stop 746 

Habits of a Business 
Man 1S82 

Haddocks, to Choose... 4 

Hair Brushes, to Clean 1348 

Dye, to Make 1336 

Care Needed to 

Apply 1J37 

How to Use 1236 

to Test 1338 

Oil, Rose U45 

Pomatums for ...1346, U47 
Recipes to Promote 

Growth 1341,1341 

Superfluous 1348 

Wash, BxceUent 139B 

Bay Rum 1340 

Hake, to Carve 1610 

Half.pay Pudding 1124 

Halma, or Hoppity, 

Game of 77 

For Four Players . . . 77a 

Ham or Bacon, Broiled 1037 

HamB, Canadian, Ac..... 17 

Glatingfbr 1247 

Minced with Bggs... 1097 

Patties T08a-1094 

Slices, to Dress 1096 

to Carve 1646 

to Choose 17 

toCure 1246 

Handkerohiefk as Baa- 
daoes 719-722 

Hands, to Prevent Chap- 
ping 489 

Stains, to Remove ... 1324 
to Whiten UBS 

Hanging Meat^ Position 
to be Changed Fre- 
quently 366 (iU) 

Hutlening Mixture for 
Objects made of 
Plaster of Paris 2009 

Hard or Soft Water, to 
Test 258 

Hard Water, to Soften.. . 898 

Hare, Jugsed lOOS 

Hares, toQuxwe 26 

to Carve 1656 

Stewed 926 

Haricot Beans, to Boil... 968 
Mutton 9G2 

Hashed Docks or Geese 1011 

Mutton or Beef. 981 

Poultry, Game, or 
Rabbit 1010 

Hats, Care of Men's 1433 

Headache, Homoeopa- 
thic Remedies 673 

Nervoos, pais for 612 

TteaCure for 1419 

Treatment iar 61t 

Health, Hints oft. 164 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



19 TOU com PRAISI, TOtr DO KOT DB8XBTB fT. 



485 



No. 
Health, PrMenration of, 

BulMlbr 696 

Light Kecessarf to SM (▼) 
Heart, Beef, to Cook and 

Serve 31 (riii) 

FalpltatioQ of, to 

Believe 540 

Heartburn, Drinic for... 1709 
UomoBopathio Renie- 

dies 674 

HearthrugH, to Choose 239 
Hearts, the Oatne of ... 113 
Heat and Cold, Sudden 

Changes Dangerous... 639 
Heraldic Decalconianie 2024 

Herbs, to Dry 46 

When to Gather 45 

Herrings, as Relish 6 

Hiccough, Remedy for 516 
Hidden words, Game of 62 
Highhind Reel, Dance... 162 
Hints Aboat Pianofortes 204 

Domestic 1404-1430 

for Husbands 1674 

for Social Evenings ... 47 

for Wives 1575 

In Cases of Poison> 

Ing 762 

on Barometers 799-805 

on Brewing 1713-1721 

on Care of Clothes 

342^350, 1432-1454 

on Carving 1607-1655 

on Choosing Carpets 238 

on Cleanliness 363 

on Clothes 368 

on Conduct and 

Manners 1627-1576 

on Conversation 187 

on Boonoray 362 

on Etiquette 1455-1495 

on Pood 365 

on Furnishing a House 237 

on Health 364 

on Home Comforts 360-368 
on Household Manage- 
ment 359 

on Letter- writing... „. 188 
on Making Preserves 1225 

on Making Wills 19OT 

on Mending 367 

on Scouring Bedrooms 252 

on Spelling 184 

on Taking a House ... 236 

on the Use of Gas 812 

on Washing 366 

on Writi^ for the 

Press 201 

to Shopkeepers 1583 (I-xi) 
Upon Money Mattters 1581 
Hiring and Dismissal of 

Servants 1762 

Hitching, Mrs. Alex- 

ander 185 

Hog Padding 1008 

Home Comfms, Golden 
Hiaisfer ^ 160-368 



No. 
Home-made Wines 1675-1680 
HomcBopathy, Princi- 
ples of 651 

and Allopathy Con- 
trasted 663 

Doses in 686 

Homoeopathic Medi- 
cines 684 

Diet 686 

Treatment of Ailments 

694-686 

Asttima 655 

BUious Attacks 656 

Bronchitis 657 

Bruises and Wounds 651 
Camphor, Use of ... 662 

Chilblains 660 

Cholera 661 

Cold in the Head, 

Ao 6G9 

Colic or Stomach- 663 

ache 

Constipation 664 

Convulsions 665 

Cough 666 

Croup 667 

Diarrhoea 668 

Dysentery 569 

Dyspepsia or Indi- 
gestion 670 

Fevers 671 

Flatulency 672 

Headache 673 

Heartburn 674 

Hooping-cough tSZ 

Indigestion 675 

Measles 676 

Mumps 677 

Nettlerash 678 

Piles 679 

Sprains 681 

Teething 680 

Worms 683 

Honesty, Importance of 1543 

Honey Soap 1321 

Water 1320 

Hooping Cough, Pow- 

dersfor 468 

Homoeopathio Treat- 
ment of 682 

Treatment for 513 

Hops, Medicinal, Uses 
of 603(7) 

Horn, to Stain 1276 

Horseradish Powder ... 1734 

Vinegar 1723 

Why Scraped as Re- 

aulred 1412 

Hotcn-potGhforSnmmer 1043 

for Winter 1044 

Hot Weather, Diet for... 1386 

Beverage for 1387 

House, Hints on Taking 836 

on Famishing 237 

Healthy Sltnation 

Baasotial 06 00 

ftent. Goo*ld«wl..ja6A 



No. 
HoosSi Sanitary Con- 
dition. Itc 236 (iii) 

Household Management 

368-361 

Tool Chests 242 

Householder's Resiion- 

sibility for Burial ... 1483a 
House Lamb, When in 

Season 30 (iv) 

Housewives, Golden 

Hints for 360-368 

Husbands and Wives, 

Hints for 1674-1575 

Deeds uf Separation, 

Ao 18W-1906 

Husband's Liability for 

Wife's DebU 1889 

Hydragogaes, Bflects of 

625^ 
Hydrophobia In Dogs ... 1959 
Hyphen, Use of tiie... 183 (H) 
Hypnotics, Uses of ...625 (39) 
Hysterics, Treatment 
for 514 



loes, for DeMert, to 

Make 1656-1668 

Lemon Water 1661 

Orange Water 1662 

Raspberry Cream 16SS 

Raspberry Water 1660 

Strawberry Cream ... 1657 
Strawberry Water ... 1659 

Iceland Moss (Chocolate 1706 

Icing for Wedding Cake, 
Ac 1160-1170 

Idleness, Avoidance of 1544 

Illegitimate ChUd, Le- 
gaoyto 1917 

Imitation Tortoisesbell 1277 

Ground Glass 265 

Porcelain, or Poticho- 

manie 2017 

Stainad Olaat, or Dla- 
phanie 2012 

Impressions from Coins SOU 
of Leaves, to Take 1978, 1979 

Impromptu Travelling 
(3ap ,.. 8173 

Incandescent Lamps ... 815 

Incessant talking of 
OhUdren a Mistake 361 (ix) 

Income and Wages 
•nible 2224 

Indian Ink, to Make 21S8 

Pickles 1271 

Syrup 1214 

Indlgeation, Mixture for 457a 
HoBMBOpathic Reme- 

diea for 610 

Tteatm^tA>r.., ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



486 opnnoN is pbivati pbopirtt whioh thi law oakkot sxizk. 



No. 
Indoor AmoMmenti... 48-78 

G«m6t 217^-2196 

fiucftteUe 2177-2182 

BUUtfdi, Vuioiu 

2183-2190 
Bom, or Fifteen 

Pussle 2191 

CwdOmowi 79-137 

FozandGMM 2193 

ObfUdes, or Din- 

iog-RoomOoir... 2196 
RoralOuneof Qooae 2194 
Thirty-four Puzzle 2192 

Indulgences 640 

InflwU, MUk for 1506 

AperienU S74 

Care of. 1495 

Crying of. 1489 

P^XKl 1497 

Vaooinatlon of 1500 

Infections Di s eases, 

Lews About 643 

Inflsmmstion of the 

Throat 524, 525 

of Bladder 617 

of the Bowels.... 518 

of the Brain 619 

of Kidneys 520 

oftheUver ^ 521 

of Lungs 522 

of Stomach 523 

InflammatoryaoreThroat 525 
Inflnenza, Symptoms of 527 

Treatment for 628 

Information, Legal 17S&-I934 
Inftislon of Medicines... 586 

Inks 2148-2154 

for Zinc Oarden 

Labels, Ac 2154 

Indian 2152 

Harking 2153 

Powder for 2150 

Bed Writing 2151 

WriUng 2149 

Inkstains on Coloured 
Table-oorers, to Be- 

move 323 

on Boards, to Bemove 324 
on Linen, to Bemove 324 
on Mahogany, to Be- 

moTe 321 

Insect Sting Poisoning 

232.786 
Insects in Birdcsges ... 1947 

to Preserve 1967 

Interest Table for One 

Year 2226 

Table for Savings, Ac. 2225 
Intermeddling to be 

Avoided 1533 

Intermittent Fever, Be- 

medyfor 529 

Interrogation,Note of, 183(lii) 
Intestacy or Absence of 

Will 1920 

Intimations of Deaths, 
Ao. .rn 1486 



No. 
Introduction, Letters of 1456 
Invalids, to Prevent 

Galling 2174 

lolanthe, the Dance 156 

Ipecacuanha as Bmetic 606 (1) 
Irish Brogue, Hinte ftnr 

Correction of 173 

Stew, to Prepare 924 

Iron, Polished to Pre- 
serve 284 

and Steel Goods, to 

Keep Prow Bust ... 333 
If New. to be Gradu- 

aUv Heated 362 (vii) 

Mould on Linen, to 

Bemove 345 

Steins on Marble, to 

Bemove 283 

IsingUas Plaster 696 

Italian Cabinet Work, to 

Polish 280 

Iteh, Bemedies for 630 

Ivory, to Stain 1275 

Artiflolal, to Make ... 2030 
Engraving or Etching 2028 
to Bleach 2029 



Jack, toCarve 1623 

Jactitetion of Marria^ 1895 

JaUp. Use of 609(8) 

Jam, Hinte on Maldng 1^ 

Coverings for 1221 

Plum, Apricot, Ac. ... 1222 

Bhubarb 1223 

Tomato 1224a 

January, Food in Season 33 
Japanese Work, Orna- 
mental 2096 

Japanned Articles, to 

Clean 310 

Jaundice, Bemedies for 631 

Jelly, Caffs Foot 1197 

Apple 1200 

Apricot 1202 

Arrowroot 1199 

Black Currant 1206 

for Invalids 1198 

Orange 1201 

Red Currant 1203 

White Currant 1204 

AnotherRecipe 1205 

Jersey Wonders (Cakes) 1176 
John Dory, to Carve... 1613 
Jolnte of Meat, Names 

and Situations of. 29 

Judges, to Address 196 

Judicial Separations, 

Divorce, Ac 1893-1906 

Jugged Hare 1003 



No. 

July, Food in Season ... 39 
June, Food in Season... 38 
Juniper, Medical Use of 610(4) 

Junket, Devonshire 1756 

Juries, Law Bespecting 

1930-1934 

Aliens as Jurors 1932 

Payment of Jurora ... 1953 
Persons exempt from 

Servinff 1934 

Special Jnrois 1931 



K 

Kali, Lemon 1692 

Kamptulicon, Hinte 

about 241 

Ketehup, Mushroom ... 1727 

Oyster 1729 

Tomato 1728 

Walnut 1730 

Kettles, to Prevent 

Water Encrusting in 260 
Kid Gloves, to Clean ... 1435 

Kidneys, Broiled 1031 

Fried 1032 

Inflammation of 520 

Saute 1033 

Kindness in Uttle 

Things 1549 

Kinetoecope 821 

Kino, Uses of 606^ 

Kitchen (Hrden, the ... Zl8 

Kitchen, Utility of 854 

Kitehiner's (Dr.) Boles 

for Marketing 46 

Kite, Use of, in Swim- 
ming 796 

Knitting. Abbreviations 
Usf^ in Patterns ... 2068 

Explained 2064-2068 

Implementefor 2055 

PUin 2058 

Purling 2058 

to Cast Off 2062 

to Cast On 2066 

to Decrease 206O 

to Fasten On 2067 

to Increase 2069 

to Join a Bound 2061 

to Knit Three Stitehes 

Together 2063 

toPickUpaStitoh... 2066 

toBaiseaStiteh 2064 

to Seam a Stitoh 2067 

to Slip a Stitch 2066 

Knives and Forks, to 

Caean 314 

Proper Way to Wash 

363 (vii) 
to Polish with CtMT- 
ooiJ 363(viil) 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DSSPE&ATB OUTB MUST HAYS DS8PEIULTB OUBBS. 



487 



No. 



Laoe VeU, to Wash 1512 

Lftmb, to Chooee 15 

Cutlets 993 

JoiHtBof 30 (iv) 

New ZeaUind, price ... 15 

Stew or Stove 996 

to Carre 1635 

to Boost 882-888 

When in Season 30(iv} 

liSmbe'Wool a04 

Lamp Chimneys, to 

Clean 339 

Smoking, to Prevent 264 
Lamps, Best Oil for ... 822 

Bronze, to Clean 328 

Danger of Over-fllling 

Incandescent olo 

Lancers, the Dance 143 

Land, Becovery of, 

LimiUtlon 1927 

Landlord and Tenant, 

Laws of 1757-1848 

Lark Pie 1080 

Larks. Care of 1943 

Lavender Scent Bag ... 1318 

Water 1317 

Lawn Billiards, or Troco 2196 

Bowls 2203 

Tennis 2204 

Rules of 2206 

Three- and Four- 

handed 2206 

Laws of Employer and 

Employed 1761-1786 

Law-suit, Requisites for 

Success 1760 

Laxatives, Effects of 625 (40) 
and Purgatives, List 

of 600a-17) 

Leaf-lice, to Free Plants 

fh)m 234 

Leases 1788 

Assignments of. 1792 

Compensation on Ter- 
mination of. 1799 

Copyholder's Limita- 
tions 1801 

Covenants of Land- 
lord and Tenant ... 1790 
Dilapidations, Ten- 
ants' Liabilities ... 1798 
Fire Insurance Needed 1794 
In Case of Neglect of 

Repairs by Landlord 1795 
Married Women's 

Power to Grant 1800 

Necessary Repairs ... 179S 
Precautions Neces- 
sary in Taking 1789 

Rent and Taxes Pay- 
able 1791 

Riffht of Landlord to 
ffiiter Premises 1796 



Na 
Leases, Termination of 1797 
Leather and Cloth, 

Cement for 2141 

Chairs, Blacking for 355 

Enamelled, Polish for 144da 

Strap, More Usefol 

than Cord for 

Travelling 361 (x) 

to Dye laS? 

Leather-work, Orna- 
mental 2027 

Leaves, to Make Skele- 
ton 1971 

to Take Impressions 

of 1978,1979 

Leeches and their Apf 

plication 729-735 

to Apply 730 

Legal Information. 1759-1934 
Legs, Cramp in, Reme- 
dy. 500 

Lemonade 1695 

Milk 1696 

Lemon Buns 1186 

Kali 1692 

Peel, Tincture of 1711 

Peel Syrup 1216 

Rice 1140 

Sponge 1196 

Waterloo 1661 

Lemons Preserved for 

Dessert 1234 

Uses in Medicine... 616 
Letters, CroHsin>{ of 188 (i: 

of Introduction 14^ 

Signature to 188 (iv) 

to Address 188 (vii-ix) 189 

to Strangers 188 (vi) 

Letter-writing, Hints 

on 188 

Leveret, to Distinguish 25 
Licences, Marriage 1461-1462 

Life Belts, to M&e 795 

Light, its Influence on 

Growth 631 

Essential to Health 364 (v) 
Green Unbecoming to 
Ruddy^Complexions 1427 

Lighting, Oil for 822 

Lightning, Dangerous 

Places 788 (xiv) 

Persons struck by, to 

Treat 758 

Lime and Egg Cement. 2163 
and Oil Embroca- 
tion 399 

In Bye. to Remove ... 741 

Poisoning 774 

Linen to Keep Dry, 

4c 277 

Damp, caution about 1376 
Fruit Stains, to Re- 
move fh>m 344 

Ink Stains to Remove 

from 324 

Ironmould, to Re- 
move from 345 



No. 
Linen, Marking Ink, to 

Remove from 342 

Mikiewed, to Restora 345a 
Rags, Uses for ... 362 (vi) 
Scent Bags for.. 1318, 13!^ 

to Dye 1283 

to Mend 279 

to Render Incombus- 
tible 1314 

to Repair 278 

Wine Stains, to Re- 
move from 343 

Liniments and Embro- 
cations 39&-402a 

Anodyne and Discu- 

tient 396 

Camphorated 400 

Compound Ammoni- 

ated 388 

For Rheumatism, 
Bruises, Lumbaso, 
and Bites of In- 
sects 401a 

Lime and Oil 399 

Roche's for Hooping- 
cough 402a 

Soap, with Spanish 

rfies 401 

Strong Ammoniated.. 387 

Turpentine 402 

Linnets, Care of 1942 

Linoleum. Kamptali- 

con, AC, Hints on . 241 
Linseed, Uses of ... 622 (2) 

Lint, How Made 69S 

Scraped, Uses of 694 

T.*I""'.:rr!iTn 63 

Lipsttlve 440ia 

Liquid Glue 2130 

Liquorice, Uses of ... 6i22 (5) 
Liquor of Boiled Meat, 
Ecouomical Use of ... 

916 (iv, V) 
Listening Preferable to 

Talking 1655 

ListoftTseftaTbols ... 243 

Little Suppers 1087-1103 

Little Things, Kindness 

in 1549 

Liver and Bacon 1039 

Liver Complaints 487 

Inflammation of 621 

Sauce for Fish 1745 

Lobsconse, Beef or 

Mutton 966 

Lobster Patties 1091 

Butter 1742 

Scallops 1101 

Lobsters, to C!hoose ... 8 

Local Stimulants 607 

Lodgings and Lodgers 

Agreement for Let- 
ting Furnished 
Apartments, Ac.... 1838 

Application to Mag- 
istrate 1824 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Ui THXPAsTusotfi ; nunmrBUBKOTooia ; thb pemiht, whuli u it t 



No. 
Lodgian, Brokv Balir- 

Tng 1825 

DistnUnt on Foxni* 

tar» 1883 

Fornishod Lodginis.. 1830 
Landlord Uiting Lod> 

ger's ApATtmenU... 1853 
Leaving without No- 

tice 1831 

Let to ImmodMt 

Women 1834 

Liability for Rent ... 1837 
Lodger's Right to 

VoU 1839 

Payment of Rent 1827 

Removing CKkkU Il- 
legal 1836 

Renting for Spedfle 

Term 1826 

Rent Recoverable ... 1835 
Verbal Agreements ... 1832 

Weekly TenanU 1828 

Yearly Lodgent 1829 

Logogriph (A 

Logwood Deooction ... 993 

Uieaof **ffl 

Loo, Oameof. 104 

Laws of 106 

Mode of PUy 106 

Looking-glasses, to 

Caean 336 

Loose Carpets, Danger- 
ous 288 

Clothing, Warmest ... 1481 
Lotions, Prescriptions 

tor ..! 420-453 

Lncirer Matches, Dan- 
ger of 788 (vi} 

Lunar Caustic, UsAof619 (2S 
Luncheon. Cakes for ... 1159 

for Children 1513 

Lungs, Inflammation of 622 

to Tent their Stote ... 1571 

Lustra Painting 8134 



M 

Macaroni Cheewe 1414 

Maceration of Medicines 884 

Machines, Sewing 8187 

Mackerel, to Carve 1618 

to Choose 8 

to Prepare 6 

toPremrve 1248 

Macrame B^idained ... 8069 
Mad Animals, Bites of. 786 
Magnesia and Rhubarb 

Powders 464 

Use of 609(6) 

Maho(»ny Frames, to 

Clean 299 

to Remove Btains trom 980 
to Remov* Ink firom 321 



No. 
t» 

1881 (iv) 
Mai* Fern Root aa a 

Medidns 681 (8) 

Mallow. Uses of 688 ?4) 

Mangs fn Dogs I960 

Mangoes, to Fickle 1261 

Manifold Writing 203 

Manna, Use of 609 a) 

Mannera, Uinu on 1527-1670 
Man orBusiness, Habits 

of 1562 

Maps. Charts, Ac., to 

Watsrproof. 868 

Marble, to Clean 306 

to Remove Iron 
Stains 283 

to Stain 1274 

Marbla Ctiinney-pieces, 

to Polish 883 

Marbled Goose 1104 

March, Food in Season . 36 

Marine Qlue 2133 

Marketing, Ready Reck- 
oner for 8827 

Rules for 46 

Marking Ink 2153 

to Remove tnm Linen 342 
Marmalads, Orange ... 1210 

Apple 1811 

MarnaM Arrangements 
and Ceremonies 1460-1477 

Breach ot Promise of 

1891, 1888 

Licence* 1461,1462 

Married Women, Pro- 
perty of 1887 

Kamiimsof, te 1888 

Marrow Bones, to Cook 998 
Marsh Mallow, Uses of 622 (3) 

Mastic Cement 2144 

Mastication Necessar)' 

for Digestion 364 (ii) 

Matches ought to be in 

each Room 361 (vii) 

Materials used in Em- 
broidery and Can\'as 

Work 209^-2123 

Matrimonial Causes and 

Divorce 1895-1906 

Matrimony, Game of ... 110 
Matting, Straw, to Clean 896 
May, Food in Season ... 57 

Masnrka, Dance 148 

Meaning of Words Varied 

by Accent 168,169 

Measles, Homoeopathic 

Treatment 676 

Treatment of 553 

Measures, French, com- 
pared with English... 8228 
Meat and Game Pies and 
Puddings 1072-1084 

Baking 917,918 

Bastings 935 

Best to Buy it Your- 
Mlf 366(1) 



No. 

Meat, Boiled, Use of 

Liquor 916 (iv> 

Boiling, its Bffect...8Se, 906 
Broiling or QtiUing... 887 

Cakes UBB 

Gold, BroUed with 

Poached Eggs ...... 1019 

Cold. Bconomy or...366 (iv> 
Oooking, MisoaUanaous 

868-lOBB 

Dredgina 966 

Fat of. What It In- 

dicates 1406 

Flesh, Why Colour 

Varies 1407 

fDr Children m4 

Fresh, Time Required 

for Cooking ...906(11)921 

Frosen, toCook 906 

Frying 932 

Hook, How to Use ... 861 
Hung, Treatment of 366(U1> 
Joints, Relative Bcon- 
omy of 51 

Marbled, Why Best... 1406 
Method of CuUing Up 30, 

Names of Joints 88 

Potted 1065-1065 

Processaa of Oooking 862 

Stewing .IBIX-Ses 

Theory of Cooking ... 857 
Times Required for 

Boiling 915 

for Roasting 905 

to Preserve 1245 

Underdone 916 (ii) 

When in Season 35-44 

M(M;hanical Remedies ... 620 

Medicines, Aperients 569-575 

Climate, Effect on ... 694 

Decoction of 687 

Digestion (tf 665 

Doses According to 

Age 687 

Doses and Properties 601 

Extracts 588 

Filtering 985 

Habits of PaUenU ... 662 
Honiceopathic, How 

Given 684 

How to Administer... 596 
Idiosyncrasy of 

Patients 596 

InAisionof.^ 686 

Maceration of. 584 

Measures 879 

Miscellaneous Reme- 

dirs 471-481 

Mixtures, Various 448-467a 

Pounding 581 

Precautions in Giving 689 

Preparation of 6T6-S88 

Prescriptions, Various 568 
Process of Making 5e0.688 

Sifting 582 

Stains on Spoons, to 

BemoT* 354 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WH£N mt TBSS tS FALttK, BVSftY MAN fttTSHltS TO tT WlTtt A fiAtOfiST. 4M 



No. 
Ittdicinw, Stimulants 

and Narcotics 593 

Bubstitates for Mea- 

suras 679 

^Tnste of, to Preyent 589-600 
Temperament of Pa- 

tienti ( 

Terms Used to Bxpress 

Properties 625 

Weights 578 

Melons, to Pickle 1261 

Melted Batter, or White 

Sauce 1743 

Mending. Hints on ...279, 367 
Men's Christian Names, 

Meaning of 806 

Menstruauon, to Regn- 

Ute 534-537 

Mental and Bodily Ex- 
ercise 638 

Menu for Dinner Party 

1606 Qv) 

Mercnry Poisoning 766 

Merino Wool 2106 

Metagram 65 

Mice, White, Care of ... 1961 

Microphone 819 

Mildew in Trees, to Pre- 
vent 223 

Mildewed Linen, to Re- 
store 345a 

Milk, Adulteration of... 1592 
a Disseminator of Dis- 
ease 1626 

for Children 1511 

In&nts', to Prepare... 1506 

Lemonade 1606 

Morning's, the Best... 1244 

of Roses 1348 

Porridge tor ChQdren 1512 

Should be BoUed 1526 

to Preserve 1243 

Why Thunder Turns it 

Sour 1415 

Minced Beef 983 

CoUops 1095 

Mincemeat, to Prepare 1212 
Mineral Waters and their 

Properties 1687 

Mint Vinegar, Substitute 

for Mmt Sauce Z174 

Why Eaten with Pea 

Soup 1413 

Mirrors, to Clean 536 

Miscellaneous Remedies 

471-481 

Mixtures, Medicinal 44e-457a 

Acute Rheumatism ... 448a 

Anti-spasmodic 456 

Aromatic 460 

Bad Cold and Gough 463a 

Cathartic 451 

Gough (for Children) 464 

Gough 453 

Diuretic 452 

Fever, Simple 449 

fior Frsezing 1665-1667 



No. 

Mixtures, Indigestion... 457a 

Rheumatic Oont 448a 

StonuMshic 457 

Tonic and Stimulant 456 

Mock Crab 1754 

Ooose 1002 

Modelling in Cork, 
Paper, Wax, ftc 1980-1995 

Moderation in Eating, ftc 641 

Money, Borrowed When 

Under Age 1890 

Matters, Hints Upon 1581 

Mordants in Dyeing ... 1282a 

Mortars, Proper Kinds 
for Medicines 577, 581 

Mosquitoes, to Drive 
Away 2164 

Mother Eve's Pudding 1137 

Moths In Garden, to 

Destroy 229 

to Banish 1445 

to Keep from Clothes 346 
to Protect Purs ftnom 1445a 

Moulds for Wax Fruit, 
to Make 2006 

Mourning, Economy in 1494 
Etiquette in 1490 

Mouth Glue 2129 

Mucilage of Gum Arabic 480 
ofSUrch, 481 

Muffins, to Make 1174 

Mumps, Treatment 538 

Homceopathic Treat- 
ment 677 

Munici))al OfflcerB, to 
Address 199 

Mushrooms, Artificial 

Beds 220 

Essence of 1726 

Ketchup ,. 1727 

Stewed 972 

to Pickle 1266 

to Distinguish firom 

Poisonous Fungi ... 974 
Wholesome 973 

Muslin, to Dye 1283 

to Wash 1306 

Mustard, Adulteration 

of 1593 

Leaves.... 703 

Medical Use of 606^ 

Poultices TDS 

Mutton, Breast, to Roast 871 

Chine, to Roast 868 

Dean Swift's Recipe for 

Roasting 874 

Fed near the Sea roost 

NutriUous 1405 

Haricot 992 

Hashed 991 

Haunch, to Carve 1626 

to Roast 872 

Leg of, Better Hung 

»5(U) 

to Carve 1636 

Ix>bscouse 986 

Loin of, to Carve 1634 



No. 
Mutton, Loin of, to 

Roast 870 

Loss in Roastlnf and 

Boilinff 860, 861 

Names of Joints 30011) 

Neck of, to Roast 871 

New ZMtland, Prlea 14 

Pie 1082 

Saddle to Carva 1626 

to Roast 868 

Sausages, to Make ... 1025 
Shanks for Stock ... 866 (v) 
Shoulder, to Carve ... 16a 

to Roast 869 

Soup, to Prepare 977 

to Choose 14 

to Roast 863 

to Stew 881 

Venison Fsshlon, to 

Roast 873 

When Best 30 (iU) 

Myrrh Dentifrice 13Si 

Gaigls 418 

My Wife's Little Sop- 
pera 1007-IiaS 



N 



Nail Box 243 

Nails and Screws, to 

loosen 246 

Finger, to Whiten ... 1325 
Names (Christian), Siff- 

nificatlon of 806, 807 

and Situations of 

Joints of Meat 29 

Naphtha Polish 2147 (1) 

Napoleon, or Nap, Game 

of 132 

Narcotic Poisoning, 

Treatment of..* 778 

Narcotics, List and Pro- 
perties of ...609,625(41) 

Alcohol (mr^ 

Camphor 60S( 

Ether 603 ( 

Sulphuric Ether ... 603( 

Nitric Ether 603 ( 

Compound Sul- 
phuric Ether 603 (6) 

the Hop 603 m 

Opium *03^ 

Nasturtiums, to Pickle 1207 
Nauseous Taste of 
Medicine, to Prevent 

eoa-doo 

Needle, Help In Thread- 
ing 367 (Ix) 

Needlework, Fancy. 
Various 2032-2123 

Nervous Headaehe, 
Remedies for .....^673 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



440 



A 800TT CmifirXT COSTS MANY ▲ BUF8TBAK. 



Na 
NerrooniMt, Tnatmflnt 

tor 639 

Netting BzplAinad 2042-2047 

Diniing on 2047 

Diamond, Stitch for... 2044 

Implements Uied 2043 

Bound 2045 

Sqnare 2046 

NetUeraeh, Homa»- 

pathio Remediee 678 

Nettle Bting, Cure of... 787 
Newmarket, Game of ... 112 
Newepapeia, Waate, Use 

tat 247(111) 

New Zealand Lamb, 
Price 15 

Mutton, Price 14 

Night Glothee 1575 

Lights, to Make 824 

Nurseries, Hints on... 1502 
Nitrate of SUver, Use 

of 619(2} 

Nitre Poisoning 777 

Uses of 6100) 

Nobility and Gentry, to 

Address 193 

Nose, Bleeding of; to 

Arrest 747 

Note of Bzclamation. 
Meaning of 183 (iv) 

of Inteirosation, 

Meaninffof 183 (Ui) 

Notices, Form from 
Landlord to Tenant 1818 

as to Tenancies 1815 

from Tenant to Land- 
lord 1817 

Length of Time Re- 
quired 1820 

to Quit 1816 

to Quit, or Fay More 

Rent 1819 

November, Food in 

Season 43 

Noxious Gases 632 

Nutrients, Properties of 

625(42) 
Nutriment Contained in 

Various Foods 1601 

Nutritive Bnema 406 



Oak Bark, Uses of 606(3) 

Observances of Dinner- 
table 1605 (i-xv) 

Obstacles, or Dining- 
room Golf 2195 

October, Food in Season 42 
Offensive Breath, Rem- 
edy for 2171 

Officers of Navy, Ac, to 
Address 196 



No. 
Official Receiver in 

Bankruptcy 1857 

OU Cloth, to Clean 295 

fDr Clocks ^ 266 

for Lighting I 

ofTuipentine,Medical 

Use of 610(5) 

Paint, Smell of, to Re- 
move 254 

Ointments and Cerates 

434-440a 

Camphorated 435 

Catechu 439 

Chalk 436 

for Itch 437 

for Scroftilous Ulcer- 
ations 438 

Rose Lipsalve 4^ . 

TsrtarBmetlo 440 

to Spread 697 

OM Linen Rags, Use of 

362 (vi) 

Omelette, Friar's 115$ 

Observations on 1154 

Ordinary 1152 

Onions, Breath Tainted 

by 2172 

to Pickle 1257 

Opium, for Internal Use 

604 ao) 

LoUon 424 

Proiwrties luid Uses 603 @ 

Orange Coufection 3«Z 

Marmalade 1210 

Peel, Danger of, in the 

Street 788 (xvi) 

Oranges, Uses in Medi- 
cine 616(1) 

Ornamental Leather 

Work 2027 

Ornamental Staining ... 1273 
Ornaments, China and 

Gbiss, to Clean 340 

Brass, to Clean 287 

Ottoman-covers, to Clmn 296 
Out-door PasUmes 2196-2220 

Archery 2197 

Badminton 2207 

Baseball 2208 

Croquet 2200-2202 

Cycling 2220 

Football 2210-2216 

Golf 2217-2219 

Lawn Billiards, or 

Troco 2196,2199 

Lawn Bowls 2203 

Lawn Tennis 2204-2206 

Push-baU 2209 

Swimming 794 

Oven, Dutch 853 

Oxalic Acid Poisoning. . . 780 
Ox-cheek, for Soup ...31 (vill) 

Ox-heart 31 (viii) 

Ox-Uil, for Soup 31 (viii) 

Ox-tongue 31 (viii) 

Oxide of Zinc, Uses of 

604(11) 



No. 

Oyster Fritters UOe 

Ketchup 1729 

Patties 1090 

Pie 1105 

Oysters, Curried 1016 

Fried 1017 

Raw More Wholesome 

than Cooked 1406 

Reason of Green Tinge 

in 1409 

Stewed 1018 

to Choose 11 



Fids Employed in Sur- 
gery 700 

Painty to Remove Smell 

of 254 

Painted Wainscot, to 

Clesn 316 

Painting, Lustra 2124 

on Terra Cotta 2025 

Tapestry 2125 

Palindrome, Examples 

of 66 

PalpiUtion of the Heart 540 

Pancakes 1149 

Cream 1150 

Miss Acton's Observa- 
tions on 1154 

Rice 1151 

Paper Fire-screens, to 

Improve 269 

for Tracing 2156 

Hanging, to Clean ... 297 
to Remove Ink fh>m 353 

toSUin 1280 

Papier MAch^, to Clean 311 
Parchment, to SUiu ...1280 
Paregorics, Uses of ...625 (43) 
Parenthesis, Meaning 

of .183 (v) 

Parrots, Care of 1944 

Parsnip Wine 1677 

Partridges, Pie 1074 

Pudding 1075 

to Carve 1649 

to Choose 26 

to Roast 896 

Paste, German, for Birds 1946 

Permanent 2146 

to Make 2145 

Pastilles, for Burning... 270 

Pastimes, Indoor 48-78 

and 2176-2195 
for Out of Doors 2196-2220 

Pastry, BxceUent 1113 

Flour for 1109 

for Meat or Savoury 

Pies 1112 

for Torts, Ac 1110 

Puff mi 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FinUTT OF (X>N80IXN0S IS THS BXST PROMOTSB OF PEACX OF MIND. 441 



No. 

Ptaty, Seven-beU 1063 

Ffttterns, Bmbroidezy, 

toDnw 2077 

Potties, Chicken and 

H»m 109* 

Egg and Ham 1092 

Lobster 1091 

Oyster 1090 

Veal and Ham 1093 

Pea Soup, Plain 978 

Peaches in Brandy 1230 

to Preserve 1229 

Pears and Apples, to 
Ck)ok Ibr Qiildren 366 (z) 

Baked 1219 

PeasPudcUng 1085 

to Prepare for Chil- 
dren 1516 

When Fit for Bating 938 (i) 

Penelope Canvas 2121 

Pepper, Adulteration of 1585 
Percentage or Discount 

Tables 2222 

PerAune for Clothes 1319 

Perry, to Make 1674 

Personal Chattels, Mean- 

ingof the Term 1880 

Cleanliness 1358 

Manners 1532 

Persons of Distinction, 

to Address 190 

Persons, to Disinfect ... 649 

Perspiration 1358 

Peruvian Bark, Nature 

and Uses of 604 (7) 

Petitions, Ac, How to 
Draw Up and Address 200 

Pets, Domestic 1935-1961 

Petticoat, Fhumel, to 

Make it Last 367(viii) 

Fharmacopoeia, Domes- 
tic 369 

Pheasant, to Carve 1647 

Pheasants, to Choose ... 27 

Phon(»raph 820 

Phosphorus Poisoning. . . 773 

Photography 2031 

Pianofortes, Hints 

About 204 

Pickle, Indian 1271 

Pickles, Various Kinds, 

to make 1251-1271 

FlckUng, First Method 1251 

Second Method 1252 

Third Method 1253 

Eggs 1270 

topes 1268 

Hints on 1254 

Samphire 1269 

Pies and Puddings 

(Fruit) 1109-1145 

Oalfs Head 1076 

Fruit, Pastry for 1110 

Game or Partridge ... 1074 

Lark 1080 

Meat, Pastiy for 1112 

Mutton 1062 



No. 

Pies and Puddings, 

Oyster U03 

FOUto and Meat 1084 

Raised 1073 

Rook 1081 

Rump Steak 1078 

Savoury, Pastry for... 1112 

Sea 1077 

Veal 1081a 

Pigeons, Cold, to Dress 1007 

Tame, to Detect 24 

to Carve 1651 

to Choose 24 

to Keep 1945 

Wild,ffiseof 24 

Piles, Homoeopathic Re- 
medies for 679 

Remedy for 541 

Pills, Various 441-447a 

Aperient 571 

Astringent 447 

Common Purgative ... 444 

Cough 446 

Qout and Rheumatism 447a 

Mild Purgative 443 

Strong Purgative 442 

Tonic 445 

Piquet, Game of 133 

Pitch, Burgundy, 
Blister 614(2) 

Fitting in Small-pox, to 
Prevent 476-479 

Plaice, to Carve 1614 

Plain Knitting 2068 

Plant Skeletons, to 
Make 1971 

Plants, to Free l^rom 
Leaf-Uce 234 

Plaster, adhesive, to 

Prepare 698 

of Paris OtOects, to 
Harden 2009 

"Plastiline" for Taking 
Oasts 2010 

Plated Ware, to Qean... 327 

Plum Cakes 1156-1153 

Jam 1222 

Pudding 1128 

Cold, to Dress ...1145 (im 
Cossack's 981 

Plums, to Preserve 1232, 1233 

Poached Eggs and Cold 
Meat 1019 

Points or Stops Ex- 
plained. 17^183 

Poison for Bugs 2161 

Poisoning 759 

Hinto in Cases of 762 

Poisons, Acids 770 

Alkalies 775 

Antimony 766 

Arsenic 763 

Baryta 776 

Bismuth 769 

Bites and Stings 783 

Bites of Mad AninuOs 785 
Chlorine-gas 771 



No. 
Poisons, Classlfled and 

Symptoms 761 

Copper 764 

Eri^of 760 

Gold 769 

Insect Stings 786 

Lead 772 

Lime 774 

Mercury 7(& 

Narcotics 778 

Need for Careftil 

Keephig «...7880i) 

NetUeSSig 787 

Nitre 777 

Oxalic Acid. 780 

Phosphorus 773 

Poisonous Fish 782 

Silver 769 

Snake Bites 784 

Spanish Flies 781 

Tfn 767 

Vegetable Irritants ... 779 

Zinc 768 

Poker, Danger of Leav- 
ing inRre 788 (vii) 

How to Use 808 (iv) 

or Draw Poker, Game 

of 134 

Polish for Enamelled 

Leather 1449* 

French 2147 

Naphtha 2147(1) 

Sp&it 2147 (ii) 

Polished Iron, to Re- 
move Rust fh>m ... 334 
Iron Work, to Preserve 284 
Tables, to Preserve ... 302 

Polka Dance 156 

Pomatum, to Make 1346 

Castor Oil 1347 

Hard 1346 (ii) 

Ordinary 1346(1) 

Fool, the Game of 2186 

Bhick 2187 

Shell Out, or Fenny 

Pot 2190 

Single 2189 

Skittle 2188 

Poor, Beds for the 248 

Pope Joan, the Game of 111 
Porcelain, to Imitate ... 2017 

Fork, Jointo of 30 (v) 

Rissoles 994 

Salted, to Stew 976 

to Carve 1643-1645 

to Choose 16 

When in Season 30 (v) 

Porridge, Scotch 104o 

Postulated Cheques 1926 

Pot Herbs for Drying, 

When In Season 45 

au Feu, to Prepare ... 979 
Potash and Sulphur 

Powdera 465 

Sulphate of. 609 06) 

Potaasa, Acetate of ...610^ 
PotatoPuflEs 1096 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



44d 



KMBf en OOOD TSftMS WITfl TOVB WI1% 



, No. 
PotatoM, to Ckwk ... 946-864 

Balls Ragout 966 

Gheeaecakes 864 

Golcanon. 966 

Gold, to Utilise 864 

BscaUoped 960 

Pried iQ Slioes 869 

Pried Whole 868 

Pried with Fiah 962 

Mashed with Oniona 963 
Hashed with Spinach 963 

Pie 962 

Reason for Boiling 

Slowly 949 

Roasted Under Meat 861 

Scones 861 

Snow 867 

to Boil 946 

to Boil Peeled 948 

to Peel 947 

to Preserve 1249 

to Steam 960 

Fotichoroanie, or Imita- 
tion Porcelain 2017 

Potted Beef 1065 

Meat, Straabnrg 1064 

Meats and Pastes 1065 

Poultices, Uses of 701 

Spongio Piline 702 

Mustard 703 

Various 702 

Poultry, Egg -sheUs 

tor JT. 1964 

Game, &o., Hashed ...1010 
or Rabbit, Cold, to 

Dress 1007 

Ragout of 1006 

Time-table for EUng- 

iPg 904 

to Choose 20-28 

to Fatten 1963 

to Roast 892-903 

When in Season 33-44 

Powders, Medicinal... 461-470 

Anti-diarrhoeal 466 

Antispasmodic 467 

Compound Soda 462 

Hooping-cough 468 

Purgative (Common) 469 
Rhubarb and Mag- 
nesia 464 

Sudorific 470 

Sulphur and Potash 466 
Tonic 463 

Power of a Wife 1571 

Prawns, to Choose 10 

Precautious In Case of 

Fire 791 (I-xii) 

In Commencing Busi- 
ness 1583 

in Taking a House ... 236 
to Obserre in Giving 
Medioinea 588-868 

Preparation of Medi- 
cines 676-579 

Prescriptions, Various 566 



No. 

Preaenratioa of Health, 
Rules for 626 

Preserved Cherries 1855 

Eggs 1237-1239 

Glider 12S6 

Lemons, Whole 1234 

Peaches 1229 

in Brandy 1230 

Plums 1232 

Another Method ... 1233 

Preserving Fruit, Hints 
on 1225(i-iv) 

Press, Writing for the... 201 

Pressure of Beid-clothes, 
to Relieve 783 

Prices, a Ready Reck- 
oner for 2227 

Pride to be Avoided ... 1557 

Principles to be Avowed 
Consistently 1534 

Printed Papers, Uselem 
for Packing 247 (U) 

Process of Making Medi- 
cines 680-588 

Processes of Cooking 

»S-1154 
veWhi8t,Qame 



Prc^ressiv 



Promissory Notes, 

Stamps for 2221 

Pronunciation, Hints on 

167-177 

Rules for 176 

Properties and Doses of 

Drugs 601-635 

of Medicines, Terms 

to Express 625 

Property of Intestate, 

how Divisible 1981 

of Married Women ... 1887 
Settlement of; by 

a Debtor 1876 

Prophyhictics, Uses of 

625(44) 

Provincial Dialects 170 

Provincialisms, Amus- 
ing 171 

Pry Not Into Letters ... 1566 
Ptarmigan, to Roast ... 899 

Pudding, Albert 1120 

Almond 1132 

Sauce for 1155 

Apple 1116 

Boston 1119 

Baked Custard 1135 

Barley 1154 

Batter 1126 

Baked or Boiled ... 1127 

Black Hog 1028 

Boiled Custard 1136 

Bread 1121 

Bread and Jam 1122 

Cabinet 1185 

Carrot , 1151 

Fig 1129 

GuodRice 1138 

Half-pay 1124 



No. 
Podding. Mother Wr^s Um 

Plain Suet 1130 

Plum 1188 

Plum, Cold, to Re- 
dress 11460ii) 

Cossack's 961 

PoUto 1185 

Rice, with Fruit, far 

Children 1619 

Without Eggs ...866 (xQ 

Tapioca 114S 

Puddings, Beef-steak ... 10T9 

Partridge 1076 

Peas 1085 

Puff Paste, to Make ... 1111 

Puffs, PoUto 1088 

Pulled Bread, to Make 8S7 
Turkey, Fowl, or 

Chicken 1009 

Punch (Scotch) 1688 

Punctuality, Practice of 1568 

Punctuation 178-183 

Pure Water 689 

Purgative Emulsion ... 475 

Pflls, Mild 443 

Ordinary 444 

Strong 442 

Powders 469 

Purgatives, Effects of 625 (451 

Push-ball, Game of &B 

Puxzles 67 

Diagonal 68 

Diamond 70 

Fifteen, or Boss 2191 

Oblique 68 

Thirty-lbur 2198 

Pyramids, Game of 2185 



Quadrille, Game of 119 

Quadrilles, Dance 142 

Quamia as a Tonic 606(i) 

Queen or King, to Ad- 

'• dress 191 

Quinine Tooth Powder 1333 

Uses of, in Medicine 

625(57,44) 
Quinsey, Treatment lor 642 
Quotations, Greek and 

Latin, to be Avoided 187 



Babbits as Pets, Care of 1949 

Cold, to Dress 1007 

to Choose 85 

to Hash 1010 

Bftdishes, to BoU 967 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TOITB STOBCAOH, AND TOtTB OOlffWtXVOB* 



448 



No. 

Buont, PoUto Balls ... 966 

6fC5oldVeal lOOX 

of Game or Poaltry ... 1006 

Bags, tTse of Old linan 

36a (vi) 

BalaedPla 10^5 

Banter Go Round, Game 
of 135 

BaApberry Ice Cream ... 1656 

Vinegar 1689 

Waterloo 1660 

Batea and Taxes in Ar- 
rear, Iqdenmifloation 
Against 1806 

Rats, to Destroy 2166 

Beading by Candle-light 

364 (xi) 
in Bed at Night, Dan- 
fferof 788(x) 

Beaay-moneyPurohasea, 
Benefit of 1678 

Rebnaef , Examples of... 71 

Beceipts for Bent 1814 

Wages 1775 

Reclpee, Medicinal ...471^461 

Beckoning Table 2227 

for Wages, Bxpenses, 

Ac 2224 

to Tell Number of 
Days Between Given 
Dates 2223 

Booovery of Damages by 

Workmen 1783 

of Land, Limitation... 1927 

Bed Cabbage, to Pickle 1258 

Cement 2140 

Currant Jelly 1205 

Writing Ink 2151 

Bedowa Waltz De- 
scribed 149 

Refrigerants 616 

Effects of. 625(46) 

Lemons 616 (2) 

Seville Oranges 616(1) 

B^stration, Marriage 

bv 1465 

of Births 1478,1479 

of Deaths 1483,1484 

Begular Living, Galen's 
Advice 1382 

Relative Economy of 
Joints of Beef 31 

Relish for Chops, Ae.... 1751 

Relishing Rashers of 
Cold Bacon 1038 

Remains of Cold BwQpt 
Dishes 1146 (i-Ui) 

Remedies, Miscellaneous 
Medicinal 471-481 

Rent, Authorized Re- 
ceipt for 1811 

Form of Receipt for... 1813 
Goods Seized for, Va- 
loation and Sale of 

1841-1848 

liSMl Tendpr for 1812 

LiabUity of Lodgen for 1837 



No. 
Rent, Neeesiitf of 
Keeping Receipts 

for ...I!. 1814 

of Lodgers, When Re- 
coverable 1836 

Payment of, Impe- 
rative 1809 

Proper Person to De- 
mand 1810 

Remedies to Recover 1840 

When Payable 1808 

Repairing Linen 278 

Repairs by landlord ... 1795 

by Tenant 1793, 1798 

Rei)ayment of Money 
Borrowed When Under 

Age 1890 

Reptiles, Bites of 784 

Resiiiratont, C3harcoal ...1392 

Rest Necessary 637 

Reversi, Game of 78 

Reviver for Black Cloth 366 

tor Black Silk 1440 

Bheunutisnt. Bemadies 643 
Rhubarb ana Magnesia 

Powders 464 

as a Medicine 609(7) 

Jam IfflS 

Wine 1675 

Rice and Apples for 

Children 1520 

Blook Man'a Recipe... 1142 

Boiled for Curry 1141 

Dumplings 1118 

Flour (^ment 2135 

Lemon 1140 

Pancakes 1151 

Pudding, Cold, to 

Dress 1146(i) 

Pudding, Good llJ8 

Without Eggs ...365 (xi) 

Yellow 1139 

Rickets, Treatment for 544 
Rings, Finger, Tight, to 

Remove 1454 

Wedding 1466 

Ringworm, Treatment 

for 645 

Rising Early, Advantage 

of 1876 

Roasting Various Meats 

863-891 

Poultry and (hime 892-902 

Table of Times for ... 903 

Rolls, Fancy, to Make... 839 

French, to Make 838 

Rook Pie 1081 

RooTiin, to Disinfect 647 

to Ventilate 364 {vj) 

Rose Hair Oil 1346 

Leaves, Medicinal 

Uses of 606 (t) 

Trees, to Clear from 

Blight 222 

Rosawood, Imitation of 

laSlfx} 
FamitarOftoClfluiM. 900 



No. 
Bound Knitting for 

Stockings, Ac 

Netting 8045 

of Beef, Economy 

of !!Z:. 51 

Boyal Fkmilf , to Ad- 
dress 168 

Bubeikcients, Properties 

of (^m 

Bugs, Sheepskin 239 

Bulee for Oorrect Speak- 
ing 166 

for Marketing 46 

for Preservation of 

Health 686 

for Prevention of 

Cholera 642 

for Pronunciation 176 

for Social Evenings ... 47 

ofCk>nduct 1630 

Rom, Buttered 1664 

Bnmp Steak and Onion 

Sauce 999 

Pie 1078 

Pudding. 1079 

Bust on Fire-irons, to 

Bamove 286 

to Bemove ttom Po- 
lished Iron 334 

Bye and Wheat Floor... 853 



s 

Sage and Onion Saaoe... 1753 
Saint Vitus' Dance, Cure 

for 567 

Salad, French Mode of 

Dressing 1108 

Salads, Mixture in Verse 1107 
Sauce or Dressing ... 1106 

to Mix 1105 

Sal Ammoniac as a 

Freezing Mixture 1667 

Sale, Bills of 1878-1886 

Salivation, Gargle for ... 415 
Sally Lunn Tea Cakes... 840 
Salmi of Cold Grouse 1071 

Salmon, to Carve 1617 

to Choose 5 

Salt and Soda Used in 

Cooking Greens 1411 

for the Table, to 

Keep 365 (xiij 

Sampldre, to Pickle .. 1269 
Santonin as a Medicine 681 (4) 
Sareaparilla, Uses of ...611 <4) 

Satin, to Clean 1^ 

White, to Clean 1891 

Sauoe, Anehory 1740 

Apple 1747 

BSf Giavy 1750 

Caper 1752 

Chutn^ 1736 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



A OKJLOXID PLATS WILL LiLBT AB LONG AB A NXW OKI. 



No. 

8Moe,«ag 1744 

forFlBr 1746 

for Wild Dock 1069 

Grill 1748 

liver, for Fish 1745 

Sage and OnioD 1753 

Tomato 1748 

White 1743 

Wow-wow 1739 

eauoepan, Uae of the ... 847 
flaiuagea, Adolteratioo 

of 1596 

Bologna 1025 

Mutton 1083 

Ozfoid 1021 

Pork 1020 

TutjBeef 1098 

Veal 1024 

Worcester 1022 

Sausage Skins, to Pre- 
pare 1027 

Saveloys, to Make 1026 

Savings and Invest* 
ments Interest Table 2225 

SoaMs, Cure for 739 

Scanunony, Use of ...609 (13) 
Scandal, Live it Down 164 
ScariflcaUon, Use of ... 736 
Scarlet Fever, Treat- 
ment 646 

Schottische, Dance 156 

Scones, to Make 1173 

Scotch Barley Broth ... 1042 
.. Brogue, Hints for Cor- 
rection of 174 

Brose 1041 

Finsering Wool 2103 

Mode of Cutting up 

Beef 30 (ii) 

Porridge 1040 

Whist, or Catch the 

Ten 91 

Woodcock 1035 

Scouring Bed-rooms, 

Hints on J 

Boards, Directions for 318 
Drops for Removing 

Grease 349 

Scratches on Varnish, to 

Remove 322 

Screw Box 243 

Screws and Nails, to 

Loosen 246 

Scroftila. Ointment for 438 

Remedies for 647 

Scurf in the Head, to 

Remove 548 

Scurvy, Treatment tor 549 

Search for Wills, to 1922 

Seasonable Food 32-44 

Seaweeds, to Preserve... 1969 

Sedative Lotions 423 

Sedatives, EfTects of 625 (48) 

Seidlitc Powders 1694 

Senna and Manna, to 

Render PaUtable... 1525 



Na 
Senna and Manna, Use 

of 609(6) 

Separation of Man and 

Wife 1893-1905 

September, Food in 

Season 41 

Servants' Acts, Respon- 
sibility of Employer 

for 1780 

Agreements with 

Menial 1763 

Must be Mutual ... 1764 
to Give Permanent 

Employment 1766 

Breakages, Stipula- 
tion must be Made 1767 
Claims on a Master, if 

Bankrupt 1774 

Death, Claims of 

Wages on 1772 

Dismisaalsof 1773 

Giving Characters 

Optional 1782 

Hiring and Dismissal 1762 
If Special Privileges 

Claimed 1777 

Illnesses of. 1770 

Leaving Without 

Notice 1768 

Liveries, to be Re- 
turned 1769 

Medical Attendance 

for 1771 

Necessity of Receipts 

for Wages 1775 

Purchase of QoodB for 

Employer by 1779 

Refusal to Perform 

Duties 1778 

Treafanentof 1570 

SesquicarbonateofSoda 617 

Seven-BeU Pasty 1083 

Seven Needs for Well- 
Cooked Joint 855 

Sewing bv Candle-light 

Ii^urious 367 (x) 

Machines 2127 

Sheep Fed near Sea, Why 
Flesh is most Nutn- 

tious 1405 

Sheepskin Rugs for 

Hearths 239 

Sheets, to Mend... 367 (vi, vii) 
Sherbet, or Lemon Kali 1692 

Shetland Wool 2100 

Shin of Boef, Uses of 31 (vi) 

Shirte, to Mend 367 (vii) 

Shocks, Treatment for 748 
Shoes, Blacking forl44&-1450 

Careof 1447 

to Stop Creaking 1451ii 

Waterproofing for 1451 

Shop, ^mts on Taking 1583 
Shopkeepers, Hints to 

1583(l-xi) 
Short Whist, Game of 83, 84 
Shrewsbury Cakes 1179 



No. 

Shrimpa, to CSiooae 10 

Slalogagaes, LPtoperties 

of :. .C..6e5 (49] 

Uses of. « 613 

Sick, the. Hints on Visit- 
ing 790,36400 

Jelly for IIW 

Skleboard, Utilitv of 1605(Ui) 
Signification of Names 

806,807 
Signs of the Weather 

797(i-iv) 
Silk Canvas for Fancy 

Woik 2123 

Dresses, to Qean 1292 

to Dye 1288 

for Embroidery 2110 

Reviver for Black ... 1440 
to Remove Grease 

Spots 1441 

to Restore Colour to 1441a 
Various Kinds of 2110-2112 

Silks, to Renovate 1439 

SilkwoHns, Caie of 1962 

SUver and Plated Ware, 

toCnean 327 

Lunar CSaustic, Ac, 

Poisoning 769 

Nitrate of Uses ...619^ 

Simmering Meat 906 

Singing, Utility of 1370 

Sinks, DisinfecUnts for 262 
Sir Roger de Ck>verley, 

DanS :.! 160 

Skeleton Leaves, to 

Make 1971 

Skin Eruptions 506,551,552 
Importance of Cleans- 
ing 636 

to Soften 1328 

Sky Blue Becoming to 

Fair People 1424 

Colour of, a Sign of 

tiie Weather 797 (li) 

Sk)'1arks, Care of 1943 

Sleep Necessary for 

Cliildron 1501 

Sleeplessness, Remedies 1372 

Sling for the Arm 722 

Slobberhannes, Game of 136 

Slugs, to Destroy 225 

and Snails, to Destroy 225 
Small Birds, to Stuff ... 1963 
Small-pox, to Prevent 

Pitting in 476-479 

Treatment 560-568 

Smell of Paint, to Re- 
move 254 

Smoky Cliimney, Cure 

for 265 

Snails, Traps for ... 225, 226 
Snake Bites Poisoning 784 

Snipe, to Oanre 1650 

to Choose 28 

Soeip, Good ToUet 1322 

Honey, to Make 1321 

Liniment. 401 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SAY NO ILL OF THE TBAB TILL IT BB PAST. 



446 



No. 
Soapsnda as Manure 366 (iii) 

Sociable, How to be 1551 

Social Evenings 47 

Societies, Building 1928 

Friendly 1929 

Society, Btlqaette in 

1455-1469 
Soda 'and Salt, why 
Used in Cooking 

Qreens 1411 

CUce 1160 

Carbonate of— Uses of 617 

Powders 1693 

Sesqulcarbonate of ... 617 

Soft Cement for Corks 2143 

Water, to Make 259, 366 (i) 

Soldering, Neat Mode of 267 

Soldiers, SaUors, *c^ 

Cookeiy fbr 975-981 

Sole, to Carve 1615 

Solitaire. Game of. 138 

Solo Whist, Game of ...85-90 
Song Birds, Care of 1936-1943 
Soporifics, Effects of 625 (50) 
S(ve Nipples, Ointment 

for 556 

Throat, Qargle for 412, 524 
Inflammatory, 

Treatment for 525 

Sores, Charcoal Applied 

to 1393 

Soap, Asparagus 1052 

Oirrot 1053 

Clear Gravy 1046 

Cock^LeeMe 1051 

Julienne 1047 

Mock Turtle 1048 

Mulligatawny 1049 

Mutton 977 

Ox-tall 1050 

Pea 978 

Portable 1056 

Pot au Feu 979 

Vegetable 1054 

Vermicelli 1055 

Soups, Flavouring Pow- 
der ft)r 1733 

Sipanish Dance 145 

Flies, Poisoning by ... 781 
Uses in Medicine 614(1) 
Spasmodic Disorders, 

Prescriptions for 604 

Speak Distinctly 1559 

Speaking, Errors in 165 

Correctly, Hints for 

166a-a02) 
Special Marriage Li- 
cences 1461 

Speculation, the Game of 109 

BpeUing, Hints on 184 

Spinado, Game of. 137 

Spirit Polish 2147 (ii) 

$it,The, forCookinff... 850 
Splints, Extemporised .. 724 

Sponge CakB U64-1165 

Almond 1165 

1196 



No. 

Sponges, to Clean 1350 

Spongio Piline, for 
Poultices 702 

Sprains, Homoeopathic 
Remedies..... 680 

Sprats, to (Choose 6 

to Prepare 6 

Spring Aperients for 
Children 570 

Square Crochet 2035 

Netting 2046 

Words 72 

Squills, Medical Use of 610(3) 

Squinting, Cure for 2169 

Squirrels, Care of 1948 

Stained (ilass, Imitation 

2012-2016 

Staining, Ornamental ... 

1273-1281 

Stains from Mourning 
Dresses, to Remove 1443 
from Wall Papers, t6 

Remove 1302 

on Books, to Remove 352 
on Floors, to Remove 348 
on Knives, to Remove 315 

Stair Carpets, to Sweep 294 
Rods, Danger of 
Loose 788(xxi) 

Stamp Duties on Bills, 
Ac 2221 

Stamped Agreements ... 1849 
Documents 1850 

Staivh, Gum Arabic 1316 

Paste Models, to Make 1967 

Steel, Rust on, to Re- 
move 334 

Goods, to Preserve 
from Rust 3S2, 333 

Stem Stitch in Embroi- 
dery 2081.2082 

Stewing 920-906 

Brisket of Beef 922 

Fresh Beef, Mutton, 

Pork, Ac 921 

Irish Stew 924 

Ox-cheek 923 

PaUtable Stew 925 

Stewed Hare 926 

Stiffening Canvas Work 2094 

Stimulant Gargle 416 

Lotion 425 

Stimulants, General 60^-405 

Local 607-614 

Uses of. 625(51) 

Sting of Bee or Wasp, 

Cure for ZS2, 786 

of Nettle, Cure for ... 787 

Stitches in Canvas Work 2065 
Used in Crochet 2034 

Stomach, Inflammation 
of 523 

Stomach Ache, Homceo- 
pathic Treatment 663 

Stomachic Mixture 457 

Stomachics, Uses of...625 (52) 

Stone, to Stain 1274 



No. 
Stoppers of Bottles, to 

Loosen 275 

Stopping for Teet^ Snc- 

cedaneum 563 

Stoves, Blacldng for 312-313 
Strasburg Potted Meat 1064 
StrawberA7 Cream Ice... 1657 

Water Ice 1659 

Straw Hats, to bleach 1299 
Hats, Ac, to Clean 129B 

Matting, to Clean 296 

Stretching Canvas Work 2063 
Stuffed Birds and 

Animals 1962-1965 

to aean 1964 

Stuffing for Goose or 

Duck 1067 

St Vitus's Dance, Treat- 
ment 657 

Styptics, Use of. 625 (SS) 

Substances, to Powder o8l 
Succedaneum Tooth 

Stopping 563 

Sucking Hg, to CSarve... 1639 

to Choose 18 

Sudorific Powders 470 

Sudoriflcs, Properties 

of 625(54) 

Suet Dumplings, Hints 

on Boiling 366 (ix) 

Pudding, Plain 1130 

Suffocation fh>m Fumes, 

to Treat 757 

from Drowning, to 

Treat 755 

Sulphate of (>>pper, Use 

of 619(1) 

of Potashl Use of ...609 (M 
of Zinc, Bye-wash ... 376 
Sulphur and Senna 0>n- 

fection 388 

and Potash Powders 465 

as a Medicine 609(4) 

Snlphuric Ether, Uses 

of 604(8) 

Snn, Warmth of. Essen- 
tial in a Dwelling 631 

Sunburn, Wash for 555 

Sun Freckles, to remove 

553,554 
Sunstroke, Treatment of 758 

Superfluous Hair 1348 

Suppers, My Wife's 1087-1105 

Surgery, Dcnnestic 687 

Surgical Dressings ...689-468 
Swearing to be Avoided 1540 

Sweeping Oupets 292 

Stdr Carpets 294 

Turkey Carpets 293 

Sweetbread, to Prepare 

1029-1030 
Sweet Dishes, Cold. Re- 
mains of 1145(t-iii) 

Swift's, Dean, Recipe 

for Roasting Mntton 874 
Swimmers, Dr. Frank- 
lin's Advice to 796 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BB HATS KO LXISTTRB WHO USSTB IT KOT* 



No. 

Swimming T94 

Swimming Belts, to 

M«k« 796 

Cnunp in, to Can ... 796 

Syrup, Apples in 1217 

ApricoU Stewtd in 1215 

Indian 1214 

Orange or Lemon Peel 1216 
to mike 1213 



Table-eoreni, to Ile> 

move Stains fhun 323 

Table for Reckoning 

Prices, Ac 2827 

of Bxpenses for Mis- 
tresses and Ber- 

vants 2224 

Showing Interest for 

One Year 2226 

Showing interest on 

Investments, Ac. ... 2825 
to Reckon Number of 
Days Between Cer- 
tain Dates 2223 

Tftbles, to Polish ... 280, 301 

to Preserve 302 

Tamarind Drinks 460^460 

Tamarinds. Uie of 60B (2) 

Tsme or Wild Ducks, to 

Detect 23 

Tapestry PlUnting 2125 

of AuxOTre 2126 

Stitch on Canvas 2088 

Tartar, Cream of Con- 

fection 389 

Imetic Ointment 440 

Bmetie, Use of 611 (2) 

TarUrlc Acid, Use of 618(2) 
Tart, Cold Apple, to Re- 
dress 1146(ii) 

Tarts, Pastry tor lllO 

Tatting Bx^ned 2048-2083 
Taxes FlayaDle by Land- 
lords 1791 

Tea, Adulteration of 1G97 

to Make 1688,1689 

Why Firit Infosion 

has roost Aroma ... 1423 
Why it often Cures 

Headache 1419 

Why made with Boil- 
ing Water 1422 

Tea-cakes 1171-1176 

Tea-kettle, to Keep 

Clean 260 

Tea-pots, China, best to 

use 276 

Teal, to Dress 1070 

Teeth, Stopping Cor 563 

Washfof...^. 1S9 



No. 
Teething, Homosopathio 
Treatment 681 

Treatment of Children 

560,1604 

Telephone 818 

Temper, Keep yonr ...361 (iil) 

of Wife 151^ 

Teiiiperance 1380 

John Brown's Opinion 1381 
Tenants and Landlords. 

Laws of 1787-1848 

Tent Stitch on Canvas 2087 
Terms Used for Medi- 

cines 625 

Terra Cotta Painting ... 9086 
Theory of Boiling ... 860, 861 

Cooking 857 

RoaaUng 868,860 

Thirty-tour Puzzle 2192 

Thirty-one, Game of ... 118 
Three Wifely Virtues ... 1573 
Throat, Sore, Oargles for 

412-419, 524 

Treatment for 624, 625 

Thrush, Treatment for 558 

Thrushes, Care of. 1938 

Thumb, Dislocated, 

Treatment of 743 

Tic-Doloreux.Treatment 559 
Times for Boiling, Table 

of 919 

tor Hanging Game, 
Ac. ......: ! 904 

for RoasUng, Table of 903 

Tin, Poisoning by 767 

Tincture of Auspice ... 1732 

ofCampbor 662 

Lemon Peel 1711 

Tins, to Clean 329 

Tinware, to be Kept Dry 

Titled Persons, to Ad- 
dress Properly 190-199 

Toads, their use in a 

Garden 224 

Toast, Anchovy 1036 

Toilet Requisites, Young 

Lady's 1361 

Soap. Good 1322 

Vaseline for the 1353 

Tolu, Use in Medicine 612 (2) 
Tomato, or Love Apple 219 

Ketchup 1728 

Sauce 1749 

Tomatoes, to Pickle 1255 

Tonic Aperient 673 

and Stimulant Mix- 
tures 466 

Gaigle 416 

Pills 445 

Powders 463 

Tonics, Angostura Bark 

606® 

Camomile 606 (3) 

Gentian 606 OS 

Propertl«Bof 606 

-wa) 



No. 

Tonics, Uses of. 606(661 

Wormwood ^(4) 

Tool Chests, for the 

House 242 

aoaet, to F'it Up 244 

Tools, List of Usefol ... 243 

to Kf^pin Place 246 

Toothache. Reiijfdif«661,662 
Tooth Brushes, Core of 1333 

Myrrh 1331 

Pi»wder, Camphor- 
ated 1830 

Quinine 1332 

Stopping 563 

Tortoiseshell, to Imitate 1877 

to Polish 12T8 

Tow, Stirgical Uses of 606 
Towels, Worn, to Mend 

367 (vi) 
Tracing Paper, to Make ^56 
Tragaeanth, Use of ...682(1) 
Transfer Pictures, De- 

calcomanie 2O1S-2O04 

Traps for Snails 226, 286 

Travellers, Emigrants. 

Ac, Cookerv for ...976-981 
Treatment of Servants 1570 
Trefoil lining ... 2092, 2053 
Tricot, or Oriental 

Crochet 2041 

Triple Acrostics 61 

Trooo, or Lawn Billiards 8188 
Trou Madame, Game of 2182 

Trout, to Carve 1622 

to Choose 5 

Tnistee's Duties in 

Bankruptcy 1867 

Turbot, to Carve 1611 

to Choose 3 

Turkey, Cokl, to Dress 1007 

Dex-illed lOM 

or Fowl, Pulled 1009 

to Carve 1662 

to Choose £0 

Turkey Carpets, to 

Sweep 293 

TnmlpWine 1678 

Tur)>entine Enema 406 

Lmiment 402 

Oil 610(5) 

Venice ^'^G!) 

Type- Writing Machines 202 
Tjphus Fever, Treat- 
ment for 664 

Tyres, Bicycle, Cement 
for 2142 



Uneleanlinets Depre- 
cated 1668 

Underdone Meat 016 (li) 

UnfomiMted Bntd.. 



.^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE BTTBDBN IS LIOHT ON TBI BHOULDSBS OF ANOTRSB. 



447 



N6. 
UnmArried LidleB, How 

toAddroM 189 (iv) 

Unw, JApanned, to 

Clean 310 

Useftil Aperients 669 

Toota, Listof 343 

gsefUlDMs of Toads 224 
ne of Baking Powders 843 
Uses of Bonped Lint ... 694 
Utility of Blaokbeniss 1603 

of Fruit 1602-1606a 

of Sloe Gin 1604a 

of Sloe Wine 1604 

of the Kitchen 854 



Taccinationoflnlkntfi... IGOO 

Valerian, Uses of. 604 (6) 

Valse, Dance 146-163 

Yapoor Baths 1361a 

Tariations, or French 

Vingt-un 117 

Blind Vingt-un 117(3) 

Differences 117(7) 

Imaginary Tens 117(2) 

Rouge et Noir 117 (5) 

Belf and Oompany ...117 (6) 
Sympathy and Antl- 

paSy 117(4) 

The Clock 117(8) 

Varnish for Cabinet 

Work 280 

for Damp Walls 251 

Waterproof for Maps 268 
Varnished Paint, to 

Clean 317. 336 

Vaseline 1362 

ibr Medicinal Use 1354 

for the Household ... 1365 

[ fbrtheSUble 1366 

tor the Toilet 1363 

Vaults, Ac. , to Test before 

Bntering 788(xjli) 

Veal Alamode 1000 

and Ham Patties 1093 

greast, to Carve 1638 
ressed with White 

Sauce 989 

Pllletof, to Carve 1637 

to Roast 876 

Hints on Roasting ... 875 

Joints of 30 (vi) 

Knuckle, to Carve ... lo42 
Loin, to Carve 1636 

to Roast 877 

Minced 968 

Neck of, to Roast 879 

Pie 1081a 

Ragout of Cold 1001 

Rissoles 990 

Sausages, to Make ... 1024 
Shoulder, to Roast ... 878 
Sweetbread, to Roast 881 



No. 

Veal, to Choose 18 

to Stew 921 

When Dear 30 Qd) 

Vegetable Poisoning ... 779 

Soup 1054 

Unnpe, Unwholesome 

938 (ii) 
Vegetable8,Hint8 About 

938-974 

to Boil 939 

to Preserve Colour of 940 

When in Season 33^ 

Veil, White, to Wash ... 1312 
Veiny Piece of Beef, 

Economical 31 fv) 

Vellum, to Clean IWl 

Velvet, to Remove 

Grease from 360 

to Restore 1444 

Venice Turpentine, Use 

of 60907) 

Venison, Haunch of, to 

Carve 1626 

Joints Described ...30(viij 

to Choose 19 

to Keep 19 

When in Season 33-44 

When to Cook 19 

Ventilating Bedrooms ...1373 
Ventilation. Necessity of 6'5 

Simple Method 1374 

Verb, Accent on 168. 1 >9 

Vesicants, Effects of 625 (§6) 
Vinegar, Cheap and Good 1722 

Vinegar Cress 1725 

Horseradish 1723 

Mint 1724 

Poultice 702 

Raspberry 1639 

Vingt-un, Game of... 116, 117 
Violent Shocks, BfDBcts 

of, and Treatment ... 748 
Violet, Why Unbecom- 
ing to Some Com- 
plexions 1488 

Visiting, Etiquette of... 1457 
the Sick. Cautions in 790 
Visitors to Invalids, In- 
jurious ^^0^ 

Visi ts of Condolence 149(5 

Vltremanie, Imitation of 

Stained Glass 2016 

Vitriol, White, Nature 

and Uses of 606 (!) 

Volatile, Sal, Nature and 

Uses of 604 0) 

Votes of Lodgers 18o9 

Vowels, Sounds of 168 (2) 

Vulgarity to be Avoided 1539 



w 

W. Use of, for V, BnigmA 
on •• 18S 



No. 
Wages and Income Table 2224 

Reoeiptofbr 1775 

Wainscot, Painted, to 

Clean 916 

Waiters, DuUee at Table 

1606 (xi, xlii) 

Walking, Hints on IM 

Wall-papers, Stains to 

Remove 1302 

To Clean 297 

Walls, Damp, Remedy 

for 851 

Walnut Ketchup 1730 

WalnuU, to Pickle 1266 

Walts, Dance 146-152 

Warm Feet Prevent 

Headaches 364(111) 

Warmth Bsseotial to 

Health 633 

Dry, to Apply 726 

Wash for the Teeth 1389 

Washing, Frequent, Ne- 
cessary 1358 

Bed Furniture 1311 

Blankets 1310 

Children 1603 

China, Crape, Scarvee, 

Ac 1313 

Flannels ^.. 1309 

niiitson 366 

Hint« on, &a 1306-1315 

HonRP Linen 1307 

Machines 1306 

MnsllnB and Chiutzea 1306 

Tubs, Care of. 1315 

Wliito Lace Veil 1312 

Wash- leather Gloves, to 

Clean 1436 

Wasp Stings, Cures fbr 232 

Wasps, to Destroy 231 

Wast^ Paper, Use of 847 

Wator, Adultemtion of 1599 
Excelleuce as a Bever- 
age 609 

for Drinking, to Test 857 
Hard, to Soften 868, 366 (1) 
on the Brain, Treat- 
ment 666 

to Prevent Encrust- 
ing in Kettles ,.. 260 

to Test, Hard or Soft 258 

Watercress, to Stew 971 

Waterproof for Boots 

and Shoes 1451 

fbr Maps, Charts, 4(c 268 
Wax, to Extract firom 

Cloth 1444a 

Flowers, to Make 1996-2003 
Fruit, Ac, to Make 

2004-2008 

Weak Eyes, Wash for ... 607 

Weather Dial, What 

Moves the Hand 806 (ii) 

Hot, Beverages for ... 1387 

Diet tor 1386 

tts Effect on the Blood 1368 
Signs of 797 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



448 



all's will that bnds well 



Wedding Cakea 1168 

Almond Icing for 1169 

Sugar IciDR for 1170 

Weddmg Breakfast 1473 

gMds H75 

Ceremonies, Ac. 1460-1477 

Dreaa 1468 

Recoptiomj 1474 

B^ng» 1466 

Why Worn on 
Fourth PMijger ... 1467 

Tour 1476 

Weekly Tenant*}, Bent 

When Due 1828 

Weight of Men and 

Women 1385 

Wc^ights for Medicine ... 578 
and Meaisurea, French 

and Knghsh 2228 

Wh«y, Alum 1707 

>FhippBd Cream 1756 

Whist, Canadian 107 

Game of. 79-84 

ProgresvSive 92 

White Currant Jelly 12M, 1205 

Embroidery 2073 

liead fts Cement 2138 

Mice, Care of 1951 

Sauce or Melted 

Butter 1743 

Vitriol, Use* of 606(7) 

Whites, Treatment for 566 

Whiting, to Carve 1630 

Whooping Cough (see 

Hooping Cough) 
Whys and Wherefores, 

Domestic 1404-1430 

Widgeon and Teal, to 

Dress 1070 

Wifely Virtues, Three ... 1573 

Wife 's Power 1571 

Temper 1572 

Wild Ducks, to Detect 23 
Wild Duck, Sauce for... 1069 

to Dn-R8 1068 

Wills, Instructions a« to 

_ 1S06-1922 

Wmdow Cm-tains on 

^"ire .791 (tv) 

Windows, to Clean 337 

Wine Biscuits 1192 

Stains on Linen, to 
Remove 343 



No. 



Wttaes, BUckbeny, to 

Make 1679 

Elderberry, to Make 1680 
English ChainimgTie, 

to Make 1676 

Home-made, Various 

1675-1680 

Parsnip, to Make 1677 

Rhubarb, Currant, 

Ac, to Make 1675 

Turnip, to Make 1678 

Wiped Knives, Kever 

use on Table ..363 (ri) 

Wivas, Counsel for 1575 

Women's Names, Mean- 

ing»f 807 

Wood, to atain 1281 

Woodcock, Scotch 1035 

t<:jCar\'e 1650 

Woodcocks, to Choose 28 
Wooden Models, to 

Make 1986 

Utensils, to Clean 363(ix, x) 
Wood Pigeons, Size of... 24 

Wwl, to Dye 1289 

Woollen Clothes, to 

Wash 366 (ii), 1292 

WooLs, Alpaca 2108 

Andalusian 2102 

Angola 2106 

Berlin or German 2098 

Cflmel-hair 2107 

£w 2101 

i'ieecy 2099 

Lamb's or Yam 2104 

Wools, Merino s2106 

Scotch Fingering "2103 

Shetland.... 2100 

Various Kinds 2109 

Wordft on Words 1565 

Suitable for Charades 56 
Whose Meaning is 

Varied by Accent... 169 
Wrotigly Pronounced 177 
Workmen's Actions for 

Compensation 1785 

Compensation for In- 

juries} 1783 (i-v) 

Compensation Act ... 1780 
Wonn-eaten Wood, to 

Restore 357 (a) 

Worm.s, Homoeopathic 
Treatment 683 



Worms in Intestines, 

Itemediea 667, 621 C 
Wormwood, Uses of .. 606 ^»*^ 

Wow- wow Sauce YiJt, 

Wrapping Pajier, to 

Keep 2!^ 

Writing Ink ..""!!"2i49-21M- 

to Extract from Paper ' 
Writing for the Press, 

Hints on 201 



Yearly Lodgers, Caution 

to 1829 

Tenancies 1802 

Yeast Poultice 701 

to Make 842 

Yellow Lotion 429 

Young, Counsels for the 

1567 (t-^-:-' 

Ladies, Advice to If 

Lady's Toilet Re- 
quisites 13bi 

Ser\-ant^ Most Ex- 

pensive .363^1, 

Youth, to Preserve 

Health in ... 364, 626, 1383 
Youthftil Irregularities 1385 
Yule Cake li£.,. 



z 



Zinc, Acetate of. Eye- 
wash 375 

and Camphor Eyewash 377 
and Lead Eyewash... 37' 
Chloride of. Solu- 
tion 619 (^ 

Compound, Eyewash 37S 
Garden Labels, Ink 

for 215^ 

Oxide of, Uses 604 (11) 

Poisoning by 768 

Sulphate of, Nature 
aud Uses ., 376 



BiehaTd aay d: S&m, LimUtd, londmi & Bungay, 



Digitized by 



Goo^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Of tbc 
^niver6ft^ofMi0con9fiv 

Digitized by VJ 



oos 



