


- 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



A THIRD POT-POUEEI 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



Twenty-sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY GARDEN. 

With an APPENDIX by LADY CONSTANCE LYTTON. 

DEAN HOLE, in an article upon the work in the Nineteenth Century, 
says : ' There is not time for further enjoyment of this sweet, spicy 
" Pot-Pourri ; " no space for further extracts from this clever and 
comprehensive book ; only for two more earnest words to the reader 
-Buy it: 

Fifth Impression. Large Crown 8vo. It. 6d. 

MORE POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY 
GARDEN. 

* This second volume has all the charm of the first. It is just 
the friendly chat of a lady who has not only read books, but knows 
all about her kitchen, and, If possible, more about the garden she 
loves. On each, sound, useful information is pleasantly conveyed.' 

PUNCH. 

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



THIED POT-POUEEI 



BY 

MES. C. W. EAELE 

AUTHOR OF 'POT-POUBBI FROM A SURREY GARDEN* ETC. 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE 
1903 

[All rights reserved] 



Home now your comrades come again, 

But you come not. 
For them life's triumphs still remain ; 

You draw Death's lot. 

Oh, lying far from home away, 

Feel not so far ; 
For, though all come, my heart does stay 

There where you are. 

E. FULLEE MAITLAND. 



June 1902 



^r 455 

1303 



TO THE MEMORY 
OP 

SYDNEY EABLE 

I DEDICATE THIS BOOK 



548448 



I WISH to offer my very best thanks to my friend, 
Miss Adela Curtis, and my niece, Lady Constance 
Lytton, for the very material help they have given 
me with this book. 



CONTENTS 



HEALTH 

PAGB 

Eeasons for more about health A stranger's letter En- 
couragement from Dr. Haig Details of my diet Eeason for 
early breakfast Asparagus poison Arguments of opponents 
Dulness of diet Eeason of benefit felt on first going 
back to mixed foods Test of underfeeding Dentist story 
Opposition of medical profession Their indifference to diet 
The ordinary man at his breakfast-table Doctors to be 
educated by the public Uses of Plasmon Necessity for 
mothers and children to learn physiology Definition of 
uric acid Instincts not safe guides Difficulties of hos- 
pitality Lord Boberts on ' treating ' List of useful books 
Home education of girls: two methods Hindoo love 
story 1 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 

Imaginary conversation between two doctors Advertisements 
versus Dr. Haig Bemedies for depression on beginning diet 
The old need not fear change of diet Tea-drinking and 
the Chinese The Bible and meat-eating Pythagoreans 
and the bean' Better Food for Boys,' and the schoolmaster 
Difficulties of the diet Fat and thin women Mediaeval 
and Greek idea Individual cases Maeterlinck's testimony 40 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



SUPPLEMENT 

PAGE 

Home started in Buckinghamshire, under Dr. Haig, for in- 
struction and practice in uric-acid-free foods A second 
home in Hampshire for fleshless diet, recommended by 
Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A. Critical paper, by a patient of 
Dr. Haig Dr. Haig's answer to same .... 76 



GOATS 

Goats at Naples Possible solution for milk difficulty in rural 
districts A toothless generation Ignorance as to nourish- 
ing value of separated milk Mr. Hook on goat-keeping 
Personal experiment Roast kid and agneau-de-lait 
Seasons for prejudice against goats Suggestions for the 
philanthropic Immunity of goats from tubercular disease 
Day at Guildford Almonds The Astolat Press Mr. 
Gates' herd of Toggenburg goats Feeding of goats 
Chemistry of food to be taught in elementary schools . 



WHOLESOME FOOD ON THREE SHILLINGS A 
WEEK 

; CornhilT budgets Food reformers and lentils Taste for 
savoury foods Nervous appetites Cabinet Minister and 
charwoman The healthy foods Maeterlinck's appeal 
against meat and alcohol Food values To feed a family 
of four on 12s. a week Nut milk A week's menus, and 
: cost Ditto, with once-a-week cooking Advantage of living 
in country Goat's milk at a London dairy Cheapest and 
healthiest diet at 2s. 4d. a week To wean servants from 
the beef-beer-tea faith Possible purpose of meat-eating 
phase in evolution A philanthropist's experiment- 
Amateur farmers A pair of Bushey art students Receipts 107 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR . . 133 



CONTENTS 



FEBRUARY 

NOTES FROM NINE MONTHS OF A SCKAPPY JOURNAL 

1901-1902 

PAGE 

Forcing cut branches Amygdalus Davidiana Early spring 
flowers under glass Bulbous irises Epimediums in pots 
Letter to ' Westminster Gazette ' on railway carriages and 
tuberculosis- -Congress on tuberculosis in 1901 . . . 152 



MARCH 

Valescure Tree heath and briar-wood pipes Fragrant herbs 
and thyme carpet Aloes and agaves Cork-trees Frejus 
Euins of the Tuileries : De 1'Orme and Bullant Meis- 
sonier's picture of the burnt Tuileries Cannes Eucalyptus- 
trees La Mortola Arrival at Florence Turban ranun- 
culus Mino da Fiesole Letter about Florence . . . 160 



APRIL 

Arrival at Naples Museum English Society for the Prevention 
of Cruelty to Animals at Naples Slaughter-houses in 
England Art objects from Pompeii sometimes echoes of 
modern Japan BaiaB Coleridge and Harrison on Gibbon 
South of Italy less affected by barbaric invasions than other 
parts Aquarium Goats Dr. Munthe on the housing of 
the poor Mrs. Jameson's picnic Pompeii : smallness of 
the houses Mr. Eolfe on Pompeiian pins and matches 
Cenotaphs and war memorials Pompeiian gardens as models 
for London Sorrento and Amalfi Garibaldi on cremation 
' Aurora Leigh ' 175 



MAY 

Apology for more gardening notes Journey to Ireland New 
English Art Club A modern landscape recalling Claude at 
his best Spring in the West of Ireland Glorification of 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



flat garden by old yuccas Persian ranunculus Want of 
thinning out and pruning a universal fault An East Coast 
garden Cultivation of Hydrangea pamculata' The Wild 
Geese ' Gardening letter from German friend Two good 
spring plants A sundial Floating bouquets The May 
horticultural show 203 



JUNE 

Cuttings of double gorse and ericas A gorse hedge Gerarde 
on Solomon's seal Preserving tulip bulbs after flowering 
Dictamnus fraxiiiella in Wiltshire The globe artichoke as 
food for man and goats Peace Glasnevin Mr. Linden's 
garden at Brussels Old wistaria and bignonias grown as 
shrubs How to tell a good soil Mr. G. F. Wilson's wild 
garden How to grow Portugal laurels in boxes- 
Tamarisks and sea-buckthorns grown inland The beauties 
of Polygonum compactum London and the 24th of June 
The rose show at Holland House 224 



JULY 

An account of lately bought gardening books A lost poem by 
Milton Vegetable gardens and rotation of crops How to 
easily catalogue a garden More half-hardy plants suitable 
for large pots Carnations at Mr. Douglas' Spanish rush- 
broom . 244 



AUGUST 

Cultivation of various plants Outdoor fig culture Rhubarb in 
France Effects of Nicotiana sylvestris alba Potatoes in 
succession Colonial branch of Swanley Horticultural Col- 
lege for Women 'Animal life' Letter about monkey's 
food Hampton Court garden and the old railing The 
motor and Bramshill Building a house Rose planting 
Cooking receipts Autumn work in a German country-house 
kitcher Household receipts . ,266 



CONTENTS 



SEPTEMBER 

PAGE 

Visit to Northamptonshire Peterboro', Fotheringhay, and Kirby 
Hall Iris in pans for spring flowering A last year's 
autumn letter from Germany Kew and the smoke curse 
Pruning back of shrubby plants to imitate sub-tropical 
gardening Japanese anemones in shade Sunflower seeds 
as a possible farming industry 305 



OCTOBER 

Solomon's love of nature- An old letter Zola and fresh air 
Old Harwich inn and curious specimen of Clematis Vitalba 
Mesembryanthemums for cliff gardens An old monastery 
fruit-wall Three Pergolas A long-wanted book on trees 
and shrubs An old Suffolk breviary Stories Wild flowers 
for garden culture Wellingtonias on a German hillside 
Chrysanthemum culture Mr. Morley's gift to Cambridge . 326 



THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR IN THE NORTH OF 

EUROPE IN 1825-26 . 356 



THE LAST LETTERS OF CAPTAIN SYDNEY 

EARLE, COLDSTREAM GUARDS . 374 



INDEX . 419 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



HEALTH 

Reasons for more about health A stranger's letter Encouragement 
from Dr. Haig Details of my diet Eeason for early breakfast 
Asparagus poison Arguments of opponents Dulness of diet 
Beason of benefit felt in going back to mixed foods Test of 
underfeeding Dentist story Opposition of medical profession 
Their indifference to diet The ordinary man at his breakfast- 
table Doctors to be educated by the public Uses of Plasmon 
Necessity for mothers and children to learn physiology De- 
finition of uric acid Instincts not safe guides Difficulties of 
hospitality Lord Eoberts on ' treating ' List of useful books 
Home education of girls : two methods Hindoo love story. 

I MUST apologise to the public for the apparent poor- 
ness of idea in again repeating my somewhat tiresome 
title. I heard Mr. Motley, the historian, once say, a title 
should be ' telling and selling.' A ' Third Pot-Pourri ' 
will very likely turn out to be neither of these, but it 
seemed to me the most honest title I could think of 
towards those who were kind enough, not only to read, 
but to like, my former books. They may find the matter 
in this book better or worse ; the manner is exactly the 
same as before, and it could hardly be otherwise at my age. 
I must, perhaps, also apologise for putting the Health 
chapters prominently forward at the beginning of this 
book, and I can only ask those who have no interest in 



2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the subject to skip them altogether. They are written for 
those who asked for them. The chapter headed ' March ' 
in my second book, ' More Pot-Pourri,' which contained 
my personal confessions about diet, brought me such a 
number of touching and appealing letters from people of 
all sorts in every part of the world, that I cannot help 
thinking it almost a duty I owe to the readers of that book, 
to tell them as plainly as I can what I have learnt further 
about the subject, which for want of a better title we may 
call Diet, or Food, and its effects on the health of all 
classes of the community. 

A great many people will merely laugh and think it very 
conceited and ridiculous that I should set up my opinion 
in matters of health against the great majority of the 
medical profession ; but to anyone who has acquired good 
health, even late in life, the blessing is so inestimable, 
that it is only natural to try to help others to attain 
it. A note received the other day from a complete 
stranger stimulated me, perhaps, more than any other to 
feel that the knowledge and experience I have gained 
in the last three years might really be of some use to a 
few human beings. In this last of several letters, my un- 
known correspondent says, ' I am not likely to forget to 
associate your name with my improvement, and you, on 
your side, will have the satisfaction of knowing you have 
been the means of brightening and bettering our family's 
existence.' 

Now, it seems to me that, however ridiculous it may 
appear to be very much absorbed in any one subject, if 
taking the trouble to publish a book upon it can call forth 
such an expression as this, and benefit, say, half-a-dozen 
families, I am well rewarded. As a further justification 
of my action in this matter, I should like to quote what 
T. E. Brown says in one of his delightful 'Letters': 
' I believe that Jowett, like so many Englishmen, carried 



HEALTH 3 

the principle of not " pinning his heart upon his sleeve for 
daws to peck at," so far as to forget that, besides the 
pecking daws, there are the craving hearts of others . . . 
craving for the food which, God help us, is not too 
abundantly spread upon the tables of this world.' Sym- 
pathy comes naturally to those who have prosperous 
circumstances, and I, who enjoy life so abundantly, 
in spite of age and sorrows, on account of my health, 
cannot help responding to appeals, from those who 
suffer, for further information as to the means by which 
I obtained it. 

I am always being asked what I do myself. So far as 
I can, I will tell this exactly, first briefly stating that my 
health, which was good three years ago, has been dis- 
tinctly improving both as regards endurance and nerve- 
power, and this in spite of heavy trials and sorrows borne 
a great deal alone, which to a nature like mine, after a 
life spent as mine has been, is no small additional suffer- 
ing. Added to this, late in life I have had thrown upon 
me the entire management of house, garden, servants, 
stables, hospitality, which means a great strain on 
memory, especially after a lifetime with a man who 
shared all this with me, taking on himself the sole re- 
sponsibility of much of it, and financially directing the 
whole. 

My own conviction is, that though I started by myself 
on what I consider the right road as regards diet and 
health, yet without the assistance and support of Dr. Haig 
I should never have had courage to persevere against all 
opposition, and so have reached a level of health which 
has enabled me to withstand all this, and be so much 
better and stronger than either my mother or most of my 
aunts and uncles, who, with constitutions strong enough 
to live to a great old age, did so with much suffering from 
constant^ailments loss of hearing, sight, and brain-power. 

B2 



4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

A great many people may think that my improved health 
is a matter of imagination, and I am the last to deny that 
the mental attitude has an immense effect on the success 
of diet ; but with due allowance for this, my present 
increased mental and physical power is a somewhat 
unusual record, considering my family history, which is 
one of strong constitution and bad health. 

To come now to the details of my diet : At breakfast, 
8 A.M., I eat a thick slice of home-made brown bread of 
the kind known as 'Graham/ made without yeast [see 
receipts in August] (to be bought from Heywood, 42 Queen 
Anne Street, London, W., but better made at home), with 
butter and marmalade, and a cup of hot separated milk 
tinged with coffee. I have reserved to myself the right to 
continue this self-indulgence of a small amount of coffee 
in my milk, in spite of Dr. Haig's warnings : first, because 
I so dislike the taste of milk, and secondly, because it 
leaves me something tangible to leave off in case advanc- 
ing years should make me less well. But I have a 
nephew who looks with horror at an aunt whom he used 
to think of as a kind of prophetess, who sits down at 8 
in the morning in front of a coffee-pot. People often ask 
me why I breakfast at 8. My general answer is that I 
like it, and that it gives me a nice long morning ; but the 
real reason why I recommend it to others is, that if food is 
taken at all in the morning, it must be taken five hours 
before the luncheon time, as I think piling on another 
meal before the previous one is digested is one of the 
many causes of ill-health in the present day. 

At my second meal, 1.30, 1 eat potatoes and vegetables 
that are in season, experiencing no harm from young peas 
or beans, but finding asparagus quite a poison to me. 
Three years ago I wrote to Dr. Haig, saying that I had 
been less well, and asking if it could be from asparagus, 
as I had been eating it twice a day for ten days during my 



HEALTH 5 

full spring supply. He answered that, as far as he knew, 
asparagus was quite harmless, and that he thought I must 
have taken a chill. Last year, on the same symptoms 
reappearing, I wrote again. Dr. Haig replied as follows : 
' I write a line at once to tell you what I know will 
interest you that the asparagus is the cause of all your 
troubles.' This did not surprise me very much, as I knew 
that thirty years ago Dr. Garrod, the great gout specialist 
of that time, used to forbid asparagus to his patients. In 
winter, for the sake of change, I sometimes eat some well- 
cooked lentils. At this meal I generally eat salad, with 
about an ounce of cheese and a good big slice of home- 
made white bread with butter. If I still feel hungry I eat a 
milky pudding and some stewed fruit. This is unwise for 
those who are dyspeptics, as fruit and vegetables are best 
kept for separate meals (see Dr. Kellogg's ' Science in the 
Kitchen ') ; fortunately, I have had a good digestion all 
my life. My great object has always been, within certain 
health conditions, to keep my feeding as nearly as possible 
that which will fit in with the non-dietists who surround 
me. For instance, I always serve potatoes with fish, that 
I may take something and so save the depressing effect of 
a person sitting so long at table without eating anything ; 
and once or twice a month I have been known to take a 
little bit of fish if I fancied it, especially if I have been 
lunching or dining out, though I have proved conclusively 
that so simple a food (according to ordinary ideas) as 
plain boiled fish, if I eat it two or three days running, 
has a distinctly injurious effect on the rheumatic pain 
in my hip. 

This sensitiveness to change of food is one of the 
strongest arguments used by the opponents of diet, and I 
confess it has some disadvantages ; but this applies to all 
forms of abstinence, and I would rather suffer occasionally 
than submit to an habitually low standard of health. The 



6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

enemies of dieting and most doctors to whom I have 
spoken about it are of the number declare that the great 
objection to strict dieting is that it weakens the digestion. 
This, I think, is quite true of the Salisbury diet namely, 
meat and hot water, as that gives the digestion next to 
nothing to do, and dilutes the gastric juices with quan- 
tities of hot water ; but Dr. Haig's diet of cereals, cheese, 
milk, salad, raw fruit, and vegetables, is by no means easy 
of digestion, and the quickness with which I am now 
made aware of the harmfulness of many things that I used 
to take with apparent impunity, is in my opinion due, 
not to a weakened digestion, but to a return of healthy 
sensitiveness, induced by living for a long time on the 
natural food of man. I am quite sure if meat were given 
to horses, cows, or monkeys, though starvation might force 
them to eat it, they would be made very ill by such a diet. 
Eightly or wrongly, this seems to me the attitude to take 
towards the objection raised against what is called the 
' weak digestion ' of the vegetarian. 

We have always been told that dyspeptics live for ever 
this only means that nature is severely kind and sets 
pain as a sentinel to warn them when they have eaten 
something which they are unable to assimilate, and ex- 
perience teaches them what to take and what to avoid ; 
whereas the person of strong digestion, warned by no 
suffering, swallows everything and thinks he may do so 
with impunity. We all know how healthy children and 
healthy animals show when anything disagrees with them, 
and some of us well remember how the old nurses used 
to say, ' The sick baby always thrives/ meaning the baby 
whose stomach refused to be overloaded. 

At 5 o'clock, for the meal which I still call ' Tea,' with 
the same truthfulness that I say ' The sun sets ' though 
I know it doesn't, I drink one or two teacups of separated 
milk and hot water in equal proportions, and eat two or 



HEALTH 7 

three pieces of toast made from home-made white bread, 
with butter, jam or honey, or watercress. 

The meal at night when I am alone I own I seldom 
enjoy. I sometimes, besides home-made bread, have 
melted cheese (see receipts), or macaroni, sometimes 
rice and onions or other vegetable, with bread and butter 
and a little dried or fresh fruit, or both. At meals I drink 
very little indeed, milk being counted as nourishment 
rather than drink, but if I feel thirsty I take a little 
water great thirst I should look upon as a sign of bad 
health, unless produced by excessive exercise. It is not 
a necessity, but I constantly drink a tumbler, or half a 
tumbler, of either moderately hot or cold water on getting 
up in the morning or on going to bed, or perhaps both. 

Many people would say, ' So strict a way of diet would 
make life unbearable,' but after a time this strictness so 
changes the taste that the simpler foods are really enjoyed, 
and I distinctly think, that when people have dieted for 
several years, the amount of harm done by an occasional 
relapse is so small that the social convenience of it makes 
it worth while, so long as it is acknowledged as a conces- 
sion to weakness and not a thing to be continued. It is 
what is done every day that matters. 

People often tell me they feel so much better when 
they leave off the diet. This would only be a proof to me 
that they had not strictly dieted long enough, or had been 
under-nourished, and that the return to stimulating food 
does for them what alcohol does for those who already have 
too much in their system, and is merely a putting back of 
ultimate cure. I think all who have tried the diet 
for some time can always regulate it according to their 
varying requirements, if they will read the books and 
give the matter a little consideration. I, for instance, am 
always being told that I underfeed, and Dr. Haig never 
sees me without expressing his surprise that I am as well 



8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

as I am, considering that I live a good deal on vegetables 
and certainly, as a rule, take much below the correct 
amount of proteids for my age and weight. My under- 
feeding cannot be serious, for I sleep my six or seven 
hours, have not lost or gained flesh, and feel perfectly well. 
I often have tried to add food of a more nourishing kind, 
such as curd cheese, Plasmon biscuits, milk, &c., but after 
a few days I generally find it has a tendency to bring on 
a slight return of rheumatic stiffness. I am inclined to 
think that the doctors who preach great moderation, 
whatever the diet, such as Dr. Keith and Dr. Dewey, have 
a good deal of truth on their side, as, though the proper 
standard of strength will never be attained by the under- 
fed, still the full allowance of food may go to feed the 
particular weakness or ailment which people of a certain 
age are almost sure to have, and will thus prevent them 
reaching the level of health they might have on a lower 
standard. People seem to assimilate food so differently 
that, given there is no permanent pallor, especially no very 
white gums, or sense of fatigue, each one must judge a 
little for himself what he requires. Did I not suffer less 
from fatigue than I have ever done in my life, I should try 
harder to live up to the standard settled by physiologists 
as necessary to health, and which would doubtless be 
essential were I younger. I tried some Grape-nuts in the 
winter and felt a hot Hercules for a few days, but I believe 
them to be distinctly a gout-making food. 

Two or three years ago I had occasion to go to an 
oculist to see if my spectacles required strengthening. 
I begged him to test my eyes thoroughly. At the end of 
the interview I asked him if in every respect they were up 
to a good average standard for my age. He said most 
certainly they were, and in a most healthy condition. 
I then asked whether he would be surprised to hear that I 
had for some years been what is called a vegetarian. He 



HEALTH 9 

immediately assumed a serious medical manner and said, 
' Up to now it seems to have done you no harm, but, 
please, don't go on with it too long ! ' the manner implying 
that terrible things might happen. I smilingly replied that 
I promised I would give it up the moment I was less well. 
I mention this to encourage people to meet the opposition 
which they must expect from all doctors, nurses, aurists, 
oculists, and dentists in fact, all the minds trained on 
the lines of the regular accepted medical teaching. The 
study of food in relation to health is a branch of medical 
science as yet in its infancy, for the best authorities, as 
may be seen in the standard text-books on Materia 
Medica, own that they know next to nothing of meta- 
bolism, or the changes undergone by food in the body. 

A great many people tell me that diet involves so 
deep a knowledge of physiology that they cannot possibly 
undertake it. They cannot risk the responsibility of going 
against their doctor. They say to me, ' How can I fight 
a man who has given his lifetime to the study of these 
things, and who must know so much more about them 
than I can, even if I give my best attention to studying 
them ? ' But is this the truth ? Has not the doctor been 
taught to study drugs for the cure of disease rather than 
food as the basis of health ? He never gives diet much 
consideration except in the case of over-eating in severe 
illness. In giving a mother rules for the health of her 
children, doctors will constantly recommend fresh air, 
exercise, and above all sufficient nourishment ; but they 
rarely give any details as to the best kind of nourish- 
ment. I have heard of a doctor who recommended a 
non-flesh diet to one of his patients, and on expressing 
his surprise at finding he had really followed it, said, 
' There are at least 120 of my patients who would be 
benefited by it, but not one of them would do it.' I 
think this is only natural, as the moment the patient was 



io A THIRD POT-POURRI 

better he would say, ' Does Dr. practise this diet 

himself and in his own family ? If not, why am I to do 
it now I am better ? ' Can anyone think that vaccination 
would be so universally accepted if doctors and their 
children were not themselves vaccinated ? 

Only those people who have strength of character 
enough to take responsibility against public opinion 
should attempt the simpler food diet. To begin it hap- 
hazard with no knowledge and little faith is almost 
bound to end in failure. The undeniable success of the 
diet upon myself has caused many people to say, ' There 
is no doubt this diet suits you,' with an emphasis on 
the ' you/ intended to convey ' what suits you, would 
be fatal to me.' With these I go no further. The real 
fact is an immense number of people are very fairly well, 
and much enjoy the good things of life, including food, 
between their attacks of illness. They entirely forget the 
expense of time, strength, and money entailed by these 
little attacks of colds, bilious headaches, feverishness, &c., 
the mornings spent in bed, the afternoons on a sofa in 
a darkened room, the days lost at business from bronchitis 
and influenza. 

If people could once be persuaded that the reduction 
of luxurious food does mean improved health, I think I 
should hear less about the extreme self-denial involved in 
my diet. The man who comes down in the morning and 
grumbles because he likes neither of the two hot dishes 
provided for breakfast, would be the last to consider him- 
self either a luxurious liver or an invalid ; but, having 
been convinced by the preaching of years that he must 
' keep himself up ' by eating well, any change from a 
three-meal a day meat diet, without considering sand- 
wiches at 5 o'clock tea, strikes him with horror as a 
low diet which will result in ' running down ' and losing 
the strength of mind and body so necessary for work. 



HEALTH ii 

This ' running down ' does indeed happen not infrequently 
as a result of the old-fashioned unintelligent vegetarianism. 
A great obstacle to change of diet is the family doctor. 
I have known two or three who sadly needed it them- 
selves, and having tried it more or less for a few months, 
pronounced it a failure because the good result was 
not instantaneous. The best results never come under 
eighteen months or two years. I wish to warn people 
that if they consult their doctor no diet will be tried. 
The doctors must be educated by the public. The ma- 
jority of them have no idea of giving up their own food 
and social enjoyment, though I have heard of a few of 
those very men recommending it to their wives I Doctors 
are good kind men on their own lines, and devoted to 
their profession as long as it means curing illness by 
drugs ; but a little reflection teaches us that the members 
of a learned profession are naturally the very persons 
least disposed to innovation upon the practices which 
custom and prescription have rendered sacred in their 
eyes. A lawyer is not the person to consult upon bold 
reforms in jurisprudence, and a physician can scarcely be 
expected to own that diet may cure diseases which resist 
an armament of phials. Every feeling of a doctor must 
be against a system which does not profess to be a cure 
of active disease, but a radical reverse of all the pre- 
conceived ideas of maintaining health, and is also a 
denial of the principles taught by the College of Surgeons. 
All the same there are hopeful signs that a great change 
is coming about. Dr. Lionel Beale used to tell young 
practitioners many years ago that they would often come 
across cases for which starvation was the only cure, but 
he said, ' Of course, if a patient came to you and you 
advised him to starve himself, you would never see him 
again. But there are many ways of inculcating good 
advice without shocking the nerves of sensitive people 



12 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

who suppose that abstinence from food for a few hours 
means death. Tell your patient not to take any solid food 
for a week. Order him a little beef-tea three times a day. 
Towards evening he may take with it a biscuit, or a little 
dry toast. . . . By a little exercise of ingenuity you may 
suggest various things to take that will satisfy him, but 
which altogether will not amount to much.' 

To-day's post brings me this account of what is called 
a ' holiday doctor ' in a neighbouring village. The patient, 
a strict vegetarian, had caught measles. She writes : 
' We had a sensible young doctor who knew nothing of my 
ordinary way of living. He gave me no medicine, and 
recommended me to give up lobster and pork. He was 
much interested because I had rheumatism in the joints, 
which he said he had heard of in measles, but never seen. 
As to medicines, he said he never took any himself. As 
I said I did not like them, he said he would not offer me 
any till I asked him for some. " But," he added, " most 
people will have them, even if one only sends them 
a little coloured water." With high fever I have always 
before this had headache, but this time I had no headache. 
The rash rushed out, and vanished suddenly the second 
day. I have had a most comfortable illness, and really 
actually feel the better for it.' The recommendation not 
to eat pork and lobster makes me think of a story of 
forty years ago. An uncle of mine, Mr. Charles Villiers, 
returning from one of the German baths, told us he had 
been much amused by the German doctor in his parting 
instructions, saying, after a good deal of apologetic attempt 
to soften the blow, ' There is one thing I really must beg 
you not to eat, and that is bear's flesh ! ' 

The oft-repeated injunction of doctors to eat chicken 
and fish after illness has sometimes amusing results 
amongst the uneducated classes. A soldier who had been 
off duty for some days with a severe bilious attack came 



HEALTH t 13 

back and said with pride to the inquiring officer that he 
was much better, and his wife had given him a 'nice 
dinner of tinned salmon ! ' 

My last word is, if you want to try the diet on children, 
you must have both faith and knowledge enough to fight 
nine doctors out of ten, although in my experience, with 
adults, they are quite willing to leave all matters of food 
and even drink to the patients themselves, merely 
cautiously changing the wine or recommending none at 
all. I had one friend, a doctor, who had the honesty to 
say to me after years of threatening me with every kind 
of misfortune, ' Mrs. Earle, what would happen to doctors 
if everybody lived as you do ? ' He also confessed to me, 
with great generosity, that in consequence of what I had 
said, no doubt assisted by the way the profession recom- 
mends Plasmon, he had had great success with two inebriate 
female patients by making them drink dissolved Plasmon, 
mixed with tea, milk, barley-water, &c. Plasmon should 
never be used without being first dissolved by boiling it 
in a little water, and this must be done even when it 
is introduced into puddings, cakes, biscuits, or any food 
or drink whatsoever. Plasmon is now being so much 
used by those who I consider are already suffering from 
over-feeding, that both Plasmon and Protene, as well as 
many other concentrated foods, promise to be, in my 
opinion, a considerable danger in the future. 

Sir Henry Thompson, in his most practical and 
temperately written book, ' Diet in Eelation to Age and 
Activity,' says : ' Eespecting the act of eating itself, it is 
desirable to add a few words here. Not many persons 
learn the importance of performing it rightly in youth and 
middle life. Indeed, it ought to be taught among other 
elementary lessons in physiology at every school in early 
life, a short course of which would be much more im- 
portant and far more interesting than some of the other 



i 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

courses which the existing curriculum contains. I mean 
by this, a simple description of the chief internal organs 
connected with digestion and how they act. Every child 
at eight or ten years of age should know what becomes 
of his bread and butter, and of his meat, when he gets it. 
I can scarcely conceive a better subject than this for a 
simple and entertaining talk to a class of these young 
people, with a diagram on the wall showing the chief 
organs contained in the chest and abdomen. Another 
chat about respiration and the circulation of the blood 
would follow at a later period. The subject is regarded 
with suspicion by the public, from the imposing effect of 
the five-syllabled Greek term "Physiology," which suggests 
the idea that I propose to teach young children " science " ! 
as if that term, let me remark, whenever it is used, 
denoted anything more than an "exact knowledge re- 
specting the matter in hand." ' 

How many mothers possess this knowledge which Sir 
Henry Thompson declares should be familiar to 'every 
child of eight or ten ' ? Can it be so very abstruse and 
difficult if children of this age can begin to learn it 
through the medium of ' a simple and entertaining talk ' ? 
A gardener who means to be successful is not content to 
work on hearsay ; he takes care to acquaint himself with 
the best books on the chemistry of soils, and by careful 
experiment builds up for himself a first-hand knowledge 
of the best foods for his plants ; and the same process is 
followed by the horse-breeder and the farmer of crops 
and cattle. The human animal alone, most precious and 
costly of all, is reared on the traditions of nurses and 
doctors, the mother apparently not thinking it her business 
to know anything of its anatomy and physiology, or of 
the chemistry of the food on which its healthy growth 
must so largely depend. For want of such knowledge, 
moreover, she is not really capable of judging of the 



HEALTH 15 

fitness of either doctor or nurse. Many of the women 
who object that this subject is too difficult for them will 
spend hours every day in reading current works of fiction, 
history, biography, travel, politics, &c., in order to establish 
or keep up a reputation for being ' well-read,' ' cultured,' 
or whatever the phrase may be which conveys the im- 
pression that they can take intelligent, if not brilliant, 
part in dinner-table conversation on the interests of the 
hour. If part of the time now spent by women in doing 
as a matter of course the work which contributes towards 
' social success ' were to be given to the elements of 
physiology, hygiene, and the chemistry of food, the health 
of future generations might be enormously improved. 
These are not subjects which can give any social brilliance ; 
they merely lay the foundation of physical, mental, and 
moral well-being in the family and the race. This is my 
reason for including at the end of this chapter a few of 
the books which quite clearly explain all that it is de- 
sirable to know ; Dr. Allinson's books, which are read and 
understood by thousands of the poorer classes, supply a 
good deal of instruction in a popular form. 

Eeturning from London, in February this year, where 
I had caught a cold in the head which never laid me up for 
an hour, I fancied I was a little less well. A friend sent 
me the American Dr. E. H. Dewey's book, ' A New Era 
for Women ' his text being Herbert Spencer's words : 
' If there were no eating without hunger, and no drinking 
without thirst, then would the system be but seldom out 
of working order.' The book is full of useful information 
his panacea being the abolition of breakfast and eating 
nothing till 12 or 1 o'clock. Out of curiosity I tried this 
for ten days with the same kind of benefit that I used to 
feel in old days when I took a tonic that suited me. I did 
not continue it for the same reasons which prevent my 
doing several things that I believe would be better for 



1 6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

me the unsociability, and finding that I got too hungry 
by 1.30, the luncheon hour, which I could not conveniently 
change. I think a great many people who live on the 
ordinary food, and have eaten a large dinner the night 
before, will find benefit from cutting off breakfast alto- 
gether, or, at any rate, diminishing it. 

My great. difficulty is when I pay visits, but as they 
seldom last for more than a week or ten days, and I have 
the courage to ask for servants' cheese even of the swellest 
butler, and as change of air always gives me an appetite, 
I generally come home feeling better than I went, whether 
I have underfed or not. This is the case even if I have 
eaten fish once or twice boiled fish, one of my remaining 
temptations, seeming to me one of the most harmless of 
uric-acid-containing foods. This term, uric acid, I find is 
bewilderingly mystifying to most of my friends, who seem 
to think it is a medical glorification of ordinary acidity. 
So far as I understand it, it is a necessarily component 
part of our body, but 75 per cent, of modern human 
beings have an excess of it. Every bit of flesh food, in- 
cluding fish and eggs, contains a certain portion of this 
substance, of which we have already too much ; therefore 
the very facility with which we digest it adds to its 
injuriousness, while its tonic properties add to its attrac- 
tiveness. 

One of the questions I am constantly asked is, ' Why 
may we not follow our instincts, and eat light foods in 
summer and meat in winter ? ' I should answer : Because 
I believe that many of our eating and drinking instincts, 
not coming from that actual healthy hunger which finds 
dry, good bread and plain water a delicious repast, are on 
the level of the inebriate's desire for alcohol. Given that 
we are underfeeding, we need more nourishment i.e., food 
containing albumen or proteid in hot weather than in 
cold, when we lead, as a rule, much more sedentary lives, 



HEALTH 17 

and take much less out of ourselves. What many people 
call ' natural ' is often most ' artificial,' and generally 
wrong. All my generation were brought up to think that 
beef-tea and pore-wine were naturally essential to fight 
the weakness consequent upon illness and fever ; now, 
except in very remote country districts, beef-tea is never 
ordered except as a substitute for brandy i.e., stimulant 
without nourishment. 

It is no small compliment to what is expected of diet 
that many people who have been ill or ailing for years 
under the ordinary regimen, and with the advice of 
various physicians, when they visit Dr. Haig, and begin 
his methods, express great anger if not instantly better, 
and instead of returning to give him the chance of 
changing his prescription viz., readjusting the diet 
throw up the whole system in disgust as a failure. This 
is, of course, most unreasonable. The other cause of 
anger against Dr. Haig is that he changes the details 
of the dietary he recommends. At first he had to accept, 
as all doctors do, the conclusions of others as to the con- 
stituents of food ; and in consequence he recommended 
the pulses peas, beans, and lentils. Further personal 
experience and first-hand investigation convinced him 
that these and a few other vegetable substances as 
asparagus, tea, coffee, cocoa, and mushrooms contained a 
poison differing but slightly from, and in no way less 
injurious than, the animal poison of uric acid. To me, 
changes in detail, round a central idea, are the greatest 
proof of intellectual growth. 

A vegetarian friend has related to me the explanation 
of the well-known story which goes the round of London, 
and is cited by doctors when asked by patients if they shall 
try Dr. Haig's diet, or consult him for rheumatism. The 
story is that when Dr. Haig read a paper on flesh-eating 
as the cause of rheumatism, before a medical congress 

c 



i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

some years ago, a member present asked a question which 
' floored him ' viz., why rheumatism was prevalent in 
many countries where no flesh was eaten ? The imme- 
diate answer did not occur to Dr. Haig, as he had not 
then carried his researches far enough to know that the 
pulses peas, beans, lentils and other vegetable sub- 
stances, as tea, coffee, &c., contain even more uric-acid- 
producing poison than meat itself. The question, how- 
ever, set him to work on those foods, with the result that 
he soon discovered the full answer to the question, 
and published it. This important point seems to have 
escaped the notice of those members of the profession who 
content themselves with telling only the first half of the 
story, which gives an inaccurate and unfair impression. 
I myself have often been asked why horses get rheu- 
matism. My answer has always been, ' Too many oats ' ; 
for years ago, from his study of animals while soldiering 
in wild countries, my husband used to tell me that excess 
of cereal foods, with their high percentages of acid salts, 
caused rheumatism in horses unless well balanced by 
fresh green foods. 

I have found that my difficulties in wishing to provide 
my guests with what they like to eat have been immensely 
increased of late years. As long as one's friends are 
mixed feeders, a great variety of diet is necessary. The 
best solution has seemed to me that the invalids should 
have their meals apart, and that in mixed company there 
should be three side-tables. On one of these, soup, fish, 
meat, and vegetables ; on another, farinaceous foods 
and stewed fruits, Plasmon and other biscuits ; and on 
another, fresh raw fruits and nuts. The great thing is to 
reduce courses and to serve dinners more as luncheons or 
suppers, everything being brought in at the same time 
This helps to disguise what people eat, and what they 
don't eat. Cheese is always offered with the salad to 



HEALTH 19 

those who do nob eat meat. I have no wish to be ex- 
travagant and give dainties which no one will eat, and a 
whole dinner of soup, fish, two meats and a sweet, for one 
or two people, while the rest eat only some vegetarian food, 
is rather obviously uncomfortable not only for the hostess 
but for the guest and I confess a general tone of ab- 
stinence, and desire to prove indifference to food and 
drink, have greatly increased in my house in the last few 
years. This is in a measure due, no doubt, to people's 
kindness of heart and friendliness towards an old woman 
with a crank ; for I know my sons have often been con- 
doled with on the excessive pity it is that their mother 
has gone mad on the food question, the speaker putting it 
down, no doubt, to nervous depression from starvation, or 
failure from old age. 

I, myself, have now considerable dread that mere 
abstemiousness should lead to underfeeding, which all seem 
agreed upon as the greatest danger for the young ; and if 
mixed feeders ask my advice, I say, ' Knock off wrong foods 
at breakfast as much as you like, but keep your other 
meals very much what you have been accustomed to until 
you have time to attend properly to the subject, and 
decide what is really the best diet for you.' Sportsmen 
and others who lead an habitually outdoor life can eat 
most things, and a middle-aged nephew, who has always 
led a healthy country life, said to me lately, ' My system 
is never to allow my stomach to dictate to me. The other 
day I took a glass of beer which, as you know, I never 
drink. It disagreed violently with me ; so I said, " Very 
well ; you shall have it every day for a week, and I got 
perfectly used to it. Then I left it off.' There is a rough 
truth in this ; an immense number of people can eat, with 
apparent immunity, for many years the food they are used 
to. But this is a question of training the digestion to 
assimilate and not refuse unaccustomed food, and is quite 



20 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

a different matter to well-digested food introducing poison 
into the system, if that food contains poison. 

A friend staying with me received the other day the 
following account of a large dinner to mixed dietists, after a 
meeting on Theosophy, the description being by a semi-con- 
vert to strict diet who was present : ' I was much amused 
to see one odd-looking person after another, with various 
degrees of dyspeptic appearance, helping themselves, with a 
pious air of exclusiveness, to one tomato, or a dish of beans, 
while some took fish, and others refused it with horror, 
and all agreed that meat was anathema. Certain stolid, 
wholesome-looking folk ploughed steadily through the 
whole menu, from soup to fruit ; and another entertaining 
point to the naughty scoffer was the amount of food-talk 
among the " dietists," while the brutal carnivora had 
leisure to devote themselves to other subjects ! One of 
the elect, who was daintily regaling himself on an apple 
and a glass of milk, explained to me, as I ate my salmon 
and cucumber, the brutalities of the slaughter-house and 
fisheries, and when I demurred to the statement that 
animals reared for food have a bad time of it, my opposite 
neighbour leaned forward and solemnly informed me that 
" some day I should have to be eaten " ! ' Does not this 
comic account of a modern effort to imitate the old bar- 
baric method of bringing people together by providing 
them with food and stimulants, rather suggest that, in 
the future, the one animal function we still perform in 
public eating and drinking may cease to be the pivot 
of sociability, and that when we wish to see a friend, old 
or new, we shall some day write : ' Come and have a chat 
with me ' instead of ' Come and dine, or lunch, or have a 
cup of tea ' ? 

The accusation that dietists talk too much about their 
food is perfectly true, and must be guarded against ; at 
the same time, I am all for people talking about the sub- 



HEALTH 21 

jects that particularly interest them at the moment, for 
' out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh,' and 
the tendency of conversation at many dinner-tables, even 
when stimulated by meat and wine, often does not rise 
above the level of sport, scandal, or games. A few years 
ago it was bicycles, now it is motors that often absorb a 
whole evening. 

The breaking up of uniformity in food may be the 
initial stage of transition to a higher civilisation, luxury 
in social entertainment, both in food and drink, having 
governed the world too long. Just think what it means 
as showing the change that has come over the world, that 
a conquering general on his return home should think it 
desirable to write such an appeal to his countrymen as 
Lord Roberts' letters to the press on ' treating ' soldiers. 
He wrote two letters, the second emphasising the first ; 
and so much did I honour him for such action, and so 
important did I feel it to be to spread the knowledge of his 
wishes in every possible way, that, together with some 
of my neighbours, I had large posters printed and 
circulated in the village, giving the full text of the letter, 
and headed in red ink : ' Return of our soldiers from South 
Africa.' I take the liberty of including the letter here, 
' lest we forget ' : 

' Sir, Will you kindly allow me, through the medium 
of your paper, to make an appeal to my countrymen and 
women upon a subject I have very much at heart, and 
which has been occupying my thoughts for some time ? 

' All classes in the United Kingdom have shown such a 
keen interest in the army serving in South Africa, and 
have been so munificent in their efforts to supply every 
need of that army, that I feel sure they must be eagerly 
looking forward to its return, and to giving our brave 
soldiers and sailors the hearty welcome they so well 
deserve when they get back to their native land. 



22 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

'It is about the character of this welcome, and the 
effects it may have on the reputations of the troops whom 
I have been so proud to command, that I am anxious, 
and that I venture to express an opinion. My sincere 
hope is that the welcome may not take the form of 
" treating " the men to stimulants in public-houses or in 
the streets, and thus lead them into excesses which must 
tend to degrade those whom the nation delights to honour, 
and to lower the " soldiers of the Queen " in the eyes of 
the world that world which has watched with undis- 
guised admiration the grand work they have performed 
for their Sovereign and their country. From the very 
kindness of their hearts, their innate politeness, and their 
gratitude for the welcome accorded them, it will be 
difficult for the men to refuse what is offered to them by 
their too generous friends. 

' I therefore beg earnestly that the British public will 
refrain from tempting my gallant comrades, but will 
rather aid them to uphold the splendid reputation they 
have won for the imperial army. I am very proud that I 
am able to record, with the most absolute truth, that the 
conduct of this army from first to last has been exemplary. 
Not one single case of serious crime has been brought to 
my notice indeed, nothing that deserves the name of 
crime. There has been no necessity for appeals or orders 
to the men to behave properly. I have trusted implicitly 
to their own soldierly feelings and good sense, and I have 
not trusted in vain. They bore themselves like heroes on 
the battlefield, and like gentlemen on all other occasions. 
Most malicious falsehoods were spread abroad by the 
authorities in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal as 
to the brutality of Great Britain's soldiers, and as to the 
manner in which the women and children might expect to 
be treated. We found on first entering towns and villages, 
doors closed and shops shut up, while only English-born 



HEALTH 23 

people were to be seen in the streets. But very shortly 
all this was changed. Doors were left open, shutters 
were taken down, and people of all nationalities moved 
freely about in the full assurance that they had nothing 
to fear from " the man in khaki," no matter how battered 
and war-stained his appearance. This testimony will, I 
feel sure, be very gratifying to the people of Great Britain, 
and of that Greater Britain whose sons have shared to 
the fullest extent in the suffering as well as the glory of 
the war, and who have helped so materially to bring it to 
a successful close. 

' I know how keen my fellow-subjects will be to show 
their appreciation of the upright and honourable bearing, 
as well as the gallantry of our sailors and soldiers, and I 
would entreat them, in return for all these grand men 
have done for them, to abstain from any action that might 
bring the smallest discredit upon those who have so 
worthily upheld the credit of their country. 

'I am induced to make this appeal from having read, 
with great regret, that when our troops were leaving 
England, and passing through the streets of London, their 
injudicious friends pressed liquor upon them, and shoved 
bottles of spirits into their hands and pockets a mode of 
" speeding the parting " friend which resulted in some 
very distressing and discreditable scenes. I fervently 
hope there may be no such scenes to mar the brightness 
of the welcome home. 

' I remain, Sir, yours faithfully, 

' EOBEETS, P.M.' 



HEALTH BOOKS 

' Uric Acid as a Factor in the Causation of Disease,' 
a contribution to the pathology of high blood-pressure, 
headache, epilepsy, mental depression, paroxysmal haemo- 



2 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

globinuria, and anaemia, Bright's disease, diabetes, gout, 
rheumatism, and other disorders, by Alexander Haig, 
M.A., M.D. Oxon., F.K.C.P., Physician to the Metro- 
politan Hospital, and the Koyal Hospital for Children 
and Women; late Casualty Physician to St. Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital. Fifth edition, with seventy-five illustra- 
tions. (Churchill, London.) 

In spite of having mentioned this book before, I must 
re-name it here at the head of these health books, as the 
more I understand the subject, the more I am convinced 
that it is one of the most important books on medical 
science that have ever been given by a doctor to the public. 

I am told that it is much disputed here in England, 
though how it is scientifically disproved I am not able to 
judge. It has been translated into German, and, with 
their usual broadmindedness in matters of science, German 
doctors and scientists are taking a deep and practical 
interest in Dr. Haig's researches, and are even coming 
over here to consult him ; whereas in England I was 
lately told by a medical man of high standing and large 
practice, that ' Dr. Haig stood alone in his opinions, which 
were not shared by a single member of his profession.' 
Anyone who knows even as much of the matter as I do, 
knows this to be quite untrue. How far Dr. Haig's book 
has been seriously considered and answered in his own 
country I am not in a position to decide, but I do know 
that I have the names of over a score of doctors who are 
working on his lines. 1 

The book is a big one and costs 14s., a sum which 
may be deterrent to many in these non-bookbuying days. 
It is hard reading, highly technical, and almost impossible 
for a lay-mind to read straight through ; but as a book of 

1 Leaflets of instruction in the best ways of beginning the diet 
are given by Dr. Haig to his patients, and are to be got by writing 
for them to A. Haig, Esq., M.D., 7 Brook Street, W. 



HEALTH 25 

reference it is singularly clear and instructive, the index 
being so good that any subject can be readily looked 
up. 

' Diet and Food in Relation to Strength and Power of 
Endurance.' Haig. Fourth edition. Seven illustrations. 

This book, costing only 2s., has been prepared by Dr. 
Haig for the general public in order to make plain and 
easy the A B C of his theory, so that the many sufferers 
from the diseases he has specially investigated may begin 
their studies and have an opportunity of being able in 
time to judge for themselves. 

I must again repeat that all hope of real improvement 
in the standard of health must come through the intel- 
ligent experience of the public teaching the doctors. 

Even those who already possess the earlier editions of 
this book I strongly recommend to get this latest one, as 
it contains valuable additional pages on bread foods i.e., 
not only good home-made unadulterated loaves and bis- 
cuits, but all the many kinds and combinations of cereal 
products, such as wheat, barley, oats, maize, rice. There 
is also an interesting page of dental illustration, which 
ought to end the old controversy as to man being car- 
nivorous or omnivorous. 

One of the most interesting converts to the diet is 
Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A., the well-known tennis champion 
and Cambridge coach, who has frankly given to the 
public his personal experience in ' Muscle, Brain, and 
Diet,' a book which contains most useful general instruc- 
tion about food and health, together with some excellent 
cookery receipts for the simpler diet one of which I 
include in my list of cooking receipts, it being in my 
opinion much too good to be missed. Two other useful 
volumes for the student of food as the basis of health, 
are Mr. Miles' ' Failures of Vegetarianism,' which is far 
more helpful than all the successes I have ever read of, 



26 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

because it warns beginners of the errors they are almost 
sure to fall into if unguided : and ' Better Food for Boys,' 
a little Is. number of Messrs. Bell & Sons' ' Life and Light ' 
Series, which brings the subject poignantly home to 
parents, guardians, and schoolmasters, and by providing 
a table of food values enables everyone, girls and adults, 
as well as boys, to calculate the right quantity and kind 
of food necessary for health though nothing but personal 
trial and careful observation and patience will teach each 
individual the best food for his or her particular constitu- 
tion and way of life. 

' Avenues to Health.' This last of Mr. Miles' books on 
this subject is, perhaps, the most important of all, for it is 
brim full of generally interesting information culled from 
all kinds of sources, old and new, Western and Oriental, 
as to the best means to attain and maintain the highest 
physical and psychical health. 

My friend, Miss Adela Curtis, writes me the following 
notice of three useful pamphlets : 

' When first we opened our bookshop, we got a 
quantity of little penny books on diet from Mr. Albert 
Broadbent, of Manchester, and experimented by putting 
one or two in the window, and about the shop casually 
among the other books. It may interest you, as much as 
it amused us, to learn that these little things were picked 
up, looked into, and bought by all classes of people, 
whenever we happened to bring them forward. One of 
these, " Forty Vegetarian Dinners," of which 20,000 have 
been sold, contains an interesting introduction by the 
Hon. Mrs. F. J. Bruce, whose testimony as the mother of 
a large and healthy family, and the head of a household 
numbering some twenty-two members, is exceptionally 
valuable, seeing that she has nothing but praise for the 
system after sixteen years' practice. 

' Another of these dainty pennyworths, now^ in its 



HEALTH 27 

seventeenth thousand, is called " Science in the Daily 
Meal," and gives carefully proportioned dietaries for six- 
teen days, as well as helpful advice for curing common 
ailments, and many remarkable extracts on the evils of 
modern diet from the works of Professor Atwater, the 
great American chemist, Dr. B. Williams of the Middlesex 
Cancer Hospital, Drs. Haig, Bouchard, Boix, Virchow, 
and Kellogg. This little book has lately been enlarged 
to a 3d. edition in paper and Qd. in cloth. 

' "Fruits, Nuts, and Vegetables : their Uses as Food 
and Medicine," a new 3d. edition of a booklet which has 
gone to its forty-fourth thousand, is an admirable com- 
pilation, adapting the quaint and half-forgotten lore of 
many herbals to the needs of modern life.' 

A friend sent me the other day Dr. E. H. Dewey's 
book, ' A New Era for Women : Health without Drugs.' 
This book seems to have considerable attraction for many 
people, but I should say it was rather addressed to those 
who take drugs, or who over-eat, as his great panacea for 
health seems to be leaving off breakfast a remedy much 
more necessary in America, where they have ten dishes at 
that meal. He preaches a great deal what we are all be- 
ginning to know and even to believe that Nature is a 
wonder worker. His system of no-breakfast is based on the 
fact that sleep never makes anyone hungry, the gnawing 
sensation in the morning which people mistake for hunger 
being caused by the indigestion of the previous night's 
dinner or supper. Food will certainly stop this pain, but 
only at the expense of further digestive trouble, and hot 
water would be the best treatment of this spurious hunger, 
as it would cleanse the stomach of its unwholesome con- 
dition and help it to regain a normal and healthy desire 
for food. Most people relieve it by biscuits and milk in 
the night. Of course, there is such a thing as healthy 
hunger in the morning for those who have well digested 



28 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

their dinner the night before, and who have done several 
hours' work before breakfast. 

' The Perfect Way in Diet.' A book which for its size 
contains a greater wealth of scientific information than 
almost any I know on the subject, is ' The Perfect Way 
in Diet,' by Mrs. Anna Kingsford, M.D. It is a transla- 
tion of her ' These pour le Doctorat ' presented at the 
Facult6 de Medicine of Paris on taking her degree in 
1880, and is just one of those good things which the 
public is apt to lose sight of in the rush of new books. 
The treatise opens with a clear and able condensation of 
anatomical and physiological evidence for man's frugi- 
vorous habit, culminating in the following passage : ' If 
we have consecrated to this sketch of comparative anatomy 
and physiology a paragraph which may seem a little 
wearisome in detail, it is because it appears necessary to 
combat certain erroneous impressions affecting the struc- 
ture of man which obtain credence, not only in the vulgar 
world, but even among otherwise instructed persons.' 
How many times, for instance, have we not heard people 
speak with all the authority of conviction about the 
' canine teeth ' and ' simple stomach ' of man, as certain 
evidence of his natural adaptation for a flesh diet ! At 
least we have demonstrated one fact : that if such argu- 
ments are valid, they apply with even greater force to the 
anthropoid apes whose ' canine ' teeth are much longer 
and more powerful than those of man and the scientists 
must make haste therefore to announce a rectification of 
their present division of the animal kingdom in order to 
class with the carnivora and their proximate species all 
those animals which now make up the order of primates. 
And yet with the solitary exception of man, there is not 
one of these last which does not in a natural condition 
absolutely refuse to feed on flesh ! M. Pouchet, in his 
' Plurality de la Eace Humaine,' observes that all the 



HEALTH 29 

details of the digestive apparatus in man, as well as his 
dentition, constitute ' so many proofs of his frugivorous 
origin ' an opinion shared by Professor Owen, who re- 
marks that the anthropoids and all the quadrumana derive 
their alimentation from fruits, grains, and other succulent 
and nutritive vegetable substances, and that the strict 
analogy which exists between the structure of these 
animals and that of man clearly demonstrates his frugi- 
vorous nature. This is also the view taken by Cuvier in 
' Le Kegne Animal,' Professor Lawrence in ' Lectures on 
Physiology,' Charles Bell in ' Diseases of the Teeth,' 
Linnaeus, Gassendi, Mourens, and a great number of 
other eminent writers. The last-named scientist gives 
expression to his views after the following manner : ' Man 
is neither carnivorous nor herbivorous. He has neither 
the teeth of the cud-chewers, nor their four stomachs, nor 
their intestines. If we consider these organs in man, we 
must conclude him to be by nature and origin frugivorous, 
as is the ape. It may possibly be objected that since, 
according to natural structure and propensities, man is a 
fruit and seed eater, he ought not to partake of those 
leguminous plants and roots which belong rather to the 
dietary of the herb-eaters, whose organisation we have 
shown to differ in so many details from that of man. It 
may be urged that trouble is wasted in proving to what 
order man belongs by nature, since with him, alone of all 
animals, Art has superseded Nature, and has enabled him 
by means of fire, condiments, and disguise, to eat and 
digest without disgust, and even with relish, the food of 
the tiger, the wolf, and the hyena. Such objections are 
not without an air of reason ; and I shall meet them 
first by the frank statement that the most excellent and 
proper aliments of which our race can make use consist 
of tree-fruits and seeds, and not of the plants themselves, 
whether foliage or roots.' 



30 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Just lately a book has come to my hand which I think 
will be of the greatest use to those who are staggered by 
Dr. Haig's scientific language. It is called 'Medical 
Essays,' by T. E. Allinson, physician and surgeon, but note, 
as he does on his title-page, that he is ' Ex ' L.E.C.P., &c. 
This book, in 1901, had reached its twenty-ninth thousand, 
a sale as cheering as it is enormous, showing as it does 
how its teaching must have permeated all classes. It is 
in fact a popular mixture of very short articles on health, 
food, ailments, management of children, and general in- 
structions for right living, and makes the whole subject 
of physical well-being so plain and straightforward, that 
I think no head of a young family should be without it. 
So many are deterred from trying moderation and abste- 
miousness by the severity of Dr. Haig's measures, that it 
might help them greatly to read Dr. Allinson's explanations, 
and begin by trying his less strict form of diet. I should 
certainly have bought his largest book (price 10s. 6d) if I 
had known of it. As it was, I got Book P. at 65. Qd., 
which is naturally less complete. 

Dr. Allinson's main principle seems to be that the 
greater proportion of disease is brought about by our own 
ignorance. I know well that in my youth when I ate a 
large breakfast, which always made me feel uncomfortable, 
I did it with the sincere belief that I was adding to my 
strength and working power during the day, whereas it 
often took me an hour and a half to get over the first 
effects of the meal, especially in winter. Dr. Allinson 
states in his preface that what he writes is also ' the be- 
ginning, I hope, of a school of healing that will take the 
place of allopathy and homoeopathy.' I feel sure that while 
medicines are still taken, strict dieting is much impeded 
in its benefits. Till all drugs are left off, few can judge 
of what they want in the way of food. 

1 A Treatise on the Tonic System of treating Affections of 



HEALTH 31 

the Stomach and Brain.' By Henry Searle, Surgeon, Ken- 
nington Common. Published by Eichard & John Taylor. 
London. 1843. 

Amidst the rush of modern medical books, it is not 
otherwise than sobering and extremely interesting to take 
up an old book, and see what doctors believed and what 
they taught sixty years ago. It is one of the most 
beautiful articles of the creed of the profession, that no 
knowledge they obtain, no invention they make must ever 
be kept secret, but always openly given both to fellow- 
members and to the public. This is a noble idea, and 
often constitutes the great difference between a doctor 
and what is called a ' quack/ for the latter is apt to keep 
his discoveries to himself in order to make money out of 
them. 

There are many notable things in this old book, and 
the stuffing and tonic system we were all brought up on 
is well argued ; but I mention it chiefly for its strong con- 
demnation of tea and coffee so early as 1843. The 
increase of tea-drinking in all classes is astonishing. Mr. 
Searle says, ' Previously to the introduction of tea into this 
Kingdom, disorders of the stomach were by no means so 
prevalent as they have been since. Tea in the evening is 
found particularly refreshing, and is therefore considered 
an indispensable article of diet; but the refreshing 
effects of tea are not always unalloyed, most unpleasant 
symptoms of indigestion being sometimes experienced im- 
mediately after taking it. As tea-drinking is a univer- 
sally established practice, it would be vain to recommend 
its discontinuance ; but it may be strongly urged that tea 
should be taken in small quantities, and of moderate 
strength, and that those who are troubled with indiges- 
tion should combine with it a large proportion of milk.' 
Only so did this timid doctor in the early Victorian 
period venture to advise the public. In my lifetime tea 



32 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

1 ' 
has been entirely discontinued after dinner. Twenty 

years ago I can remember how the tray used to come in 
after dinner, and be almost universally refused ; and is it 
not quite possible that the same fate may be in store for 
the 5 o'clock custom when once the young realise how 
bad it is for themselves and their children after them ? 
Alas, the same economic danger stares one in the face as 
with meat, beer, or spirits : hundreds would be ruined in 
India and Ceylon if the drinking of tea were appreciably 
to decrease, but I confess I have no sympathy with those 
who make money by the adulteration of food, or by the 
sale of beer, spirits, tea, opium, quack drugs, or anything 
else that brings ruin and misery through bad health to 
millions of human beings. 

Other books that I should like to recommend to 
students of health are Hutchinson's ' Dietetics,' Parke's 
' Practical Hygiene,' Dr. Fernie's ' Herbal Simples ' (5s.), 
Dr. Kellogg's ' Science in the Kitchen ' (12s. 6d.), and 
' The Stomach,' Mr. A. W. Duncan's ' Chemistry of Food,' 
and ' Foods and their Comparative Values,' Dr. Lehmann's 
' Eational Hygiene,' Dr. Poore's ' Eural Hygiene,' Dr. 
Dewey's ' True Science of Living,' Smith's ' Fruits and 
Farinacea,' Huxley's ' Elements of Physiology.' 

These and many other books, English and American, 
on health, education, &c., are kept in stock, as a rule, by 
Curtis & Davison, 4 High Street, Kensington. 

Having given the public this list of books, which, I 
believe, will help the introduction of a new and a better 
era, I cannot resist the pleasure of speaking of a French 
classic, ' La Physiologic du Gout, de Brillat-Savarin,' re- 
published in 1879 by the Librairie des Bibliophiles with 
Eaux-fortes par Ad. Lalauze. 

My own old edition was of 1841. Most people know 
his famous aphorism, ' Dis-moi ce que tu manges, et je te 
dirai ce que tu es.' This book by the friend of the Eeca- 



HEALTH 



33 



miers has all the charm of the best eighteenth-century 
French literature. 

It is perhaps unkind, but I should be more than human 
if I withstood the temptation to quote here what he says 
about the doctors in his day, in his chapter called ' Des 
Gourmands ' : ' Des causes d'une autre nature, quoique 
non moins puissantes, agissent sur les medecins : ils sont 
gourmands par seduction, et il faudrait qu'ils fussent de 
bronze pour resister a la force des choses. 

' Les chers docteurs sont d'autant mieux accueillis que 
la sante, qui est sous leur patronage, est le plus precieux 
de tous les biens ; aussi sont-ils enfants gates dans toute 
la force du terme. 

' Tou jours impatiemment attendus, ils sont accueillis 
avec empressement. C'est une jolie malade qui les 
engage ; c'est une jeune personne qui les caresse ; c'est 
un pere, c'est un mari, qui leur recommandent ce qu'ils 
ont de plus cher. L'esperance les tourne par la droite, 
la reconnaissance par la gauche ; on les embecque com me 
des pigeons ; ils se laissent faire, et en six mois 1'habitude 
est prise, ils sont gourmands sans retour.' 

In the editor's note to the 1879 edition he has a sen- 
tence which I think may form a motto very applicable to 
the eaters of the simpler foods compared with those who, 
up to now, have met to consume fish, flesh, and fowl. I 
claim that in the future the simpler foods may be as dainty 
and attractive as those recommended by Savarin, and that 
the contrast between the meals of the future and of the 
present will be as great as between the French cooking 
and the Eoman : ' Et d'ailleurs, il ne faut pas s'y tromper, 
la cuisine est ve'ritablement un art, art tout moderne, art 
tout franc.ais, et qui trouve en France son chantre le plus 
autorise. Les grands repas des Eomains n'etaient qu'un 
brutal amas de plats gigantesques, ou les mets et les 
ingredients de toutes sortes se trouvaient confondus dans 



34 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

des sauces dont la seule analyse nous souleve aujourd'hui 
le coeur. La description du plus beau festin de Lucullus 
ne peut rien inspirer d'analogue a la douce Emotion qu'on 
ressent en lisant le recit du simple et succulent dejeuner 
du cure 1 , si onctueusement raconte dans le paragraphe des 
" Variet6s " qui a pour titre " L'Omelette au thon." ' 

I would recommend all those interested in the instruc- 
tion of the young to get ' A Short Account of the Human 
Body,' by Owen Lancaster, lecturer to the Natural Health 
Society, published by Allman & Son, 67 New Oxford 
Street, W.C., price 2s. 6d. It contains a coloured picture 
of a manikin with the skin removed, and folds that lift up 
and show the position of the internal organs. This 
diagram is exciting and interesting, and would inspire the 
young with a kind of reverential feeling for their internal 
machinery, of which they know so little, and which they 
treat so often with great unfairness. It has long been 
said a man is a fool or a doctor at forty. I fear, then, I 
know many fools, especially among women, who more 
frequently starve themselves and overwork than men 
do. What I want is that all, even the quite young, 
should respect their bodies, and believe that health also 
means beauty and strength; that all should know the 
difference between health, or what we are intended to be, 
and that continual, uncertain, ailing condition so common 
with young, middle-aged, and old, and to which people 
actually think it a virtue to submit. How few, even 
among nurses, know that if anyone is struck down by any 
kind of accident, the first thing to do, as with a man 
wounded in full health, is immensely to reduce nourish- 
ment and quantity of food ! I have several times known 
more injury to come from overfeeding when all exercise 
is stopped than from an accident itself. Wherever there 
is a weak or injured part, there the mischief will settle, 
especially where the constitution is gouty or rheumatic ; 



HEALTH 35 

and this, as should always be remembered, is the case 
with seventy-five out of every hundred persons. 

'Water: How it Kills its Thousands.' This is a 
pamphlet issued by the Salutaris Company, which is well 
worth reading, if only for the caution against hard water 
as a drink for the gouty and rheumatic. Those who 
cannot afford habitually to buy Salutaris Water may like 
to know that it is easy enough to have distilled water at 
home by getting one of the stills supplied by the Gem 
Supply Co., 6 Bishop's Court, Chancery Lane, E.G. 

Would it not be better if, instead of expressing the 
heartiness of our rejoicings by giving enormous teas and 
dinners to the poor, which often make them ill or un- 
comfortable for days after, we were to give them wholesome 
food to carry away to their homes, which they would often 
spin out to last a week, and which would help the sick and 
healthy alike and cost the givers no more ? 

After the ' Health ' chapter, the subject in both my 
former books that roused most opposition and yet most 
interest was what I said about girls their training, rela- 
tion to their mother, &c. In fact, I have several times 
been asked to give more of my advice. I never have any 
' views,' except as the outcome of my own experiences, and 
all my dear nieces, real and adopted, have now grown 
into women and are bringing up their own children. 

Opinions on education grow quickly, and as the subject 
is of perennial interest to me in a general way, I can only 
mention a book or two which may be found useful and 
have come to my knowledge, almost by chance, in the last 
few years. All that is newest, most enlightening, and 
most stirring seems now to come from America, and I can 
recommend strongly to all a book, full of concentrated 
instruction and valuable suggestions, called ' An Ideal 
School, or Looking Forward,' by Preston Search, United 
States Superintendent of Schools, one of the 5s. ' Inter - 

D2 



36 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

national ' Series, published by Arnold. An English book, 
lately published with an idea of awakening more general 
interest in the subject, is 'Education and Empire,' by 
E. B. Haldane. 

But to mothers, when education is over, I can only 
repeat what I have said before that when all has been 
said and done with reference to education, human nature 
remains the same, and the really important thing for 
mothers to do is to try to know their own children. 
They may exhaust themselves in efforts to make their 
daughters sweet, attractive, graceful, and marriageable, 
but unless they realise that no young people, any more 
than the rest of us, can live up to an ideal, the end is 
often artificiality and deceit in the children, and bitter 
disappointment to the parents. 

It seems so easy, in theory, for parents to know their 
children; but, in fact, nothing is more difficult. There 
are two courses open to every mother of young children, 
say, to the age of fifteen. One is, to hold up in practice 
and precept a high ideal, and persistently encourage the 
children always to act up to this standard, so impressing 
its importance on them that they come to feel it a proof of 
their personal affection for her to try to come up to it, at 
least, in her presence, even to the extent of acting a part 
to please her. This way, though often satisfactory in 
childhood, generally ends, so far as my experience goes, 
in disaster to character, for in insensibly forcing them to 
appear to be something they are not, it actually helps to 
train them in habits of deception and lying. 

The other course is to make up one's mind to the 
probability of naughtiness, selfishness, want of good 
manners, or any other undesirable but natural expression 
of themselves in fact, to live in what is called the ' Palace 
of Truth,' trying to discover the plan Nature has outlined 
for them, and helping them to fulfil it by natural growth 



HEALTH 37 

rather than forcing them, however gently and skil- 
fully, into some mould of our own choosing. This way 
brings a good deal of mortification to the mother and 
condemnation of her training from her friends; but I 
firmly believe that this method turns out in the end the 
truest and best human beings, and if the mother's own 
example, supported by the father's, has meanwhile 
declared and upheld her ideal of what her children should 
be, they will probably realise it in later life. 

I am always being told that everything is now very 
different from my day, but I still maintain, as I said in 
my former book, that all those differences are superficial. 
It is but the outward fashions that change. Only three 
years ago was published one of the most charming books 
of imagination that has appeared for a very long time 
' A Digit of the Moon : A Hindoo Love Story.' A great 
many people were disappointed at finding out that it was 
original and not a translation ; but to my mind it only 
adds greatly to its charm and interest that an Englishman 
living in India should have been able in these days to 
write such a book. It is perhaps too well known to justify 
a long quotation from it here. All the same, life is so 
full that many miss what they would like to see, and this 
description of man's notion of how woman was made 
seems to me a literary gem : 

' One day, as they rested at noon beneath the thick 
shade of a Kadamba tree, the King gazed for a long time 
at the portrait of his mistress. And suddenly he broke 
silence and said, " Easak6sha, this is a woman. Now, a 
woman is the one thing about which I know nothing. 
Tell me, what is the nature of woman ? " Then Basakosha 
smiled, and said, " King, you should certainly keep this 
question to ask the Princess, for it is a hard question. A 
very terrible creature indeed is a woman, and one formed of 
strange elements. Apropos, I will tell you a story. Listen ! 



38 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' " In the beginning, when Twashtri came to the 
creation of woman he found that he had exhausted his 
materials in the making of man, and that no solid elements 
were left. In this dilemma, after profound meditation, 
he did as follows. He took the rotundity of the moon, 
and the curves of creepers, and the clinging of tendrils, 
and the trembling of grass, and the slenderness of the 
reed, and the bloom of flowers, and the lightness of leaves, 
and the tapering of the elephant's trunk, and the glances 
of deer, and the clustering of rows of bees, and the joyous 
gaiety of sunbeams, and the weeping of clouds, and the 
fickleness of the winds, and the timidity of the hare, and 
the vanity of the peacock, and the softness of the parrot's 
bosom, and the hardness of adamant, and the sweetness 
of honey, and the cruelty of the tiger, and the warm glow 
of fire, and the coldness of snow, and the chattering of 
jays, and the cooing of the Kolila (the Indian cuckoo), 
and the hypocrisy of the crane, and the fidelity of the 
chakrawaka ; and compounding all these together he 
made woman and gave her to man. But after one week 
man came to him and said, ' Lord, this creature that you 
have given me makes my life miserable. She chatters 
incessantly, and teases me beyond endurance, never 
leaving me alone ; and she requires incessant attention, 
and takes all my time up, and cries about nothing, 
and is always idle; and so I have come to give her 
back again, as I cannot live with her.' So Twashtri 
said, ' Very well,' and he took her back. Then after 
another week man came again to him and said, ' Lord, 
I find that my life is very lonely since I gave you back 
that creature. I remember how she used to dance 
and sing to me, and look at me out of the corner of 
her eye, and play with me, and cling to me ; and her 
laughter was music, and she was beautiful to look at 
and soft to touch ; so give her back to me again.' So 



HEALTH 



39 



Twashtri said, 'Very well,' and gave her back again. 
Then, after only three days, man came back to him again 
and said, ' Lord, I know not how it is, but after all I have 
come to the conclusion that she is more of a trouble than 
a pleasure to me, so please take her back again.' But 
Twashtri said, ' Out on you ! Be off ! I will have no more 
of this. You must manage how you can.' Then man 
said, ' But I cannot live with her.' And Twashtri re- 
plied, ' Neither could you live without her.' And he 
turned his back on man and went on with his work. 
Then man said, ' "What is to be done, for I cannot live 
either with or without her? ' " 

' And Easak6sha ceased and looked at the King. But 
the King remained silent, gazing intently at the portrait 
of the Princess. ' 



40 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 

Imaginary conversation between two doctors Advertisements versus 
Dr. Haig Remedies for depression on beginning diet The old 
need not fear change of diet Tea-drinking and the Chinese 
The Bible and meat-eatingPythagoreans and the bean ' Better 
Food for Boys ' and the schoolmaster Difficulties of the diet 
Fat and thin women Mediaeval and Greek idea Individual 
cases Maeterlinck's testimony. 

HAVING done my best in the last chapter to tell about 
myself, I think it may be of some interest to those who 
are trying to help themselves, and who have, probably, 
those they love best and all the world against them, that 
I should now give some account of my personal observa- 
tion of others, and the details of a few cases that have 
come more particularly under my notice, these having 
been kind enough to send me their individual experience. 
Some are patients of Dr. Haig, others have been induced 
to try the diet from reading Mr. Miles' book, or from 
seeing the conspicuous benefit I have derived from the 
diet. 

For a long time I thought Dr. Haig was the only 
medical practitioner of the kind, but the last six months 
have convinced me of my error, and now it seems to me 
that the idea of wrong food being a great cause of disease, 
is quite in the air and widespread. But it cannot be too 
often repeated, that the work of Dr. Haig and his col- 
leagues is not primarily a specific cure of disease, but a 
scientific research into food, their aim being to establish a 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 41 

high standard of health on a simple and sound foundation 
of right diet. Being a doctor, however, Dr. Haig's 
experience must necessarily lie among the diseased, or, at 
least, the non -healthy, and this gives his system of diet a 
most severe trial. I must honestly say that, in all the 
cases that have come to me, there has never been one 
healthy person ; all have been suffering more or less from 
headaches, dyspepsia, anaemia, gout, rheumatism, weak- 
ness, &c., in spite of belonging to a class that has every 
chance of high feeding in the ordinary way, though many 
of them, from non-assimilation, have been as underfed as 
the unscientific vegetarians. I confess I am still puzzled 
by the apparently good results of the cramming system, 
which has been so generally adopted for nervous diseases 
by the medical profession, and of which Drs. Play fair and 
Weir-Mitchell are the renowned exponents. The benefit 
is, I believe, only temporary, and the over-stimulation of 
cramming on meat and wine is so dangerous for nervous 
temperaments that many cases of death and madness 
might be written down as ' victims of the medical pro- 
fession.' The high-feeding cure for tuberculosis has given 
this system such an immense fashion, that in Germany 
it is recommended as a preventive measure as well as 
a cure, it being well known that the weakly form the 
best soil for the germs of the disease. I know a German 
mother who sent her only and very delicate son of sixteen, 
reduced by overwork and examinations, to Nordrach, the 
consumptive cure place, to face the possible infection, 
that he might be fed on a system which she could not 
induce him to follow at home. The result was so satis- 
factory that he was willing to go back there for his 
summer holiday in the following year. The lesson to me 
from this, is not that the Nordrach meat diet is best for 
the purpose, this being attained with greater ultimate ad- 
vantage upon the Haig diet (see ' Diet and Food,' p. 108), 



42 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but that a person can be made to eat food enough by 
the help of a mental effort, or by the moral influence 
of some other human being, such as a doctor, friend, or 
nurse. The immediate results of the stuffing system tend 
immensely to support Dr. Haig's theories, as represented 
in the following imaginary conversation, written for me 
by a doctor : 

' K. If you take only small quantities of food, you 
may continue some meat, and even tea and coffee, with 
but little harm. 

' H. I grant this to a certain extent, and I know that 
a little uric acid is better than a great deal ; but I can 
show that it always does harm to take any uric acid, and, 
personally, I never swallow a grain of it, if I have power 
to leave it out. 

' K. Well, it does not seem to harm me ; I am much 
better than I used to be, and I am old and yet feel well. 

' H. Let us get to facts ; will you tell me, for instance, 
what your old diet used to be and what your present 
diet is ? 

' K. My ordinary diet might have been 1,200 grains of 
albumen per day. I then formed 12 grains of uric acid 
per day, and I introduced some 8 grains more in flesh 
and tea. I thus had to deal with 20 grains of uric acid 
a day, and with this I suffered badly from headaches. 
My present diet is about 800 grains of albumen, and I 
form 8 grains of uric acid, and introduce in the small 
quantities of flesh and tea I take some 8 or 4 grains more. 
I thus have to deal with some 11 to 12 grains of uric 
acid a day, and have no headaches. 

' H. No doubt this is a gain ; but what about your 
nutrition, and circulation ? 

' K. I lead a quiet life, and get up late ; but I am able 
to walk for several miles every day, and do a good deal 
of reading and writing. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 



43 



' H. But your blood colour is nowhere near the proper 
standard, and your circulation in skin and all organs is 
slow, so that their nutrition is feeble. Now I know a 
man who is at present in his eightieth year, and who 
would do in one hour all the exercise you take in a day 
(Mr. C. J. Harris, often mentioned in the " Vegetarian " ) ; 
his ordinary day's work is thirty to forty miles on his tri- 
cycle, and he not infrequently rides fifty to sixty miles, 
and on several occasions has done a hundred in the 
twenty-four hours. His blood colour is good, his circula- 
tion is good, he is in every way strong and well nourished ; 
and the reason is simple, for he takes, each day, his 
physiological allowance of albumens, quite free from 
uric acid, while you only take two-thirds of your physio- 
logical allowance (800 in place of 1,200), and you further 
hinder your circulation, and injure your blood colour, by 
swallowing uric acid, which he does not. 

' K. I do not wish to do as much as Mr. Harris, I am 
content with my life as it is. 

' H. But you only live one-half the life that Mr. Harris 
does, and produce only one-half of the effect in the world ; 
if you are content with half a life, when a whole one is 
open to you, well and good ; that is your affair ; but you 
will not persuade me that the half is equal to the whole.' 

The following is a doctor's note on the Mr. Haras 
referred to in the conversation : ' I may say that I have 
been watching Mr. Harris carefully for some years, that 
he always takes a physiological allowance of albumens, 
and produces a physiological amount of urea (which I 
have repeatedly estimated). There is no doubt where his 
strength and power come from ; and he gets his albumens 
chiefly from bread, nuts, and fruit, with very little milk or 
cheese, and at times none of these last. On K.'s diet such 
work as Mr. Harris does is impossible.' 

Time after time I have heard of various people, and 



44 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

even doctors, trying the diet and giving it up after a few 
weeks or months, finding they could not do their work on 
the non-stimulating food. My family are then much 
surprised that this does not bring home to my mind a 
sense of failure. All it does do, is to convince me that very 
little is yet known of the right mixtures of food ; that there 
is, in most cases, a more or less severe reaction to be 
reckoned with from the accumulated uric acid rushing 
into the blood on the withdrawal of the meat-tea-and-wine 
diet, and that good results can rarely be expected, except 
with the young and healthy, under eighteen months to 
two years time. The change is too radical and permanent 
to be effected hurriedly. 

The hoarding of uric acid in the system seems to me 
to be Dr. Haig's great scientific discovery, and the one 
most disputed by other medical men. His work proves 
conclusively to me that all benefit from German waters, 
alkaline treatment, &c., is only a temporary palliative, 
necessitating constant return, with danger of severe 
relapse in the end. I have known cases of extreme illness, 
and even death, from missing a course of Carlsbad waters 
for one season. The advertisements that explain health 
questions so clearly to the public every morning and even- 
ing in the newspapers are all based upon the old theory, 
that it is possible to clear the whole system of uric acid by 
alkaline drugs and mineral waters. If the advertisements 
are right, Dr. Haig's theories are all wrong. The first thing 
that put him on the scent of error in the old accepted 
idea, was that none of the usual remedies bring away any 
uric acid, though, of course, they clear it from the blood, 
and, therefore, give the well-described sense of relief to 
the patient. This made him ask, ' Where does it go ? ' 
He now declares, after years of examination, that it is 
deposited on the soft tissues, the internal organs, the brain, 
the muscles, nerves, bone-joints, &c., waiting either to set 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 45 

up disease in them under the action of any favourable 
external circumstance, or again to enter the blood stream 
and cause distress as soon as rising alkalinity will dissolve 
it. He maintains, in his books, that the sole real cure is 
to stop the introduction of foods containing uric acid, or 
its equivalent, xanthin, and replace them by a diet which 
he considers suitable and natural for man. 

It is undeniable that, with most people, a few months 
of the diet causes great depression and weakness, which, 
for those who cannot take rest from work, is sometimes so 
serious a matter, that it means giving up the diet or the 
work. Great relief would be found in these cases if they 
took, in summer, 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of cold water and hot water added 
till the mixture is of the warmth of a cup of tea, or, in 
winter, a 5-grain dose of salicylate of soda. Neither of 
these remedies being a tonic, but rather a depressant, it is 
obvious that the relief experienced must be due to the 
effect they have in clearing the blood of the uric acid 
which has been brought into it from the tissues on its way 
out of the body. They must be kept in reserve for times 
when rest is impossible, and so enable the patient to con- 
tinue the diet which is to bring about ultimate cure. The 
same effect can be produced, by a temporary lapse back 
to the old uric-acid diet, which is an immense triumph to 
the enemies of the system, though perfectly intelligible to 
any student of Dr. Haig's theory. He himself has taken 
the trouble to publish leaflets expressly recommending a 
very gradual change of diet in order to avoid any severe 
degree of this depression and apparent exhaustion. 

Dr. Haig, Dr. Allinson, and Mr. Miles all seem to 
think that uric-acid diseases, such as gout and rheu- 
matism, headache, neuralgia, anaemia, epilepsy, would 
cease to exist if their diet were adopted. For as much 
as it is worth, my own personal experience and my 



46 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

observation of others under various doctors and treat- 
ments absolutely corroborate their views. Doctors are 
still very much divided in their opinion as to meat being 
bad for gout and rheumatism, and very many of them tell 
gouty and rheumatic patients to eat plenty of meat and 
not much sugar, farinaceous, or carbohydrate substances ; 
so it is not their opinion that uric acid is increased in the 
system by flesh foods. These very doctors, however, 
always prescribe the medicines which, as Dr. Haig shows, 
clear the blood of uric acid but throw it back upon the 
tissues. Of late years, in severe cases of eczema and 
shingles, their great salvation seems to be the much-dis- 
carded remedy of mercury (calomel). Only the future can 
prove how far the few are right and the many wrong in this 
matter. In all probability diet will take centuries to have 
a fair trial, for the changes it would involve in every 
department of our modern life are almost unthinkable. 
I am most anxious that anyone who is at all interested 
in anything I have to say, not only as regards the im- 
provement of his own health but the benefit to the 
whole human race, should remember that the subject is 
one which demands at least a year of close and careful 
study, that it is in no sense like the German waters, or 
Salisbury cure, or any other diet prescribed for illness, a 
temporary affair with the hope of returning cheerfully to 
luxurious living ; it is a road on which may be written 
what Dante wrote over the entrance to Hell : ' Lasciate 
ogni speranza voi che entrate.' There is absolutely no 
return without greater injury from the increased sensi- 
tiveness of the body and the quicker realisation of what 
is injurious food, but I do deny that the road leads to 
Hell ; I should like to add that, even when adopted late 
in life, it leads to the Paradise of Health. I am also the 
last to deny that, however strong this belief may be, it 
does include self-denial even to the old ; for, when people 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 47 

are no longer young, habit has become second nature, 
and with people all round you eating what you have 
always been accustomed to, it does require a certain 
amount of strength of mind to refuse all the dishes that a 
few years ago you would have gladly eaten as the most 
wholesome food. It has taken me nine years of ex- 
perience to find out how injurious the most simple food 
of the flesh-eater, such as the invalid diet of boiled fish 
and chicken, really is. 

A great many elderly people say to me, ' I am too old 
to change ' ; only civility prevents me from saying to their 
face, ' I think you are quite wrong : it is never too late to 
mend. Many of the symptoms you suffer from would 
be immensely lessened if you did change.' As regards 
benefit, a great deal, of course, must depend on how much 
actual disease is already set up in the system, and in the 
case of old people it is even more important than with 
the middle-aged to avoid the crisis described above as 
depression and weakness. On the other hand, it should be 
remembered that at no other time of life is it so dangerous 
to overfeed and so little injurious to underfeed as in old 
age. I believe the time is not far distant when it may be 
discovered that the great cause of cancer is meat and salt, 
as leprosy is supposed to originate in eating salt fish in 
large quantities. 

There are no doubt a few people whose healthy faces 
shine and beam when they tell you they can eat every- 
thing. They are seldom really ill, they have beautiful 
teeth and complexions, strong bright healthy hair, and 
their nerves are not overstrung. But I think everyone 
will admit that these people, in all classes, are distinctly 
rare in civilised Europe in this year of our Lord 1902. 
Also, if you question them closely, you will generally find 
that they take mineral waters, aperients, pain-killers, 
and various other drugs, and are frequently affected by 



48 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

changes of temperature, fatigue, missing a meal, east 
wind, &c. 

Many people quote the Bible in favour of flesh foods, 
saying, 'If meat had been very injurious, one would 
expect to find some warning words advising people not to 
eat it.' According to this line of argument, vegetarians 
have been hardly used at finding no warning against the 
deadly nightshade of our damp meadows, or the poisonous 
berries of the potato which cost Sir W. Ealeigh some 
pangs when he ate them by mistake on first discovering 
the plant. 

In a letter I have received this morning from Dr. 
Haig in answer to things I had told him, I having been 
depressed at the little progress made by what I consider 
the new enlightenment, he says : ' I have now no doubt 
that the cause will succeed, and that success cannot be 
too great or come too soon, for there are to-day millions 
and millions of people who are suffering, dying, or be- 
coming insane simply from ignorance.' I believe this 
opinion of Dr. Haig's will gain ground, and that twenty 
years will make an enormous difference in the under- 
standing of everyone on the subject of food. Nowadays, 
if we see a man drunk, we are half angry and half sorry, 
but we do not require telling that he has taken too much 
alcohol to bring him to the state we see him in. I 
believe that, in course of time, the same knowledge will 
be ours with regard to right and wrong feeding and its 
obvious results. 

I am fond of distributing Dr. Haig's leaflet, which 
explains most clearly that the xanthin of certain vegetable 
substances peas, beans, lentils, mushrooms, asparagus, 
tea, coffee, cocoa is the equivalent poison to uric acid in 
fish and flesh. Apropos of this latest discovery in the 
chemistry of food, I was amused to come across the 
following the other day in that very popular book of Mr. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 49 

Marion Crawford, ' The Eulers of the South ' : ' Hallam 
says somewhere that mankind has generally required 
some ceremonial follies to keep alive the wholesome spirit 
of association. It is hard to say now how many of the 
curious rules of life adopted by the Pythagorean brother- 
hood should be traced to this motive, and many of these 
contain more wisdom than appears in them at first sight. 
The brethren abstained from eating flesh, as most mystics 
have done, but they were as careful never to eat beans.' 
So many of our most modern inventions were known to 
the ancients that I feel the reason for the Pythagorean 
rule ' abstain from the bean ' is quite as likely to have 
been due to a knowledge of its harmful properties in 
dietetics as to a dread of that life of political intrigue 
which was symbolised by the bean used by the Greeks in 
balloting. 

An amusing instance came to me lately of how little 
these leaflets are understood even by intelligent and 
educated people, when a father wrote to me as follows : 
' A cowardly thought arose in my mind of submitting the 
leaflet to a friend of mine who is obliged by circumstances 
to devote much attention to his inside, but unhappily in 
an unguarded moment I remarked to Mrs. G., in the 
presence of the most intelligent of our cats, "I am 
surprised that you should provide so much fish for the 
household, when you know Mrs. Earle's leaflet says that 
fish positively reeks with xanthin." I don't know how 
the leaflet which riots in that particular subject of organic 
chemistry came to be torn into little bits, but for me it 
disposes of the subject altogether, which is too abstruse 
for the man in the street, and needs an expert to confirm 
or deny. " Xanthin " may be as real as " microbes," but 
is equally invisible, and I have my doubts about the whole 
lot of scientific conclusions based upon these insects or 
fish or whatever they are.' So carelessly had the leaflet 



5 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

been read that my correspondent can talk of the xanthin 
in fish ! 

A curious case of the effects of the harm the Salisbury 
cure has brought about in unintelligent hands was told 
me the other day by a friend. His mother-in-law lost 
her teeth, and her gums were too tender to admit of 
artificial aid. She therefore took pulped meat, often three 
pounds a day, and strong soups. Between the age of 
fifty and sixty she became very ill, and a great London 
specialist was sent for. After seeing her he took the son- 
in-law aside and said, ' All her symptoms point to a secret 
store of alcohol. Are you quite certain this is not the 
case ? ' Both the son-in-law and the servants were quite 
certain that she had nothing of the kind. She did not 
even take wine. But it is interesting to note that the 
stimulating meat-juices had produced the same symptoms 
as drink, accompanied by great exhilaration and depression. 
At sixty she died of starvation, with no organic disease 
at all. 

The question often asked me, and which moves me 
most, is what I recommend for the feeding of children. 
There is no doubt that the strongest argument which can 
be used against drunkenness and debauchery is the heredi- 
tary effect it has on children. Doctors now say that the 
children of confirmed smokers are far sooner injured by 
smoking themselves than the children of very moderate 
or non-smokers. It seems to me that this may be an 
explanation of the younger generation of the present day 
being so much more quickly and harmfully affected by 
tea than we were. Both coffee and tea have got much 
cheaper, and their use has been immensely promoted by 
the preaching of the teetotallers. Clergymen's wives, 
nurses, and all classes of over-worked women and men 
of the conscientious type, who would repudiate the help 
given to them by a glass of beer, habitually stimulate and 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 51 

injure their nerves by excessive tea-drinking. I think 
there is no doubt that Indian and Ceylon tea are more 
injurious than even the poor quality Chinese which is 
sold in England to-day. This may be an additional 
explanation of the increased nervous disease among the 
poor, who love the rank flavour of the cheap Indian teas, 
and stew them long to extract all the goodness. Let people 
who doubt this try leaving off tea for a few months, and 
then see how it affects them on taking to it again. One 
of the strongest arguments for tea-drinking is that the 
Chinese have drunk it for centuries and remain what they 
are. I sat at dinner the other evening, next an English- 
man who had lived many years in China. I soon began 
to question him as to how far he thought the tea-drinking 
in China had been injurious to the natives. He said that, 
so far as he had ever been able to ascertain, he thought 
that it was absolutely harmless, but this probably from 
the way they made it. A small pinch of sun-dried leaves 
just as much as they could take up between the finger 
and thumb was put into a small cup, boiling water 
poured on it, the cup covered up with its saucer for a 
minute or two, and the infusion drunk when it had cooled. 
It was then scarcely more than hot water with a slight 
flavour of tea. Besides the harmlessness of this mixture, 
no doubt the Chinese are better able to take tea through 
never having reduced their strength and created compli- 
cated diseases by centuries of excessive meat-eating and 
alcohol. For poison from the European way of tea- 
drinking, as from excessive smoking or drinking of alcohol, 
is supposed to be hereditary and is consequently more 
quickly injurious in the second or third generation. If 
this is so, surely the consideration and study of the effects 
that food has on the body is in no sense a ridiculous or 
degrading subject. So many people say, ' It is so un- 
worthy always to be talking or thinking about food or 

E2 



52 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

health.' Their one wish is laughingly to put it aside and 
shift the responsibility of their own and their children's 
health on to the shoulders of the doctors, not even taking 
the trouble to learn what the modern advertisements try 
to teach them, viz. which foods are digested in the upper 
stomach and which in the lower, or that constipation is 
the commonest proof of indigestion. 

This question of the diet for children seems to me to 
be full of difficulty, and I should say cannot be under- 
taken without the consent of the father. This he is not 
the least likely to give unless he has studied the subject 
enough to wish to adopt it for himself as well as for his 
children. The first object of ambition to an intelligent 
boy or girl is to try to imitate father, and if he con- 
stantly throws brickbats at dieting the case is hopeless. 
I am sure in a few years the great school difficulty will be 
much lessened, and that if a boy is anxious to continue his 
regular home food, there will in time be a house for non- 
stimulating diet at Eton. One of the keenest vegetarians 
I know succeeded in converting her daughter who was 
out of health, but had no effect on her son-in-law or her 
grandchildren. Where father and mother are agreed, I 
think the experiment of bringing up children as vegetarians 
may fairly be tried, though probably even those parents 
hardly realise the difficulties before them. A great deal 
will depend on how they can train their children mentally. 
In any case, in the present state of things, the parents 
can hardly ever go away from home together for any 
length of time, or to a distance which prevents their quick 
return, as the children ought not to be left to the sole 
care of even the best of nurses. She cannot be expected 
not to send for a doctor the moment anything goes wrong, 
and he in turn would, from want of practice among 
vegetarians, fail to understand the sensitiveness of the 
children. The nurse would have no weight in explaining 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 53 

to him the wishes of the parents ; whereas if the parents 
were present probably the doctor would not interfere with 
the diet. The plain truth is that it all resolves itself into 
a question of character and knowledge in the parents. 
When a doctor finds that he has to deal with men and 
women who have taken the pains to acquaint themselves 
with the elements of physiology and the chemistry of 
food, his tone is very different from the one he uses, 
naturally enough, to the young and ignorant mother who 
appeals to him to make her sick child well, as if he 
worked by miracle, and who submits to be told by him 
that if she brings up her children on a non-meat diet she 
is ' a very wicked woman.' 

My object in repeating these things so often is that 
radical changes in diet can only be brought about by the 
public, and children are not likely to take to what their 
parents and elders do not practise ; though if the parents 
are non-meat-eaters the consequences of home example 
may act powerfully in this, as in other matters, when they 
grow to man's and woman's estate. One case, at least, I 
know where the diet has been successfully carried through 
school and college and joining a regiment, where the 
young man was looked upon as rather a curiosity, but was 
left unmolested. 

I am always supposed to be proselytising, and last 
year I sent to an old friend, a middle-aged schoolmaster, 
Mr. Miles' ' Better Food for Boys.' He says in reply : 
' I have read and thought over Miles' book. It seems to 
me that the question is mainly a medical one.' This 
sentence epitomises what so many think and feel, and 
when I say, 'But apparently the medical profession 
refuse to give the matter serious thought and experiment,' 
this closes all discussion, and I am looked upon as a pre- 
judiced idiot. This I try to bear with the philosophic 
calm of a non-meat-eater. He writes further : ' To a lay- 



54 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

man there is much in what Miles says, and for a large 
number of adults for any adult, in fact, who leads a 
sedentary life, I believe his system is beneficial. I am 
following it myself in moderation that is to say, I have 
knocked off meat meals and substituted Plasmon for them, 
and already dread the idea of sitting down to a big dinner. 
But if the practice becomes general, what a blow it will 
be to the social side of life ! You can't seriously sit down 
to rice and stewed fruit with half a dozen friends.' 

My friend's despair about the social side being reduced 
to stewed prunes and rice is very much as if he invited 
his friends to cold shoulder of mutton and potatoes. For 
festive occasions endless combinations and much luxury, 
attractive to all the senses, could be made. Even for the 
severest stage of diet the fruitarian if a housekeeper 
spends half what she does on fish, game, poultry, &c., 
for a dinner-party, she might have the most gorgeous and 
attractive display of the best fruits to be had in any 
market, and a cook once trained to the food would produce 
endless dainty varieties of cakes, biscuits, nut-creams, and 
rolls. These people who think that the social side of life 
must suffer with the disappearance of meat from our tables 
seem to forget that cereals, fruits, and wine are the foods 
which the highest imagination of man has always thought 
the most fit for the feasts of the Gods, a detail eagerly 
seized upon by Burne-Jones for representation in his 
famous picture on that subject. 

To go back to my letter : my friend says, ' I cannot 
persuade myself that the health of boys suffers from a 
meat diet. They do not, as a rule, overload the stomach 
and take strenuous exercise. Of course, it may fairly be 
said that if you bring boys up on meat they will be less 
likely to take to the simpler foods later on. But there are 
great difficulties in the way. Miles' diet cannot be made 
compulsory, and at a big school two systems cannot well 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 55 

be worked, but I think schoolmasters might do much good 
by example and by preaching. That is the line I follow. 
The question which the author raises in his opening 
chapter is of the utmost importance, but there, again, only 
a doctor is qualified to give an opinion. Is sensuality 
less developed in gramnivorous animals than in the car- 
nivorous ? I doubt it. Plasmon is. becoming popular 
with doctors. I am convinced that any baddish rheumatic 
or gouty tendencies would be the better for it.' I should 
like to say to this last sentence that this attitude towards 
Plasmon of thinking it a ' cure ' for rheumatism and gout 
is as dangerous as it is prevalent. In itself this valuable 
preparation is no cure ; it is a highly-concentrated proteid 
food, which enables people to leave off the alcohol, and 
the uric-acid-forming foods they have been used to. The 
allusion to animals seems to me rather wide of the mark. 
All Nature, even in flowers as described in the botanical 
language which I have known to shock prudish mothers, 
is apparently wasteful ; but, as I understand it, the word 
sensuality implies a moral conception i.e. the antithesis 
of self-control, and this is a province with which Nature 
in the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms has 
nothing whatever to do. What I suppose my friend really 
means to ask is, whether sex vigour is less in gramnivorous 
animals than in carnivorous ? Had he thought for a 
moment, it w y ould probably have come to his mind that 
the bull and the goat are almost proverbially used in art 
and literature to express this vigour rather than the lion 
and tiger. In Mr. Miles' books there are frequent allusions 
to the point, which is always puzzling schoolmasters, 
as to how to increase physical strength with moral self- 
control. Schoolmasters solve the difficulty by incessant 
games, to the detriment of learning. Mr. Miles' solution 
is non- stimulating food and drink. 

I was pleased to see that my friend sympathised with 



56 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

me about the facility of carrying out the diet in old age, 
and the benefit of teaching by example. 

One advantage of taking to a diet of simpler food late 
in life is that it lessens to a great degree the family and 
social opposition, which from the kindest of reasons is 
almost universal. Abstinence in old age is looked upon 
as rather a virtue by the young, but when practised by 
their own contemporaries they consider it as a sign of 
eccentricity, affectation, love of notoriety, or extreme bad 
health. This being so, I find that diet looms as an 
insuperable obstacle with the young. Their experience 
being nil, their knowledge is weak ; the diet is often badly 
managed, the worry is great, and unless the improvement 
in health is rapid, as in several cases I have known it to 
be, they lose heart and prefer bad health under a doctor 
to trying to cure themselves against the approval of rela- 
tions and friends. No one but an actual invalid, for 
instance, can stand having to change the hours of meals 
instituted by our modern civilisation. Unless we are 
actually ill enough to give in, we must live according to 
the divisions of the day which suit the occupations of 
the various members of our family. These change with 
passing fashions, and, for aught we know, our grand- 
children may dine at Queen Anne's hour, which was 

5P.M. 

To a bachelor athlete like Mr. Miles, or a curate in the 
wilds of the country, it seems no hardship, and there is 
no pulling of the heartstrings in living on Plasmon and 
fruit ; but think of the young wife whose tired husband 
comes home at 7 P.M. after making, or trying to make, 
money for her, and finds that she has had her meal of dry 
bread and nuts and fruit at 6 P.M., and, however affection- 
ately disposed, can only sit and watch him drink his hot 
soup and eat his daintily-cooked chicken, winding up with 
iced fruit and cream. The situation is really harrowing, 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 57 

and yet Dr. Haig says one of the best divisions of meals 
for dyspeptics is 11 and 6- These used to be the French 
hours for everybody, but that custom is now so entirely 
changed that when we come across it in hotels our home 
habits cause us to think the division tiresome and in- 
convenient. Many husbands might submit to this in their 
own homes ; but a still greater difficulty and irritation 
arises when the couple go from Saturday to Monday to 
friends in the country, where the tables groan with 
luxuries of every kind, and the wife finds it difficult to eat 
anything, for she has not the courage to ask for milk and 
cheese, and, the bread being uneatable from newness and 
baking-powder, she has to wait till the end of dinner for 
fruit, and suddenly realises, when she is at last eating her 
grapes, that the mistress of the house is dying to leave 
the table. I remember well years ago a vegetarian of 
some distinction who used to dine at our house, and 
invariably emptied the dessert-dish that happened to be in 
front of him, whatever it contained. It used, then, to 
cause me considerable suppressed irritation, but we change 
so that he has now all my sympathy, and I often long to 
do it myself. Even with the help of summer vegetables, 
such as peas and beans, which are dangerous food to those 
with weak digestions, the young wife has been absolutely 
starved, and feels it all the more as, being an amateur 
vegetarian, she will probably, in nine cases out of ten, be 
underfed and have no reserves to fall back upon in emer- 
gency. Even if she has read Dr. Haig's leaflets, or Mr. 
Miles' lists of food values, she will most likely have done 
so without the real comprehension which would enable 
her to apply the facts to her individual case. She 
might be able to get more bulk of food at an ordinary 
table, but is perhaps prevented from taking it by the 
haunting fear of getting fat, which I find among nearly all 
young people of the present day. Obesity is, of course, 



58 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

disease, and I believe is more easily cured by the diet than 
in any other way, for when I began it I lost two stone 
in six months ; but plumpness, especially for women, is 
natural and healthy, and the vanity of wishing to be thin, 
which has been so encouraged by the Pre-Eaphaelite 
School of Art with its unhealthy ideal of beauty, still 
holds its sway and accounts for much nervous disease 
among women. It is undeniable that the serpentine 
clothes of the present day look best on a thin peg, but on 
the whole there is no doubt in my mind that health comes 
before everything, and for a girl or woman whom Nature 
means to be fat, to diet herself thin, no matter by what 
means, is an exceedingly dangerous process which may 
cause many sufferings and complications, and even end in 
disease, and is quite as foolish as the efforts of the frog to 
swell itself to the size of an ox. At the same time, when 
I am told as I often am ' I should so like to take to 
your delightful diet of vegetables, only it would make me 
grow so fat,' by people who take butter and cream two or 
three times a day, in addition to a rich ordinary diet, I 
cannot help being amused, knowing how easily Dr. Haig's 
diet can be regulated for fat people. 

The old mediaeval theory of disregard of the body is 
still so strongly ingrained in some of the noblest natures 
that they would far rather be ill now and then than have 
to think out habitually what is good for them and act up 
to it, or to believe when they are ill that it is their own 
fault rather than a visitation of Providence which they 
are to bear with resignation. They send for a doctor, 
pay him cheerfully, and hope for better days. This attitude 
of mind will change when people are trained from child- 
hood to understand that all sickness not caught from a germ 
is preventible, and that doing without food for a day, or 
even two, does far less harm to the healthy than eating 
wrong food. To be able to miss a meal without feeling 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 59 

the worse, is one of the surest tests of being in good 
health. There was a time in my life when I nearly cried 
with misery if I did not get my tea at 5 o'clock, and 
felt quite ill all the evening. We must have patience and 
some courage. Revolutions are never effected in the 
bosom of peace and perfect concordance. 

When I was young I remember saying to a friend, 
' I wonder what the new religion will be when it comes ? ' 
She answered, ' Something set to Wagner's music.' This 
did not seem to me to strike the true note. She had been 
long in Germany and was devoted to Wagner and his 
genius. I was not musical, and did not at that time know 
much of Wagner, but from the little I did know I felt he 
did not strike the key-note of self-denial which in some 
form or other is the basis of all religion. It will be 
curious if the religion of the future should avoid the 
dangerous asceticism of the Middle Ages which denied 
the body, by going back to the earlier Greek idea which 
recognised it as deserving of all respect, and treated it as 
a precious instrument to be kept in the highest degree of 
efficiency and perfection : practising abstinence for the 
sake of health rather than as a direct means to moral 
excellence. 

In advocating the diet, one of the hardest things to 
combat, after the opposition of friends and inconvenience 
to social life, is a certain fondness of food and drink among 
those who consider that the one legitimate indulgence of 
life is to eat, if not drink, what one likes. I know several 
people who never deny that they are much the better for 
dieting, but who nearly burst with indignation when sitting 
at a table and seeing others eating all round them, because 
they cannot do the same. This naive and childlike side 
of the question was rather a revelation to me, as all my 
life I had avoided the things I thought not good for me, 
however tempting they were. I can't understand eating 



60 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that which you know does you harm. Modern vege- 
tarianism has enormously grown out of sentiment, but 
I think it is exceedingly advisable that people who take 
to the simpler foods for health's sake rather than for 
sentimental reasons, should at least adopt an attitude of 
mind which will give the system a fair trial unprejudiced 
by likes and dislikes, mental irritation being bad for 
digestion. 

A terrible idea has got about amongst my friends, and 
I might almost say patients, that if they take to the diet 
more or less strictly, they are not only to be quickly made 
quite well, but to remain so perpetually. Over-fatigue, 
change of weather, indigestion, &c., are supposed to have 
no effect at all on the non-meat-eater. Now I want 
everybody who undertakes the diet in consequence of 
ill health to understand that it cannot suddenly repair 
a debilitated state of the digestive organs. Most of our 
modern ailments are acknowledged to come from indi- 
gestion and non-assimilation. This goes on in many 
cases long after the excess of uric acid has ceased, and 
then the patients turn round on me and say, ' Why, after 
years of this self-denial and all the trouble that this 
peculiar feeding brings, am I to have this and that ail- 
ment? ' The probability is that they have frequently 
not digested their simpler food any better than they did 
their mixed foods ; they also do not get the enforced rest 
which attacks of illness, often lasting a week or more, 
imposed upon them. One can only assure them and 
this sounds a feeble comfort that they would have been 
much worse on the old diet, for I have never met a case 
which did not admit that any attacks of illness under the 
diet were very much milder than they formerly were. 

It is obviously unfair to judge of a diet which is the 
best for man in health by its effects on invalids. People 
with weak digestions have a difficult hill to get over in 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 61 

leaving off meat, as doubtless it is lighter of digestion 
than any other food containing the same amount of 
nourishment. But people seldom realise that what may 
be a gain to the digestion may be an injury to the blood, 
and will bring round in time the very troubles from 
which they temporarily escape. For those who are digest- 
ing so badly that they are underfed, which can easily be 
told by colour of gums, loss of weight, excitable nerves, 
&c., it is most important that they should test themselves 
by weighing from time to time say every three months. 
The nightmare of growing fat, alluded to before, makes 
many women believe they cannot take either milk or 
cheese. In these cases there must be a diet within the 
diet and a careful study of the proteid foods, which give 
nourishment without bulk. 

In cases of severe dyspepsia, Mellin's Food is invalu- 
able. Most people at the first difficulty say, ' The diet is 
not agreeing with me,' and go back to meat and cham- 
pagne, which does them immense good for a short time 
till the increased uric acid in their system brings back 
their original troubles. All the relations are delighted, 
the doctor in attendance is jubilant, and the vicious circle 
again begins. Their winter or spring illness is attributed 
to cold and east wind. 

I, from my experience, am quite convinced that in all 
cases of dyspepsia, rheumatism, gout, it is impossible to 
live up to anything like the full physiological allowance 
of proteid, especially in the case of women who do not 
work off the evil effect of non-assimilation by violent 
exercise as most men occasionally do. And here comes 
the great difficulty, viz. that each person has to find out 
for himself what amount of proteid he can assimilate, and 
in what form. Nobody else can know whether Nature 
is properly performing her functions, and digesting the 
food taken. Any necessity for a return to drugs, or 



62 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

violently irritating foods like cracked wheat, is a sign that 
even the simpler foods are not being properly digested. 

I have never come across anyone who has given the 
simpler foods a fair trial of several years, who found any 
permanent benefit in returning to a meat diet. Doctors, 
who judge by the immediate results, would not agree with 
this. Most doctors naturally take a pride and pleasure 
in seeing their patients return to them after a tentative 
course of the diet, and it is an equal humiliation when 
good health results and enables them to keep away. 
Perhaps the health of the community would be improved 
if we adopted the Chinese and pauper system of only 
paying the doctors during health and not illness. There 
is a considerable difficulty in the law of the land being 
entirely on the side of the doctors. The conversation at 
my breakfast table this morning would have made a more 
nervous woman's hair stand on end. Having an invalid 
patient of Dr. Haig's in the house under a strict diet of 
bread, almonds, and fruit, a member of the family said, 
' It is quite clear we shall have an inquest very shortly in 
this house. I see the coroner saying with great emphasis, 
" Are you sure that Mrs. Earle is in her right mind? " ' 
This arose from a discussion as to whether the patient 
was being starved to death, or poisoned by prussic acid, 
the real point in my mind being whether she was taking 
more proteid food than she was able to digest, although 
within her physiological allowance, or whether she was 
less well from being out too much in the damp. Damp 
certainly has a bad effect on a great many people's 
digestion. Driving and walking are to my mind much 
less harmful than the sitting about out of doors which is 
the invalid rule. 

The following statement of his own case was written 
out for me by a man-patient of Dr. Haig's : ' Present 
age 42. Occupation sedentary. Lives in London for ten 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 63 

months of the year. Medical history bad, both on pater- 
nal and maternal side. Paternal : gout for generations. 
Father suffered from it on and off all his life, and acutely 
during ten years in the eyes, necessitating surgical treat- 
ment by operation. Maternal: chronic dyspepsia and 
liver complaint. Mother's father died of latter at 34. 
The man himself up to the age of 34 lived very well and 
thought much about eating and drinking, but did not 
indulge in either excessively. Was a heavy cigarette 
smoker. Suffered during every epidemic of influenza. 
In 1894 had an attack of influenza, followed by acute 
intercostal neuralgia, which continued for one month, and 
ended in an attack of phlebitis in the left leg, which 
lasted seven months (of which six were passed in a com- 
pletely recumbent position, the patient being forbidden 
to move without professional assistance), involved the 
two soffena veins and the femoral vein, and culminated 
in thrombosis, which left the femoral vein blocked perma- 
nently for the length of five inches close to the groin. 
Attack very severe, the leg remaining considerably larger 
than normal size with much varicosity. This attack 
was followed at intervals during six years by four other 
attacks of intercostal neuralgia (so severe that the dread 
of recurrence completely shook naturally strong nerves), 
the treatment of which, by means of salicylate of soda 
(in 20 gr. powders often taken every hour for eight hours 
at a stretch), reduced the patient to a condition of abject 
weakness, requiring weeks of the strongest tonics before 
strength at all was recovered. Two of these four attacks 
were followed by phlebitis in the leg originally attacked, 
which, though less severe than on the first occasion, neces- 
sitated spells of months' duration in bed or on a sofa. In 
September 1899 the patient underwent treatment at Bag- 
noles de 1'Orne, in France, for the after effects of phlebitis. 
In November 1899 occurred an unusually severe attack of 



64 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

shingles on the right jaw and side of the neck and upon 
the back of the head under the hair. In January 1900 
phlebitis attacked the right leg, and the patient was 
warned by the leading French specialist on the subject, 
who is one of the doctors at Bagnoles, and came from 
Paris to see him, that he was in danger of constantly 
recurring attacks, which might well result in a chronic 
condition, and that elastic stockings must be worn on both 
legs from the toes to the knees, and never taken off except 
in bed. He pointed out that the treatment at Bagnoles 
was in many ways wonderfully efficacious in restoring 
elasticity to the tissue of veins, thickened and hardened 
through phlebitis, but procured no immunity from fresh 
attacks of that disease. Such immunity could only be 
obtained (if at all) by improving the condition of the 
blood, for which purpose he recommended a yearly visit 
to Carlsbad for the next twelve or fifteen years. The 
patient adopted Dr. Haig's system of diet on April 21, 
1900, and has continued it ever since. He has never had 
another attack of phlebitis or intercostal neuralgia, and 
was, in August 1901, authorised by the specialist in ques- 
tion to discontinue the use of elastic stockings altogether, 
even when taking strong exercise, such as walking or 
bicycling for long distances.' 

The following letter may appeal to those who have 
to practise the diet under the difficulties of travelling. 
I myself have not taken voyages in steamers of late 
years, but in travelling on the Continent I find that if you 
conciliate the hotel-keeper and make it clear to him that 
economy is not your object, by paying cheerfully for all 
you dont eat and nearly double for what you do, you will 
find him most accommodating. Italian food adapts itself 
much more easily to the taste of the vegetarian than the 
modern French, at any rate in the expensive Paris re- 
staurants ; but there is no doubt that the long table-d'hotes 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 65 

where you don't eat are even more trying than the long 
tables-d'hote where you do eat, and this must be just 
accepted as a trial which can only be avoided by taking 
lodgings. 

' July 28, 1902. 

' As we have just come back from travelling, you may 
care to hear how we got on as to diet. We had foolishly 
taken only a small amount of concentrated food with us, 
and this very soon ran out. However, we were thus able 
to experiment on how far it is possible to live on the 
gleanings from 'board-ship table-d'hote. Practically every- 
thing is artificial adulterated milk and butter, frozen 
meat, frozen vegetables, frozen fruit. Formerly a goat or 
a cow used to travel on the ship, and I believe that is still 
the case on some of the very small obscure Continental 
lines. The bread is extremely poor, little white rolls that 
taste very acid, and are probably made of gypsum, boron, 
soda, in fact anything except wheat. The artificial milk 
is exceedingly nasty and unwholesome and could only 
possibly be taken in very small quantities with tea or 
coffee. The only drink that commends itself is hot water. 
The unboiled water is never supposed to be safe in the 
Mediterranean and mineral waters certainly have a very 
bad effect on people unaccustomed to them. It seems to 
me, however, that those who have a peculiar diet ought 
to expect all these drawbacks, and starvation is not very 
terrible for a short space of time. The thoroughly ob- 
jectionable thing is the immense length of the meals, 
they nearly always consist of nine or ten courses and 
take nearly two hours. Imagine munching dry bad bread 
for nearly two hours while carrying on a sort of pretence 
at eating some of the meat courses, all for the sake of a 
little fruit and cheese at the end, these last being the 
only courses that are hurried. The only time I got on 
well, as regards food, was when the weather was bad. 

F 



66 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Then the waiter brought me the few items of the menu 
that I could eat at once and without " reasoning why." 
I wish that providing necessaries and not " luxuries " 
was the ideal of 'board- ship caterers, as the effort to pro- 
vide "luxuries" only produces a lot of highly sauced 
dishes one more uneatable and unwholesome than the 
other. There is yet another unpleasantness ; on some 
steamers the stores of food are all kept on ice, and when 
they are removed from the ice, decomposition sets in very 
rapidly, the result being that the dining saloon, besides 
its normal, fragrant smells, has a peculiar, drain -like at- 
mosphere. The Continental train services with restaurant 
cars have the same principles ; they never have fresh 
food, even though they may be travelling through the 
richest countries in the world, and constantly stopping. 
No doubt the reason for this kind of food being supplied 
is, that there is a demand for it. The class that lives 
most artificially is the class that travels most, and there- 
fore it becomes a matter of business necessity to supply 
the kind of food which is most constantly asked for. If 
we may be bold enough to give advice to other people 
who have the same diet as ourselves, it is that they should 
not travel at all, or that they should have a private 
yacht, or, if they have to travel in the ordinary way, that 
they should take a large supply of nourishing biscuits and 
a pouch like Jack the Giant-killer, into which they may 
slip everything, and thus keep up the appearance of 
having the eating capacity of the average traveller, and 
avoid the accusation made by hotel-keepers of undue 
economising.' 

The following case has been written out for rne by 
the patient a young woman whom I have known for 
many years, and who has most bravely fought against long 
chronic bad health : 

' Five years ago, in the winter of 1897, I began a diet 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 67 

of cereals, milk, cheese, nuts, fruits and vegetables, to 
the total exclusion of flesh foods, eggs, pulses, tea, coffee 
and cocoa. I was at that time suffering from anaemia, 
indigestion, neuralgia, and general weakness. My work 
was sedentary, and lasted from 9 A.M. till 7 P.M. For 
eleven months I stuck to the diet, appetite gradually 
getting so bad that, for the last few months, I used to live 
on the less solid foods, as milk, savoury vegetables, and 
the more tempting kinds of fruit, with very little bread, 
cheese, or nuts. At the end of the time I was so much 
worse that I went to Dr. Haig. He looked at the diary 
I had kept of my food and shook his head. He then 
examined me generally, and said I was " starved." After 
a few questions about the food I liked, he said, " Go out 
and get a mutton chop and a glass of Burgundy. Then 
go into the country for a rest, be out of doors all you can, 
take this tonic, and eat as much fish and meat as you 
like. The first thing to do is to get a healthy appetite 
then we will consider the diet. But eat anything rather 
than be underfed." I carried out these instructions and 
went back to him much improved a few weeks later. He 
then advised me to change very gradually, substituting 
cheese for meat at one meal only and after keeping to 
that for some weeks, to change another meal, and so by 
degrees to get on to the diet. This I tried, but failed 
again, and then gave up altogether for about a year. 
Then I began again, and for two years had a series 
of hopeful beginnings and dismal endings. My friends 
used to say, " But why change at all when the ordinary 
diet suits you ? " It certainly did seem to suit me for 
the first three or four weeks when I went back to it 
from a non-meat diet, but I had always to be taking 
medicines, and sooner orlater came the dyspepsia, with 
the consequent exhaustion that made life a burden. 
As I woke each morning I used to feel " Here's 

F2 



68 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

another day to drag myself through " and as I lay 
down at night I used to be so dead beat that I felt 
it would be a relief to sleep for good. The change to 
Haig's diet always brought, at first, a delightful sense 
of lightness and well-being a difference as between a 
well-oiled machine and one clogged with grit and dust 
but after a few weeks I used to get too weak to go on with 
my work, and had to give it up. At last, after rather a bad 
collapse, the friend with whom I worked bound me over 
to a meat-fish-wine, &c., diet for twelve consecutive 
months. When they were over, I started once more very 
cautiously on the uric-acid-free diet, making a careful 
study, meanwhile, of food values, mixtures and quantities, 
and for six months I succeeded beyond my hopes. Every- 
one noticed how much better I was in every way, and I 
found for the first time since childhood, that I could dis- 
pense with all kinds of medicine. Suddenly I caught a 
bad chill after weeks of excessive overwork, which re- 
sulted in mucus colitis with total collapse, and for two 
months I was in bed in charge of a nurse. The treatment 
was injections of carbolic alternately with boracic acid, 
and this played such havoc with an already enfeebled 
digestion, that I could take no sort of invalid food, except 
minute quantities of dissolved Plasmon, without hours 
of distress. At the end of three months' most careful 
nursing, my strength had so far improved that I was able 
to go into the country with a nurse, but the colitis being 
none the better for the treatment I had undergone, and 
the doctor who had attended me telling me that it might 
go on for three years, as it was a most difficult thing to 
cure, there being no drug that would touch it, I wrote 
to Dr. Haig and asked him to prescribe. He instantly 
stopped all injections and put me on salicylate of soda, 
and in three days the mucus had diminished. At the end 
of ten days it had entirely ceased, and I then went to 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 69 

stay with a friend of his who asked him to come down 
from London to see me. This he most kindly did, and 
the result of the interview was that he stopped the 
salicylate, which had done its work, and for the dyspepsia, 
which was still very bad, he prescribed a perfectly dry 
diet, of bread, pounded almonds, fruit, vegetable and 
cheese, telling me to replace the two latter by more fruit 
(fresh and dried) and almonds, as I found I could take 
them. This answered so well that digestion rapidly 
improved and, with it, strength. At the end of a month 
I could walk up steep hills on hot days, with pleasure, a 
thing I had never, at my best, been able to do before. The 
almonds, even when ground in a nut-mill and pounded 
by a careful cook, were, I found, liable to aggravate the 
intestinal inflammation, and as I did not digest cheese 
well enough to nourish satisfactorily upon it, I experi- 
mented upon the almonds till I got a substance as smooth 
as Devonshire cream, and of this I could soon take 
4 OK. a day with comfort. So many people find almonds 
a difficulty that it may be as well to say how this almond 
cream is prepared, for almonds are equal to their own 
weight of meat in nourishment, and for those who dislike 
cheese, they are far too valuable an item in the list of 
uric-acid-free foods to be cast aside. 

1 Almond Cream. Blanch the almonds in boiling water 
and grind in a nut-mill. Put about a tablespoonful at a 
time into a mortar with a teaspoonful of cold water, and 
work with the pestle till as smooth as butter, no particle the 
size of a pin's head being left. Mix in a little more cold 
water till of the consistency of clotted cream, and scrape 
out on to a dish. It is better to have only a small quantity 
at once in the mortar, or the smoothness is not so uniform. 
The nut-mill should be taken to pieces (one easy screw 
undoes the whole) every day and well scalded, for 
almonds turn as sour as milk, especially after they have 



70 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

been wet. For this reason, the almond cream should be 
freshly made every day. For travellers who prefer 
almonds to cheese, but cannot venture to eat them whole, 
this form of cream is excellent for sandwiches. Children 
and invalids, too, can digest them in this way. When I 
had been three months on this diet, I caught another bad 
chill, which brought on a severe relapse of the gastro- 
intestinal inflammation, and again for two weeks I had to 
have a nurse and be kept in bed. For four days various 
invalid foods barley water, beaten white of egg, cham- 
pagne and soda-water, weak solution of Plasmon, &c. 
were tried in teaspoonfuls at the time, and all with 
equally distressing results. Finally a nutrient sup- 
pository was tried, which also proved a failure, and still 
further reduced my strength. Then, having convinced 
my nurse that the very things administered with the time- 
honoured idea of "keeping up my strength" not only 
failed to do this, but actually drained the little I had by 
causing sickness and pain, I insisted on a fast of twenty- 
four clear hours, to give the stomach a chance of righting 
itself. The thirst, which was intense, I relieved partly by 
holding a piece of ice in a bit of linen on the lips, and 
rinsing the mouth from time to time with bicarbonate of 
soda. Even a spoonful of hot or cold water instantly 
produced sickness, and there was nothing to be done but 
leave things alone and wait. At the end of twenty-four 
hours I took 20 grains bicarb, soda in half-a-pint of 
hot-water a teaspoonful every two minutes. After thirty 
hours I took, with comfort, 2 oz. Mellin's Food of the 
strength given to infants of four months, and this I 
repeated three times a day for two or three days, after 
which the quantity, though not the quality, was gradually 
increased the bicarb, being taken an hour before each 
meal of Mellin's Food. Dr. Haig again most kindly came 
down from London, and said the starvation treatment was 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 71 

the only one for the case there being no risk whatever 
in fasting for five days, so long as I had 10 Ibs. of flesh 
on my bones. His advice for future diet was to drop 
almonds entirely till all sign of weakness had disappeared 
in stomach and bowels, and to " feel my way " slowly on 
to a diet of bread, potatoes, milk, fresh curd cheese, fruit, 
with oil, cream, and butter ad lib. The bread to be stale, 
home-made, white (i.e. the wholemeal minus the bran), 
the potatoes to be steamed or baked in the skins to pre- 
serve the alkaline salts so valuable in all forms of gout 
and rheumatism (colitis being a kind of intestinal gout) ; 
the fruit to be ripe and uncooked, and always eaten with 
potatoes to prevent acid dyspepsia, and plenty of oil or 
butter to aid digestion. After being on this diet for a 
month, I dropped everything but bread and fruit, and 
recovery became so much more rapid that I have kept to 
this permanently with Dr. Haig's full approval, and have 
already built up a reserve of strength such as at one time 
seemed impossible to all the doctors I consulted.' 

A young man I know has had eczema from his birth 
and, with every chance of consulting many physicians, 
no one had been able to cure it, eczema being one of the 
illnesses which, like leprosy, seem, on their own confes- 
sion, to baffle doctors, though many remedies make it 
apparently better for a time. After two and a half years of 
a form of the simpler foods which suited him, he seems, for 
the first time in his life, to be quite free from it. Having 
just heard of this cure, the following story in the papers 
(July 1902), of the tragedy in the home of an artisan 
(a marble-polisher) seemed to me peculiarly distressing. 
The mother had been very despondent because her two 
little boys were severely afflicted with eczema. She had 
taken them to several hospitals in vain, and at last, in 
despair, drowned them in a tub. ' It was God's curse ! ' 
she said to the police ; ' the neighbours used to call 



72 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

their children away from playing with them, and it 
broke my heart. I put them into a tub of water and put 
them into the bed. I did not know what I was doing.' A 
verdict of ' wilful murder ' was brought in against her. 
This probably means a lifetime in Broadmoor. I quote 
this humble tragedy because I feel that, of all disorders, 
skin disease is most obviously cured by diet. 

After writing these long, and perhaps boresome, 
chapters on the subject of health, it was with no small 
comfort that I found in Mr. Maeterlinck's latest book of 
essays, ' The Buried Temple,' in a chapter headed ' The 
Kingdom of Matter,' the following passage, which brought 
me that best of all consolations on a road that is unpopular 
and strange, namely, to feel ' Verily, I am not travelling 
alone ' : 

' We have said that man, in his relation to matter, is 
still in the experimental, groping, stage of his earliest 
days. He lacks even definite knowledge as to the kind of 
food best adapted for him, or the quantity of nourishment 
he requires ; he is still uncertain as to whether he be 
carnivorous or frugivorous. His intellect misleads his 
instinct. It was only yesterday that he learned that he 
had probably erred hitherto in the choice of his nourish- 
ment ; that he must reduce by two-thirds the quantity of 
nitrogen he absorbs, and largely increase the volume of 
hydrocarbons ; that a little fruit, or milk, a few vegetables, 
farinaceous substances now the mere accessory of the 
too plentiful repasts which he works so hard to provide, 
which are his chief object in life, the goal of his efforts, of 
his strenuous, incessant labour are amply sufficient to 
maintain the ardour of the finest and mightiest life. It is 
not my purpose here to discuss the question of vegetarian- 
ism, or to meet the objections that may be urged against 
it ; though it must be admitted that, of these objections, 
not one can withstand a loyal and scrupulous inquiry. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 



73 



I, for my part, can affirm that those whom I have known 
to submit themselves to this regimen have found its result 
to be improved or restored health, marked addition of 
strength, and the acquisition by the mind of a clearness, 
brightness, well-being, such as might follow the release 
from some secular, loathsome, detestable dungeon. But 
we must not conclude these pages with an essay on 
alimentation, reasonable as such a proceeding might be. 
For, in truth, all our justice, morality, all our thoughts 
and feelings, derive from three or four primordial necessi- 
ties, whereof the principal one is food. The least modifica- 
tion of one of these necessities would entail a marked 
change in our moral existence. Were the belief one day 
to become general that man could dispense with animal 
food, there would ensue not only a great economic revolu- 
tion for a bullock, to produce one pound of meat, con- 
sumes more than a hundred of provender but a moral 
improvement as well. . . . For we find that the man who 
abandons the regimen of meat abandons alcohol also ; 
and to do this is to renounce most of the coarser and more 
degraded pleasures of life. And it is in the passionate 
craving for these pleasures, in their glamour, and the 
prejudice they create, that the most formidable obstacle is 
found to the harmonious development of the race. De- 
tachment therefrom creates noble leisure, a new order of 
desires, a wish for enjoyment that must of necessity be 
loftier than the gross satisfactions which have their origin 
in alcohol. But are days such as these in store for us 
these happier, purer hours ? The crime of alcohol is not 
alone that it destroys its faithful and poisons one-half of 
the race, but also that it exercises a profound, though 
indirect, influence upon those who recoil from it in dread. 
The idea of pleasure which it maintains in the crowd forces 
its way, by means of the crowd's irresistible action, into 
the life even of the elect, and lessens and perverts all 



74 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that concerns man's peace and repose, his expansiveness, 
gladness, and joy ; retarding, too, it may safely be said, 
the birth of the truer, profounder, ideal of happiness ; 
one that shall be simpler, more peaceful and grave, more 
spiritual and human. This ideal is evidently still very 
imaginary, and may seem of but little importance ; and 
infinite time must elapse, as in all other cases, before the 
certitude of those who are convinced that the race, so far, 
has erred in the choice of its aliment (assuming the truth 
of this statement to be borne out by experience), shall 
reach the confused masses, and bring them enlightenment 
and comfort. But may this not be the expedient Nature 
holds in reserve for the time when the struggle for life 
shall have become too hopelessly unbearable the struggle 
for life that to-day means the fight for meat and for 
alcohol, double source of injustice and waste whence all 
the others are fed, double symbol of a happiness and 
necessity whereof neither is human ? ' 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 75 

I owe most of my scientific instruction in the non- 
meat diet to Dr. Haig, but I was favoured by a leading 
vegetarian with the following list of medical men in 
different parts of England who agree with him, to the extent, 
at any rate, of recommending a non-flesh diet. I thought 
the list might be of some service to those of my readers 
interested in the health question : 

Dr. R. Edmund Deane, Wilmslow, Manchester. 

Dr. Pullar, 111 Denmark Hill, London, S.E. 

Dr. A. B. Mercer, Kinclune, Carlisle Road, Eastbourne. 

Dr. Charles Reinholdt, 16 Blagrave Street, Reading. 

Dr. Charles White, Studley, Upper Parkstone, Dorset. 

Dr. W. H. Ackland (J.P.), Fairhaven, Compton Gifford, 
Plymouth. 

Dr. Mitchell, 21 Park Lane, Little Horton, Bradford, Yorks. 

Dr. D. Geo. Carmichael, 68 Kenmure Street, Pollockshields, 
Glasgow. 

Dr. Blacker, The Boltons, Farnborough, Hants. 

Dr. J. Shaw Lyttle, Dundela, Cilfynydd, Pontypridd. 

Dr. Thos. Mowat, Barns Place, Clydebank, Glasgow. 

Dr. Benham, Earl's Court Square, London, S.W. 

Dr. E. Howard, Curfew Cottage, Datchet. 

Dr. W. J. Fernie, 4 Pembroke Villas, The Green, Rich- 
mond, S.W. (Author of ' Herbal Simples,' Kitchen Physic,' 
&c., &c.) 

Dr. Flint, Scarborough. 

Dr. Oldfield, Carn Brae, London Road, Bromley. 

Mrs. Fleetwood Taylor, M.D., c/o H. Phillips, Esq., 
16 Farringdon Street, E.G. 

Dr. George Black, Greta Bank, Chelston, Torquay. 

Dr. Hadwen, Brunswick Square, Gloucester. 

Dr. Helen Wilson, 381 Glossop Road, Sheffield. 

Dr. Arnold, Moss Lane East, Manchester. 

Dr. Genny, Lincoln. 

Dr. Walters, Stonehouse, Glos. 

Dr. Johnston, Ambleside. 

Dr. Crespi, Wimborne. 

Dr. Haig, 7 Brook Street, Hanover Square, London, W 



76 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



SUPPLEMENT 

Home started in Buckinghamshire, under Dr. Haig, for instruction 
and practice in uric-acid-free foods A second home in Hamp- 
shire for fleshless diet, recommended by Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A. 
Critical paper, by a patient of Dr. Haig Dr. Haig's answer to 



A FEW fresh facts having come to my knowledge since the 
former chapters were written, I am adding them here as 
a postscript because I think they will be useful to those 
who have read what I have said before. 

The news has just reached me that a grateful patient 
of Dr. Haig's has started a self-supporting home where 
invalids, and those interested in Dr. Haig's theories of 
diet, may reside under his personal supervision and teach- 
ing. Miss Florence Jessop, the secretary of the home 
Apsley House, Slough will give all the necessary informa- 
tion to those who write for it. The pamphlet, describing 
the objects of the home, opens with this sentence : ' Life is 
not mere existence, but health and happiness. The object 
here is life in its fullest sense.' With Dr. Haig's 
characteristic eagerness to share his knowledge and experi- 
ence with all who care to learn, he has provided that 
doctors shall be taken in, free of charge, for Saturday to 
Monday visits, that they may get to understand about the 
place. This is only one more instance of what I have 
noticed ever since I have known him, viz. that he tries to 
teach everyone all he knows in the belief that, if only they 
understand his theory, they will be able to keep their own 



SUPPLEMENT 



77 



health in order and greatly control the chances of disease. 
The terms of the home are from three to five guineas per 
week, which include all comforts, and Dr. Haig's attend- 
ance on his bi-weekly visits. Poor patients can place 
themselves in his care at the Metropolitan Hospital, or 
the Royal Hospital for Children and Women, at both of 
which he is a visiting physician. 

I was told that, after the publication of my second 
book, some people said, ' I wonder what Dr. Haig pays 
Mrs. Barle for puffing him in her books ? ' This deliciously 
characteristic question of the age amused me immensely. 
I wonder what these same people will say now? It 
seems a pity that there should be anyone who does not 
understand the difference between personal interest of 
any sort, and the impersonal interest in scientific work 
which promises to benefit the whole world, if those who 
believe in it help to make it known. 

Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A., is thoroughly recommending 
another home called Broadlands, at Medstead, Hants, 
and says that he may be used as a reference, as it is just 
the kind of establishment to which he alluded in a recent 
letter to the ' Daily Mail.' Particulars can be obtained 
from Miss Houston, the secretary. The terms are two 
guineas a-week, which at first sight appears cheaper than 
Apsley House, but as this charge does not include 
medical attendance and instruction, there is no great 
difference. 

It being my fixed idea that the food question rests 
with the intelligent public and not with the doctors, I 
asked a friend who for over two years has taken immense 
interest in the question both for himself and others, to be 
kind enough to put on paper his present attitude with 
regard to diet. My friend sent his critical paper to Dr. 
Haig, who has most kindly taken the trouble to write for 
me his explanation of the difficulties raised. 



78 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' 23rd October, 1902. You ask me to give you a resume 
of my present views on diet. I am still as firm a believer 
as ever in Dr. Haig's conclusions as to the part played 
by uric acid in causing disease, and in that authority's 
contention that it must, from any point of view, be de- 
sirable to avoid as far as possible all food which in itself 
contains uric acid, or one of the other acids producing 
analogous effects. On some points, however, I am in a 
critical frame of mind towards Dr. Haig's opinions, or 
rather what I believe to be his opinions, which conceivably 
may not be quite the same thing, seeing that I am only a 
humble amateur follower of the expert to whom I owe so 
much. And, firstly, as to cheese and milk. Whether by 
reason of the casein or of the lactic acid, which both 
contain, it seems to me to be clear that a large number 
of people cannot digest these substances, at any rate not 
in the large quantities originally recommended by Dr. 
Haig ; and many of the cases treated by Dr. Cantani, the 
Neapolitan specialist, seem to prove that milk and cheese 
are the direct cause of gout in some constitutions. It 
may well be that these substances must, for such people, 
be placed in the same category as eggs, which, on Dr. 
Haig's own showing, contain no uric acid, and yet, 
according to him, produce the same effects as if they did. 
I am told that Dr. Haig has ceased ordering milk and 
cheese so freely as at one time he did ; if that be the fact, 
I am glad to hear it, for I incline strongly to the opinion 
that their habitual use by many people has been re- 
sponsible for many mishaps. Then, as to the amount of 
food which each person should eat in the twenty-four 
hours. I doubt the reliability of Dr. Haig's method of 
computation I mean, the method of multiplying the 
weight in pounds by nine, and treating the product as the 
number of grains of proteid which should be eaten per 
diem. Prima facie, I should have expected that people 



SUPPLEMENT 79 

would differ from each other in digestive idiosyncrasies 
quite as much as in other respects, and my experience up 
to the present time seems to me to show that the as- 
sumption is well founded. If this be true, a rule whereby 
the amount of food is ascertained for each person in an 
identical manner cannot be sound, because it takes no 
account of his or her individual peculiarities. Again, 
the circumstances and conditions of life frequently vary 
very much in the course of a few years ; at one time a 
man may work more physically than mentally, at another 
the reverse may be the case ; at one time he may be living 
in a hot climate or in a stuffy town, at another he may be 
living in a cold climate or in the country ; at one time he 
may be leading a life of constant worry and strain, at 
another he may be enjoying a tranquil existence. I do 
not believe that these changes are represented by sufficient, 
if by any, changes in the weight, so as to make it the 
proper, or even a possible, criterion ; while I do believe 
that these changes materially affect the digestive capacity. 
At any rate, in my own case and in that of my wife, we 
were not in a satisfactory state, when eating at the rate 
prescribed by Dr. Haig's method, during the first two 
years, whereas we began to improve from the moment 
that we began to eat considerably less. My proper 
amount, according to Dr. Haig, is about 1,500 grains of 
proteid, whereas I am eating at this moment, and for the 
last two months have been eating, under 1,200 grains. It 
may be that two months do not afford a sufficiently long 
test; but against that objection I set the fact that the 
experience of everyone whom I know (including your- 
self) tallies with mine of the last two months. The 
matter is all important if the true rule is that every 
particle of proteid taken during the twenty-four hours, 
which is in excess of what is actually required just to 
make up the loss occasioned by the energy, mental or 



8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

physical, expended during the twenty-four hours, or which, 
for any reason, the individual is unable to metabolise, 
acts as a direct poison. This is the rule laid down by 
Dr. Cantani, as I understand the matter, and I am con- 
vinced that it is the true rule, and that the disregard of 
it explains many of the failures of the diet, and still more 
the quasi-failures. A friend of yours and mine suggested 
to me on Sunday last a way of maintaining the reliability 
of the method of calculation laid down by Dr. Haig, and 
yet of admitting that it often gives unsatisfactory results 
in individual cases. This was to regard Dr. Haig's 
amounts as the proper ones for the normal person, but to 
hold that very few people who take to the diet are in a 
normal condition at the start, and take a longer or shorter 
time, and generally longer time, to become so, and that 
beginners should regard Dr. Haig's amounts as the goal 
towards which they should work, but should not expect 
to be able at first to eat in accordance with them. My 
reply is that the assumption that people are not in a 
normal condition at the beginning is almost certainly true, 
and that the suggestion may be as sound as it is ingenious, 
but that it does not represent Dr. Haig's view, as I 
understand it, and that, further, a method of calculating 
the proper amount of proteid which is not a reliable 
guide at the precise time when people most want such a 
guide namely, at the beginning, when they have no 
data of their own to go on can hardly be considered 
satisfactory. 

' I would further point out that the weight, to which Dr. 
Haig's method has to be applied, is the normal or proper 
weight, not the weight at any given moment, as indeed 
must be the case, for otherwise the fatter a person got the 
more he would be bound to eat, irrespective of all other 
consideration, and vice versa. Now everyone does not 
know his normal or proper weight, seeing that we have 



SUPPLEMENT 81 

not all been in the habit, from early youth, of being 
weighed at frequent intervals, and of taking a careful note 
of the result : we are therefore not in a position to strike 
an average, and so ascertain the normal weight. In such 
circumstances the only thing to be done is to take the 
weight according to the height, but Dr. Haig himself 
regards that method as by no means satisfactory. Again, 
all methods of computation necessarily depend for their 
success on the accuracy of the tables of analyses, which 
purport to show the proportions of proteid and other 
things contained in the different foods. Now it is obvious 
to anyone who has looked into the question at all that 
hardly any of these tables agree, and sometimes they 
differ materially ; and even when they do agree, there 
remains the question whether the person consulting them 
can extract the whole of the proteid shown by the tables 
to exist in a particular food ; in other words, whether he 
can fully digest it. 

' In short, from whatever point of view you consider 
the matter, nothing can take the place of personal ex- 
perience ; and therefore, while it is desirable, and in truth 
unavoidable, to accept Dr. Haig's method of calculation, 
and to assume the accuracy of some of the food tables to 
begin with, as one must have some basis to start on, it 
must be clearly understood that, if the result is not what 
it should be, the blame is not to be attached to the simple 
foods, or to the principles inculcating their adoption, but 
to the manner in which the patient is applying them in 
his or her case. 

' One of the surest signs in my opinion that the in- 
dividual application is wrong, is constipation, whether the 
patient has previously been a sufferer from that scourge 
or not. Of course, if the patient, on mixed foods, has 
never been troubled with it, and it began only with the 
adoption of the simple foods, the proof of mistake in in- 

G 



82 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

dividual application is the more emphatic, but in any case, 
as I maintain, it is only a question of degree. The usual 
experience is, I fancy, that the adoption of the simple 
foods is followed at once by a marked improvement in the 
behaviour of the bowels, which causes the heart of the 
neophyte to rejoice, and makes him think that the problem 
is solved for good and all. Such may indeed be the happy 
fate of some of us, but more usually, I think, the initial 
improvement gradually slackens, and finally dies away 
altogether, and the status quo ante the change of diet 
returns more or less. To all persons in that position I 
say that they should not be discouraged, that they should 
not think that the diet is in principle at fault, but that 
they should think that their individual method of appli- 
cation is wrong, and should never rest until, by experi- 
ment, they have discovered exactly what is the cause of 
the trouble. I do not think that Dr. Haig looks at this 
complaint, as it ought to be looked at, namely, as one of 
the most immediate and natural proofs that the diet is not 
being properly applied, except, of course, in cases where 
there is reason to diagnose structural or other organic 
defect in the bowels themselves. The result of not doing 
so is that a person, who adopts the simple foods, is very 
liable to bring over from his former condition and training 
the orthodox attitude, both among doctors and laymen, that 
constipation is one of the mysteries of Nature, which must 
be tolerated with resignation and fortitude, or treated 
with violence. Yet it seems to me much more likely 
that it is merely due to the fact that the food is pre- 
sented to the bowels in a condition not suitable to their 
task, and that, either because something, which ought to 
have been removed by the process of mastication and 
stomachic digestion, has been left in, or vice versa, and is 
a kindly warning of Nature, which is meant to show us 
either that we are taking the wrong foods, or that we are 



SUPPLEMENT 83 

taking them in the wrong quantities, or that we are com- 
bining them wrongly. 

'I expect you will say that, if the whole matter is 
really a question of individual effort and experiment, there 
is very little chance of right principles of diet ever spread- 
ing generally, seeing that most people expect their doctors 
to do all the thinking for them on the subject of health, 
and would decline even to entertain a proposition to 
change their diet, unless at least one could assure them 
that they had only got to follow a cut-and-dried pro- 
gramme. I quite agree ; but then I do not think, and never 
have thought, that most people are at all likely to be con- 
vinced in any circumstances at the present stage. What 
I hope will happen is that the experience of the teetotallers 
will be repeated, and that a sufficient number of people 
will become convinced of the evils of the mixed foods, to 
bring the necessary pressure of public opinion to bear 
upon the medical profession to force them to review their 
pronouncements in the light of the new data, which are 
slowly accumulating. When this has been done, and the 
majority of doctors advocate a non-flesh diet, at first for 
invalids and then generally, the lay public will follow 
their lead, as a matter of course, in time. Considering 
that the profession is now contemplating the establish- 
ment of sanatoria for the treatment of consumption at 
the North Pole, and remembering what they would have 
thought of such a proposition, say, to be quite safe, forty 
years ago, we need not despair. Meanwhile we should 
none of us lose an opportunity of drawing the attention 
of our medical friends to their monstrous impertinence in 
claiming our respect and implicit belief professionally, so 
long as they, as a class, are at least as unhealthy as the 
rest of us. What should we say to a seaman who ob- 
viously could not sail his own boat, if he wanted to come 
and take charge of ours ? 



84 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' P.S. By the way, the Cantani I have referred to above 
was a doctor of that name who practised at Naples and 
died in 1898. He was immensely thought of by the Italian 
medical world, and devoted himself specially to gout, 
rheumatism and kindred disorders, in the treatment of 
which he obtained some remarkable successes, principally, 
as it seems to me, by his skill in applying the rule which 
I have quoted in this letter. He admitted meat in small 
quantities into his dietary, and absolutely excluded milk 
and cheese ; but as I have not yet been able to get hold of 
any of his books, which have not, I believe, been trans- 
lated, and have only seen an English work, which pur- 
ports to give a r&sum& of his theories and practice, I do 
not feel myself in a position to speak more definitely on 
the subject.' 

Dr. Haig answers these criticisms as follows : 

' In making a few comments upon your friend's letter, 
I should like first to mention some points which cannot 
be lost sight of without getting into hopeless confusion. 

' (1) Certain diseases are due to excess of uric acid in 
the body and blood. 

' (2) I propose to get free from those diseases by as far 
as possible ceasing to swallow uric acid. 

' (3) As a practical result of this a daily excretion of 
uric acid amounting on meat and tea diet to, say, 20 
grains, can in eighteen months to two years be reduced 
to 10 or 11 grains a day ; and with this reduction the 
diseases due to uric acid gradually diminish and cease to 
trouble. 

' (4) This result has nothing whatever to do with in- 
dividual constitution, age, digestion, or metabolism ; it is 
simply a matter of swallowing or not swallowing some 8, 
10, or 12 grains of uric acid each day. 

' (5) Quantity of food on a diet on which one has lived 



SUPPLEMENT 85 

from childhood is a matter of habit : one unconsciously 
learns as a habit to eat enough ; but even here one may 
learn to eat too much. On a new diet one must have 
some rule to prevent any serious mistakes ; but no rule is 
absolute, it is a rough guide to be adjusted by each in- 
dividual. The rule of 9 or 10 grains of albumen per 
pound of body weight per day is the one that was taught 
in all text-books of physiology when I was a student 
twenty-five years ago. These twenty-five years of use 
have not enabled me to convict it of serious error ; on the 
contrary, I believe that for a rough guide it is very close 
to the truth, and that investigation would show that when 
the weight to be nourished has been properly calculated 
(and this, of course, requires skill and experience), there 
are not many people who do good work in the world and 
maintain their weight, strength, activity and blood colour 
at the normal standard, on less than 9 grains of albumen 
per pound of body weight per day. 

' (6) No one has, I believe, found any xanthin or uric 
acid in milk or cheese, and the taking of one and a half 
pint of milk and one ounce of cheese every day does not 
interfere with the reduction of uric acid from 21 grains 
down to 10 per day (see No. 3). Some German chemists, 
on the other hand, have found xanthin in the yolk of eggs, 
and the taking of eggs does at once raise the uric acid above 
10 grains per day in proportion to the quantity of egg 
taken. Milk and cheese are therefore uric-acid-free foods : 
yolk of egg is not. Thus far we have nothing to do with 
individuals, all are absolutely alike ; those who swallow 
uric acid suffer from its effects, those who do not swallow 
it do not suffer. 

1 (7) But when we come to deal with the available uric- 
acid-free foods, it is quite a different matter : here every 
individuality in health, disease, deformity, age, and condi- 
tion has to be considered in deciding which foods offer 



86 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

special advantages for each individual ease; and here 
there is scope for endless experience and discussion, which 
I shall not attempt even to outline in a letter. 

' I can now, however, indicate shortly what I should 
say in reply to your friend's remarks. As to milk and 
cheese, I know some who do best on large quantities of 
milk, and I know others who do best on none ; such fluid 
diet is very bad for some diseases, very good for others ; 
there can be no rule for all. The harm that Cantani saw 
in gout and rheumatism from taking milk and cheese was 
possibly due to taking them in excessive quantity, or to 
the acids and salts in cheese, or to the dyspepsia which is 
in some people produced by milk ; but gout and rheuma- 
tism are but a small part of the diseases produced by uric 
acid ; and the harm that milk and cheese did in these was 
not due to introduction of uric acid. I have known cheese 
cause a relapse of rheumatism ; but this was because it 
contained much salt. I often purposely put patients on 
too large an allowance of albumens at first as in some 
diseases it is safer to be overfed rather than underfed ; 
and later, when the patient has got over the change of diet, 
the quantity can be reduced. 

' As I say in " Diet and Food," but few people want more 
than 1,400 grains per day ; but it is easy to over-estimate 
the exercise taken, and also to over-estimate the correct 
weight, or proper quantities of tissues to be nourished, as 
distinguished from fat which does not want extra nourish- 
ment. No doubt I often make mistakes in these matters 
in spite of my best endeavours. No rule is or can be 
absolute which has to take such data into account. If 
strength and blood-colour keep normal, I am content no 
matter how little food is being taken ; but for those who 
maintain strength and colour over years my figures will 
not often be found to be very far out. 

1 1 do not know anything about Cantani's metabolism. 



SUPPLEMENT 87 

I do know that, if I do not swallow uric acid or take too 
much food i.e. above the 9 grains limit (an error which 
may bo committed on all diets) I do not suffer. I quite 
agree that each person is to some extent a law to himself, 
especially as regards digestion ; and to a lesser extent as 
to quantity ; but the great physiological law of quantity 
is much less often broken than might be imagined. As 
to kinds of food each must try for himself, only general 
rules can be stated, and your friend is quite right in saying 
that the mistakes of individuals in details do not affect 
the great principle of the exclusion of uric acid. I am 
also inclined to agree with him that constipation is often 
a question of finding the particular uric-acid-free foods 
that suit the individual in question. Still even here it is 
a rule that milk and cheese are constipating (and this may 
account for part of their evil influence in gout and rheu- 
matism as noticed by Cantani), while some breadstuffs 
and most vegetables and fruits have the opposite effect. 
Constipation may precipitate an attack of gout or rheu- 
matism, but it does not cause it; and it can only preci- 
pitate it when an excess of uric acid is present in the 
blood ; and Cantani's patients would often have some 
excess of uric acid in the blood as they took some meat, 
so that milk and cheese might precipitate gout in them, 
but not in one of my patients ; and the case mentioned 
above was a beginner who had not got free from uric acid. 
Many meat-eaters suffer from constipation, but not all, 
and one must, of course, give a different diet to those who 
suffer and to those who do not. Those who can take 
breadstuffs freely generally do well to live on them ; but 
many, myself among the number, cannot take enough 
bread, and must add milk and cheese to a small extent or 
starve. In my case this is due to an error in education, 
for if I had been brought up on breadstuffs I could easily 
have lived on them now. No one ever swallows uric acid 



88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

with impunity ; but each, as he learns this and comes to 
change his diet, must decide which foods suit his disease 
his stomach, his teeth, his age, and his habits, which last 
have grown to be a part of him. 

(Signed) ' A. HAIG.' 

I read this autumn, according to my custom, the 
epitome in the ' Times,' of the speeches which a number 
of our greatest doctors addressed to their pupils on the 
reopening of the schools, and it is a remarkable thing 
that in those speeches there was not one word of instruc- 
tion, or, indeed, the smallest allusion to the fact that it 
was either desirable or possible to keep people from being 
ill at all. 

Just as I reached the end of my notes comes the thrill- 
ing account of the Berlin conference on Tuberculosis. 
It is a disappointment to me to find that there has not 
been sufficient investigation made during the last eighteen 
months to confirm or refute Dr. Koch's theory that the 
bovine tubercle is not transmissible to man. It is, how- 
ever, cheering to find that Dr. Koch is himself as firm as 
ever in his belief that overcrowding, damp, want of fresh 
air and sunlight are the predisposing causes to consump- 
tion, and that we must abolish these unhealthy conditions 
if we would successfully fight the monster which preys on 
so large a proportion of our population. He also refers 
to a point I have often been surprised to see so much 
neglected, viz. that while people will take care not to 
drink unboiled cow's milk, they cheerfully eat butter and 
cheese without any sterilising precautions. 



8 9 



GOATS 

Goats at Naples Possible solution for milk difficulty in rural dis- 
tricts A toothless generation Ignorance as to nourishing value of 
separated milk Mr. Hook on goat-keeping Personal experiment 
Eoast kid and agneau-de-lait Reasons for prejudice against 
goats Suggestions for the philanthropic Immunity of goats 
from tubercular disease Day at Guildford Almonds The 
Astolat Press Mr. Gates' herd of Toggenburg goats Feeding of 
goats Chemistry of food to be taught in elementary schools. 

WHEN walking in April in the streets of Naples, I came 
across a large herd of goats being milked from door to 
door, and it suddenly flashed upon me with great force 
that, if the English people could be persuaded greatly to 
increase the keeping of goats, especially in rural districts, it 
might be possible to arrive at some solution of the problem 
which faces everyone who gives thought to matters of 
health, viz. the serious deterioration in the physique of 
the people of this kingdom. There is no more convincing 
sign of this than the fact, universally acknowledged I 
believe, that a whole generation is growing up which have 
hardly any teeth left by the early age of twenty. I am 
told that not by any means the least of the sufferings of 
the soldiers in South Africa was toothache, and I remem- 
ber it was suggested in some newspaper that the War 
Office should provide false teeth for the recruits ! This 
state of health is by no means surprising when it is 
remembered how many children and young people are 
now brought up on baker's bread and stewed tea without 
any milk at all ; and, strange as it may seem, I believe a 



go A THIRD POT-POURRI 

child might have a better chance of health if it were 
brought up on moderate quantities of pure beer, instead 
of what the village mothers of to-day give their children. 
Milk is looked upon in our country districts as an extrava- 
gant luxury sometimes ordered by the doctor instead of 
cod-liver oil, and even when milk is ordered, there is 
great difficulty in getting it, for it is an easily verifiable 
fact that farmers prefer to keep their skim milk for young 
stock to selling it to the poor and the new milk is all 
sent to the towns, or sold to well-to-do customers. Of 
course, skim milk would in no sense take the place 
of cod-liver oil, neither does skim milk do for babies 
unless enriched by some fattening food ; but most people 
are hopelessly ignorant of the value of separated milk; 
they think the nourishment of milk is removed with the 
cream, whereas all the proteid is in the casein of the 
separated milk, there being none whatever in the cream 
or butter. For this reason it is obviously useless to 
depend for nourishment on cheeses made from cream, 
such as Camembert. I know one village in Suffolk 
where the proprietress offered the poor the separated milk 
of her dairy as a gift. This they refused, as they thought 
it quite worthless, and only ' pig's food,' a very different 
thing in their minds from food that was good for pigs. 

In a village not far from here a friend told me that 
she had been helping a man seriously ill of consumption. 
After he was removed to a home, the clergyman said the 
wife and five young children were very badly off. She, 
not sending food from her own house except in cases of 
grave illness, offered to give the mother two quarts of new 
milk a day for the children. After a few days the mother 
came up, and said she did not want the milk at all, as she 
had no use for it. It is almost inconceivable that a 
mother could so ignorantly refuse what was good for her 
children; it only helped to confirm me in my opinion 



GOATS 91 

that the use of milk and the knowledge of its value are 
absolutely dying out in English villages. 

On my return home after my visit to Italy, I made 
inquiries as to the most recent book that had been pub- 
lished in England on goat-keeping. This brought to my 
hand the excellent little book by Mr. Bryan Hook, son 
of the artist whose beautiful sea-scapes delighted the 
eyes of my generation on their visits to the Academy. 
The book is called 'Milch Goats and their Management,' 
and is published by Vinton & Co., 9 New Bridge Street, 
E.G., 1896. For anyone interested in the subject of 
goats, and especially for those meaning to keep them, 
there could hardly be a better guide than this book, 
prompted as it was (see preface) by ' a firm conviction of 
the advantage that might be derived from a wider cul- 
tivation of the milch goat in this country, and an affection 
for the most intelligent, engaging, and picturesque of our 
domestic cattle.' Mr. Bryan Hook has had so many 
years' experience in goat-keeping, that his testimony is 
exceptionally valuable, and intending goat-keepers will do 
wisely to follow his advice as to choice of breed, feeding, 
housing, and general management, the only point in 
which I would beg to differ from him being in the con- 
struction of the goat-house. Mr. Hook recommends a 
raised path down the middle of this, and a gutter on each 
side for drainage, which is to flow into a pail or tank 
sunk outside the buildings, and be used for garden manur- 
ing. Mr. Gates, the well-known owner of the pure 
Toggenburg herd of goats near Guildford, suggests that a 
better way, as an economy of labour and an improvement 
in hygiene (see results of experiments by Dr. Poore in dry 
treatment versus water-borne sewage, in his invaluable 
book 'Eural Hygiene'), is that the raised paths and 
gutters be omitted, and the floor simply strewn with 
sawdust or dry garden earth. This absorbs all liquids, 



92 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

prevents smells, and is easily swept up each morning 
when the house is brushed out, and if buried superficially 
is one of the finest fertilisers. This system has been 
followed by Mr. Gates, and he recommends it in preference 
to the water-swilled gutters. Certainly nothing could 
have been sweeter than his goat-house, which I visited 
one summer afternoon when it held ten goats. The 
sparred floor of the stalls is better raised eighteen inches 
from the floor, and the spars should be placed half an inch 
apart instead of one inch, as young kids are apt to get their 
very slender hoofs in between the wood when it begins to 
soften, and a broken leg may be the result of spars too 
wide apart, these young creatures being astonishingly 
nimble even from birth. 

Mr. Hook says : ' Goats are probably more subject to 
rheumatism than most other animals, and I have known 
them to be so acutely affected when heavy in kid that 
they were unable to rise, and almost unable to walk when 
on their legs.' I quote this sentence because it strikes 
me that goat-keepers may find that this tendency to 
rheumatism is caused by too high feeding, especially with 
oats, peas, and beans. Horses in the confinement of the 
stable often suffer in the same way, and are unable to 
stand the damp when turned out into the fields, not 
because that gives them the rheumatism any more than 
bad weather gives it to us. They have it in them from 
wrong feeding : the damp merely develops it. 

In consequence of this book I bought one goat, a 
hornless black and white crossbred, so that I and my 
gardener might gain a little personal experience I always 
dispute that ' a little knowledge is a dangerous thing,' a 
little to my mind being better than none and find out 
how much trouble and benefit there is in keeping goats 
on a very small scale. 

My first experiment after the birth of the two kids the 



GOATS 93 

next spring a boy and a girl was to give to the children 
about the place a goafs-milk tea. They all, with one 
exception, said they liked it very much. The exception 
was the youngest, almost a baby, who was probably not 
hungry. After this the goat's milk was divided between 
the children of the gardener and coachman, and such 
honoured guests who were fond of milk and yet totally 
disbelieved that goat's milk was without taste or smell. 
Without a single exception every one of these pronounced 
it excellent, and some preferred it to cow's milk as a 
constant drink. This may be due to the fact that, as 
Mr. Hook says, the fat globules in goat's milk are so 
much more minute than in cow's milk that it is lighter 
on the palats and easier of digestion. Servants who in 
my experience are the most conservative-minded of all 
classes have now found out the good qualities of goat's 
milk so markedly that they are glad not to allow it to go 
out of the house. 

I can see the cautious reader probably a male 
saying, ' I wonder why she didn't take it herself ? ' It was 
because I did not wish to mix goat's with cow's milk in the 
separator, and I always drink separated milk ; for though 
not a large milk consumer, I prefer it without its cream, 
taking that portion of the milk by preference in the form 
of butter. Those who drink coffee or tea will find that 
goat's milk gives both these a much better colour in the 
cup than even the best cow's milk. 

My little kids I did not want to keep. I tried to sell 
them both in the neighbourhood, but no one would give me 
anything for them, dead or alive, so I had the Billy killed 
and served for a Saturday to Monday party which I knew 
had no interest in the simpler foods. Having seen them 
immensely enjoy it, I called to their notice the menu, on 
which was plainly written 'roast kid,' whereupon a 
young man at my side told me the following anecdote. 



94 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

He had lately dined at a very expensive restaurant where 
the menu contained for the roast, agneau-de-lait. He, 
having a frugal mind, and thinking of his own lambs in 
the country which sold for very little, asked to interview 
the chef after the feast. He said, ' Well, sir, I have no 
objection to telling you that agneau-de-lait is not to be 
procured in England, or at any rate is enormously ex- 
pensive. This dish of which you have been eating is 
only a kid.' 

I could not bear to kill the useful Nannie, so I gave 
her away to the man who had had charge of her mother. 
He used her as a pet for his children to drag a tiny cart, 
and is now so delighted with the milk our goat gives that 
he is going to keep his own for the same purpose. This 
year the same mother only had one kid, a very pretty 
little female, which I am rearing and keeping. The one 
Md instead of the usual two may be due to the mother 
having been principally fed on grass. She does not give 
nearly as much milk as the better-bred goats, but this may 
be partly because she is not so highly fed. She is pastured 
in a fresh spot every day and is given leaves, &c. In 
winter I find chopped mangold is a favourite food. 

Several cases have come to my knowledge of poor 
people refusing to keep a goat even when it had been 
given them, because they say it is so troublesome and 
destructive a creature. My interpretation of this would 
be that it is no good giving a goat to poor people, unless 
you give with it a strong collar, chain, and tethering pin, 
for unless this is done it is always breaking loose and 
doing damage. These things are expensive for poor 
people to buy the collar and chain costing 7s. 6d. they 
try to manage with bits of rope, or any other makeshift, 
and the result is unsatisfactory. 

Mr. Hook says in his book which supplements the 
larger work on goats by Mr. Pegler, that this prejudice 



GOATS 95 

against goats is largely due to the fact that English 
cottage people get their small experience of goats from 
buying them out of the Irish herds which are brought 
over now and then. ' Unfortunately, it is from such 
inferior animals that an estimate of the whole species is 
generally formed, the over-sanguine goat-owner becoming 
disappointed by the wild nature, mischievous habits and 
scanty produce of the animal that he has purchased on 
the assurance that it will give two quarts of milk a day, 
and live anywhere and anyhow.' 

I was walking one evening on a Surrey common, and 
saw a little boy just taking a goat into a cottage. My 
interest being very keen, I began asking him why he kept 
it. He said, ' For milk.' My next question was, ' What 
do you do with the kids ? ' He answered with a grin, 
' Our goat don't 'ave no kids : she ain't 'ad none fur 
seven years.' This surprising answer so floored me that 
I meekly said, ' I suppose she doesn't give much milk ? ' 
He said, ' No, not much.' I afterwards heard that the 
little cottage contained a family of fifteen children and 
mother and father. 

There is no doubt a difficulty in the poor keeping a 
goat for each family, unless they are near a good common 
with grazing rights, which exceptional circumstance is 
practically not worth reckoning. My idea is that as 
philanthropic people abound everywhere, some of these 
might be the goat-keepers of the district, and either send 
the goats, in charge of a boy, round to the cottage doors 
to be milked there in a small measure, to be charged for 
at a remunerative price, or have the goats milked at 
home at an early hour in the morning and evening, so 
that the children might fetch the milk before and after 
school-hours. The charitable, on the other hand, who do 
not fear to give such as the clergyman, the nurse, the 
district visitor, &c. might keep goats for their own use 



96 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and give away milk for sick children and other urgent 
cases. 

Only time and patience will get rid of the prejudice 
against goats which exists in all classes, and may be 
partly due to experiences at Gibraltar, Malta, Corsica, 
and parts of Switzerland where the goat's milk is almost 
undrinkable. This unpleasant smell and flavour is 
caused by wrong feeding, by dirty hands in milking, and 
by letting the milk stand too long. The delicious bruccio, 
of Corsica, is a fresh curd made from goat's milk. Julius 
Caesar openly avowed he preferred the plebeian goat's 
cheese to the greatest delicacies of the table, and the 
newspapers say President Loubet does the same. 

In the dim distance it does not seem to me impossible 
that ussful foods may be made from sheep's milk, 
especially while lambs are still killed for meat. 

One of the chief recommendations of goat's milk in 
these days of nervousness about the danger of cow's milk, 
is that goats are among the few animals entirely exempt 
from tubercular disease. Sir William Broadbent, writ- 
ing on the prevention of consumption, says, ' It is in- 
teresting to note that asses and goats do not suffer from 
tuberculosis.' It is a continual surprise to me that goats 
are not kept to supply the consumptive sanatoriums, and 
I hope this most important measure may be adopted at 
the King's new Hospital, for the prejudice of the patients 
might be met in the same way as the French chef met the 
demand for agneau-de-lait as stated before. 

The other day a friend came to see me who had last 
year been interested in my goat-talk. She told me she 
had bought a goat for her baby and was going to buy 
another, as both she and her children liked it so much. 
She said with pride, on my showing her my comparatively 
ugly black and white hornless mongrel, that her goats 
were beautiful fawn and white Toggenburgs. I felt 



GOATS 97 

humbled, and she said, ' Don't you know the goat-farm 
at Guildford, kept by Mr. Gates, the head of the West 
Surrey Dairy Co. ? ' A few days afterwards I and a 
friend, who was herself anxious to keep goats, started for 
Guildford. Arrived at the station I suddenly remembered 
that I wanted to order a book, and trying the penny in 
the slot post-card box, found to my disgust that the 
cards were unstamped. I think the sale of these post- 
cards would greatly increase if, instead of two com- 
paratively useless cards at a penny, one, stamped ready 
for use, were sold at the same price. The diminution of 
profit would probably be covered by the additional sale. 
We walked up to the dairy and felt a little flat when told 
that Mr. Gates was not there and lived three miles away. 
The clerk suggested that we might talk to his nephew. 
This we accordingly did, and heard that Mr. Gates was 
going to sell the whole herd, as it had been a hobby and 
he no longer had time to devote to it. It being part of 
the vegetarian creed to be cheerful under disappointment, 
we resolved to spend our two hours before the return 
train in loafing about the picturesque old town. 

Our first excitement was finding the Market Place 
filled with a detachment of Engineers, whose carts looked 
rather like Chinese junks and whose Boer hats and rough 
costume, to our imagination, conveyed the impression 
that they were just back from the front with all the 
South African dust and sunburn still thick upon them. 
On inquiry we found they had only returned a short 
time ago, but they had been on manoeuvres in the 
neighbourhood, and the junks turned out to be pontoons, 
the dust being good Surrey sand. 

Passing beautiful fruit shops, so rare in the villages 
near me, we bought two very cheap market baskets and 
proceeded to load them with fruits of all kinds which had 
suddenly flooded the market from the lateness of the 



98 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

season, and were plentiful and cheap. Our next search 
was for almonds, but walking up the High Street I 
was suddenly glued to the window of a curiosity shop 
by the sight of a gorgeous blue and green fish, different 
from any I had in the china aquarium of fish which swim 
over my ugly hall stove on the whitewashed wall at 
home. Finding the price moderate, I yielded to the 
temptation to make the fish share the basket with my fruit. 
We then went to the best looking grocer's shop we could 
find, and my friend, who is an almond-fancier, asked if 
they had any Jordans. Fortunately for us they had 
bought in an extra large supply in the season, and had 
plenty of this kind at 2s. per lb., a great improvement upon 
the Valencias at Is. 8d. The disappointment sometimes 
caused to housekeepers by receiving bitter almonds, with 
the possible result that the nourishing item of a guest's 
meal has to be left out, may be guarded against by 
ordering ' second quality Jordan almonds,' which are 
Is. IQd. per lb. at the Stores. The twopence extra is well 
worth while to those who have once appreciated the 
difference between them and Valencias, which are the 
same in shape and size as the bitter almonds, so that it is 
impossible for a cook to know she is preparing uneatable 
food if she gets the latter by mistake. It is extravagant 
to buy the best Jordans at 3s. per lb., when the second 
quality are as good except for size. The shape, a very 
long oval, is the same, quite unlike the squat oval of the 
Valencia almond. 

It is curious to notice that when the derisive enemy 
accuses one of living on ' nuts and apples,' he is generally 
ignorant that almonds are nuts, and far the most nourish- 
ing of the whole nut family. Even when people do 
realise this, they are filled with dread at being ordered to 
consume a vast amount of prussic acid, having vaguely 
heard that this poison is extracted from almonds. It 



GOATS 99 

may be worth while here to go back once more to our 
friend ' Chambers's Encyclopaedia/ and quote a few facts 
on the subject : 

' Bitter almonds contain the same substances (as 
sweet), and, in addition, a substance called amygdalin, 
from which is obtained a peculiar volatile oil. For the 
preparation of Fixed Oil of Almonds either bitter or 
sweet may be employed. The cake which is left after 
the expression of the fixed oil from bitter almonds, con- 
tains among other matters a portion of two substances, 
called respectively amygdalin and emulsin or synaptase. 
When the cake is bruised and made into a paste with 
water, the synaptase acts as a ferment upon the amygdalin, 
and one atom of the latter resolves itself into two atoms 
of volatile oil of bitter almond, one atom hydrocyanic 
acid (prussic), one atom grape sugar, two atoms formic 
acid, seven atoms water.' 

The volatile oil is not originally present in the bitter 
almond. The nut does not contain a trace of the oil 
ready formed, so that the oil is purely the product of the 
fermentation of amygdalin. 

It may be suggested that this change might be brought 
about by fermentation inside us; but in an interesting 
paper in the ' Herald of Health ' for April 1902, by Dr. 
E. P. Miller, there is an account of the two so-called 
ferments, the digestive or inorganic fermentation versus 
organic fermentation, and he says : ' The term ferment is 
not one that should be applied to the enzymes spoken of 
as the unorganised ferments that are elaborated within 
the cells of the glands producing them, for they are not 
in reality ferments, but simply digestive agents provided 
to prepare the nutritive constituents of food for absorption 
and assimilation.' Mrs. Wallace's excellent monthly 
magazine the ' Herald of Health ' is full of information 
of all kinds on health topics. The last page gives a set 

H2 



ioo A THIRD POT-POURRI 

of useful general rules ' for the physical regeneration of 
man,' with which I am in great sympathy, a sympathy 
which I cordially extend to the motto of the paper : 
'Life is not mere existence, but the enjoyment of 
health.' 

To go back to my account of the day in Guildford. 
In the shop where we bought our almonds was a stall 
presided over by an American girl with a chafing-dish 
and several varieties of American cereal foods and speci- 
men dishes prepared from them. What attracted me, as I 
had a vegetarian coming who always asked for farinaceous 
bulk which I avoid when alone, was a bundle marked 
Id., and called ' Nouilles laete'es Suisse,' or Swiss milk 
vermicelli, which shows its Swiss intelligence by instruct- 
ing the public as to the percentages of its component 
parts in an analysis signed by Dr. Bertschinger of Geneva. 
It is not otherwise than a noticeable sign of the times 
that in Germany and Switzerland prepared foods have to 
be analysed and certified by first-rate chemists. I have 
never come across this with either French or English 
foods. In the case of England, at any rate, where 
adulteration is so common, I think all patent medi- 
cines and foods should be certified by a Government 
inspector. 

Having filled our market baskets, we found them so 
heavy that we left them with this young lady till our 
return, and, with all the joyful feeling of touring in a 
picturesque foreign town, we walked on to find the shop 
of the well-known Mr. A. C. Curtis, author of ' A New 
Trafalgar/ and founder of the Astolat Press. It was a 
slight shock to our aesthetic sensibilities to find the shop 
in a chaotic bustle of ' sale,' which we forgave when we 
learnt that it ensured our finding Mr. Curtis himself on 
the premises ; and as my friend too was a writer and a 
bookseller, he welcomed us with all the friendliness of a 



GOATS 101 

fellow-craftsman, and fetched out from the back of the 
shop a case of his dainty little editions. Amongst these 
was his ' In Memoriam ' on vellum published at 10s. 6d. 
net, of which he himself lately bought back the few re- 
maining copies he could find among the booksellers at 
an increased price, as the book is now out of print and 
scarce. 

The present fashion for these miniature libraries as 
seen in the success of the ' Temple Classics,' the ' Bibelots,' 
and the new ' Unit Library,' which brings the great classics 
of all nations within the reach of English peasants 
is very indicative of the stress of the times, which means 
pocket volumes for the busy workers who would perhaps 
never read at all but for the snatched intervals between 
work. 

The name ' Astolat Press ' suggested to us on our 
return to write and ask Mr. Curtis the origin of the 
assertion that Astolat the home of Elaine was the old 
name of Guildford. This was his reply : ' In the " Morte 
D'Arthur," book xviii. chap, ix., Sir Thomas Malory says 
of Sir Lancelot, " And then he rode so much until he 
came to Astolat, that is Guildford, and there it happed 
him in the eventide he came to an old baron's place that 
hight Sir Bernard of Astolat." There is no doubt that 
Tennyson identified Astolat with Guildford, and used the 
present ruined keep in his mental pictures. And he might 
well fancy Elaine watching the ford by St. Catharine's 
for the flash of the knight's armour as he rode from 
Winchester up the track we call " The Pilgrim's Way," 
but which is one of the earliest roadways in England, and 
existed long before St. Thomas of Canterbury's day. The 
Astolat Press is quite a small affair and inhabits, in what 
was once Archbishop Abbott's stable, an Elizabethan 
red-brick building, with solid walls, oak beams, and 
square-paned leaded casements. The loft makes a capital 



io2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

compositors' room, and the solid ground floor a good 
foundation for engines, machines, and hand press.' 

After the first day at Guildford we felt rather crest- 
fallen at having learnt so little that was new about goats. 
I wrote to Mr. Gates, and he quickly answered that we 
might come over at once and see his herd. We were 
received with the greatest kindness and hospitality, and 
every question was most cordially answered. His goat- 
house was a picturesque thatched building, the floor 
strewn with sawdust, the animals being tethered in little 
stalls on a raised platform of battens half an inch apart, 
and about two inches wide. Apart from the obvious gain 
in cleanliness, this raised structure is a great convenience 
in milking and saves a special milking bench. 

The goats were nearly all pure Toggenburgs beautiful 
deer-like creatures with fine fawn-and-white coats and 
when I asked why they were being sold all together, 
thinking in my ignorance that it would be better to 
spread them about, Mr. Gates told me that he was 
anxious to sell them to someone who would keep the 
breed pure, as the Swiss Government had now forbidden 
their exportation. They have been purchased by Mr. 
E. Sugden, Longden, near Eugeley, Staffs. Mr. Sugden 
intends to keep the breed pure. 

The average yield of these goats in full milk is two to 
two and a half quarts each daily, the actual quantity given 
by Mr. Gates' herd of five in one season having been 
714 Imperial gallons, or forty-two full-sized railway 
churns. In addition to his household supply of milk and 
butter, Mr. Gates has sent out more than 1,000 bottles of 
milk, sterilised for travelling, besides selling the fresh 
milk for infants at Guildford. The price he charged viz., 
eightpence a quart is an interesting contrast to the price 
at the London dairies. 

Further details may be gathered from an illustrated 



GOATS 103 

article entitled ' A Dairy Farm in Miniature,' by Mr. 
Bryan Hook, in ' Country Life ' of April 8, 1899. The 
goats were photographed, but the pictures do not do them 
justice. 

The impression made on one by these goats is that, 
compared with other breeds, they are as racehorses to cart- 
horses. Probably with increased knowledge and interest 
in the subject, the English goat will be improved it 
being a most useful creature for all who cannot afford the 
special breed. Mr. Gates' little goat farm had the ad- 
vantage that it was adjoining a common where the goats 
could be turned out in charge of a boy. We also noticed 
that those in a field were allowed to run loose, a great 
improvement on the tethering system, as these creatures 
love change. Mr. Gates told us that this was quite safe 
when once they had grown used to a place, for they are 
so intelligent and friendly that they attach themselves to 
people and places like dogs. It was interesting to us to 
notice that, although there were eight milch goats and 
two or three kids in the house, the place was as sweet as 
a well-kept stable the he-goats, the only offenders in this 
matter, being kept apart in a field. 

On the subject of feeding Mr. Gates told us that he 
grew lucerne on purpose for them, as they were fond of it 
for a change, and it was a most useful fodder, as he cut it 
three times over in the summer, and it grows almost as 
fast as it is cut. 

I have found that other useful foods are comfrey, sun- 
flowers, summer prunings of apple and pear trees, hedge- 
row cuttings, sweet chestnut leaves, and the leaves of 
the globe artichoke. In Italy cows are fed on artichoke 
leaves, but I cannot persuade my pampered Jerseys to 
eat them. 

According to many people, for the last two years I 
have had goats on the brain, which is only a variety of 



io 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the more usual accusation that for many years, alas ! for 
them, I have had diet on the brain. These accusations 
at first really distressed me, as no one feels cheerful under 
the implied supposition that senile decay is coming upon 
one with rapid strides. The fact is that goat-keeping is 
merely a variation of my interest in diet and the im- 
provement I hope it is to bring about in the health of the 
modern world. It has been an immense gratification to 
me to see that there has been such a very general growth 
of interest in this subject during the last few years. We 
see it affecting all classes from the highest to the lowest 
our statesmen, our clergy, our men of science, almost the 
entire Press, and last, but not least, the King himself. 
The cloud of ignorance about food shows signs of break- 
ing up and dispersing. How complete it can be, even 
among intelligent well-educated people, was illustrated to 
me the other day when talking about food values over a 
tea-table with a trained village nurse and a friend much 
interested in the subject. Neither of them seemed to 
understand what I meant, and one of them suggested, 
' Surely the most nourishing food is that which digests 
most easily.' I answered, ' You may easily digest fruit 
and vegetables, but the actual food value of what 
you have digested is very small indeed.' In fact, they 
were entirely unaware that there was such a thing as 
chemical analysis of food, and a scientific knowledge of 
the subject which they might have mastered with half the 
labour and time spent over complicated crochet stitches 
and lovely drawn-thread needlework. A friend of mine 
who has lately had a serious illness, told me that neither 
of the first-rate trained nurses who attended her had ever 
heard of such a thing as being able to calculate the 
number of grains of proteid necessary for the day's 
nourishment, or to decide at a glance, at a well-spread 
table, what food on it is the best to choose. 



GOATS 105 

Nothing has encouraged me more than finding this 
summer that the matter has been taken up in the highest 
quarters, and has been introduced into the Revised In- 
structions for the Public Elementary Schools (1902). As 
few people take the trouble to get Blue-books, I venture 
to quote the following paragraphs from Appendix V. on 
Cookery : 

* V The dietary value of the food and cost of 

the materials should be taught at each lesson, if only one 
course of Cookery lessons is being given. When the 
arrangement is that the girls attend Cookery classes for two 
or more successive years, the dietary value of food should 
not be taught till the second year. 

* Second year. Instructions should be given on the 
various food stuffs, i.e. cereals, pulse, fruits, vegetables, 
meats, and fish ; beverages. The dietary value of food. 
Digestion of albumen, starch, fat. More advanced dishes 
should be demonstrated and practised at each lesson, 
illustrating over again the Primary Methods taught in the 
First Year course. 

' Third year. Complete dinners should be cooked by 
groups of children attending the class. The price of the 
dinner and the number of persons for whom it is in- 
tended should be written on the blackboard. Instruc- 
tions should be given on : 

(a) Expenditure of wages on food. 
(&) The making of preserves. 

(c) Use and abuse of tin foods. 

(d) Vegetarian diet. 

(e) Preparation of food suitable for infants. 

' The scholars should have practice in drawing up 
menus of dinners suitable for an artisan family, stating 
the price and season of the year.' 

This will instruct in the Elementary Schools, but I 



106 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

hope the time is not distant when no educated child will 
sit down to any table whereon food is displayed without 
a perfect knowledge of the simple rules as to the nourish- 
ing values and right combination of food, and when a 
young mother will no more dream of asking her nurse 
whether she shall give her rather delicate offspring fruit 
or no fruit, than whether it shall go naked or clothed. 



WHOLESOME FOOD ON THREE SHILLINGS 
A WEEK 

' Cornhill ' budgets Food reformers and lentils Taste for savoury 
foods Nervous appetites Cabinet Minister and charwoman 
The healthy foods Maeterlinck's appeal against meat and 
alcohol Food values To feed a family of four on 12s. a 
week Nut milk A week's menus, and cost Ditto, with once- 
a-week cooking Advantage of living in country Goat's milk 
at a London dairy Cheapest and healthiest diet at 2s. 4d. a 
week To wean servants from the beef-beer-tea faith Possible 
purpose of meat-eating phase in evolution A philanthropist's 
experiment Amateur farmers A pair of Bushey Art Students 
Receipts. 

IN 1901 the Editor of the 'Cornhill Magazine' pub- 
lished a series of five articles called ' Family Budgets,' 
beginning in April with that of the workman at 30s. a 
week, by Mr. Arthur Morrison, and ending in August with 
10,OOOZ. a year, by Lady Agnew. Between these came, in 
May, a lower middle-class budget of 150Z. to 200Z. a 
year, in June an income of 800Z. a year, and in July my 
own, which I now republish, on 1,800Z. a year. The 
reviewers found great amusement in the idea that there 
could be the smallest difficulty in living on such an 
income, but the proper adjustment of medium or large 
incomes is often a more complicated matter than the 
management of one which provides only for the necessi- 
ties of life. A friend of mine whose inheritance of 2.000Z. 
a year was stated in the newspapers, received a letter 
asking for a considerable sum out of it, on the plea that 



io8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the loss of it could not be felt out of her 'boundless 
wealth.' 

The ' Workman's Budget ' is, I think, the most interest- 
ing one of the series, as it deals with the hardships of 
town life on an income which is ten shillings a week 
higher than the usual bare subsistence of a pound a 
week. 

My friend, Miss Curtis, has kindly sent me the follow- 
ing suggestions on wholesome food for the poor and the 
depopulation of rural districts huge difficulties, which 
have been dealt with in a most thoughtful and stimulat- 
ing way in a book of collected essays by various writers, 
and published by Fisher Unwin in 1901, under the title 
of ' The Heart of the Empire.' 

' The question of wholesome food for the poor is not in 
itself a difficult one : the real obstacle lies in the pre- 
judice against a non-meat diet, which is often to be traced 
to the want of knowledge and sympathetic understanding 
of the tastes of the poor, in those who champion the 
economic way of living. Social reformers urge lentils 
as the article of food which gives the maximum of 
nourishment at the minimum of cost ; but, apart from the 
little-known fact that the xanthins of lentils and all 
pulse foods are now suspected by experts to be as un- 
wholesome as those of flesh foods, and therefore to be 
ruled out from the dietary of all who wish to control as 
far as possible the causes of disease, we have to face the 
fact of the people's dislike to all porridgy foods. This 
dislike cannot be lightly dismissed as a fad: the plain 
truth is that the appetites of the people are indicative of 
their constitutions, and these have changed during the 
last century of meat and tea diet. 

' Imagine the under-nourished, over- worked mother of 
a family, after a hot day's washing or charing, sitting down 



WHOLESOME FOOD 109 

with appetite to a mess of lentils. One might as well 
expect a delicate, hard-worked Cabinet Minister to enjoy 
a summer luncheon of boiled bacon and beans. The 
Cabinet Minister chooses lobster salad and a whisky~and- 
soda : the charwoman chooses tinned salmon and tea 
if she can get it. 

' The poor like fried food a bit of fish ready cooked 
from the shop, a rasher of bacon, a pig's fry, anything 
crisp and savoury and failing this, they like the tinned 
stuffs which give an excuse for just the piquant dash of 
vinegar or pickles which their jaded appetites require. 

' Perverted tastes ! says the reformer. Yes, but why 
are they perverted ? Surely the whole conditions of life 
in our big towns are perverted from the way of health, 
and it is unreasonable to expect unhealthy men and 
women to have healthy appetites. 

' The charwoman's husband, if he has the luck to earn 
his living by outdoor labour, may have a lentil-hunger ; 
but how can she be ready for stodgy food after a day, or 
rather a lifetime, spent in wrestling with dirt in a stuffy 
house set in acres of stuffy streets ? 

' Before we can expect people to eat lentils and beans 
we must see that they live under conditions which pro- 
duce a healthy hunger, and towards this the Garden City 
Association, 77 Chancery Lane, W.C., is working in a way 
that deserves the support of all who wish to improve the 
present state of our towns and cities. 

' I have lately been asked to advise the best dietary for 
a family of four, consisting of father, mother, and two 
young children, in circumstances that allow of only 3s. 
per head a week for food, and since this is a case which 
may easily come into the experience of any who work 
amongst the poor, I include it here on the chance of being 
able to offer some useful hint. By " best " I understand 
" healthiest," so I exclude all such articles of food as are 



no A THIRD POT-POURRI 

shown by Dr. Haig's researches either to produce uric- 
acid diseases, or to aggravate a previously existing 
tendency towards them. This cuts off all flesh foods, 
together with eggs, the pulses (peas, beans, lentils), tea, 
coffee, cocoa, and alcohol : and leaves milk, cheese, nuts, 
cereals, vegetables, and fruit, to which may be added 
Plasmon, which is milk in a dry, concentrated form, 
requiring discretion in its use, for if taken indiscrimi- 
nately it may, like all highly nitrogenous (albuminous) 
foods, cause indigestion. A propos of the many objections 
from intelligent people to its being an " artificial food," it 
may be stated that Plasmon is no more artificial than the 
strong stock which a cook prepares by allowing the water 
to evaporate. All cooking is artificial to primitive man, 
and Plasmon is milk so cooked that the water evaporates 
and the condensed nutriment remains. Being made from 
skim milk, which explains its extreme cheapness, it is 
deficient in the fat and sugar present in new milk, and for 
this reason Plasmon should not be substituted for new 
milk in feeding children. All young animals require fat 
and sugar, and a calf brought up on skim milk may be big 
and bony, but is never so well-favoured and thriving in 
condition as one which has been even partly fed on whole 
milk. Moreover, fat, so necessary to good digestion, is 
very evenly distributed in new milk, and for this reason 
alone it is, as a rule, unwise to upset nature's balance 
when feeding children. To adults, invalids, travellers, and 
athletes, Plasmon is an immense boon, and it should also 
do much to solve the problem of right feeding for the 
many whose incomes are insufficient for their needs. 

' Here, for a moment, I would beg leave to refer to 
Maeterlinck's recent splendid appeal against meat and 
alcohol. In it he says, " A little fruit, or milk, a few 
vegetables, farinaceous substances .... are amply suffi- 
cient to maintain the ardour of the finest and mightiest life." 



WHOLESOME FOOD in 

' If anyone ignorant of food values should try to reform 
his diet by this statement, it is probable that he would 
come to grief, although a student of dietetics would avoid 
disaster by substituting and for or in the sentence above, 
and by taking all four kinds of food to make up his 
dietary. Fruit can hardly be made an alternative to 
milk, the respective albumen values being too dispro- 
portionate. One pint of milk = 262 grains albumen or 
proteid ; but it would take over 2 Ibs. of fruit to get this 
amount of nourishment, and so great a bulk of watery 
food would be likely to upset digestion somewhat 
seriously. If dried fruits such as figs, dates, raisins, and 
French plums were used, a much smaller quantity 
Ib. would give the necessary albumens ; but most 
people, when told to eat fruit, think of the fresh kinds, 
which are more tempting to sight, touch, taste, and smell. 
Only if " fruit " were read in its widest sense to include 
nuts, could it be fairly substituted for milk, and very few 
general readers would be likely to remember this. Milk 
itself is rather too bulky a food to depend on for the day's 
proteids, and should be supplemented by a dry form such 
as cheese or Plasmon, or by nuts the following list 
showing roughly the order in which the simpler foods 
take rank as compared with meat, and with each 
other : 

1| oz. meat = 1 oz. cheese = 1^ oz. almonds = 2| ozs. 

oatmeal. 
= 4 ozs. bread = 4 ozs. dried fruit = \ pint 

milk. 
= 17 ozs. vegetables or fresh fruit = 140 grs. 

proteid. 

' To return to our family of four. If it is obliged to 
live in London, milk at 4cZ. a quart is too costly an item 
to allow of the parents drinking it, and even if an effort 



ii2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were made to give the children \ pint each every day, our 
12s. would be seriously diminished. 

' A cheaper drink, and one which Professor Konig says 
contains 268 units per Ib. more nourishment than fresh 
milk, is the Nut Butter, sold in 1 Ib. tins at Sd. by the 
International Health Association of Manchester, which 
supplies all the nut and cereal foods invented by the 
Battle Creek Sanatorium group of American food re- 
formers, headed by Dr. Kellogg. This nut butter is to be 
had from any vegetarian stores, and can be mixed with 
water to the consistency of cream or milk as desired. It 
is not at all greasy, and can be used as a substitute for 
milk in soups, puddings, &c. Children would prefer it 
sweetened. It has a roasted pea-nut colour and flavour, 
and next to Plasmon and Protene is the most highly 
nourishing drink I know, containing a greater proteid 
percentage than milk or raisin tea. Containing as it does 
a good proportion of nut fat in the finest possible emul- 
sion, this nut milk would obviously be far more economical 
as a food-drink than cow's milk, and for half the cost 
viz,, Sd. a week the children could be given twice the 
amount, or 1 pint each a day instead of \ pint. 

' For breakfast, then, oatmeal or barley porridge eaten 
with bread and marmalade or treacle, the children being 
trained to drink their nut milk in sips between the dry 
food, instead of washing it down half chewed, which is 
the usual result of the common habit of pouring milk ovef 
porridge a bad plan which effectually prevents the 
cereal from being mixed with the saliva necessary to its 
digestion. If the adults cannot at first manage the 
porridge, fried bread and potatoes, or rice rissoles with a 
little Plasmon powder mixed in them, will make a savoury 
and sustaining meal, and if well masticated with bread 
there would be no craving for drink till an hour or two 
later, when water, hot or cold, is all that is necessary for 



WHOLESOME FOOD 113 

health ; but as beginners often sadly miss the pick-me-up 
of the hot tea at breakfast, the following week's menus 
allow for Plasmon, hot bran tea, barley water, or any 
similar drink. To those who can afford it, Mellin's Food 
is an excellent substitute for tea, coffee, and cocoa, if 
made with a good deal of water, and not much milk. It 
is a malted food, and a great help to weak digestions. 

' For dinner, cheese eaten plain with bread, vegetable, 
and salad, or grated and mixed with some cereal like 
macaroni, rice, hominy, or ground maize. 

' For supper, bread with dried and fresh fruits, either 
plain or cooked into one of the many forms of pudding. 

' If the fruit supper be not liked, as is possible enough 
in the early stage of the diet (except by children who, if 
healthy, always enjoy it), some variety of vegetable with 
cheese or Plasmon may take its place. The week's 
menus here given have been found successful, and the 
cost is not above 12s. a week for quantities enough for 
two adults and two children, the albumen values being 
calculated at 1,400 grains a day for the man at hard work 
ratio, 1,300 grains a day for each child at growing ratio, 
and 1,200 grains a day for the woman, supposing her to 
be thirty-five years old. 

' The receipts for these and other dishes will be found 
at the end for convenient reference in cooking. They 
admit of endless modification and enrichment with cream, 
butter, &c., but are given in a cheap form as the most 
useful. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried polenta. Bread. Jam. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner, I P.M. Baked potatoes. Sage and onions. 
Apple sauce. Bread. Date pudding. 

r, 6 P.M. Cheese. Bread. Lettuce salad. 



ii4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried bread. Oatcake. Treacle. 
Plasmon drink or barley water. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Savoury polenta and grated cheese. 
Cabbage. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Barley and raisin pudding. Grated 
nuts. Bread. Bananas. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Oatmeal porridge. Milk. Bread. 
Jam. Plasmon drink or bran tea. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Kice croquettes. Bread. Potatoes. 
Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Bread. Radishes. Apple 
dumplings. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried hominy. Milk. Bread. 
Treacle. Plasmon drink. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Vegetable stew with barley. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Oatcake. Celery. Dates. 
Bread. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Oatmeal porridge. Bread. Jam. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Macaroni a la tripe. Cheese. Stewed 
tomatoes. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Grated nuts. Bananas. Bread. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried potatoes and onions. Milk. 
Bread. Treacle. Oatmeal drink. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Savoury nut cutlets (or stewed chest- 
nuts). Bread. Potatoes. Celery. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Beetroot. Bread. Baked 
apple pudding (or jam roll). 



WHOLESOME FOOD 115 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Barley porridge. Bread. Oatcake. 
Jam. Milk. Plasmon drink. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Macaroni and cheese patties. Braised 
onions. Potatoes or carrots. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Grated nuts. Dates. Bread. Currant 
dumplings. 



Cereals . 1 Ib. daily per 
Dried fruit 2 ozs. 
Cheese . 2 ozs. 
Nuts . 2 ozs. 
Vegetables and fruit . 
Jam or treacle . 


head, 


3d. 

U. 
6d. 



2s. 



-packet Plasmon 

Nut milk and nut butter 




12s. Od. 



' The prices given are not such as the West-end house- 
keeper is accustomed to, but happily, as stated in 
Mr. Morrison's article in the " Cornhill " for April 1901, 
the truth of which can be proved by a walk through any 
of the Saturday night slum-markets, the poor have 
facilities for buying cheaper than is dreamed of by those 
of comfortable income, and where the housewife who 
prides herself on catering for her family at 10s. a head, 
pays l^d. each for bananas, the slum-sister gets them at 
three and sometimes even six a penny. 

' For the town-dweller in winter, chestnuts are not 
dear if bought by the stone or half stone at Co-operative 

i2 



n6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Stores, for although by the pound they are a somewhat 
expensive food, the good ones rarely being under d. and 
often 6d. per lb., in quantities of 14 Ibs., the finest dark- 
skinned Italian chestnuts are sold at the rate of %d. a lb., 
and there is no more delicious and nourishing dish 
than stewed chestnuts. Children like it as kittens like 
cream. 

' The amount of cooking may be urged as a drawback 
to such a diet, for it presupposes a wife at home all day, 
and anxious enough to make the meals attractive not to 
mind the extra work, though this might be reduced by 
making two meals a day instead of three ; for instance, at 
7 A.M. and 2 P.M., or at 8 and 3, 9 and 4, 10 and 5, 11 and 
6, or 12 and 7, according as is most convenient. This 
scheme is being tried by all classes in America with singular 
success. But there are many women who have to be 
out all day, and cannot therefore attend to cooking. For 
such, another dietary of wholesome and nourishing food 
is given for the same cost, and which will only involve a 
once-a-week cooking i.e., of bread-stuffs, including cakes, 
biscuits, and tarts to make a pleasant variety. Potatoes, 
too, might be boiled or baked in skins and used for salads 
as required, if kept in a cool place outside on a window- 
sill, for instance, provided it did not overhang a drain ! 

' Home-made bread a week old is such sweet eating 
that those who have to study their digestion take care to 
have no other. The success of the diet at this cost depends 
upon the house-mother making the bread, for it is half 
the cost and four times the nourishment of baker's bread, 
and the cheaper the flour she buys the better it is, the 
expensive " pastry whites " and " Vienna " flours contain- 
ing more starch and less proteid than the yellowish house- 
hold " seconds." For frying purposes the cotton-seed oil 
used by fried fish shops is the cheapest, and a quart once 
bought will last for months, being used over and over 



WHOLESOME FOOD 117 

again. This has not been estimated for in the list, 
because its cost being spread over so long a time is 
fractional per week, and the original outlay may be 
regarded by the housewife as part of her cooking " plant," 
like frying-pan or kettle. The nut butter in the week's 
expenses refers to cocoanut butter, which is a pure and 
excellent substitute for butter, lard, or dripping for pastry, 
biscuits, cakes, &c. The nut butter from which the nut 
milk is made will not do for these purposes or for frying, 
it being pulse-like rather than fatty. 

' The Eippingille oil stoves are admirable for bread- 
making, as for all other cooking operations, and are 
cheaper than coal. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Barley flour biscuits. Jam. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Celery. Ginger cakes. 
Supper. Bread. Dates. Grated nuts. Oranges. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Oatcake. Treacle. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Watercress. Jam tarts. 
Supper. Bread. Bananas. Nuts. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Maize biscuits. Marmalade. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Lettuce. Parkyn. 
Supper. Bread. Apples. Nuts. Figs. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Wheatcake. Jam. Plasmon drink. 
Milk. 



n8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Potato salad or watercress. 
Currant short cakes. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Oranges. Dates. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Barley wafers. Treacle. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Onions. Marmalade tarts. 
Supper. Bread. Nuts. Figs. Apples. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Oatcake. Marmalade. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Eadishes or beetroot. 
Ginger biscuits. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Bananas. Eaisins. 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Maize biscuits. Jam. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Potato salad. Currant 
loaf. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Dates. Apples. 

' The following is an excellent diet for dyspeptics who 
wish to reduce cooking. 

Breakfast, 10 A.M. 4 ozs. bread. 

8 ozs. potato. 

4 ozs. curd cheese with green salad. 

^-pint milk. 
Dinner, 5 P.M. 4 ozs. bread. 

8 ozs. potato. 

16 ozs. fresh fruit. 

^-pint of milk. 

Oil, butter, cream, ad lib. 



WHOLESOME FOOD 119 

' This gives a total of 1,208 grains proteid, which is the 
physiological allowance for a man or woman of 9 stone 
9 Ibs. leading an active working life. 

' The details are as follows : 

4 ozs. curd cheese = 400 grains proteid or albumen. 

8ozs. bread or cereals = 272 

16 ozs. potatoes . . = 137 

16 ozs. fruit . . . = 137 

1 pint of milk . . = 262 

1,208 

',The cost of this diet to anyone living in the country 
with a couple of goats, a patch of vegetable garden, some 
fruit trees, and an acre of arable land, would be literally 
nothing but the labour of working the land and caring for 
the goats. Honey, too, could be added, and with due 
exercise of forethought in bottling, drying and storing 
surplus fruits and vegetables, the supply during the 
winter months could be secured. 

' To those fortunate enough to be able to get it, goat's 
milk is highly to be recommended, for the minuteness of 
the fat globules makes it easy of digestion, and being 
thinner to the palate, it is appreciated by those who 
dislike the fulness of unseparated cow's milk. If the 
demand in London were at all in proportion to the worth 
of the article, the present ridiculous price charged for it 
would fall to something within reason. Last summer I 
went into one of the principal branch offices of a well- 
known London dairy and asked the price of goat's milk. 
I was told it was 4s. a quart, and in reply to my in- 
voluntary exclamation at such an exorbitant charge, the 
amiable young woman in charge said, " But think how 
many lives it has saved, Madam ! " It did not seem to 
occur to her, or to her employers, that this was the very 



i2o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

reason why it should be within the reach of all who 
need it. 

' Cheapest and healthiest of all the forms of diet I have 
experimented upon is that of bread and fruit. With 
bread, dates, and apples, it is easy to live on 4d. a day, 
and get the full proteid ration for active working life for 
a body weight of 9 stone 4 Ibs. A big man might have 
to spend 6d. Life on this diet is easier and happier than 
on the re'gime of meat, fish, game, wine, tea, &c., which 
costs eight times as much, for there are no digestive 
troubles on bread and fruit, unless one makes the mistake 
of taking them in a wrong proportion, or of eating stupid 
kinds of bread and unripe or overripe fruit ; and when 
one thinks how digestion controls such things as de- 
pression, headache, irritability, nervousness, exhaustion, 
and other minor ills which go to make some lives almost 
unbearable, one cannot help wishing that all suffering 
people could be persuaded to give fair trial to a diet of 
the simplest foods. 

' Unhappily, for the physical well-being of the next 
generation, the countryman who now possesses a large 
well-stocked garden, and, as in many of the villages in 
the West and South of England, often an orchard and bit 
of pasture as well, has so little knowledge of how to make 
the best use of his belongings that he sells his produce in 
order to buy unwholesome food such as tea, bacon, beer, 
butcher's meat, and tinned abominations like lobster, 
salmon, sardines, and potted meats. There is little 
reason to suppose that the parents of to-day will change 
their habits of diet, but much may be hoped for in the 
way of a more intelligent and less wasteful order of things 
in the next generation, now that the beginnings of the 
chemistry and economics of food have been introduced 
into the School Board curriculum. And if, meanwhile, 
the educated and leisured classes would take the trouble 



WHOLESOME FOOD 121 

to look carefully into these matters, and begin to practise 
a more enlightened system of dietetics, such as can be 
begun without any household upset of drastic change, the 
servant class would at least see that masters and mis- 
tresses no longer believe that life depends on eating meat 
three times a day. 

' A great opportunity in this direction might be seized 
with advantage by the wives of country clergy. The 
wife of the present Bishop of Japan, when living at 
Andover, used to have a group of young village women to 
"high tea," or early supper at the Vicarage every Sunday 
evening, the household servants being given a holiday, 
and the meal being prepared and shared by the family 
and guests. 

' A similar plan could be made the occasion for intro- 
ducing the simpler foods in many an attractive guise, and if 
the supper were given on a week day, it could be arranged 
to follow an informal cookery demonstration. Servants, 
like children, are very imitative, and will take to a new 
idea much more quickly if it is not forced upon them. 
One mother of a young family lately lit upon a happy 
plan in this connection. Her husband took to the simpler 
diet for health's sake, and she tried it from curiosity. The 
children soon began to beg for the food they saw their 
parents eating, and at last, as a great treat, they were 
allowed a non-meat dinner twice a week, with the result 
that before long they chose no meat at all. 

' This surely is a good way to treat the subject with 
regard to servants. Let them see that you are well and 
able to work without meat and stimulants, and they will 
gradually lose their faith in beef, beer, and tea a faith 
for which the example of the upper classes is entirely 
responsible, and which the bulk of the medical profession 
still supports. 

' It has taken hundreds of years of bitter experience of 



122 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

disease to awaken even a small percentage of the race to 
seek more wholesome food, and it will take centuries yet 
to convince the majority. Meanwhile there are interest- 
ing signs that the course of evolution for humanity leads 
through a meat-eating stage, and although one may 
gladly endeavour to save suffering to those who are ready 
for the change, one can possess one's soul in patience 
with regard to the world at large. Our very blunders 
towards the truth have their place and purpose in fitting 
us to appreciate the truth when we find it. The age of 
excessive meat-eating is helping to produce a highly 
nervous race, which is apparently the material required 
for the next stage of evolution the stage in which the 
psychic force is to dominate the physical. 

'Only by the apparent perishing of one order can 
another and higher order be born. Perhaps when 
physical suffering and disease have reached their limit, 
we shall be ready to receive and to obey the laws 
of a saner and loftier way of life. When a man like 
Virchow says, " The future is with the vegetarians," one 
realises that with all their errors, and they are legion, 
they are the pioneers whose blundering efforts may be 
compared to the old shoes, and empty tins, and broken 
shards which go to make the foundation of the new road 
along which the whole race will some day travel. 

' To try forcibly to evade the intermediate phases, 
heart-rending as some of these must be, is as foolish as 
any other premature interference with the natural laws of 
social growth. For instance, I heard lately of a bene- 
volent landowner who, distressed by the overcrowded 
condition of the slums, and the dearth of people in the 
country, built a model village with delightful cottages 
and gardens, recreation hall and library, church, club- 
room, inn, baths, and everything else that could be 
desired for health and happiness. He then transplanted 



WHOLESOME FOOD 123 

slum-dwellers who were known to be in actual desti- 
tutionliterally starving and provided them with 
varieties of wage-earning occupation under the most 
healthy and liberal regulations. At the end of a year his 
village was deserted ; all the starving shimmers had gone 
back, of their deliberate choice, to the misery whence he 
had taken them. Such facts would at first sight appear 
to be baffling. They do but illustrate the old adage, 
" You may take a horse to the water, but you can't make 
him drink." Those slum-people had not yet had their 
fill of slum experience, and were by no means thirsty for 
the refreshing life of the country. Wretched as they 
were, they had not reached the limit of their capacity for 
enduring squalor and getting some mysterious good out 
of it. Their turning-point had not yet come. Their 
evolution had been forcibly interrupted, and their blind 
instinct in returning to take it up where it had been 
broken off was a sound one, strange as it may look on 
the surface. 

' A friend, who for years had had slum-dwellers driven 
down in brake-loads of fifty for summer days in her fields 
and gardens, told me once that her heart had never ached 
for them with quite such intolerable bitterness since she 
had heard from their spiritual pastor, that as they drew 
up one evening at the entrance to their alley after one of 
these outings, one of them had said, as if voicing the 
general sentiment, " The country's fine for a 'oliday, mates, 
but, arter all, this smells like 'owe I " 

' There are many athirst for a country life, but they are 
not necessarily dwellers in the slums, though they may 
be found there, as in any other quarter of our crowded 
towns. Perhaps we should waste less time in futile 
regret over the depopulation of our villages if we could 
look upon our cities as the great mills of evolution into 
which the slow, massive, yokel strength has inevitably to 



i2 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

be drawn and ground " exceeding small," even to the dust 
of physical wreckage, that the nervous matter of the brain 
may be developed and exercised at all costs. It is those 
who have gone through the mill who are ready for the 
country : whose nervous systems have been developed to 
the point of exhaustion by the strain and grind of city 
life for, it may be, two or three generations, and whose 
brains are as restless and alert as the ploughboy's are 
dull and apathetic, whose nerves need repose as much 
as his need tension. The weary governess, the neurotic 
dressmaker, the dyspeptic bank-clerk, the anaemic 
student, the worn-out mother, these are they who crave 
for the country as prisoners crave for air and light, and 
these are the types which, in my experience, are to some 
extent counterbalancing the current that sets from village 
to town, for these are among the applicants for ' small 
holdings,' in the hope sometimes forlorn enough of 
making a livelihood out of market gardening, chicken, 
bee, flower, and fruit farming. Many are the mistakes, 
and grievous the disappointments and even failures which 
they must suffer ; for as a rule they have little capital, less 
health, and no experience, and yet, in spite of all, so 
intense and deep-seated is their instinct for country 
life that they often manage to struggle through the 
first few years of hardship and make the modest living 
they desire. 

' To those whose experience has brought them into 
more or less intimate touch with widely different classes 
of the community, there are not a few indications that the 
farming industries of England are being recruited from 
social levels entirely unlike those of old days. 

' It used to be almost a joke among the Bushey art- 
students that if anyone married before his profession could 
support him he turned cottar-farmer ; and certainly some 
of them succeeded as such in the face of overwhelming 



WHOLESOME FOOD 125 

difficulties, by the very simple and sensible device of 
throwing conventional ideas of fitness to the winds, and 
doing in England, without false shame, the work they 
would have done as a matter of course if they had gone 
" out West," or to the Colonies, to " take up land." These 
men and women, in most cases of delicate constitution 
and highly nervous temperament, have pitted themselves 
against conditions which to the labouring and artisan 
class would have seemed hopeless, and by sheer force of 
the cultivated intelligence that comes of good birth and 
breeding have won against long odds. One couple who 
started with 100Z. capital and no income, on a tumble- 
down little farm of twenty acres, of which ten were so 
" foul " that no farmer in his senses would have taken the 
place the docks and thistles having to be scythed down 
before the horse could be coaxed to pull the plough 
through them ! have done so well that they have now 
moved on to a sixty-acre farm in the next county which 
has been under intensive culture for many years. 

' The full story of their experiences some of them as 
comic as others were tragic I hope to tell elsewhere 
another day.' 



RECEIPTS 

' Polenta Cutlets. Stir one pound Indian maize 
meal into slightly salted boiling water, adding two Spanish 
onions chopped very fine, an ounce of butter or oil, three 
ounces grated cheese, a little pepper, and herbs, if liked. 
Mix well, and put into a double pan and cook for half an 
hour, when it should be stiff. Turn out into a dish and 
press it into convenient shape for cutting up when cold 
into fingers, which dip in milk and breadcrumbs, and fry 
brown. Can be served with sauce if desired. 



iz6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Unfermented Bread. To every pound of flour allow 
half -pint milk and water (quarter-pint each). Mix lightly 
as for pastry, no kneading being required. Form into 
small rolls or fingers and bake in moderate oven on a 
pastry tray. 

If wheatmeal (i.e., the flour of the entire wheat grain) 
is used, care should be taken to have it very finely ground, 
as bran flakes are irritant and relaxing and very unsafe in 
some forms of digestive trouble, though equally good and 
useful in others. The indiscriminate recommendation of 
cracked wheat porridge and whole-meal bread is hardly 
wise in these days of gastro-intestinal delicacy, as seen in 
the many cases of appendicitis in adults and colitis in 
children. House-mothers should know when to give the 
right food to those in their charge. 

It is a good plan to keep in the house several different 
grains, such as wheat, barley, maize, oats, rice, in two 
forms i.e., in the whole grain and as flour and to make 
bread or biscuits of both mixed. For instance, pearled 
wheat, or the grain stripped of its outer bran, should be 
cooked slowly for three or four hours in a double pan with 
water enough to swell it without breaking the grain into a 
mash ; this cooked wheat is then mixed with ordinary 
wheat flour to the consistency of bread or pastry, and is 
shortened if liked with cocoanut butter, or ground nuts, 
and left plain, or sweetened and flavoured with dried 
fruit, spices, &c., and rolled out and cut for baking into 
biscuits or finger rolls. The same method can be followed 
with all the other cereals except maize which in the 
whole grain is too hard in this country. Maize meal 
mixed with wheat flour is very good in biscuit form, but is 
best cooked first, as if for polenta without the savoury 
seasoning. All these whole and ground cereals can be 
got from Bax & Sons, millers, 35 Bishopsgate Street 
Without, E.G. The whole groats (the entire oat grain) 



WHOLESOME FOOD 127 

are particularly good for porridge, but should, like all 
grains, be cooked several hours in a Gourmet boiler, or 
duplex boilerette, or other form of double saucepan which 
prevents burning. The duplex boilerette is made by Mr. 
Wellbank, Duplex Boilerette Works, Banbury, Oxon. 

Date Pudding* (cheap). Wash dates quickly in hot 
water, dry, stone, and chop them, mix with double their 
weight of breadcrumbs, and a little sugar. Add skim 
milk or weak Plasmon solution till of pudding con- 
sistency. Steam two hours in buttered basin. Ground 
nuts and grated lemon peel may be added, if liked, or raw 
coarse oatmeal, and soaked tapioca, with a little flour, 
may be used instead of the breadcrumbs. 

Macaroni and Cheese Patties. Take one ounce 

macaroni well boiled, cut very small, and add one large 
tablespoonful of grated cheese and the same of cream or 
nut butter. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard, if 
liked. Make some short paste, roll out thin and line 
patty pans. Fill with the mixture and cover with paste. 
Bake a light brown. Instead of patty pan, the paste can 
be doubled over the mixture and fried as fritters if pre- 
ferred. Butter and milk can be substituted for cream, and 
it is quite good without either, but in that case the maca- 
roni should be rather moist and the cheese fresh and soft. 

Macaroni a la Tripe. Boil some macaroni till soft. 
Drain and put aside. Gut in fine rings as many 
Spanish onions as will equal the macaroni in bulk. Fry 
in butter till quite tender, but not coloured. Eemove from 
pan, and make a sauce by adding flour, milk, pepper, salt, 
a dash of nutmeg, and a torn bay-leaf. Replace onion 
rings in this, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; then 
remove the bay-leaf and add the macaroni, and heat 
through. Serve with grated Gruyere or other cheese. 
Chopped parsley may be substituted for the bay-leaf. 

Parkyn. One pound sifted oatmeal, one pound 



128 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

treacle, one pound coarse, brown sugar; .quarter-pound 
butter. Ground ginger to flavour. Mix, and bake in very 
slow oven in flat cakes the size of a saucer. 

Barley Water. Four ounces pearl barley, two quarts 
water. Thoroughly wash the barley, add the water and 
boil till reduced to one quart. Strain through hair-sieve 
(or muslin) previously scalded, and press through some of 
the barley to thicken. Time to reduce, three to four 
hours. Can be flavoured with lemon peel and juice, 
sugar or honey, apple peel and pips, or any fruit juice. 
Stewed rhubarb juice is good. 

Savoury Vegetable Stew with Barley. Chop up 

carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, celery, tomatoes, and 
fry in butter. Add pearl barley and plenty of cold water, 
with seasoning of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, mace, pepper, 
and salt. Stew in double saucepan till the barley is 
swelled and thoroughly tender. Serve with fried dice of 
bread. 

Fried Hominy. Cook hominy in the usual way 
(soaking overnight in cold water, and boiling like por- 
ridge till soft) and put aside to cool. Then cut in any 
shape preferred, fry brown in oil or cocoanut butter, dust 
with sugar or salt, and serve. 

Stewed Chestnuts. Slit the skins of the chestnuts, 
and put them into cold water. Bring to the boil, keeping 
lid tight, and cook about ten minutes. Lift out a few at 
a time and remove both outer and inner skins. When all 
are done, put them into a clean saucepan and cover with 
milk or milk and water. Stew slowly till the nuts break 
and are coated in a smooth creamy sauce. Time, one to 
two hours. An old saucepan used for nothing else should 
be kept for blanching them, as chestnut skins discolour it 
badly. 

Apple Dumpling's without Suet. Soaked tapioca 
and butter make a good substitute for suet in boiled 



WHOLESOME FOOD 129 

pudding crust. Pare and core a large apple for each 
dumpling required. Fill the centre with a clove, a little 
sugar and a bit of butter. Cover with paste, tie in a 
floured cloth, and boil thirty to forty minutes. For the 
crust use as much soaked tapioca and butter in equal 
parts as you would have used of suet. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Skin one pound tomatoes by 
blanching in boiling water for five minutes; then put 
them into a stewpan (earthenware for choice) with two 
lumps of sugar, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a 
little salt. No water. Stew them in their own juice gently 
for twenty minutes. 

Baked Apple Pudding 1 . Fill a pie-dish with 
alternate layers of sliced apples and bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with bits of butter, a little sugar, and 
a pinch of mixed cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Pour 
over the whole enough water and treacle mixed to 
moisten it, cover with crumbs, stand in a baking tin of 
hot water, and bake till apples are soft, three-quarters to 
one hour. 

Barley and Raisin Pudding-. Take the barley left 
from making barley water, put it into a buttered pie-dish 
with a handful of washed raisins. Cover with milk or 
dissolved Plasmon, and bake slowly one hour, or till the 
barley has swelled to top of dish. 

Curd Cheese. Take two pints new milk, curdle it 
either by slow heat, or by rennet, lemon juice, fig juice, or 
bruised nettles. Turn the curd into a cheese cloth or 
butter muslin (coarse canvas will do), previously scalded, 
tie loosely and hang up to drain. After three or four 
hours tie again tighter. In twelve hours it is fit to eat, 
but if preferred it can be pressed and turned every day 
till as firm as ordinary cheese. 

Nut Cutlets. Boil two ounces of butter in rather less 
than half-pint of milk. Add three ounces of dried browned 



1 30 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

breadcrumbs (or brown breadcrumbs). Cook till it does 
not stick to the pan. When cool add two ounces of ground 
walnuts, almonds or Barcelona nuts, seasoning to taste, 
and a little chopped onion or chives. Mix thoroughly and 
shape into cutlets or balls. Eoll in flour, or in egg and 
breadcrumb, and fry in butter. Serve with tomato sauce, 
walnut gravy, or for children with bread sauce. 

If the same dish is prepared with white breadcrumbs, 
and a little good melted butter sauce used for mixing, it 
looks and tastes very like chicken croquettes. 

Souffle Potatoes With Nuts. Take out the inside 
of as many large baked potatoes as you require. For 
each potato add one ounce of ground nuts, a dessert spoon- 
ful of cream or a bit of butter the size of a small walnut, 
pepper, salt, and if liked a seasoning of onion juice and 
parsley. Beat thoroughly to a smooth creamy con- 
sistency, put the mixture back into the potato skins, 
bake till very hot, and serve. 

A very savoury flavour is given by frying some sliced 
onions in the butter and adding the butter alone to the 
potatoes, but the colour is a little darkened by doing 
this. 

Brazil Nut Soup. One pound of ground Brazil nuts 
stewed for twelve hours in two quarts of water ; flavour 
with celery and a few fried onions. Add one quart of 
boiling milk. Pass through a strainer, season, and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

A nourishing dish for a child or invalid is good bread 
sauce to which has been added two ounces of ground 
almonds, well pounded in a mortar. Serve with fried 
dice, or spinach. 

Baked almonds slightly salted, and ground, make 
excellent sandwiches. 

Riee Croquettes. Take cold boiled rice and mix it 
with fried chopped onion, a few breadcrumbs, pepper, 



WHOLESOME FOOD 131 

salt, chopped parsley, or mixed herbs flavouring, and 
enough melted cocoanut butter or nut milk to bind all 
together. When cold, shape into cakes, and fry in deep 
boiling fat. 

For this, as for all sorts of savouries like nut cutlets, 
fritters, &c., a frying basket and plenty of oil or fat are 
necessary for good cooking. It also needs experience, or 
a frying thermometer, to know when fat is at the right 
heat for deep frying. 

Braised Onions. Peel large or medium sized onions 
in warm water to prevent the volatile oil from affecting 
the eyes, place them in a baking dish with butter enough 
to baste them well, and bake three hours, when they will 
be brown and tender. Eemove them on to a serving 
dish, pour hot water into the baking tin, and with a 
wooden spoon rub off all the dark brown caked juice, 
thickening if liked with a little flour, in which case the 
tin must be placed over heat enough to boil the gravy and 
cook the flour. Pour over the onions and serve. This is 
a delicious dish which puzzles meat-eaters, as they think 
they are eating a rich meat sauce. 

Raisin Tea. Take half a pound good raisins and wash 
well in cold water. Cut them up roughly to free the pulp in 
cooking, and put them into a stewing jar, or Gourmet 
boiler, with one quart cold water (distilled, for perfection). 
Cook three to four hours, when the liquid will be reduced to 
one pint. Press all but insoluble skins and stones through 
a fine, scalded sieve, and use either hot or cold. If too 
sweet, a little lemon juice may be added, but it is best 
without for invalids and children. This drink is of the 
same proteid value as milk, and is so much more easily 
digested that it is being used successfully in many cases 
of gastric disease where both milk and vegetable or meat 
soups are impossible. It is not recommended to meat- 
eaters, as the sweetness might cause bilious disturbance ; 

K'2 



i 3 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but to scientific vegetarians and fruitarians it is in- 
valuable as a nutrient drink. For those who suffer from 
cold it is very warming. 

Nut Cutlets (another way). One cupful grated 
bread, one cupful each of grated almonds and walnuts or 
Brazils, one teaspoonful powdered mace, one tablespoonful 
grated onion juice, one teaspoonful powdered mixed herbs, 
salt and pepper if liked, enough good melted butter sauce 
to mix and bind together. Stir all thoroughly well, and 
allow to go cold. Shape into cutlets or balls, flour, or 
egg and breadcrumb, and fry in a basket in deep fat at 
350. A few seconds will turn them brown, and they are 
crisp and dry, not the least greasy. A very nourishing 
and savoury dish which should be eaten with vegetables 
in the same proportion as if the cutlets were of meat.' 



133 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 

REPRINTED FROM THE ' CORNHILL MAGAZINE ' 

A YOUNG friend came to see me not long ago, and after a 
short period of a somewhat shy reserve he looked up 
with a beaming, happy face, and said, ' I'm going to be 
married.' It all sounds so simple, these few words, and 
yet what do they not mean in two young lives ! I re- 
sponded with a smile and the ordinary platitude of, ' I am 
very glad, and especially so for your mother's sake, for it 
will give her great pleasure.' As we talked on, I naturally 
came to the prosaic, elderly question, ' What have you 
got to live upon ? ' His answer came short and straight 
enough. ' With what my father left me and my salary, 
I shall make up 1,6002. a year, and the lady I am about 
to marry, I am told, is to have 200Z. of her own.' 

' That will do well enough,' I said, ' even if you have 
to live in London. The most pessimistic objector to early 
marriage can hardly say that love need fly out of the 
window on such an income as that. But, all the same, 
wealth is comparative,' for everything depends on position 
and what there is to keep up. The young man, being of 
the cautious, prudent type, asked, ' And what do you think 
I ought to save yearly on such an income ? ' I answered, 
1 From 200Z. to 3001. a year.' He, not differing, but yet 
interrogatively, replied, ' I wonder why ? I shall have 
more later on. Why is it necessary to save at all, and 
not just fit my expenditure to my present income ? ' This 



134 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

opens so large a question that on my young friend's 
departure I asked myself why I think as I do about it. 

There seems to me a point of resemblance between 
saving and the very different occupation of gambling. 
Why is it that gambling has always, in all countries and 
at all times, been condemned by wise and prudent people, 
and saving (that is to say, not living up to your income, 
but leaving a margin more or less wide, which you intend 
to add to your capital) been approved ? It cannot be only 
that in ten years or so you should be 2,OOOZ. or 3,OOOZ. 
richer. The approval of the saving and the condemnation 
of the gambling are directed, I think, to the mental 
attitude of the gambler or the careful man, rather than to 
any practical result to them personally of their conduct. 
The saving recommended is in no sense the spirit of the 
miser who piles up wealth for which he has no use, but 
a cautious guarding of expenditure which provides for 
future children, against a rainy day, or enables a man 
later in life to better his house or his furniture, or 
to increase the enjoyment of his holidays. To adjust 
income and expenditure exactly is extremely difficult, and 
anyone who does not pitch his estimate of expenditure 
below his income is almost sure in practice to exceed it. 
Of course, it is much less important to save on a more or 
less assured income (for no income is absolutely assured) 
than it is to save on an income which is almost entirely 
derived from salary, and dependent on a man's life or 
health or the success of the business in which he is 
engaged. To save ever so little is very much better than 
keeping elaborate accounts. If, at the end of the year, 
the savings are there, no doubt remains that the expendi- 
ture has been, as regards essentials, well regulated 
though getting as much as can be got out of the money 
spent is quite a different matter from making both ends 
meet. It is, all the same, interesting and good to re- 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 135 

member what can be done at a pinch, and how the upper 
working classes live in comfort on an income where 
thousands of impoverished gentry would simply starve on 
double the sum. The fundamental principle which governs 
the lives of the working classes is to ignore to-morrow 
to live from hand to mouth and day to day. And it is 
on this point that gentility with a very small income is 
often perverted by not recognising the merits of the 
principle when circumstances make it a necessity. This 
seems to me worth considering, although I recommend 
the opposite principle as the one generally most admirable 
to practise with a larger income. The working man does 
his best for the moment, assumes that his children when 
reared will do likewise, and the rest he leaves to Provi- 
dence, or chance, or whatever the unknown quantity may 
be called. The ' gentle ' reared man, I say, cannot be 
happy unless he has a security against fate, not only for 
himself but for his family. It is a fine idea in many ways, 
but it can perhaps grow into an exaggeration. The 
serious handicap to the ' gentle ' man is the education of 
his children. He must pay through the nose for it, or 
his children are apt to sink into a class to which they do 
not rightly belong and for which they are quite unfitted. 
The working man starts his children as he started him- 
self, with nothing more than the education provided by 
the nation, and their own power to work. 

The expenditure of an income of 1,800Z. a year will 
vary a great deal in detail according to whether it is spent 
in London or the country. I shall therefore consider the 
two separately, taking London first. Of course, the most 
important item is house-rent, and requirements and taste 
differ so widely that it seriously affects the whole income. 

The old idea was that house-rent should absorb only 
a tenth of the income ; but this in London is practically 
impossible an eighth is nearer the-[average nowadays. 



136 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Even this will vary very much with circumstances the 
requirements and wishes of both parties. The wife con- 
stantly holds to living within easy reach of her family 
and friends, and the husband's wishes will be much 
affected by his kind of work. Saving of time in getting 
to work may be of great importance, necessitating the use 
of cabs. The house rent, which, on an income of 1,800Z., 
in most cases had better not exceed 200Z., including rates 
and taxes, may very easily mount up to 350Z. When 
this is the case it is well to commit the extravagance 
boldly, and so secure a house in a locality which is 
practically a certain let, if circumstances make this de- 
sirable, or if the expenditure of any one year has exceeded 
the average. There seems to be a very general impression 
that living in a better locality and a more central part of 
the West End is an actual economy ; this may be the case 
if cabs are much used, but if the Underground or "buses 
be the usual mode of locomotion, very little is saved 
except time, which in the case of the woman does not 
generally affect the income. At one period of my life, 
influenced no doubt by the growing so-called artistic 
fashion, I had a great dislike to the old two-roomed back 
and front house ; but I am now inclined to think that on 
the whole, especially in small houses, it is the best plan 
of house building for London. It gives more room, more 
convenience, and more air than any of the modern houses, 
arranged on what is considered a superior system viz., 
blocking up the middle of the house with staircase and 
landings, all more or less dark, and which divide all the 
rooms from one another. Corner houses are, in my 
opinion, to be avoided, as they are always stuffy, a draught 
through being not easily obtained. Flats are not suited 
to young married couples. 

The boudoir or morning room so vaunted by agents 
seems to me very superfluous for young married people. 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 137 

In early married days and in winter, for reasons of 
economy, the husband being out all day, there seems no 
reason why the wife should not share the man's sitting- 
room. But if the drawing-room is used, she must live in 
it, or it will have an unbearably stiff appearance. The 
great advantage of the two-roomed house, with the 
absence of a dividing landing on the bedroom floors, is in 
case of illness. No one who has had to experience any 
kind of nursing fails to appreciate the great importance 
of rooms that communicate, and much suffering is often 
spared to the nervous child who feels the presence of its 
nurse in the adjoining room, and sees the gleam of the 
nursery light through the half-closed door. Besides, in 
the busy modern London life, those who have lately 
become one will feel it an advantage, by no means to be 
despised, that they can talk at all sorts of odd times 
through the open door, and discuss life's little difficulties, 
which are often created by a non-understanding of the 
circumstances. When man and woman are joint masters 
in the small details of everyday life and the just ruling of 
servants and children, there should be the comprehension 
of what Mr. Morley calls 'government by discussion, 
which is now counted the secret of liberty.' George Eliot 
says somewhere that ' a man with an affectionate dis- 
position who finds a wife to concur with his fundamental 
idea of life easily comes to persuade himself that no other 
woman would have suited him so well, and does a little 
daily snapping and quarrelling without any sense of 
alienation.' How true this is; but also, how infinitely 
better is it that this should be done upstairs than in the 
drawing-room or dining-room, possibly before servants 
and guests. 

Having now given my opinion on the preferable style 
of house, for the sake of argument I will say that the 
young couple decide on the more fashionable locality, and 



138 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

weight their income with a disproportionately high rent. 

Under these circumstances I think the disposition of their 

income and general expenditure would work out into 
something like the following table : 

s. d. 

I. Bent, rates, and taxes 360 

II. Housekeeping, including living, washing, lighting 550 

III. Repairs, insurance, cleaning, painting, &c. . . 100 

IV. Coal 60 

V. Dress (man and woman) . . -. . . 200 

VI. Wages, including beer, for four servants . . 130 

VII. Wine 60 

VIII. Stamps, newspapers, stationery, &c. . . 30 

IX. Doctors, dentists, accidents, journeys . . . 100 

X. New house linen 20 

XI. Charities 40 

1,650 

Cabs, amusements, and presents will have to be saved 
out of clothes or journeys ; with so heavy a rent, putting 
by money some years will be very difficult. Here I must 
add a grave word of caution against a practice, only too 
common I fear, of running into debt over the process of 
furnishing. A wise man ought to have money in hand 
before he decides to marry. If he has no savings, it is 
better to take some portion of his capital and pay his bills, 
returning it by degrees out of his yearly income. In this 
way he begins fair on strictly ready-money principles, by 
which I mean paying everything weekly, an impossibility 
if stray bills keep coming in. Any bill that cannot be 
paid weekly should be paid quarterly. One bill I fear 
often postponed is that of the doctor. I think it would 
be immensely to the advantage of both doctor and patient 
if it were a more received custom that the general prac- 
titioner should be given his half-guinea, like the M.D. his 
guinea, at the close of each visit. Few people have any 
idea of how unjustly doctors are treated as regards their 
bills, hardly liking to complain when they are neglected 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 139 

or even forgotten altogether. At the time of the illness 
no fee is ever grudged, but doctors' visits carelessly in- 
dulged in are apt to run up a very heavy bill, which causes 
considerable and unjust irritation at Christmas. Eeceiv- 
ing bills, paying bills, and running up new bills poison 
the first weeks of the new year to a great many. 

I enter into no details with regard to servants' wages, 
as on this subject also opinions vary widely as to which 
department is to have the experienced and expensive ser- 
vant. Speaking in a general way, every maid represents 
an additional sixty or seventy pounds a year, and every 
man another seventy or eighty. These sums cover all 
expenses connected with a servant, including wages. It 
is generally worth while to increase wages to keep a good 
servant, and few things are more extravagant than chang- 
ing servants ; but no one gets what he wants by offering 
wages above the average. If for an exceptional case 
wages are raised, always go back on changing the servant 
to the sum you originally gave. In the eighth volume of 
Mr. Charles Booth's wonderful book, ' The Life and 
Labour of the People in London,' there is a chapter on 
domestic indoor servants which gives considerable in- 
formation, and which, I think, all young householders 
would do well to read. It is with no small surprise one 
realises how very limited in number, as compared with 
population, are the people who can afford to keep any 
servants at all. Mr. Booth says, ' With three servants 
a cook, parlourmaid, and housemaid a household is com- 
plete in all its functions ; all else is only a development 
of this theme.' Most of my young women friends will 
be surprised to hear that he gives the lady's-maid no place 
at all, and of course she is the easiest servant to suppress 
without altering the style of living or inconveniencing 
the husband in any way. A large class of people who 
keep three servants, even if they increase them to four, 



i 4 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

add a kitchenmaid, or an up-and-down girl, rather than a 
lady's-maid. I am inclined to think that in early years 
of married life a lady's-maid, besides being a great com- 
fort, partly pays for herself by the saving of dressmakers' 
bills, and turning old things into new. It is fancy things 
made at home that really pay, not petticoats and under- 
linen. The lady's-maid, too, must undertake the mending 
of house linen, an important duty, as very few housemaids 
are to be trusted to do any fine needlework at all ; though 
if one afternoon a week is set apart under the lady's- 
maid's superintendence the housemaid would probably 
be quite capable of sewing on buttons and doing necessary 
repairs both to house linen and the husband's under- 
clothes. A woman who is obliged to have all her things 
made out will find the allowance of 100Z. a year insuffi- 
cient, if she is to be well dressed. It would mean buying 
ready-made shop clothes or going to inferior dressmakers. 
The beauty of dress is not so much what it costs, as the 
individual representation of the wearer's mind and taste. 
No one, putting aside the very best dressmakers, can carry 
this out so well as an intelligent maid at home. This 
also applies to the dressing of children. There is perhaps 
no time in a woman's life when she can be so well dressed 
on what is now called ' a small allowance ' as in the early 
years of her married life. She has her trousseau to work 
from, and if she is sensible even in London she will go 
little into society beyond dining out: it should be her 
object to reduce the number of entertainments for which 
different dresses are required, it being much more difficult 
and expensive to dress suitably than smartly. London 
clothes, luckily, do quite well for Saturdays and Sundays 
in the country ; though they are most inappropriate for 
real country life. 

In a small establishment the only servant who is likely 
to be hard-worked, and therefore deserving of special 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 141 

consideration, is the single-handed cook. I am all in 
favour of beginning life with a young cook who has been 
kitchen-maid in a good kitchen, and who is willing to let 
even her inexperienced mistress be housekeeper, regulat- 
ing expenditure and diminishing dining-room luxuries, as 
what can perfectly be done without is what swells the 
weekly books. There is no economy in stinting the daily 
food, either for the dining-room or the servants. Servants 
who come to a certain class of master and mistress look 
upon good feeding as their due just as much as sheets to 
sleep in or the wages which are handed to them quarterly. 
A lower class of modern servant clings to having her 
wages paid monthly. This request should be yielded to 
as little as possible, as it tends to make saving more diffi- 
cult, and saving is specially desirable for domestic ser- 
vants, who, with unaccustomed luxury, have much in 
their daily life which undermines their moral sense. One 
of the best ways of easing the cook in her work is the 
foreign method of servants having their meals after they 
come out of the dining-room. Servants' breakfast must 
either be before or at the same time as the dining-room. 
Luncheon at 1.30, and sent out as quickly as possible, 
gives the servants their dinner. If the master's dinner is 
after 8 o'clock it comes very hard on the servants, as it 
makes their supper so late. Eeducing the number of 
courses (by which I mean having the food brought up at 
the same time, more in the style, though mercifully re- 
duced in quantity, of the suppers of our great-grand- 
fathers) is conducive to health, an actual economy, and 
gives the cook less to dish up and wash up. A foreign 
fashion introduced of late, and becoming almost universal 
in England, is the serving coffee after luncheon, which 
servants now copy by having tea after their dinner. 
Both really injure digestion, but tea is far the most un- 
wholesome, and chemically turns meat into lumps of iron, 



i 4 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the justification, though they don't realise why, of the 
male hatred of ' high tea ' ; consequently, this habit of tea 
after dinner will only increase the almost universal 
dyspepsia. The teetotalling propaganda has much to 
answer for, so difficult is it in life not to fall from Scylla 
into Charybdis, and now tea is adding its poison to the 
alcohol which has so fatally undermined the health of our 
towns and villages. A friend of mine told me the other 
day that the doctor said that half his patients on her large 
estate in the North of England were due to excessive tea 
drinking. This is owing, as in Ireland where the mad- 
houses are half filled by tea-drinkers, to the stewing of 
the tea leaves. Low diet makes the poison much more 
active : this obliges non-meat eaters, to the great surprise 
even of themselves, to renounce tea-drinking altogether, 
even when the leaves are quickly infused. Keeping ser- 
vants up at night makes early rising an impossibility. 
The young couple must decide which they prefer. The 
lady must study books, go to stores to learn quality of 
goods and their prices, and not be ashamed to ask the 
advice of her contemporaries, which is generally more 
valuable from those that are poorer, than from those that 
are richer, than herself. 

A short experience will teach us that, broadly speak- 
ing, our friends are divided into two classes those who 
complain much of their poverty and the expense of every- 
thing, and those who apparently live in the lap of luxury, 
stinting neither themselves nor their servants, and who 
yet maintain that their books are lower than seems 
possible from any reasonable calculation. This may be 
the result of some different method of keeping accounts, 
or that the house is run by some very experienced house- 
keeper, cook or man-servant, or governess, who gets 
the uttermost farthing out of every bargain. And the 
economy is further magnified by the lady herself, who, 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 143 

in giving a sketch of her ordinary expenditure, fre- 
quently omits some important item. Such friends are 
apt to send us home in a very depressed state of mind, 
which is not without use, for it rouses us out of our own 
carelessness. In the case of a cook without a kitchen- 
maid an ordinary dinner cannot be well served, even for 
a small party, without some outside assistance, and I think 
it would be better in London to try to find a girl who 
lives at home, and who would be glad to make money and 
be willing to come in on certain occasions, than the usual 
old and experienced charwoman, who takes her own line, 
instead of submitting to the training of the young cook. 
Many young girls on leaving the Board schools might be 
quite willing to do some work which does not oblige them 
to leave their homes. All assistance of this kind is a 
growing difficulty ; the bridging of a gap between what 
are called the respectable poor, and the class just below 
them, still remains a curiously unsolved problem. We 
are always hearing of people so poor that they must be 
supported by charity, whose children are now educated 
in the national schools in a way that should fit them to 
become under-servants and supply an ever-increasing 
demand throughout the country, and yet it is more 
difficult to get under-servants than ever. The expense of 
occasional outside assistance in the kitchen will be very 
inconsiderable, and if the young couple frequently dine 
out the cook will have many evenings to herself. The 
cook and the man-servant should not both be out at the 
same time. In the kind of household I am attempting to 
describe it is certainly in the food department that with 
care the greatest saving can be made without discomfort 
or parsimony. The young housekeeper must feel that 
this depends on herself, and need not feel ashamed to 
take to heart the words of Socrates : ' I am distinguished 
from others and superior to others by this character only, 



i 4 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that I am conscious of my own ignorance,' and so 
naturally to be aware of our own lack of knowledge is the 
first step towards a better state of things. A constant 
acquiring of knowledge is the one thing that redeems 
housekeeping from being intolerably uninteresting ; with- 
out this its daily monotony is very trying to many 
characters. I heard the other day of a lady who said she 
was getting rid of her cook for no fault, but merely 
because she was so tired of seeing the same face every 
day. I do not believe that sort of feeling would come 
over anyone who tried daily to teach her cook some- 
thing. 

Let every young housekeeper do her best to simplify 
life. It will only add to her powers of hospitality, which 
should always be without competition nothing should be 
done with the idea of surpassing others. The great use 
of stores and wholesale shops is the knowledge they give 
of the market price of goods, and, as a matter of fact, 
often when things are cheapest they are best, as they are 
then plentiful and in their prime. Never buy anything 
out of season, is one of the best rules, and on the whole I 
think it makes the best living. Season in London does 
not apply to what grows in our gardens. There is, of 
course, a season for imported goods, such as cranberries, 
oranges, or the beans from Madeira, and these things 
vary considerably in price from week to week. Never 
forget one of my favourite precepts, that if luxuries are 
bought they should be of the very best, and come from 
the very best shops. This applies especially to wine, 
which can only be got good through the thought and 
knowledge of the host, not forgetting that bad wine is by 
no means always cheap wine. Flowers have become a 
somewhat wasteful luxury in London. I see no reason 
why a table should not be made to look quite as pretty 
with plate and china, without any flowers at all, or say 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 145 

one Japanese arrangement, which means trouble and 
taste, not expense. I remember, some years ago, think- 
ing how beautiful a flower decoration was on a dinner- 
table, and on expressing my admiration to my young 
hostess, she said, ' I am so glad you like them. They 
were so cheap. I do not think the whole lot cost more 
than 51. I ' 

To return to the household. By far the easiest 
servant to secure is a housemaid. This by no means 
implies that she knows her work. Even trained house- 
maids are sometimes wrongly trained, and the mistress 
of the house is often very incapable of teaching even the 
simplest rules of how to keep a house well aired and yet 
clean ; the London housemaid's idea is to keep it clean 
by shutting the windows. The right way is to keep 
windows open day and night, and dust certain pieces of 
furniture several times a day. It is both economical and 
clean to make an arrangement with the laundress to do 
the maids' washing at so much a week a head, instead 
of giving 'washing money' to the servants themselves. 
I also think it of great importance that the beer money, 
instead of being paid weekly, should be added to the 
wages and paid quarterly. If masters and mistresses 
only realised the number of young servants who have 
been taught to drink by being tempted to help themselves 
to the brandy and whisky on the cold grey mornings when 
they, come to their work, masters and mistresses would 
be more careful to lock away these things before they go 
to bed ; as, alas ! even those who believe that taking 
spirits before going to bed is very injurious to health, are 
forced by the laws of hospitality to produce the decanters 
before the departure of their guests. 

Nothing oils the machinery of the household such as 
I have been describing so much as the introduction of a 
very young footman or boy, and in case of the man- 

L 



146 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

servant being a soldier servant it becomes almost a neces- 
sity, for he has his master's uniforms to attend to, and is 
often called away by various duties into the country. 
The boy cleans knives and boots, carries coal, which is 
injurious heavy work for women ; sleeps in the pantry if 
the man-servant is married, which often means a better 
class of servant. The boy's help also enables the house- 
maid to keep entirely to her own work all day, very 
desirable in London, instead of being called down con- 
stantly to answer the door. Once more referring to the 
list of expenditure for 1,800Z. a year, the items marked 
No. III. will be thought by many to be over-estimated at 
100Z. a year, but this is certainly not too much, taking 
one year with another, if the house, which is so con- 
stantly the case in London, has to be painted outside 
every three years. Others may think 60Z. a year too 
heavy a charge for coal, but this must include wood for 
lighting fires, no inconsiderable item in a London house. 
20Z. a year for keeping up the stock of linen is rather 
under than over what I should deem necessary, unless 
the young menage is very much better set up than is 
usually the case in England. My estimate for living in 
London leaves us with the very narrow margin of 150Z. a 
year, but my calculations were upset by finding on 
inquiry that the rent of even small houses in good locali- 
ties south of the Park are so much higher than I expected. 
Some years ago excellent houses were to be had on the 
north side for 125Z. a year. After all, everything I have 
said resolves itself into what applies to every income i.e., 
to pretend to yourself that you have less than you have 
got, and then live at that rate, and you will always be 
rich. This is the honest and comfortable way of living, 
but it does not perhaps always appear worldly wise, as 
experience shows us that feckless and extravagant people 
generally get paid for, somehow, and very often at the 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 147 

expense of those who are careful. It will always be so 
more or less, and is only the old story of the Prodigal and 
the son who stays at home. 

Living in the country on an income of 1,800Z. a year 
changes the expenditure in many ways ; in some more 
expensive, and in others cheaper. Shall we not throw 
into the balance all the unbuyable luxuries the country 
gives us ? Sun and light, air and cleanliness inside and 
outside the house, winter hoar-frosts and summer's 
radiant colours, flowers growing at their own sweet will, 
the song of birds and the ceaseless interest of insect life. 
' Life is sweet, brother, there's day and night, brother, 
both sweet things ; sun, moon and stars, all sweet things ; 
there's likewise a wind on the heath ' so says old George 
Borrow in ' Lavengro,' and few men's writings can take 
us into the country as his do. The ' wind on the heath,' 
what is it not worth ? Keats, too, speaks of it in his own 
gentle way : 

To one who has been long in city pent, 

Tis very sweet to look into the fair 

And open face of heaven, to breathe a prayer 
Full in the smile of the blue firmament. 
Who is more happy, when, with heart's content, 

Fatigued he sinks into some pleasant lair 

Of wavy grass, and reads a debonair 
And gentle tale of love and languishment, 
Eeturning home at evening, with an ear 

Catching the notes of Philomel an eye 
Watching the sailing cloudlet's bright career, 

He mourns that day so soon has glided by ; 
E'en like the passage of an angel's tear 

That falls through the clear ether silently. 

For the young, the energetic, and the ambitious, towns 
are best at first, and they can gravitate towards the 
country as they grow older. This surely is one of the 
greatest inducements for saving, and in no sense is it a 
mean or lowering object. We will begin now with our 



i 4 8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

changed table of expenditure for life in the country. The 
most important reduction will be in the house-rent. 

TABLE COUNTBY 

s. d. 

I. Bent, rates and taxes . . . . 180 

II. Housekeeping (living, washing, lighting) 450 

III. Kepairs, insurance, cleaning, painting . 100 

IV. Coal 80 

V. Dress (man and woman) . . . 180 

VI. Wages, including beer (four servants) . 130 

VII. Wine 50 

VIII. Stamps, newspapers, stationery . 30 

IX. Doctor, dentist, accidents, journeys . 100 

X. New house linen 20 

XI. Charities 40 



1,360 

This table shows considerable reduction, and, if saving 
is not very necessary, a pony, carriage, and groom can be 
added, besides the obligatory garden, which, well done, 
including wages and all expenses, must be counted at 

1501, a year : so the table now stands : 

s. d. 

Carried forward , 1,360 

Garden 150 

Pony, carriage, groom 130 

1,640 

This does not include the initial cost of buying the 
pony and carriage and setting up the stable. 

With these luxuries the margin is as narrow as the 
London one. Any careful housekeeper will find it easier 
to make reductions in the country, though it will probably 
be at the expense of having friends to stay, which is one 
of the pleasures of living in the country, minimised by the 
fact that it often interferes with your pursuits, care of 
poultry, garden, &c., as very naturally the friend who 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 149 

takes the trouble to come and see you exacts your un- 
divided attention. One of the expenses of country 
hospitality is not only the laundry bill, but the wear and 
tear caused to good linen from always being in the wash- 
tub. I confess to often feeling considerable sympathy 
with the landlady of olden times who felt it such a pity 
to send sheets to the wash, and gave orders to damp them 
a little and iron them out. 

Furnishing in the country can be done even more 
simply and sensibly than in London. If washing house 
linen is more, cleaning of curtains and chintzes, &c., is 
infinitely less ; three months of London making things 
much dirtier than a year in the country. The great 
secret of sensible and yet pretty furnishing is observation 
and keeping your eyes open. People as a rule notice 
nothing, and come into a house and garden almost as if they 
were blind, and it is curious to observe how the awaken- 
ing comes when they are going to furnish for themselves. 
This selfish impetus should not be necessary. The want 
of training of sight, scent, and hearing are among the great 
deficiencies of civilised education, and I fancy this defect 
has been keenly felt in South Africa. The newspapers 
have commented upon this subject from time to time, and 
I noted from one the other day that ' as a matter of 
scientific fact there is little difference in the powers of 
vision of different races. The difference lies in the 
faculty of detection, and this is a matter of training and 
constant practice. Two men have equally good sight, 
but one, by reason of the necessity of his daily life, will be 
able to detect an unusual object, whilst the other will be 
entirely unable to recognise anything abnormal. This 
being so, it is all the more necessary that the training of 
the eye should form a very important part of a soldier's 
education in the art of war. Scouting and judging of 
distances will have to be reckoned with in any practical 



1 5 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

scheme of army reform.' This is no doubt perfectly true, 
but the training of the eye and the quickening of the 
powers of observation should begin with both sexes from 
the very earliest age. And I am convinced that no one can 
manage a house and garden well unless these faculties 
are highly developed. 

Poultry keeping in the country is a pleasure and an 
interest, but it hardly pays unless eggs are sold in the 
winter and chickens in the early spring. If the garden is 
carefully and knowingly stocked to supply the wants of 
every month in the year, the saving in the weekly books 
is considerable, as nothing ought to be bought except 
potatoes, and the plentiful supply of vegetables for 
many months in the year considerably reduces the 
butcher's book. Everyone who has space in the country 
should keep pigs ; nothing so prevents waste or actually 
pays better. Buying two young ones twice a year once in 
January, selling them in May, and buying again two more 
in May, giving them nothing till well on in October but 
green vegetable garden refuse and the wash-tub. This 
tub must be kept carefully clean that is to say, no meat 
or tea-leaves or coffee-grouts. It is quite a common 
cook's trick to throw into the pig-tub the heads and 
insides of game or poultry ; this is quite wrong, and will 
easily produce diseased pigs. In October acorns and 
chestnuts are good for them, but they make the meat hard 
unless the pigs are fed on barley-meal for quite three 
weeks before they are killed ; part must be sold and part 
preserved for home consumption. Curing hams from a 
good receipt, with a careful cook, not only thoroughly 
pays, but produces far better hams than those usually 
bought. 

A garden makes a very great saving in the weekly 
books and enables a family to live well with much less 
meat. A leg of mutton is a much more economical joint 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 151 

than a shoulder or a neck; but for a small family it 
generally means so much cold meat. The following 
method of dealing with a leg of mutton, out of one of my 
old books, may be suggestive to some : 

First day. Cut off the knuckle, boil it slowly, cover 
it with caper sauce ; serve with mashed turnips and 
carrots. 

Second day. Cut a steak off the large end and broil 
it ; serve with maitre-d'hotel butter and fried potatoes 
or onions. 

Third day. Cut some cutlets off the side near the 
knuckle, breadcrumb, and fry ; serve with brown sauce. 
Pur6e of greens or pure'e of chestnuts. Beetroot hot or 
cold. 

Fourth day. Bone and stuff the fillet, which is to be 
roasted (put the bone into the liquor that boiled the 
knuckle) ; serve with the roast-meat, jelly, jam or apple 
sauce, mashed potatoes, white beans and salad. 

Fifth day. Hash part of the remainder in a good 
brown sauce made with the reduced liquor from bone, 
thicken with burnt flour, and add minced olives, gherkins, 
or mushrooms ; mashed potatoes. 

Sixth day. The remainder minced in shells or small 
pots, breadcrumb, and brown in the oven; serve with 
cold potatoes fried up, macaroni and sultanas, or rice. 



152 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



FEBRUARY 

NOTES FROM NINE MONTHS OP A SCRAPPY JOURNAL 
1901-1902 

Forcing cut branches Amygdalus Davidiana Early spring flowers 
under glass Bulbous irises Epimediums in pots Letter to 
Westminster on railway carriages and tuberculosis Congress on 
tuberculosis in 1901. 

February 2Qth. I left home some days ago. A few 
snowdrops and a few green blades of daffodils were 
coming through the ground : that was all. Spring 
seemed very far away, but it was not really so. For a 
short time one must help nature, and have faith. During 
the last three years I have considerably developed the 
practice of forcing cut blossoming branches in water, in 
the little hothouse. Even in December if the weather is 
wet and bad, the Jasminum nudiftorum is far more 
effective and flowers more in a mass, if treated in this way, 
than left on the plant. I saw a year or two ago at one of 
the Drill Hall shows the Amygdalm Davidiana, which is 
a Chinese early-flowering shrub and exceedingly lovely. 
I bought one which has grown satisfactorily. It can be 
cut in January, and the bright brown stems, covered with 
buds, flower from one end to the other, after cutting and 
putting into water in the stove. It is a plant I thoroughly 
recommend to anybody living in the country in winter or 
having flowers sent up to London. Prunus Pissardii, 
which here the birds strip of buds, the common pink 



FEBRUARY 153 

almond, Forsythia suspensa, all do excellently cut 
and brought on in this way, by which I mean, they do 
very much better than if left to flower out of doors. All 
stalks must be peeled. The blackthorn, Prunus spinosa, 
and its double variety also answer if picked in the same 
way a little latar on in the year. The Drill Hall ex- 
hibitions, interesting as they are all the year round, 
always attract me most in the spring, as the plants are 
better adapted at that season than any other to the kind 
of miniature pot-cultivation required for shows. Here 
everybody is able to see what these plants ought to be 
when grown in perfection, not in heat, but under glass 
which saves them from wind and weather. All those 
who try to grow fine Christmas roses in light soils know 
well how difficult it is, whereas the imaginative writer 
who speaks of gardens from the poetical point of view 
rather than the practical, alludes to them in a lordly kind 
of way as ' flourishing ' of their own accord in mixed 
borders or even in woods and shrubberies. As a matter of 
fact, though they hate being disturbed, I have found 
strong nourishment when their leaves are growing and 
protection from the weather in any but very exceptional 
winters, absolutely necessary for producing even a moderate 
success. I have never seen them growing in their natural 
state on Alpine slopes, as M. Correvon so charmingly 
describes them in his poems ' Fleurs et Montagues ' : 

LA ROSE DE NOEL. 

Sur les flancs escarp6s du riant Salvatore 

Et sous 1'apre frimas 
De 1'hiver, j'ai trouve la neigeuse Hellebore 

S'etalant sous mes pas. 

Sa fleur cherchait abri sous le sombre feuillage 

Bronze par les autans, 
Et dans son pale eclat on pressentait le gage 

Des beaux jours du printemps. 



i S 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Oh ! rose de Noel qui fleuris sous la glace 

Pendant les jours mauvais, 
Dis-moi comment tu fais pour demeurer vivace 

Sous les brouillards 6pais. 

Dis-moi d'ou tu recjus la douce quietude 

Que je lis sur ton front, 
Dis-moi qui t'a donne la ferme certitude 

Que les beaux jours viendront. 

Je voudrais comme toi garder 1'ame sereine 

Dans les jours de malheur, 
Et quand survient le deuil et la lutte et la peine 

Toujours croire au bonheur. 

Pale soleil d'hiver qui fleuris PHellebore 

Au matin de Noel, 
Viens chasser mes brouillards et puisse ton aurore 

Toujours luire en mon ciel. 

The loveliest things at the February and March 
Drill Hall shows, are the small early bulbous irises. 
They are most interesting plants, more so than orchids I 
think, but I must own they do not last nearly so long, 
either cut or on the plant. It is the great merit of 
orchids, even those kinds that are easy to grow, that on 
the plant and off it their flower branches last so long. 
An excellent way to support the flower in the pot is a 
small cane, split open at the top, holding the branch, and 
stuck in the earth of the pot. I am now going to try 
growing some of the small bulbous irises. They should 
be planted in pots or pans in loamy soil, no manure, and 
treated exactly like hyacinths or narcissi, covered with 
cocoanut-fibre in a cold frame, matted at night to keep 
out the frost, and then brought into the greenhouse early 
in February and carefully watered, to be induced to 
flower. I. reticulata and J. persica Heldreichii are the 
best, I am told, but there are several varieties, and all are 
pretty. Almost the greatest winter excitement of our 
gardens is the beautiful I. stylosa. People who manage 



FEBRUARY 155 

them well seem very successful with them from December 
to April, but, like most irises, they seem to do better if 
close to some other plant, which means, I suppose, dry- 
ness through the summer. They will grow well on the 
sunny side of a yew hedge, but never flower well till the 
second or third year. The foliage is thick and untidy, and 
one has to look for the flowers or one may miss them, 
and for the house they are best picked in the bud. I am 
going to try the little Snake's-head of Italy, I, tuberosa, 
in pans. It seems too dry for it here out of doors. 

In these days of horticultural crocuses I do not 
think the original type plants are cultivated nearly 
enough in our gardens. Early in March this year, and 
it was a late bad spring, they were most beautiful at Kew. 
C. etniscus, C. biflorus, C. chrysanthus were the names 
on the labels. I see C. Imperati and C. calvigatus, for a 
cold frame, are recommended in ' English Flower Garden.' 

Epimedium rubrum and E. macranthum make charm- 
ing greenhouse plants in early spring, potted up in 
September (I imagine) and kept in a frame. The little 
dwarf Narcissus Bulbocodium and N. cyclamineus look 
charming in pots and pans. All these species seem 
much more interesting than a large number of ordinary 
hyacinths, double or single. 

Mr. James Rhoades sent me this little poem the other 
day, saying that he should have dedicated it to me had 
he known me sooner. It appeared in the ' Westminster 
Gazette,' June 1899 : 

Are flowers the very thoughts of God 

Made visible to bless ? 
If so it be, happy ye 

Who such a faith confess, 
As, led by April, blossom-crowned, 

Ye roam o'er vale and hill, 
With every here a cowslip found, 

And there a daffodil 1 



156 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Are the birds' songs but jets of joy 

From the Eternal Bliss ? 
If it be true, happy few 

With such a faith as this, 
As, thrilled by many a feathered throat, 

Ye roam o'er hills and vales, 
With every now the cuckoo's note, 

And then the nightingale's ! 

Travelling to London the other day by rail, third 
class, the extreme dirt of the carriage recalled to my mind 
a paragraph I had seen in the ' Westminster Gazette/ and 
made me write the following letter to the Editor. I 
republish it here because it seems to me that the subject 
cannot too often be brought before the public, who are 
still alarmingly ignorant of and careless as to the in- 
fectiousness of tuberculosis. 

' SIB, I noticed in your issue of December 23 a 
short paragraph bringing to our notice how much room 
there still was for improvement in the methods that could 
be adopted for the prevention of the spread of the 
tubercles which cause consumption. The ignorance of 
the general public on the subject, even the educated 
public, is the only excuse that can be offered for the 
constant neglect of the most ordinary sanitary pre- 
cautions. I live in what might be called a distant 
suburb, and often travel backwards and forwards to 
London in a third-class carriage; so do a number of 
young people of both sexes, and so do rough workmen 
who know no better and who expectorate freely on the 
floor of the carriage. Many of these may be gravely ill 
from tubercles without being the least aware of it, or of 
the danger to which their spitting may expose their 
fellow-travellers in all sorts of accidental ways. Both old 
and young generally insist on all the windows being closed 
in winter. Spitting can only gradually be put a stop to, 



FEBRUARY 157 

as it is done by a class who do not even understand how 
dirty it is, and who consider they have a right to do it if 
they like. 

' The proper cleansing of third-class carriages depends 
on the railway companies, and as it is done now it would 
be considered quite insufficient for a cattle-truck. A dirty 
broom is inserted and the surface dirt partly swept into a 
dust-pan. This enables what is left to dry the quicker, 
increasing the real danger, for the infection only spreads 
when the expectoration becomes dust. We have heard 
much abuse of the fashionable long skirts in the streets 
of London, but seated in a carriage no woman's dress, be 
it ever so short, can help touching the floor. A poor 
woman will probably dry her skirt at the kitchen fire and 
brush it either there or in her bedroom ; the maid of a 
rich woman is likely to do exactly the same ; and in this 
way thousands of grains of poison may be spread in the 
house, and the boy or girl just leaving childhood behind, is 
the accidental victim of the mother's journey. Surely it is 
an imperative duty to clean and disinfect carriages, and 
it seems to me directors should have felt guilty of a very 
heavy responsibility, which they did not thoroughly 
understand, when they refused to allow the National 
Association for the Prevention of Consumption to put up, 
free of expense to the companies, an intelligent notice in 
the railway carriages about the dangers of expectoration. 
A better way of educating the public I cannot imagine, 
while giving offence to none, though certainly necessi- 
tating a more intelligent way of keeping the carriages 
clean. A notice put up in the booking office is absolutely 
useless, as no one has time to read it there. Much the 
same may be said of the long-delayed notice in our post- 
offices, where it is generally hung in an out-of-the-way 
corner with postal directions about mail days to all the 
ends of the earth. I trust greater knowledge may do 



i S 8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

away with this conservative prejudice which dislikes 
nothing so much on most health subjects as truth and 
light.' 

It is rather curiously typical of the national attitude 
towards important legislation on health subjects, that, 
although the King has taken such lively interest in the 
Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, and done all 
that a Sovereign could do to bring the subject to public 
notice, assisted by the most influential people in the land, 
yet that railway directors, heads of firms, and that hope- 
lessly immovable body, the general public, should take so 
little alarm and pay so little attention to all that has been 
put before them. Last July (1901) the press for many 
days teemed with accounts of that very remarkable 
meeting of medical and scientific men, the Congress on 
Tuberculosis. I attended one or two of the meetings, and 
it was my privilege to be there the day Professor Koch 
made his famous statement on the difference between the 
tubercle in man and the tubercle in cattle, and stated 
his belief that the two things were not interchange- 
able. How the scientific world will decide about this 
in the future we do not yet know. The great interest 
to me, and one of a peculiarly dramatic kind, was 
to be overlooking a large hall crowded with people 
well versed in the subject, who were quietly told 
in very broken English a fact which they had not 
expected to hear. The greatest oratory would, perhaps, 
hardly have called forth so evident a thrill through the 
whole audience, though courtesy necessitated the sup- 
pression of either surprise or opposition. Apparently, 
from all statistics, England though, perhaps, the most 
afflicted with this terrible scourge, is yet the most back- 
ward in sanitary precautions. M. Brouardel gave some 
interesting statistics as to what is being done in France 



FEBRUARY 159 

He delivered his lecture in his own language with all the 
charm and crispness of his nationality. All the lectures 
delivered at this Congress are, I believe, still to be got 
from the Secretary of the Society in Hanover Square. 

As with so many other improvements in general 
health, the future rests not so much with the medical 
profession as with the general public, but they must 
understand before they can act. How few people believe 
that common colds without inflammation ought to be 
treated like consumption with an open-air cure, not only 
for the good of the patient but also for the benefit of 
other people, as fresh air is the great destroyer of in- 
fection. In the case of having to lie up for an accident 
or an operation, the same thing applies ; if the patient 
lies day and night by an open window the difference to 
general health on recovery is hardly believable compared 
with having been shut up in the ordinary sick-room with 
the windows only opened once a day for ten minutes. 



160 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



MARCH 

Valescure Tree heath and briar- wood pipes Fragrant herbs and 
thyme carpet Aloes and agaves Cork trees Frejus Ruins of 
the Tuileries : De 1'Orme and Bullant Meissonier's picture of 
the burnt Tuileries Cannes Eucalyptus trees La Mortola 
Arrival at Florence Turban ranunculus Mino da Fiesole 
Letter about Florence. 

HAVING the chance last year of letting my house to a 
friend for March and April, I was tempted to do that 
which I had always declared I would never do viz., go 
to the South of France at the time when everybody else 
goes there. On March 1 we started, a party of four 
ladies, for the Grand Hotel, Valescure, arriving at 
the St.-Baphael station after the usual day and night 
journey. We had left great cold behind us, and found 
the weather grey and mild. But we were told it had 
been very cold, and it certainly was soon bitterly cold 
again. Snow was on all the hills, the almond-blossoms 
were brown, and the shrub we call mimosa, really yellow 
acacia, looked pinched and unable to bloom. Our hotel 
being situated on the side of a hill with a beautiful open 
view of plain, mountain, and sea, surrounded by delightful 
pine woods, had a great charm of its own, and for those 
who have no objection to hotel-life I cannot imagine a 
more satisfactory resting place in fine spring weather. 
But I dislike hotels of all kinds, and it was singularly 
unlucky, as I hoped to live outside all day, that the 
mistral blew hard during the whole ten days I was at 



MARCH 161 

Valescure, and the weather was colourless, though dry. 
On the other side of Sfc.-Kaphael, down by the sea, there 
is another hotel, the Grand Hotel Boulouris, built on a 
perfect site for those who like being near the sea, and 
even more completely solitary than the one at Valescure. 
I gathered that it was not so well heated as the Valescure 
hotel. This I think an advantage, for though I like fires 
in the rooms, I hate hot passages, as they always make 
people afraid to open the windows. 

All down to the shore and up in the woods by Bou- 
louris were magnificent tall plants of what I thought was 
Mediterranean heath : the flowers were only half open 
and injured by frost. I suppose most people know that 
from the roots of this tree heath are made the favourite 
wooden pipes known as briar-wood pipes. The name 
briar is a corruption of the French word bruyere, meaning 
heath. The collecting of these roots seems to be a trade 
wherever the plant grows, and the ' Encyclopaedia Britan- 
nica ' says that ' in Italy they are taken to Leghorn where 
the roots are shaped into blocks, each suitable for a pipe, 
the cutting of the wood so as to avoid waste requiring 
considerable skill. These blocks are simmered in a vat 
for twelve hours, which gives them the much-appreciated 
yellowish-brown hue of a good briar-root. So prepared, 
the blocks are exported for boring and finishing to 
St.-Claude (Jura), in France, and to Nuremberg, the two 
rival centres of the wooden-pipe trade.' In Moggridge's 
1 Flora of Mentone,' he refers to this and other European 
heaths as follows : ' Erica multiflora, abounds near 
Toulon and Hyeres, but from the Esterelles mountains 
to Genoa I only know of three small patches of this 
pretty plant, all of which are near Nice, one round the 
tower of St.-Hospice, and the others at Bellet in the 
valley of Magnan. . . . Erica mediterranea is never 
found on the shores of the Mediterranean, but grows in 

M 



162 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

South-Western France, Western Spain and Ireland. . . . 
The English often call Erica arborea (Linn.) the 
"Mediterranean Heath." This is a mistake. ... It 
abounds along the coast from Marseilles to Genoa, and 
though usually cut down, it is occasionally allowed to 
take its natural course when it becomes a small tree 
8 to 10 feet high. At Cannes, the wood is used for 
turning, and of it are made the briar-wood pipes which 
are imported into England. Erica arborea and Erica 
scoparia are to be found growing together, but the former 
flowers in February or March, and is quite out of blow 
before E. scoparia first expands its greenish flowers in 
the end of April. Even when out of blossom, the tree 
heath may always be distinguished by its hairy branches. 
... It is also found in the Canary Islands, Madeira, 
Portugal, and the Pyrenees. E. scoparia endures a 
varied temperature, but is more confined in its distribu- 
tion, being found only in Northern and Southern France, 
Spain, Italy, Corsica, Sardinia, and Dalmatia.' 

How curious it is this distribution of plants, especially 
when the spreading and flourishing seem to depend not 
entirely on temperature ! Temperature being the ordi- 
nary cause of the stopping of vegetation towards the 
north, the nature of the soil must, I suppose, be the 
reason in this case for such fantastic skipping of whole 
districts. 

At Valescure, the woods and open spaces are covered 
with heaths that have been cut down, and many low- 
growing sweet-smelling herbs. The dryness, however, 
combined with the bitter cold winds we were having, held 
back the scents, and one walked on thyme and sage and 
other sweet-smelling herbs without even perceiving it, 
and brushed through myrtle and bay without their giving 
one anything of their fragrance. In a resigned tone we 
said to each other, ' March is March everywhere, even 



MARCH 163 

on the Mediterranean shores,' and I secretly wondered 
why I had left my own little greenhouse full of sweetness 
and spring flowers for the euphemistically called ' Sunny 
South.' I know a place in England where nature's 
sweet-smelling carpet is imitated by planting a wood path 
with garden thyme instead of turfing it. It is kept low 
and somewhat even by perpetual clipping, and it is a 
pretty idea that the scent is given forth in summer by the 
present fashion of women's trailing skirts. This seems 
to be a rare exception to the well-known evils of the 
present long dresses. It is well for all sensible women 
never to forget the story of the German professor who 
sent his wife and daughter out for a walk through the 
town, and on their return let them see through his 
microscope the vitality of the microbes they had brought 
back with the dust. Dry sunshine is necessary for the 
sweet smelling of thyme, and many other herbs, whereas 
flowers generally smell sweeter for dampness in the air. 

In my youth what I called aloes I now know to be 
agaves. Agaves come from South America, and die 
when they have flowered, whereas the aloes come from 
South Africa and do not die after flowering. These 
agaves used to grow wild and uncultivated on the tops of 
walls, thickly crowded together mothers, children, and 
grandchildren. The offsets were of all sizes, and the 
largest plants only occasionally flowered as the last 
supreme effort, probably when the nourishment from 
some well-cultivated neighbouring field drained down on 
to the wall top. Now these agaves are, in a way, culti- 
vated. That is to say, they are taken up and divided and 
planted along the roads as we do with our Saxifraga 
pyramidalis when we want to make them flower better 
on our rockeries. This causes the much more frequent 
blooming of the larger plants by the side of the roads, 
and does away with the tradition that they only bloomed 



164 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

once in a hundred years. But the death of the plant is 
much more pathetic and apparent than it used to be. 
Alone it throws up its enormous flower stem, unsupported 
by all the young growth which, when left to nature, 
would be around it. It prematurely falls over and is cut 
off with its seeds scarcely ripened and the spot is empty, 
no young plants being there to hold it up and to flourish 
round the decaying stem. Anybody wishing to grow 
agaves in pots for ornamental use had better take off the 
young growths every year as this immensely increases 
the rapid development of the principal plant. 

There are fine old specimens about Valescure of the 
cork-tree, Quercus suber. They have a quaint picturesque- 
ness all their own from the removing of the bark once in 
about six years for the making of cork, which is one of the 
old industries of the country. This treatment, that would 
kill all other trees, does these no harm. ' Chambers's 
Encyclopaedia ' gives the following details about cork- 
trees : ' Spain and Portugal chiefly supply the world 
with cork, and in these countries the tree is often planted 
for the sake of the cork. . . . The acorns are eatable, 
and resemble chestnuts in taste. The bark in trees or 
branches from three to five years old acquires a fungous 
appearance, new layers of cellular tissue being formed, 
and the outer parts cracking from distension, until they 
are finally thrown off in large flakes, when a new forma- 
tion of the same kind takes place. Cork intended for the 
market is generally stripped off a year or two before it 
would naturally come away, and the process is repeated 
at intervals of six or eight years. The bark of the young 
trees and branches is either useless or of very inferior 
quality ; it is only after the third peeling that good cork 
is produced. The removal of the cork, being not the 
removal of the whole bark, but only of external layers of 
spongy cellular tissue, all or greater part of which has 



MARCH 165 

ceased to have any true vitality, and has become an 
incumbrance to the tree, is so far from being injurious, 
that when done with proper care, it rather promotes the 
health of the tree, which continues to yield crops of cork 
for almost 150 years. . . . Besides the use of cork for 
stopping bottles, casks, &c., it is much used, on account of 
its lightness, for floats of nets, swimming-belts, &c. ; and 
on account of its impermeability to water, and its being a 
slow conductor of heat, inner soles of shoes are made of 
it. All these uses are mentioned by Pliny; but the 
general employment of corks for glass bottles appears to 
date only from the fifteenth century.' The process of trees 
casting their bark can be seen every autumn in London 
from the plane-trees on the Embankment or the Parks. 
This is the reason why plane-trees flourish in cities where 
other forest trees die. In these days cork carpet is most 
useful and made from the refuse cork for protection 
against cold and damp from stone or brick floors. I 
think, as with ordinary oil-cloth, it would probably pro- 
duce dry rot on wooden floors. 

My friends knew Valescure well, and were always 
taking me to spots where, in ordinary years, the wild 
flowers grew iris, anemones, and many others. I had 
to console myself by looking at books, and when I came 
home I bought Moggridge's ' Contributions to the Flora 
of Mentone ; the Winter Flora of the Eiviera from Mar- 
seilles to Genoa.' The 'winter' I had had, but the 
' flora ' was denied me. The book is a charming one for 
anyone spending some time along that coast. The illus- 
trations, though not up to the level of those in old books 
(it was published in 1871), are far superior to many 
botanical coloured illustrations of a later date. I know 
two novels which treat of this part of the world : ' The 
Individualist ' by Mallock, and one of the stories in 
Bourget's ' Homme d' Affaires.' 



166 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Frejus can be seen from the hotel windows. The 
Eoman remains give a great interest to the countryside, 
and had I remained longer I should certainly have bought 
a book called 'The Eomans on the Eiviera,' by W. H. 
Bullock Hall (Macmillan, 1898). Eornan ruins are always 
very attractive to me. Those about Frejus are of a late 
date, and not unlike the specimens found in England, 
having evidently been built for utility, and because Frejus 
was a seaport in those days. Now the sea has receded 
for several miles. 

One garden I did see which had an interest all its own, 
not for its flowers, which were not out, but for the fact that 
Miolan Carvalho, manager of the Paris Opera-Comique 
during the Second Empire, had built this villa, and 
brought to the garden many fragments from the ruins of 
the Tuileries after the burning in the time of the Commune. 
They were dotted about the garden without very much 
purpose, and the tall, white, beautifully-carved stones 
looked rather sad, I thought. So classical are they that 
many people who know no better mistake the garden for a 
villa of the Lower Eoman Empire, so pagan are the ruins 
and so picturesque. I particularly liked the Avenue where 
a lion by Cam looked disdainfully down upon the tourists. 
These remains seemed out of place in this garden, and 
accentuated to me the everlasting regret I have always 
felt that the great and rich French Eepublic did not 
have the courage, in spite of their depressed condition 
after their reverses, to rebuild the beautiful fire-scarred 
ruin of Catherine de Medicis' palace and use it for the 
chief of their State, with all its historical recollections 
behind it, including among these the wild despair of the 
destructive Communards. I believe many people have 
thought that the Tuileries gardens looked much better 
without the tall palace. That may be ; but the Elysee, 
which is now the official residence of the President, is 



MARCH 167 

certainly not a sufficiently large and handsome palace for 
the head of the State in a country like France. The 
fragments of ruin in this Eiviera garden were full of 
carving and ornamentation, and one wondered to whose 
hand they belonged of the two builders of the Tuileries, 
De 1'Orme or Bullant. Mrs. Mark Pattison, in her 
' Eenaissance of Art in France,' says that, at the death of 
De 1'Orme, Bullant was called upon by Catherine de 
Medicis to carry on the construction of the Tuileries 
(1570). ' But it must be remembered that when De 1'Orme 
died he had nearly completed the centre pavilion with 
its crowning dome, as well as the two wings to right and 
left. It is difficult to say precisely what was contributed 
by Bullant, but most probably the whole or a part of the 
pavilion, which originally terminated these two wings on 
the north and south. In their erection he followed, we 
must suppose, the plans left by De 1'Orme, for in the 
main the two pavilions were of a piece with the rest of 
the building. The Ionic order, the "ordre feminin," 
specially affected by De 1'Orme, ranged below ; and above, 
along the first floor, ran the Corinthian. The proportions 
and character of the general features he left unaltered, 
but in the decoration and adjustment of parts, Bullant 
took a certain license. ... To his eyes the polite elegance 
of De I'Orme's work, the refined inspiration of Lescot's 
design as expressed in the neighbouring courts of the 
Louvre, seemed wanting in fervour and meagre in enrich- 
ment. De 1'Orme had panelled his surfaces with delicate 
pilasters ; Bullant detached along the front innumerable 
columns, and niched between them royal coats-of-arms. 
De 1'Orme had pointed blank spaces here and there by 
the application of a highly-outlined frame, a touch of 
ornament, a scutcheon faintly profiled. Bullant cut 
bravely and unsparingly broad sweeps of decorative line 
in high relief. The ornament which encircled every 



i68 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

blazoned niche was burdened to the utmost with elaborate 
details. Wreaths garlanded the sides of the windows : 
crowns filled the spaces above them ; crowns, surmounted 
with points of fleur-de-lis, were again repeated at the 
summit of intermediate shields, uplifted by the out- 
stretched arms of accompanying figures. 

' Yet this luxurious superabundance of ornament never 
degenerated into vulgar profusion. Exquisite delicacy of 
sight and touch gave truth of accord to all the parts, and 
traces of brilliant execution not long ago revealed the 
same rare quality of light and happy touch which still 
enlivens the gracious courts of Ecouen. Until the hour 
of the Commune brought fire upon their walls, these two 
pavilions stood in grace scarcely impaired by time or 
restoration. The alterations which took place during the 
reign of Louis XIV. resulted in a complete refashioning 
at the hands of Le Veau and Dorbay of the centre portion, 
and the two wings completed by De 1'Orme. But the two 
pavilions raised by Bullant suffered only the loss of the 
mansard roof, which was replaced by a more convenient 
attic, and the addition of some ill-calculated ornaments 
carved upon the shafts of columns originally plain. A 
sun- and moon-dial, one such as those described in the 
treatise "De 1'Horlogiographie," which has been affixed to 
a blank side-wall facing south, necessarily disappeared in 
contact with the extensions of the Louvre executed by 
Henry IV., but the rest remained even as Bullant had 
left it, the effect of the graceful Ionic order prevented 
somewhat, indeed, but not destroyed by the neighbouring 
presence of the towering columns of Du Cerceau's addi- 
tions. Now there remain only such rare fragments of 
columns and pilasters as might be gathered by the hand.' 
The fragments now exist only in this Valescure garden. 

I happened to be in Paris soon after Meissonier's 
death, and had the privilege of visiting his studio. His 



MARCH 169 

method of working from small clay models rather than 
from nature or memory explains much that is remarkable 
in the style of his pictures. But what makes me recall 
this visit now is that I saw there an exceedingly interest- 
ing sketch of the ruined Tuileries. It was an unusually 
large water-colour representing the Salle des Mare'chaux 
after the fire as seen from the Tuileries gardens, with 
Napoleon's battles still engraven on the cornice, bright 
blue sky above, and the car and horses on the top of the 
Arc du Carrousel appearing above a heap of ruins. Madame 
Meissonier has since given this valuable historical record 
to the Luxembourg. 

At the end of about ten days I left my kind friends at 
Valescure and moved on to Cannes, where I had not been 
for many years. The whole place was changed beyond 
recognition ; the old olives are being cut down as not 
profitable, and new buildings rise in all directions. The 
yellow-flowering acacia (Acacia dealbata) has sown itself 
everywhere. It began by being the pride of Cannes 
gardens, and is now much encouraged by the peasants 
for the exportation of its flowering branches for sale in 
northern cities. To me it is a beautiful thing in the hand, 
but singularly unbecoming to the colour of the landscape. 
Of all the new plant introductions since my childhood 
along the Mediterranean coast, the one that seems to me 
to have taken good hold, and to be most suitable both in 
gvowth and colouring, is the Australian eucalyptus. This 
in a kind of way may take the place of the disappearing 
olives. It is bluer in colour, and the growth is even more 
weirdly picturesque. I often wondered how several trees 
of it would look grouped together ; for the present one 
only sees single standards, some of them very tall. The 
Eucalyptus Gunnii in my garden, which I mentioned in a 
former book, has continued to stand our winter climate, 
and flourishes only slightly protected by other shrubs. 



1 70 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

I did not mention that I grew it originally from seed ; 
many things adapt themselves better to a strange soil if 
grown from seed on the spot. 

The orange gardens at Cannes have ceased to exist as 
they were in my day, when, being highly cultivated and 
manured, there grew beneath the trees carpets of Neapolitan 
violets, 'Violettes de Parme,' as they are called. Now 
everything is sacrificed to the imitation of English lawns, 
and in these are planted, very inappropriately, palms and 
bamboos, aloes and agaves, all dotted about, and producing 
a most unfortunate and ugly effect. From a gardener's 
point of view this is absolutely incorrect, for the grass 
requires much watering, whereas the poor aloes and agaves 
need a dry, stony soil in order to flourish and gain their 
beautiful blue bloom. 

On the whole, the gardens that I saw at Cannes dis- 
appointed me dreadfully ; but then I must confess it was 
a very backward year. Even the favourite of our English 
gardeners, the ' Old Glory,' or, as some put it, ' the Glory 
to die John,' was hardly in leaf. 

As a happy instance of what the unlettered can make 
of a botanical name I have been told by a friend, who 
actually heard it, that as two old women were parting by 
a cottage-gate one said to the other, admiring her large 
laurustinus in full bloom, ' What a fine plant you have 
there ! ' ' Yes,' said the other, ' and such a beautiful name 
as it's got ! ' The first one, looking a little astonished and 
ashamed of her ignorance, said, ' And what is it ? ' ' Oh, 
don't you know ? It's called " The Lord sustine (sustain) 
us"!' 

In gardens where tiny streams ran through them, 
quantities of the lovely Iris stylosa were in flower. But 
beyond this there was little to attract attention. Not 
nearly enough care is given in England to this beautiful 
winter flower. Very large clumps are required, and with 



MARCH 171 

room to spread, all buds come out well in water. The 
only violet I saw in cultivation was the large single kind 
with long stalks and little smell. 

On March 18 a German friend came all the way from 
Frankfort to go with me to see Mr. Hanbury's garden at 
La Mortola. The morning dawned with heavy, driving 
clouds, and by eight o'clock it was raining in torrents. 
She sent to ask what I intended to do. My answer was 
the irritatingly priggish one (which I should never have 
dared send to a man) that I never allowed weather to 
interfere with my plans. So we started for Mentone by 
rail, and then, after driving for over an hour in ceaseless 
rain, we arrived late for luncheon. Our longed-for treat 
of seeing this wonderful garden had to be enjoyed under 
umbrellas and holding up dripping petticoats as we 
climbed up and down the steps, the whole garden being 
on the slope of a steep hill. In spite of these unfavour- 
able conditions, it far outstripped in interest any I had 
seen, and gave wonderful life to the charming and in- 
structive book I mentioned before, ' Kiviera Notes,' which 
is dedicated to ' Commendatore Thomas Hanbury, of La 
Mortola, Italy.' I do not know if this book has been re- 
printed, but I sincerely hope so for the benefit of all who 
can avail themselves of the privilege, so kindly granted, 
of seeing Mr. Hanbury's rare botanical collection. Every- 
thing in it is arranged in the manner best suited to the 
growth of the individual plants, coming as they do from 
all parts of the world and willing to flourish on his sunny 
rockeries. The garden is full of beautiful memories of the 
old, uncultivated Italian podcrc, and at the base, between 
the garden and the sea, runs the original, narrow, paved 
road made by the Eomans, it is said, in the year 13 B.C., 
and called Via Augusta. The ordinary Cannes visitor is 
apt to be disappointed, I am told, not to find this garden 
the usual effect of turf and spring-bedding. The field of 



1 72 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

anemones that was in bloom the day I was there is far more 
beautiful than any bed of flowers that one can imagine. 
Of course, they had originally been planted, but their 
growth and general effect of colour in the field grass gave 
the appearance of wildness. There is still in the centre 
of the garden a most stately avenue of Cupressus semper- 
virens, the pyramidal cypress. It forms a beautiful fea- 
ture in the landscape, and the people of the place say it 
recalls a long-forgotten cemetery, as the name ' La Mor- 
tola ' is supposed to mean ' a place of burial.' The 
cypress-trees are sharing the fate of the olives and are 
disappearing from the fields and gardens along this coast. 
They are claimed by the church as being trees of mourn- 
ing, and the peasants believe them to be unlucky round 
their dwellings and appropriate only to burial-grounds. 
I am very sorry for this, as they are a feature associated 
with all that seemed most paintable in one's youth, with 
their tall dark spikes against sunset skies. We are always 
trying to grow them in England, w r here they don't flourish, 
or to imitate them with shrubs of much less beautiful 
growth, such as Cupressus macrocarpa and Irish yews. 

My friend and I moved on to join the rest of our party 
at Florence, where we arrived many hours after our time. 
The railway officials may have feared some danger from 
flooded torrents, as the train went very slowly. The 
weather was extremely bad and very cold, and the idea of 
going to live up on any of the hills outside Florence 
did not smile upon my party at all, but I confess that, to 
me, much of the charm of Florence disappears when I 
am boxed up in the centre of the town. It ended in our 
establishing ourselves in one of the hotels on the Lung 
Arno, and during the three weeks I remained here, we 
hardly had a fine day and only one that was really warm. 

Among the first things I noticed were pots full of 
beautiful turban ranunculus. They never seem to be 



MARCH 



173 



grown in pots at home, which is a pity, as their colours 
are so good. We had a happy time and did lots of sight- 
seeing, but I said enough about Florence in my last book. 
Towards the end of our stay, my son joined our party. 
He had never been in Florence before, and one of his first 
questions was : ' Where is the statue of David, begun by 
Mino da Fiesole and finished by Michael Angelo ? ' I 
was immensely surprised, as I had no idea that he knew 
anything at all about Mino da Fiesole. He then quoted 
from memory the following poem by Owen Meredith : 

LOVE'S LABOUR LOST 

In the old Piazza at Florence a statue of David stands, 
'Tis the masterful work of Michael Angelo's marvellous art, 
Yet a failure nevertheless ; for it came to his master's hands, 
Not a virgin block intact, but already rough-hewn in part. 

And what Mino da Fiesole did to it, Angelo could not undo. 

So the work was but half his own. It is fmish'd, yet incomplete. 

As that statue to Michael Angelo hundreds of years ago, 

So are you at this moment to me : an achievement, and yet a defeat ! 

'Tis that others have been before us, of whose touch you retain the 

trace. 

You are half my work, half theirs, thro' your spirit and flesh disperst 
Is the mark of a love not mine, that my own love cannot efface, 
or you were not virgin marble when you came to my hands at first. 

It is one of the many changes which annoy those 
who knew Florence in its old days, that the David has been 
removed from the place which Michael Angelo chose for 
it. But, once it was found necessary to have a hideous 
wooden shed over this statue to protect it from the weather, 
it really was much better to put it indoors, and the David 
gives immense dignity to the noble hall in the Belle Arti, 
where it now stands in a splendid light. 

About the modern alterations in Florence, a friend of 
mine, who had not been there for years, writes : ' I go to 



174 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the galleries and churches and find changes everywhere. 
Like all old folk, I am disposed to say, " Changes for the 
worse " ; but this would be unreason able some are for the 
better. The great, and to me distressing, change is in the 
aspect of the city, the loss of its tall mediaeval walls and the 
"improvement" (?) of its chief streets, which now have 
horrid shop-fronts. The place is no longer in sympathy 
with the great edifices which stand as if they had come to 
call ! As to the galleries, I suppose I must admit im- 
provement, though the character of the Medici collections 
is gone, except in the Tribuna, which has been mercifully 
spared in spite of its very bad light. I had some difficulty 
in finding the Madonna del Calamajo, and that famous 
one of Lippi with the naughty boy angel. But when I 
did find them I confessed that I had for the first time 
seen them in a good light, and in a bad light it is not 
seeing at all. ... I am angry with the Italian Govern- 
ment for transporting statues, &c., and thus taking their 
unique character from the streets of Florence. Every- 
thing is sacrificed to the idea of a " Museo " with cata- 
logues and numbers and staring foreigners ! The object 
of these works is lost and ignored when thus removed, 
and modern horrors of poor Garibaldi who was picturesque, 
and V. Emmanuel, and above all that stout, podgy Manin, 
are everywhere. If artistic merit meant other merit, old 
Cosimo would beat all these moderns as he sits on his 
bronze horse, mercifully not yet inside a Museo. But two 
things are great gain. One is the superb portraits of the 
Portinari family in Hugo Van der Goes' great " Adoration." 
Sina Folco got it done ; it has been in the Spedale and 
hardly two years in the gallery. The other gain is the fine 
Botticelli of " Spring " which I never saw properly long 
ago. It was dirty, hung high and in an impossible light.' 



'75 



APEIL 

Arrival at Naples Museum English Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals at Naples Slaughter-houses in England 
Art objects from Pompeii sometimes echoes of modern Japan 
Baiee Coleridge and Harrison on Gibbon South of Italy 
less affected by barbaric invasions than other parts Aquarium 
Goats Dr. Munthe on the housing of the poor Mrs. 
Jameson's picnic Pompeii : smallness of the houses Mr. 
Bolfe on Pompeiian pins and matches Cenotaphs and war 
memorials Pompeiian gardens as models for London Sorrento 
and Amalfi Garibaldi on cremation 'Aurora Leigh.' 

ABOUT the middle of April my son and I went on to 
Naples, and the rest of the party went home. We did 
shopping and sight-seeing all the morning of the day we 
left Florence, saw our friends off in the afternoon, came 
back and packed, left by rail at six o'clock in the evening, 
changed into a sleeping-car at Eome at midnight, and 
reached Naples at seven the next morning. We took 
a carriage and drove three miles to an hotel high on the 
hill to the north-west of the town, where we had great 
difficulty in getting a front room. The back rooms were 
close against the rocky sides of the hill, the consolation 
being that the rock was magnificently clothed by a very 
fine old wistaria in full flower. The view from the front 
rooms in the early morning light was certainly most 
glorious. Our first day was almost our only fine one. 
Though well on in April, the weather was very cold, and 
after the first day the view was so veiled that we were 
only able to see Vesuvius twice. One of these times, as the 



1 76 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

clouds rolled by, it was snow-capped and lighted from foot 
to summit by the setting sun bright crimson-red at the 
top, graduating down to hazy purple, all the base bathed 
in mist, the town standing out, yellow and red, in front 
of it, and the smoke of the mountain rising up pale grey 
against a coal-black storm-cloud. This was the one really 
beautiful colour effect that I saw during my eight days at 
Naples. The blue bay and purple Ischia never existed 
for us. When we saw the island at all its volcanic peaks 
were only silhouetted in a deeper tone against the grey 
sky. On the whole I was disappointed with Naples ; but 
this is frequently the case on first visiting for a short 
time a place that one has heard of all one's life and 
thought one knew from pictures and descriptions. I was 
disappointed in the one-sidedness of its bay, which curves 
boldly to the east, but is cut off, to the exclusion of all 
coast view, by the rocky feet of the high hills to the west. 
These hide the sunsets, and prevent any distant effect on 
that side of the town. In all other directions the suburbs 
are huge, and getting out of modern Naples is almost like 
getting out of London. 

To return to our first day. In spite of our night 
journey, we got a carriage and made at once for that 
marvellous museum which I had longed all my life to 
see. It is rich with every kind of beautiful object, in 
which the traveller suddenly finds himself face to face 
with the lost life of ancient Greece. The Greek invasion 
of Southern Italy seems to have been some time later 
than the building of Paestum, of which the date has been 
fixed with comparative certainty at about 650 B.C. I had 
never been told of one small instance of conservatism 
which I noticed in Naples. It is probably to be found all 
over Southern Italy ; anyhow, the same thing is to be 
seen at Brindisi, so that it is known to many people who 
travel for business and not for pleasure, and who may 



APRIL 177 

never have visited any other Italian town but that one. 
The horses are quite differently harnessed from any- 
where else. They have no bit in their mouths, and are 
guided by a tight bandage with, I believe, nails in it 
over their noses. This and many other cruelties to 
animals are very apparent in Southern Italy ; and I was 
amused to see, by the prominent advertising of the 
English Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 
that, with the usual characteristic of an English settle- 
ment in a foreign town, they were keenly alive to the 
faults of the people who surround them, while we at 
home allow the continuance of the most frightful abuses, 
content to be kind to our dogs and horses. I cannot 
understand how this Society rests on its oars while the 
laws at home respecting slaughter-houses remain in- 
adequate, and even these are evaded, not only in our huge 
London, but in every village and town in the land. The 
animals in these slaughter-houses are allowed to get into 
a state of frenzied terror before being killed, as they are 
not protected against the appalling sights, smells, and 
sounds which result from the slaughtering of their com- 
panions. This state of fear produced in them before being 
killed has a most injurious effect on the quality of the 
meat. The curious thing is that the only agitation against 
these abuses comes from the despised vegetarian, for 
sentimental reasons, his own health being unaffected by 
them, whereas to the meat-eater there are materially 
harmful results in the fact that animals are slain while in 
a state of absolute panic. There is, moreover, no proper 
inspection at any rate, in country districts to ensure 
against animals being sold for meat in spite of their being 
actually diseased. Very little improvement can be ex- 
pected while the butcher has to bear the whole loss of a 
diseased carcase. I heard the other day, first-hand from 
one of my friends, a tale which gives one cause to ponder. 



178 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

In a consumptive sanatorium the patients who were 
forced by the doctor to eat kidney pudding were all taken 
more or less ill, as was also the doctor. The cook was 
questioned about the kidneys. She promptly answered, as 
if it was nothing very unusual, that several of them had 
stones in them, ' But I cut 'em out before cooking them ' ! 
My friend, having a natural dislike to ' innards,' had 
absolutely refused to eat the pudding, and her immunity 
from sickness led to the inquiry. 

Much as I had looked forward to the Naples Museum, 
it far surpassed all my expectations. It was Garibaldi, 
when dictator in 1860, who proclaimed the museum and 
the territory devoted to the excavations to be the property 
of the nation. Our time in Naples was so short that, as 
we had just come from Florence, we resolved to avoid the 
picture gallery altogether, with its wealth of mediseval 
paintings, and give our whole time to the Greek and 
Eoman art treasures to be found in the other parts of the 
museum. Good statues one has seen elsewhere, but the 
bronze objects used in daily life in Pompeii and Hercu- 
laneum, such as lamps, braziers, pots, vases, jugs, beds, 
&c., were an absolute revelation to me. One's astonish- 
ment is heightened when one realises that Pompeii was 
merely a seaside summer resort, about the size of, let us 
say, Worthing. The bronze braziers, beautiful as they 
are, must have afforded little heat to the inhabitants in 
the cold spring months, as most of them are so tall some 
nearly six feet high. I suppose it is not known what 
was burnt in these braziers ; they may have had some 
artificial fuel, as is used in Japan to this day. The 
lamps are of endless variety of design, sometimes 
grotesque, sometimes quite plain, but all beautiful in 
proportion and balance. Placed on low tripod stands, 
they reminded me in form and general appearance of 
some of the best Japanese stands and vases for flowers. 



APRIL 179 

Did the Greeks get it from the East, this wonderful 
feeling of balance, or did Japan gain from India a reflec- 
tion of Greek civilisation ? Balance plays so great a part 
and gives so great a charm to many things. This is well 
illustrated by a tiny bronze statuette of Victory in one 
of the glass cases. The extended wings support her, and 
though one arm is gone, the sense of security is perfect, 
and there is no fear that she will slip from the globe 
beneath her foot. We spent two hours the first morning 
and two hours another morning in this paradise of trea- 
sures, but that was only sufficient to whet the appetite. 
All modern travelling is spoilt by hurry and want of 
time. One travels further and sees less, thanks to the 
rapid modes of locomotion. We returned to our little 
carriage with the bitless ponies, and, having lunched in 
the town, we resolved, with modern energy and want 
of faith that the weather would remain as fine as it was 
then, to drive at once to Baiae. The delighted coach- 
man never let out that the distance was fifteen miles. 
I think if we had known this we should have postponed 
the expedition to another day. But I was very glad we 
went then, for I believe we should never have done it 
otherwise, as the weather did get worse, and we should 
have had no time. 

To go to Baiae you drive through a tunnel which pierces 
the western range of hills, and emerge on to a beautiful 
open sunset space. The road is everywhere studded with 
Eoman ruins. We visited, by order of the coachman, sul- 
phur springs and eruptive holes along the road, and spent a 
delightful hour and a half at Baiae itself trying to discrimi- 
nate what were temples, villas, or amphitheatres. I found 
that my ignorance was complete with regard to all classic 
history or the development of its civilisation as shown in 
architecture. When in my youth I read Gibbon's ' History 
of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire ' it had 



i8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

dawned even upon my inexperienced mind that the in- 
struction he conveyed was of an unsatisfactory kind, and 
in no way enlightened the reader as to the various 
influences of race, religion, or art, nor as to the evolution 
of one era out of another. It was, therefore, no small 
consolation to me to find in a little volume of Coleridge's 
' Table Talk ' which I happened to have in my travelling- 
bag, his opinion as to the uninstructive superficiality of 
that immortal work. It may comfort others who have, 
and still more those who have not, read that history, so 
I copy it here : 

' The difference between the composition of a history in 
modern and ancient times is very great ; still there are 
certain principles upon which a history of a modern 
period may be written, neither sacrificing all truth and 
reality, like Gibbon, nor descending into mere biography 
and anecdote. 

' Gibbon's style is detestable, but his style is not the 
worst thing about him. His history has proved an 
effectual bar to all real familiarity with the temper and 
habits of Imperial Eome. Few persons read the original 
authorities, even those which are classical ; and certainly 
no distinct knowledge of the actual state of the empire 
can be obtained from Gibbon's rhetorical sketches. He 
takes notice of nothing but what may produce an effect ; 
he skips on from eminence to eminence, without ever 
taking you through the valleys between ; in fact, his work 
is little else but a disguised collection of all the splendid 
anecdotes which he could find in any book concerning 
any persons or nations from the Antonines to the capture 
of Constantinople. When I read a chapter in Gibbon, I 
seem to be looking through a luminous haze or fog : 
figures come and go, I know not how or why, all larger 
than life, or distorted or discoloured ; nothing is real, 
vivid, true; all is scenical, and, as it were, exhibited by 



APRIL 181 

candlelight. And then to call it a " History of the Decline 
and Fall of the Koman Empire " ! Was there ever a 
greater misnomer ? I protest I do not remember a single 
philosophical attempt made throughout the work to 
fathom the ultimate causes of the decline or fall of that 
empire. How miserably deficient is the narrative of the 
important reign of Justinian ! And that poor scepticism, 
which Gibbon mistook for Socratic philosophy, had led 
him to misstate and mistake the character and influence 
of Christianity in a way which even an avowed infidel or 
atheist would not and could not have done. Gibbon was 
a man of immense reading ; but he had no philosophy ; 
and he never fully understood the principle upon which 
the best of the old historians wrote. He attempted to 
imitate their artificial construction of the whole work their 
dramatic ordonnance of the parts without seeing that their 
histories were intended more as documents illustrative of 
the truths of political philosophy than as mere chronicles 
of events. The true key to the declension of the Eoman 
Empire which is not to be found in all Gibbon's immense 
work may be stated in two words the imperial 
character overlaying, and finally destroying, the national 
character. Eome under Trajan was an empire without a 
nation.' 

This last sentence may be not without wise application 
to the England of to-day. On my return home I referred 
to that excellent book of lectures by Mr. Frederic 
Harrison on ' The Meaning of History ' (Macmillan, 
1894), to read what he said about the ' Decline and Fall,' 
and it is so supremely interesting and encouraging to see 
what different views great men take that I must quote 
what he says from the chapter called ' Some Great Books 
of History ' : 

' It is no personal paradox, but the judgment of all 
competent men, that the " Decline and Fall " of Gibbon is 



i8 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the most perfect historical composition that exists in 
any language ; at once scrupulously faithful in its facts ; 
consummate in its literary art ; and comprehensive in 
analysis of the forces affecting society over a very long 
and crowded epoch. In eight moderate volumes, of 
which every sentence is compacted of learning and 
brimful of thought, and yet every page is as fascinating 
as romance, this great historian has condensed the history 
of the civilised world over the vast period of fourteen 
centuries linking the ancient world to the modern, the 
Eastern world to the Western, and marshalling in one 
magnificent panorama the contrasts, the relations, and the 
analogies of all. If Gibbon has not the monumental 
simplicity of Thucydides, or the profound insight of 
Tacitus, he has performed a feat which neither has 
attempted. "Survey mankind," says our poet, "from 
China to Peru ! " And our historian surveys mankind 
from Britain to Tartary, from the Sahara to Siberia, and 
weaves for one-third of all recorded time the epic of the 
human race. 

' Half the hours we waste over desultory memoirs of 
very minor personages and long-drawn biographies of 
mere mutes on the mighty stage of our world, would 
enable us all to know our " Decline and Fall," the most 
masterly survey of an immense epoch ever elaborated by 
the brain of man. There is an old saying that over the 
portal of Plato's Academy it was written, " Let no one 
enter here till he is master of geometry." So we might 
imagine the ideal School of History to have graven on its 
gates, " Let none enter here till he has mastered Gibbon." 
Those who find his eight crowded volumes beyond their 
compass might at least know his famous first three 
chapters, the survey of the Roman Empire down to the 
age of the Antonines; his seventeenth chapter on Con- 
stantine and the establishment of Christianity ; the reign 



APRIL 183 

of Theodosius (chaps. 32-34); the Conversion of the 
Barbarians (chap. 37); the Kingdom of Theodoric 
(chap. 39) ; the reign of Justinian (chaps. 40, 41, 42) ; 
with the two famous chapters on Roman Law (chaps. 43, 
44). If we add others, we may take the career of 
Charlemagne (chap. 49) ; of Mahomet (chaps. 50, 51) ; the 
Crusades (chaps. 58, 59), which are not equal to the first- 
mentioned ; the rise of the Turks (chaps. 64, 65) ; the 
last Siege of Constantinople (chap. 68) ; and the last 
chapters on the City of Rome (69, 70, 71).' 

It seems ridiculous, but to me there was more life and 
realism in the pages of Sienkiewicz's novel, ' Quo Vadis ' 
than in any chapter of Gibbon. Nowadays, it is the 
fashion to defend the character of the worst Roman 
emperors, making out, what is probably quite true, that 
they were not as black as they were painted. But Sien- 
kiewicz's object is not to exonerate Nero; on the con- 
trary, his line is a prejudiced one against the old world 
in favour of the new, and offends many people with its 
dogmatic tone. 

As is usual with me when I get home, I find out all 
sorts of books that would have been a great help had I 
taken them with me. It is so different reading books in 
the atmosphere of the locality to which they refer, com- 
pared with merely seeking for general information. There 
are many books of this kind in Bohn's Classical Library, 
and the ' Lives of the Twelve Caesars,' by C. Suetonius 
Tranquillus, translated by Alexander Thompson, M.D., is 
a classic which would vivify the old world to a great 
many. This account of these emperors by a con- 
temporary Suetonius was the son of a Reman knight 
who commanded a legion seems to bring the old world 
as near to us as do Pliny's Letters, many of which were 
addressed to this same Suetonius, with whom he lived in 
the closest friendship. Lately, Macmillan has republished 



184 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

in the ' Golden Treasury Series ' Cicero's two famous 
essays on Old Age and Friendship. It is a new English 
translation, by E. S. Shuckburgh. In the introduction he 
kindly tells us that these essays were written while Cicero 
in his old age (63) was travelling about with his secre- 
taries. He says, ' With the palace of fame so laboriously 
raised tumbling about his ears, Cicero found consolation 
in two things literature and philosophy. While moving 
from villa to villa on that enchanting coast ' (which was 
the coast about Naples) ' he was incessantly reading and 
writing ; keeping his staff of literary slaves, or freedmen, 
so hard at work that they longed for the holiday to be over, 
and to return to the less fatiguing duties of city life.' 

Our return journey from Baiae was in the cool twilight, 
when our little ponies took us back to our hotel at 
Naples. I had had a pretty hard thirty-six hours, and 
reserved to myself the right of having milk and bread in 
my room instead of going to the table-d'hote. I woke 
the next morning as fresh as usual. 

Walking about Naples is full of interest ; for though 
the principal streets are like those of many other con- 
tinental towns, this only shows up the remarkable contrast 
of the side streets and alleys, so narrow, so small, so pic- 
turesque, with their strip of blue sky above, the shops 
windowless only large black holes in the wall. The 
goods displayed are half of them inside and half tumbling 
out on to the old cobbled roadway with the gutter running 
down the middle of it. So much in the Naples of to-day 
seems like Pompeii brought to life again. The very 
method of driving suggests a chariot behind the coach- 
man instead of a fly. Everything seems to make one 
realise that the dark ages of barbaric destruction left 
Southern Italy comparatively untouched. Perhaps as a 
natural consequence of this, art, having lingered and 
clung in every direction to the traditions of the past, 



APRIL 185 

the Eenaissance was here without life or originality, and 
the pictorial art which grew up in Naples in the middle 
ages permeated gradually from the North. This is 
interestingly shown by the couple of pages in Kugler's 
' Handbook of Painting ' which he finds sufficient to 
describe ' the school of Naples.' The chief interest of 
this ' school,' as he calls it, is that many of the pictures 
are original works by Flemish painters which served as 
models to the Neapolitan artists. Later they were 
affected by the Spanish school. 

Oh ! we had so little time for everything. What is a 
week in Naples for seeing all one wants to see, even in 
the most superficial way ? The aquarium is, I believe, 
one of the best in Europe, not only for superiority of 
arrangement and lighting, but for the scientific interest of 
the exhibits. With a little friendliness to the custodian, 
he shows off for one's benefit some of the peculiarities of 
the inhabitants of the sea by feeding them. For me 
aquai'iums have a great fascination, though I have to 
harden myself against a feeling of extreme depression 
aroused by the cruelties of nature as there displayed. 

Walking home in the evening, we met one of the 
flocks of goats that are driven about the better parts of the 
town to be milked at the house doors. Seeing goats in 
the streets of Naples first gave me the idea, which I work 
out earlier in the book, of what an immense benefit the 
keeping of goats might be in England. 

I tried to find out where Lady Hamilton and Sir 
William lived in the Nelson time. Her letters in that 
most curious book by J. C. Jeaffreson, ' Lady Hamilton and 
Lord Nelson,' were generally written from what Mr. 
Jeaffreson calls ' her villa in Caserta.' The few people 
I was able to ask seemed never to have heard of the 
Hamiltons, or even of Nelson. But I saw no educated 
Italians. They would doubtless know all about it, for I 



i86 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

fear hate lives longer than anything, and they will per- 
haps never forgive the terrible story which is recalled 
with great historical precision in the introduction to 
' The Autobiography of Giuseppe Garibaldi,' finished by his 
friend Jesse White Mario. This book ranks to-day as 
almost an old one, having been published in 1899. It 
gives the Italian version of what I suppose is now 
universally recognised as Nelson's great crime, in helping 
the King and Queen of Naples to forsake their country, 
and despoiling it of its treasure and jewels, at the time of 
the French invasion in 1799. No anecdote in history 
sticks so much to its locality as that of the murder of the 
noble Admiral Caracciolo, who, when condemned on board 
the British flag-ship for not obeying the orders of his dis- 
loyal King, was hanged at his own yard-arm, having been 
refused the only favour he asked after his trial, which 
was to be shot. No one can look at the Bay of Naples 
without remembering how the Italian admiral's body, 
in spite of its heavily shotted shroud, rose to the 
surface and floated under the windows of the King's 
cabin on board the English admiral's flag-ship. Not 
content with this, we must never forget that the English 
banner waved over Naples in those terrible times when 
the early martyrs of Italian liberty and thirty thousand 
prisoners suffered inhuman cruelties, which Mario says 
' defy description and surpass belief.' 

The day we went to Pompeii was perversely unfavour- 
able grey, thick, and very warm. We thought we should 
be superior and do things in old-fashioned style by driving 
there instead of going by rail. This almost anyone could 
have told us was a great mistake. The rail is infinitely 
the better, though in fine weather I should think it would 
be possible to go by water for those who like it. We 
drove through miles and miles of continuous slums, broken 
here and there by a handsome old villa. All picturesque- 



APRIL 187 

ness of costume has disappeared no lazzaronis, no red 
caps, no eating of macaroni in the streets. The street 
often runs close to the sea, but the double row of houses 
hides everything. Murray says the drive is interesting if 
you have time to visit the towns at the foot of Vesuvius ; 
but we had not, and we slightly resented his not having 
warned us against the badness of the road and the dreari- 
ness of the drive, though he does say that those who are 
pressed for time had better go by rail. In this I entirely 
agree. All along the drive I kept thinking of Dr. Axel 
Munthe's wonderful ' Letters from a Mourning City,' 
written at the time of the cholera epidemic in 1884. I 
have often heard Naples described as the hot-bed of every 
vice. But in making that no doubt true accusation, how 
few remember the sanitary condition of the place, which 
is worse and more crowded than in any other city of 
Europe ! Munthe gives the following description of the 
hygiene of Naples in 1885, and it is a great consolation 
to be told, as I was, that with the sacrifice of much of 
the picturesque, there is also a great improvement now in 
the sanitary housing of the poor. Munthe says : ' The 
laws of hygiene teach us how close a connection exists 
between the sanitary conditions of a locality and the 
density of its population. The history of the Neapolitan 
epidemic furnishes us with an example of this law con- 
cerning density of population. Upon a surface of eight 
square kilometres (amount of surface that has been built 
over), there dwell no less than 461,962 human beings. 
And according to the official statistics no less than 
128,804 of these people inhabit underground dwellings 
'and cellars. But there is something worse than these 
bassi and sotto terrani ; another step down the shelving 
ladder of society and we come to a still more wretched 
form of habitation to the fondaci. You have often 
heard me speak of these places as the scenes of the most 



i88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

appalling misery out here. There are eighty-six fondaci 
in Naples at the present moment ; formerly they were 
still more numerous, but more modern constructions have 
done away with a good many. ... A third sort of dwell- 
ing place consists of the so-called locande, where lodgers 
are received for the night at two and three soldi a head. 
I have even seen locandi where they are received for one 
soldi a head, but there the people sit and lean their arms 
and heads against a rope that is stretched across the 
room from one wall to another, not a bad idea for accom- 
modating a crowd.' Dr. Munthe refers in such kindly 
words to the superstition which means so much to 
Italians and is often only an irritation to northern minds, 
that I must make one other quotation : 

' . . . And those who sneered at their superstitions 
and forbad their processions, what had they to offer them 
in exchange for their obscure but rock-like faith? Ah 
yes, sanitary rules, veritable sarcasms on their poverty, 
printed advertisements, which most of them were unable 
to read and none of them were able to understand, recom- 
mending them to live in airy rooms, to avoid vegetables, 
and take to meat, to disinfect constantly, either with 
carbolic acid or with "corrosive sublimate," the most 
effective microbe antidote according to Dr. Koch. . . . 
And what has the obtuse brain of a lazzarone to do w T ith 
Koch and microbes? he whose thoughts have never 
crossed the bay beyond which the whole of the remain- 
ing world is " Barbaria " to him ; he who knows a host 
of Saints' days, a few prayers that he has been taught as 
a child, the names of a dozen fish he has seen jumping 
in the nets at Mergellina ; he who can play at morra and 
sing Santa Lucia, and that is about all ! How is he to 
manage to " air the room " he who lives with ten or 
twelve others in one of those fondaciy into which the 
light of day has never been known to penetrate, where 



APRIL 189 

one of us is unable to remain for more than a moment 
without going out to take a breath of fresh air ? And he 
is, forsooth, to choose his food ; he whose expenses at the 
best of times never exceed one or two soldi a day ; he 
who never in his life has had the chance of tasting meat, 
and whom you may perhaps see standing in front of the 
baker's shop, watching with the expression of a hungry 
animal in his eyes the piece of bread which you have just 
given your dog, and then fighting over the remaining 
crumbs with a crowd of others such as himself. 

' And as to disinfection ! What does he know about 
that, he who, alas ! shows so little inclination to master 
the first great rule of disinfection, the popular antiseptic 
which consists in sometimes dipping one's hands and 
face in water. . . . Just give a thought to all this, and 
then it will no longer strike you as so wonderful that 
these poor people should believe more in the censer's 
clouds than in the sulphur's fumes, and more in holy 
water than in a ten per cent, solution of carbolic acid.' 

I felt thrilled on arriving at Pompeii, which all my 
life I had so longed to see ; but the dust, the dirt, the 
crowd of tourists at the little hotel where we had to 
breakfast were most destructive of all the higher emotions. 
The old world faded away, and the degradedness of what 
is called civilisation was terribly to the fore. But in this 
motley crowd my son and I were really alone a fact 
which contrasted favourably with my recollection of Mrs. 
Jameson's description in her ' Diary of an Ennuiee ' of a 
fashionable society picnic. How much happier and how 
much more real is the enjoyment of anything we see with 
one chosen companion than with a host of even intimate 
acquaintances ? Writing on March 30, 1824, Mrs. Jame- 
son says : ' Yesterday we dined al fresco in the Boboli 
Gardens ; and though, our party was rather too large, 
it was well assorted, and the day went off admirably 



1 90 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The queen of our feast was in high good humour, and 
irresistible in charms. . . . Everybody played their part 
well, each by a tacit convention sacrificing to the amour 
propre of the rest. Every individual really occupied with 
his own particular role, but all apparently happy and 
mutually pleased. Vanity and selfishness, indifference 
and ennui, were veiled under a general mask of good 
humour and good breeding, and the flowery bonds of 
politeness and gallantry held together those who knew 
no common tie of thought or interest ; and when parted 
(as they soon will be, north, south, east, and west) will 
probably never meet again in this world; and whether 
they do or not, who thinks or cares ? ' 

We finished our very indifferent breakfast as quickly 
as possible, engaged a guide which is absolutely essential 
if one only has time for a single visit and got a chaise- 
d-porteur and two strong porters to carry me about. The 
entrance to the town is now arranged with a turnstile, 
and everything you pass is known and explained to you 
by the guides, who seem to exercise their monotonous 
duties with great civility. Although it is absolutely right 
of the Italian Government to preserve their treasures 
against the modern inroad of tourists from all over the 
world, I think there must have been immensely greater 
charm in visiticg Pompeii in the old free days when 
everybody could poke about and wonder and muse as 
he liked. Shelley certainly could not have said to-day 
as he did in 1820 in the ' Ode to Naples ' 

I stood within the city disinterr'd ; 
And heard the autumnal leaves like light footfalls 
Of spirits passing through the streets ; and heard 
The mountain's slumbrous voice at intervals 
Thrill through those roofless halls. 

In those happy days before the Italian Government 
undertook the guardianship of the treasures at Pompeii, 



APRIL 



191 



it almost seems that anybody could dig, buy, or rob at 
his own discretion. Even so late as Mrs. Jameson's 
day (1824), she tells how a little imp of a lazzarone 
clawed away the dust and dirt to show her a most 
beautiful aerial figure with floating drapery, representing 
either Fame or Victory. He quickly covered it up again 
that the other workmen might not see, and grinningly 
appealed for a few pence as his reward. Bulwer is, some 
say, little read now by the young ; but I expect as long 
as the English language is spoken his ' Last Days of 
Pompeii ' will remain to tourists at Naples what George 
Eliot's ' Eomola ' is to visitors at Florence. I wonder if 
it is more true to the spirit of those classic days than 
' Eomolo ' is to the middle ages, though George Eliot 
is none the less interesting from being modern not 
mediaeval in feeling. 

The general characteristic of the Pompeiian buildings 
is their extreme smallness, and the houses must have been 
what we should think very cramped and uncomfortable, 
even in a seaside lodging, to-day. A wish for shade and 
dread of sunshine seem to have been the first considera- 
tions rather than warmth or ease. A cortile, or cloister, 
generally surrounded the little garden or yard in the 
middle of the houses. It was here that the Pompeiians 
evidently spent their days. In one of these I saw fixed 
tables placed in two or three different directions so as to 
be suitable for use at various hours of the day. One often 
wonders whether the climate of Italy is colder now, or if 
the people are much more chilly than they used to be 
from want of health. It is only in my lifetime that 
warming houses in Italy has been considered at all neces- 
sary, and certainly 150 years ago the clothes that women 
wore even in England were strangely insufficient compared 
with the furs and wraps which people hardly ever put 
away now. 



r 9 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There has been such immense improvement of late in 
the art of excavation, that now it can be done without in- 
juring even the most delicate wall-decorations. So good 
have some of these proved that the houses are being roofed 
over in order to preserve them. This will make the future 
excavations much more interesting, as the treasures can 
now be left on the spot instead of carrying them off to the 
museum. The mural decorations were evidently not the 
work of great painters, like the frescoes of mediaeval Italy. 
They are without much variety, they have no gradation, 
and are painted in a conventionally fantastic style rather 
than in the realistic or poetical. In fact, they rank as the 
upholsterer's purely decorative art. But, given this fact, 
the wonder is that so high an artistic level was attained, 
and they prove that the ordinary ' decorator ' of the day 
was essentially an artist in his own particular line. The 
patterns on the walls, even when only stencilled, are well 
drawn and in excellent taste. In spite, however, of their 
charm of a miniature kind in these little empty rooms, I 
do not think the decorations displayed on the black or red 
walls of Pompeii would bear imitation in our northern 
houses. The rooms evidently must have been compara- 
tively devoid of furniture, which made the wall-painting 
their chief ornament ; as in Japan to this day, one hang- 
ing picture and one flower arrangement are thought suffi- 
cient decoration. 

I only record one or two of my personal impressions, 
as Pompeii must appeal to everyone in his own especial 
way. I think people going to Pompeii would do well to 
get and read before they go there a book by our Consul at 
Naples, Mr. Eustace Neville Kolfe, called ' Pompeii, Popu- 
lar and Practical : an easy book on a difficult subject.' 
This it essentially is. I did not see it till after I got back. 
As a specimen of the kind of interesting information he 
gives, I quote this one paragraph : ' It is unsafe to argue 



APRIL 



193 



that the Pompeiians did not have things, because we have 
only recently invented them. The safety-pin, which is 
quite a modern invention, was in common use in Pompeii. 
Wire rope, which we look upon as a new discovery, was 
known in those days, and a very fine specimen of it may 
be seen in the Naples Museum. Martial speaks of sulphur 
matches, which in our English kitchens replaced the old- 
fashioned tinder-box scarcely fifty years ago, and the sur- 
gical instruments found in Pompeii were lost to science 
for centuries and reinvented in our day almost in their 
original form.' In various other directions besides these 
Mr. Eolfe alludes to, it is clear that our civilisation has 
not yet reached the level of the Greek long before the 
existence of Pompeii. In a chapter on the ' Street of the 
Tombs,' he has what was to me a very suggestive passage. 
In commenting upon these tombs, he says : ' We must 
not pass over the Cenotaph of Calventius Quietus, because 
Cenotaphs represent an interesting phase of the post- 
humous honours paid to the deceased by the Romans. 
The word signifies " an empty tomb," and such buildings 
were habitually erected to people who had passed away 
without having burial rites. Thus if a man were drowned 
at sea or killed in battle, a tomb was erected for him at 
home in the belief that this would give his spirit rest, and 
a safe transit across the Styx. The idea is pathetic, and 
is frequently made use of by the poets, sometimes by 
making the unburied corpse reappear, sometimes, as in 
Horace's well-known ode, by making the spirit beg the 
passing stranger to cast a handful of sand upon the un- 
buried corpse, in token that rites of some kind had been 
performed upon it, so that the wandering soul might have 
rest.' This idea may seem heathenish to some, but surely 
there is a dignity in the principle of honouring at home 
those who die in the service of their country, no matter 
where or from what cause. I think the soldier's grave 

o 



194 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

should be left to nature, as the sailor is buried at sea, and 
it has seemed to me lately, with my mind constantly 
dwelling on the sadnesses of the South African War, a great 
mistake, though a very natural one, to try to make the 
perishable imperishable by societies for the preservation of 
soldiers' graves on the veldt. Even in ordinary church- 
yards are we not too often reminded of a fact which Sir 
Henry Taylor puts into his ' Philip Van Artevelde ' ? 

Pain and grief are transitory things no less than joy, 
And though they leave us not the man we were, 
Yet they do leave us. 

The ideal way, I think, of honouring the dead and keep- 
ing their memory alive would be to have, let us say, in 
each postal district of the place from which they came, a 
stone raised on which would be written the names and 
dates of those, from a general to the youngest private, 
who have been killed or died in any war. The feeling is 
almost a bitter one that those who die in what are more 
or less ' fashionable ' wars, such as the Crimean, or the 
recent great Boer war, should be more honoured and their 
resting-places more cared for than those who have laid 
down their life in the swamps of West Africa or the China 
rice-fields. 

At Pompeii there is an attempt, in one or two instances, 
to restore the gardens. It seems to me the old gardens, 
tiny as they were, are very good models of what town 
gardens should be with the aid of pavements, brick paths, 
tesselated pavements or mosaics, and constant renewal of 
the actual plants, never trying to imitate the large spaces 
of the country where things can be left to grow on from 
year to year and where growth and size become a pride 
and delight. I think in small gardens everything should 
be kept very decorative, but very miniature. The difficulty 
of flowering plants in London is the height of the houses, 



APRIL 195 

which, in some circumstances, excludes nearly all sun- 
shine. Nothing can stand this but ferns and ivy, but a 
very charming, dainty little garden might be made with 
various coloured ivies, euonymus, holly, privet, &c., provided 
they were much pruned or even continually renewed. In 
fact, like many other things, London gardens depend on 
elbow grease that is to say, a great deal of work, atten- 
tion, washing, &c. There is much opening for individual 
development in this direction. In a suggestive article 
which has much interested me, by Mr. Whitmore, in the 
' National Eeview ' for July, 1902, he condemns me for 
my objection to evergreens in London, and I quite see his 
point of view as regards their use. But it must be in an 
entirely different way from what has been generally done 
in London suburbs, where the evergreens are left untended 
from year to year till everything is black, except the new 
shoot for a short time in the spring. I immensely like his 
recommendation that no fair-sized London garden need be 
without its blossoming fruit-trees. He praises mulberries 
a little more than I think they deserve for towns, except in 
cases of people having to live in London through the 
autumn, as their leaf comes out so very late in the spring, 
and they have no blossom to speak of. In these gardens 
of miniature evergreens which I am picturing to myself, 
colour might be introduced by buying the flowering plants 
in pots as they come into season. In fact, the whole treat- 
ment of the garden should be as nearly as possible that 
of an ornamented terrace, tubs, vases, pots, anything that 
there is room for, and the instant removal of anything un- 
healthy or which reminds one in any way of the injury to 
plant life of London smoke and climate. A clean well- 
paved yard with one healthy plant gives me more pleasure 
than a broad border with badly grown, unhealthy shrubs or 
unsatisfactory herbaceous plants. People who are inclined 
not to spend much money on their little yard or garden 

o2 



i 9 6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

should confine their expenditure to the original paving 
and a good hose. Then two or three plants, when they 
can afford to purchase them, will always look satisfactory. 
The visitor ought to be able to say, ' How pretty your 
little yard is ! ' instead of the rather bashful owner's 
apology, ' It's not bad for London.' We must never forget 
that in London all cleanliness is artificial and is only 
attained by giving the matter a great deal of attention. 

On leaving Pompeii, we were tempted to send our 
carriage back empty and return to Naples by rail, but we 
decided to go home as we came, slums and all, and 
naturally found it less tedious, as we knew what to 
expect. 

One more delightful day to record, which alas ! did not 
include the much-wished-for visit to Paestum. We went 
by train to Castelamare, then drove again along the eastern 
side of the Bay, to Sorrento, and part of this way was 
actually in the country. Had it not drizzled it would have 
been an enjoyable as well as a beautiful drive. The great 
hotel at Sorrento where we spent the night looked gloomy 
and damp, the rooms being well shaded and adapted in 
every way to keep off the brilliant afternoon sunshine. 
Capri was invisible, and I had to fall back again on my 
recollections of Eobert Lytton's little poem to imagine 
how Sorrento could look on a fine spring afternoon. He 
sent me this poem in a letter from Sorrento ; it was after- 
wards published in the volume called 'After Paradise; 
or, Legends of Exile.' 

SORRENTO REVISITED 
(1885) 

On the lizarded wall and the gold-orb'd tree 

Spring's splendour again is shining ; 
But the glow of its gladness awakes in me 

Only a vast repining. 



APRIL 197 

To Sorrento, asleep on the soft blue breast 
Of the sea that she loves, and dreaming, 

Lone Capri uplifts an ethereal crest 
In the luminous azure gleaming. 

And the Sirens are singing again from the shore. 

'Tis the song that they sang to Ulysses ; 
But the sound of a song that is sung no more 

My soul in their music misses. 

We went to bed early, with gloomy forebodings about 
the weather for the following day. We woke the next 
morning to find that, without being all we could desire, it 
was very much better than the day before. Our little 
carriage came early to the door, and the quiet solitude of 
the long and beautiful drive lately made along the rock- 
bound coast was as great an enjoyment as any day spent 
this spring in Italy. Here I first noticed the extreme 
beauty of flowering kales. They flower in England 
when left to do so in somewhat untidy cottage gardens, 
but this happens so much later than in Italy that they get 
swamped amongst more showy spring flowers. I instantly 
sent my gardener a postcard to preserve, so that they 
might bloom, some of the winter kales in my garden. 
Since then they have always been allowed to flower, and 
make most beautiful pale yellow starry bunches to put 
in water or send to London. They remain in perfection 
in the garden for over a fortnight. 

As we drove on, away from fields and gardens for 
about two miles, the whole of the foot of a sloping hill 
was covered with extra tall white asphodels (Asphodelus 
ramosus). I never before saw them so tall or so fine. I 
longed to get out and pick some, but my companion said : 
' Oh, there'll be plenty more.' Once the two miles were 
over, we never saw another during the whole day. The 
slope of the hill, with its gentle moisture, protected from 
east wind, probably exactly suited the plant, which, to my 



198 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

mind, is not grown nearly enough in England in large 
open places, by sheltered streams, or by the sides of woods. 
I have had a plant or two in my garden for many years, 
but I have no space for the fine effects of massing plants 
of one kind together which are so striking in well-managed 
wild gardening, or what is called ' wild gardening.' To 
get a considerable quantity these asphodels must be grown 
from seed. 

If anything could teach one the real value of pro- 
tecting plants and vegetables, so little done in England, it 
would be travelling in Italy in the spring. The extra- 
ordinary industry displayed by these poor peasant owners 
over the lemon crops alone is a lesson never to be for- 
gotten. Miles and miles of terraces, most difficult to 
reach, are covered over with rough protection made with 
poles, branches, and rough grass, woven together in the 
place of straw. Under this hangs the beautiful yellow 
fruit, only protected on the sides where cold winds from 
the sea might injure it. 

Soon after twelve we arrived at Amalfi, where we spent 
two or three hours. We lunched at the old Capucine 
Convent, now an hotel ; it is too well known to travellers 
in Italy to need praise from me. Amongst all its many 
beauties and interests nothing seems more worthy of 
notice to the gardener than the world -famed, vine-clad 
Pergola, which is illustrated in the second edition of Mr. 
Eobinson's ' English Flower Garden.' It is an inadequate 
representation, and this no doubt is the reason that Mr. 
Eobinson has omitted it from later editions. But how 
different is the sight of the real thing from any illustra- 
tration or any description. The Pergola is in two parts, 
the old and the new. The old, as is so often the case, is 
infinitely the more beautiful, the more practical, and, 
needless to say, the more lasting. It is built cornice- 
like along the side of the I hill. As you stand at the hotel 



APRIL 



199 



door and look down its long gallery of round columns, 
snowy white, built of I don't know what, and plastered 
over, you see a strong wall about four and a half feet 
high on the left or hill side. This is wedged between the 
columns, looking as if it were threaded through them, 
to prevent the falling stones or slight landslips from 
the hill above injuring the broad Pergola path, along 
which the monks used to enjoy their daily winter walk in 
the sun. On the top of this wall, where the gentle 
summer moistures are caught as they drip from the hill, 
is a bed of cultivated soil containing all kinds of flowers. 
On the right or precipice side of the path, the artificial 
construction is for the reverse object and supports the 
long walk itself. The wall stretches for some way down 
the surface of the rock, but rises only about three feet 
above the level of the path, for the safety of those who 
wander by moonlight, and to prevent any weakening or 
slipping away of the level footway. On this side, a broad 
flower bed, nearly three feet wide, is placed within the 
wall and consists of a border of earth raised terrace-like 
about a foot above the path. Here there is shelter from 
the winds, and Madonna lilies and irises bask in the sun. 
The roofing is of sapling trees stems gnarled and rough- 
hewn. These are placed, beam like, across the pillar-tops, 
securely wedged by a deep rut in the plaster, and extend- 
ing boldly for several feet beyond the column. The 
length-way beams are tied haphazard, now under, now 
over, these cross-bars, and overlap at the joins to give 
strength. They are laid over and tied to the cross-bars 
only on the inner side of the columns, leaving these un- 
connected (except with the opposite side), like an avenue 
of stone trees. The vines are planted in the beds within 
the walls. Now that I am trying to describe it, I regret 
very much that I took no measurements, as this was the 
most beautifully proportioned Pergola I have ever seen. 



200 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Photographs of it, however, are easily obtainable, and it is 
a model which would help anybody to understand how 
beautiful Pergolas can be. In the newer part, though the 
walls are solidly built as the situation renders necessary, 
the supports ave only made of rough saplings, round 
which the vines are twisted and tied. This part is more 
helpful than the older one for the arrangement of beds 
and the general planting of a Pergola on flat ground. 
The cliff is much less precipitous, so that the walls are 
lower and the flowers hang over the path from beds out- 
side, where the vines are also planted. 

All over the cliff was growing in great beauty the 
spiraea called by tourists ' Italian may ' (Spiraa japonica, 
known as S. callosa). Four or five hours' more driving 
brought us to La Cava station, and we returned to Naples 
by rail. 

I had time to see only one garden at Naples. It lay 
under the shade of the western hills, and was a very 
beautifully wooded, tangled dell, more a shrubbery run 
wild than a garden, and it sadly wanted pruning. I was 
told that Garibaldi had lived and died at the villa belong- 
ing to this garden, down close by the sea. But this can 
only have been partially true. He may have lived there, 
but he died on June 2, 1882, in the Island of Caprera. 
It was his earnestly expressed wish to be cremated, but 
this neither his widow nor anyone about him had the 
courage to carry out. It is stated in his biography that, 
after being told by Captain Roberts of the burning of 
Shelley and Williams, Garibaldi said : ' It is the right 
thing, and it is beautiful and a healthy thing also ; you 
defy worms and corruption, you do not contaminate the 
air of the living. Only the priests oppose it ; it would 
hurt their trade.' I think this puts the matter well, 
though of course the sentimental reason against crema- 
tion is not alluded to, neither is there any acknowledg- 



APRIL 201 

ment of the rather trivial objection that cremation renders 
the exhuming of bodies impossible in cases of supposed 
murder. This seems to me a very small evil compared with 
the daily contamination of earth, air, and water for the living. 
Moreover, from the sentimental point of view, there is an 
almost unthinkable horribleness in the crowded ceme- 
teries near towns, so different from the quiet resting-place 
under an old yew-tree in the pure country air, where in 
youth we most of us think we should like our bones to be 
at peace when our end comes. Sir Henry Thompson, the 
well-known surgeon, who has been the great promoter of 
cremation in England, was telling me only the other day 
how very, very slow is the progress it makes in our own 
or any other country. To its advocates this is incredible 
it seems so obviously the most sensible form of burial. 
Every year Sir Henry Thompson publishes the statistics 
of cremation in the ' Lancet.' This year his article 
appeared in the issue of July 5 (1902), and is very in- 
teresting reading to those who care for the subject. 

April 23rd. Our return journey from Naples was by 
the German Lloyd steamer, and our finest two days were 
the day we went on board and the day we got off at 
Genoa. In old times, if one went from Leghorn to 
Genoa by sea, it was by an Italian steamer. To-day the 
fine ships along that coast are German. You get out of 
the little boat that takes you from the Italian shore to the 
steamer, and you feel almost as if you were in a great 
hotel in Germany. I have travelled so little by sea that 
I immensely enjoyed the sight of the Bay of Naples and 
all the little scenes surrounding a big steamer, boys 
diving for coppers, &c. Buildings, or the work of man 
like Stonehenge, or the Mont St. Michel, are exceedingly 
like their pictures, photographs, drawings, or paintings; 
but Nature in this instance Vesuvius was far more 
beautiful than any portrait of it ever conveyed to my 



202 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

mind. Steaming along the coast was enchanting, and I 
enjoyed it to the full, with the sea so calm that the large 
vessel was absolutely steady. All the fine afternoon till 
it grew dark we sat on deck and enjoyed the beauties of 
the shores and islands. My mind flew back to Marion's 
description in ' Aurora Leigh ' : 

.... I could hear my own soul speak, 

And had my friend, for Nature comes sometimes 

And says, ' I am ambassador for God.' 

I felt the wind soft from the land of Souls ; 

The old miraculous mountains heaved in sight, 

One straining past another along the shore, 

The way of grand dull Odyssean ghosts, 

Athirst to drink the cool blue wine of seas 

And stare on voyagers. 

Very few young people nowadays seem to read ' Aurora 
Leigh.' This is not surprising, as the cause of women as 
preached by Mrs. Browning has been more than accepted 
for some years. But I was interested to see, in a syllabus 
sent to me the other day by a suburban club for women's 
lectures to women, that one lecture was entitled : ' What 
do the women of to-day owe to " Aurora Leigh " ? ' 

Genoa was bathed in golden, bright, twinkling sun- 
shine, and oh ! the regret of toiling up to the hot station 
to take the train for the north. 



203 



MAY 

Apology for more gardening notes Journey to Ireland New English 
Art Club A modern landscape recalling Claude at his best 
Spring in the West of Ireland Glorification of flat garden by old 
yuccas Persian ranunculus Want of thinning out and pruning a 
universal fault An East Coast garden Cultivation of Hydrangea 
paniculata ' The Wild Geese ' Gardening letter from German 
friend Two good spring plants A sundial Floating bouquets 
The May horticultural show. 

THE number of excellent gardening books that have been 
written of late almost makes one ashamed to write any 
further on the subject. But perhaps the personal experi- 
ence of any one individual has always a certain interest 
for amateurs who are really fond of gardening. Not long 
ago, when listening to a discussion about these gardening 
books and their superabundant number, I heard one man 
remark, with rather a sad voice, for he had great posses- 
sions : ' No one ever seems to write with a view to helping 
people who have large gardens and woods.' So it came 
into my mind that I might write a few notes about large 
places I have visited during the last two years, and that, 
perhaps, any information I had gleaned as to any indi- 
vidual plants which I particularly noticed as doing well 
either at home or abroad, might be of some service to 
those who had gardens of no matter what size. 

I have divided my notes into months, because garden- 
ing hints are so much simplified by taking the diary form , 
and in this way I can condense two years' experiences into 



204 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

one. I have omitted the three winter months of November, 
December and January ; for, though all months are equally 
important at home, one gains but little knowledge in 
winter from seeing the gardens of others. One's own 
garden is never dull in the worst weather because one can 
always picture what will be, and one can always think 
over the errors of the past, as useful in gardening as in 
other things, so long as it is not merely regretting the 
past, but determining to do better. Maeterlinck says 
somewhere that ' we are so constituted that nothing takes 
us further or leads us higher than the leaps made by our 
own errors.' If this is true of life, it is doubly true of 
gardening, and winter is a time for planning and 
reflection. 

This late spring saw me journeying to Ireland instead 
of Italy, as I did last year. The day I left home I break- 
fasted, as usual, at eight ; I then gardened, wrote letters, 
finished up the usual home -leaving business, and gave 
orders. At twelve I dressed and caught the one o'clock 
train to London, ate my bread and fruit travelling-luncheon 
in the train, deposited my maid and luggage at my son's flat, 
went to see a friend, and then visited two picture galleries. 
On my return to the flat I wrote several notes, rested and 
read for an hour, and dined at eight, on cheese, bread, salad, 
and fruit. I travelled by night mail to Dublin with the 
usual interrupted sleep of that journey. At nine the next 
morning in the train I had some hot milk and bread and 
butter, though sorely tempted to fall to excellent slices 
of grilled fresh salmon, which everyone around me was 
enjoying. I arrived at my destination at 12.50, and after 
a cold bath and a change of clothes I felt as little tired as 
if I had been at home and spent the night in bed. I 
merely give these uninteresting details to prove that, after 
nine or ten years of diet, my health and strength are better, 
not worse, than those of most people of my age, or even 



MAY 205 

many much younger. This in no spirit of self-glorification, 
but for the sake of the cause which, I maintain, makes 
people stronger and more able to work, not less so. That 
is the whole point. 

Before I go on with my Irish visits I must say a few 
words about one of the galleries I mentioned above, as it 
was the first visit I had ever paid to an exhibition of the 
New English Art Club. It interested me much, as it 
seems to represent to the young artist of to-day the very 
same kind of rebound that the early pre-Eaphaelite brother- 
hood did to those interested in the new art in my youth, 
or, on broader lines, what the eighteenth century was to 
the seventeenth. So far as I could judge by this one 
exhibition, the school is a revolt against what is generally 
called colour, a determination to follow some special set 
of tones, and to arrive at a certain harmony and charm by 
pitching all bright pure colour, especially green, out of 
the paint-box. Is realism to be ignored in favour of a 
kind of cinquecento Titianesque harmony of tones ? Very 
decorative, very charming, as far as it goes, but only very 
exceptionally true to nature, because one so seldom sees 
those warm, blue-green and rich brown-yellow fore- 
grounds in nature, and then only for a short time after a 
damp sunset. Does it not lead to mannerism to follow 
one special set of tones to express all moods of Nature ? 
The critics say the tendency of this club is towards a 
' soberer tonality ' ; certainly this struck me most forcibly, 
for there seemed hardly a picture in the room with any of 
what I should call real colour in it. This school appa- 
rently seems to think that colour is tone, gradation, and 
values, and so it can be, but only every now and then. 
Perhaps the very reserve of these pictures would make 
them pleasanter to live with than what some of us would 
think better pictures in a gayer key. My chief interest in 
them is to try to discover the tendency of this school 



206 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and its meaning. Titian's landscapes were almost always 
conventional backgrounds to figures. If we aim at a 
continuity of tone in painting, are we not limiting far 
too much the endless diversity of nature ? Are we to go 
back to Claude and Poussin, or the Early English water - 
colourists? But the New English Art Club has ideas 
and objects that make one think, and I shall always now 
try to go and see their exhibitions. One picture, to my 
mind, illumined the whole collection ; the subject exactly 
suited the school. It was by Mr. Eoger Fry, and was 
called ' A Baroque Fa9ade ' a quaint Italian palace, with 
figures on the top, all grey, standing up, mysterious and 
dark, against a most beautifully toned and graduated 
evening sky, streaked in all directions with delicate grey 
after-sunset clouds. The landscape stretched away to 
blue grey distance on the left, and there were indications 
of walled gardens, and orange-trees, perhaps, on the right. 
The picture caught just that moment before darkness 
comes, when one says, while gazing at nature, ' How 
beautiful ! ' knowing that in a moment it will be gone. 
I had just this feeling about the picture, yet knowing it 
would not fade. It is a long time since I have enjoyed a 
painted landscape so much, and it is certainly no reproach 
that, in a mysterious way, though in no sense an imitation, 
it recalled the most beautiful Claude I ever saw. 

To return to my time in Ireland, which was very short, 
I paid a visit to a large, beautiful place not far from the 
West Coast. The weather was cold and wet and, even in 
the West, hardly a fortnight in advance of Surrey, but 
nothing could spoil the spring loveliness of the green 
grass, and the green woods, and the cowslips ! Such 
cowslips ! I had forgotten what cowslips could be till 
I saw them luxuriating in the moist Irish meadows 
with stalks a foot long. The garden was a large, 
flat, wind-swept, formal one, designed, I suppose, in the 



MAY 207 

middle of the last century, with the ordinary spring 
bedding, wallflowers, anemones, tulips, and forget-me- 
nots. But the formality was redeemed, almost glorified, 
even so early in the year as May, by the unusualness of a 
great number of old spreading yuccas. I never saw them 
grown in this way before, with huge stems and young 
ones increasing all around. They were not either Y. 
gloriosa or Y. filamenlosa, but Y. pendula or recurva. It 
is a magnificent plant when old and established, and par- 
ticularly adapted for the middle of beds, for the growth is 
picturesque and yet symmetrical. The lower leaves sweep 
the ground and the central ones point upwards as straight 
as a needle, and they flower more frequently than the 
other kinds. In this particular garden, when this host of 
yuccas are in flower, it must be a rare and beautiful sight. 
The whole thing can hardly have been planned, but was 
evidently produced by one of those accidents of gardening 
where Dame Nature takes the matter boldly in hand. 
And how beautiful are these accidents in any old garden ! 
In this case it was leaving the yuccas alone to increase as 
they liked, yet feeding them well, that had produced the 
wonderful result. 

In a sheltered corner, by a wall, was a very fine plant 
of Erica mediterranea. This heath grows wild on the 
West Coast of Ireland, and is supposed to have been 
brought by the Spaniards, as it is a native of the South- 
West of Europe. My friends gave me a good plant of it, 
and I hope to induce it to grow in Surrey. Careful 
pruning after flowering, for all kinds of hardy heaths, 
seems the way to keep them healthy, especially in gardens 
where dryness prevents their growing freely. I am full 
of hope that there is going to be an increased cultivation 
in good gardens of the hardy ericas. There was a fair 
number of them exhibited at the Drill Hall. The ' Garden ' 
of June 28, 1902, had an excellent article on the hardy 



208 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

heaths. In the later editions of Mr. Eobinson's ' English 
Flower Garden,' he says, under EBICA (Heath) : 'Beautiful 
shrubs, of which the kinds that are wild in Europe are 
very precious for gardens. We should take more hints 
from our own wild plants, and bring the hardy heaths of 
Britain as an artistic element into the flower garden. 
Why we should have such things as the alternanthera 
grown with care and cost in hothouses, and then put out 
in summer to make our flower gardens ridiculous, while 
neglecting such lovely hardy things as our own heaths 
and their many pretty varieties, is a thing that would 
require some explaining. But very many people do not 
know how happy these heaths are as garden plants, and 
how delightfully they mark the seasons, and for the most 
part at a time when people leave town. A singularly 
pretty heath garden is that of Sir P. Currie at Hawley. 
In front of his house he has kept, instead of a lawn, a 
piece of the heath land of the district almost in a natural 
state, save for a little levelling of old pits. In such places 
the native heaths of Surrey and Hampshire sow them- 
selves, and nothing can be more beautiful. Where, as in 
many country places, these heaths abound, there is no 
occasion to cultivate them, although we cultivate nothing 
prettier ; but certain varieties of these heaths are charm- 
ing, and deserve a place in the garden or wild garden. 
In places large enough for bold heath gardens it would 
be charming to plant them, but a small place is often 
large enough for a few beds of hardy heaths. Once 
established they need very little attention. To some it 
may be necessary to state that most of our hardy heaths 
break into delightful forms, white and various coloured. 
The common heather has many charming varieties, also 
the Scotch heath. These forms are quite as free as the 
wild sorts, and give delightful variety in a heath garden, 
which need not by any means be a rocky or pretentious 



MAY 209 

affair, but quite simple ; for heaths are best on the nearly 
level ground. Though they grow best, perhaps, in peat 
bogs and waste places, it would be a mistake to suppose 
that only such soils can grow heaths well, because we see 
them in Sussex in soils quite unlike those on which they 
thrive in Hampshire, though certainly on heaths they 
seem to form their own soil by decay of the stems and 
leaves for many years. If rocky banks or large rock- 
gardens already exist, choice heaths form often their very 
best adornment, but such things are by no means neces- 
sary. Some of the best and most successful beds we 
have seen were on the level ground, as in the late Sir 
William Beaumont's garden in Surrey.' Then follows 
in Mr. Kobinson's book a long list of varieties of heaths. 
At any rate in Surrey, why should we not have all the 
hardy heaths in our gardens ? They are lovely plants, 
and, like many other things, not difficult to manage when 
one knows about them, and very easy to propagate if the 
little green tips are pinched off and put under a hand- 
glass in sandy soil and in shade in July or August. 
They are very much strengthened and improved by being 
clipped back after flowering, some in autumn, some in 
spring. I bought a good many a few years ago, but, 
through my own fault and the dry seasons, they nearly 
all died. What they really like is pure air and a moist 
bottom, but with care one gets over many difficulties ; 
besides, these conditions are quite natural to many 
gardens and woods. E. australis and E. mediterranea 
and the Irish variety, I used to think, were none of them 
quite hardy ; but E. mediterranea grows at Kew, which 
is damper and colder than many parts of Surrey. It 
flowers from March to May ; the typical plant is rosy-red, 
and there is also a white-flowered variety. Then there 
is E. mediterranea hybrida. It is the earliest of all the 
heaths to flower. The hardiest of the taller ericas is 



210 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

E. carnea. E. scoparia is not so pretty as some, but the 
species is quite hardy. At the Drill Hall I saw and took 
note of E. cinerea, which has many varieties. E. vulgaris 
fiore-pleno is a double version of the heather of our 
moors, of which several varieties alba are very pretty. 
E, vagans grows wild in Europe. E. Tetralix is another 
wild variety. 

All these ought to be much encouraged in some kinds 
of gardens, and especially so in heathy districts. I be- 
lieve it is best to plant in spring. They are not easy 
to transplant, but they are worth any trouble. Mr. 
Barr told me he had lately made a good collection of the 
hardy heaths, and he sells them in pots. 

To return to the garden in Ireland, in the kitchen 
garden was a fine and most successful bed of Persian 
ranunculus, planted in six inches of very light leafy soil. 
I have never succeeded well with ranunculus, though I 
have often tried to, so I said to myself, ' Here is a chance,' 
and I had a long talk with the gardener about them. 
He happened to be a Surrey man, and was most friendly. 
He told me he found it better not to plant the little 
tubers of ranunculus before the end of February or 
beginning of March, either in pots in a frame or out of 
doors, and that it was essential to very carefully open 
out the little roots and spread them in the soft soil, to 
keep them in the full sun, and well water them with 
care. With this kind of planting they grow straight 
away, and receive no chill or check, as they may do if 
planted earlier. I shall certainly try this method. He 
thought the Persian ranunculus did the best. For table 
decoration, this gardener had a most successful quantity 
of Gladiolus elegantissima (Veitch). Prettier things of 
the kind cannot be seen. Instead of flowers all up one 
side they flower both sides of the green stem, and are 
white with a red-purple stain. He said, with care, grow- 



MAY 211 

ing on their leaves after flowering and then drying the 
bulb well in the sun, he kept them from year to year and 
increased them. They should be potted up in October. 
Diosma ericoides and D. capitata are lovely greenhouse 
plants, but in my experience difficult to grow in crowded 
greenhouses. 

In every large place I go to, I find the same fault 
want of pruning. I do not mean cutting back, that is 
done only too much, along walks especially ; but cutting 
away, sacrificing great whole shrubs rather than let one 
thing grow into the other, which makes hard green walls, 
instead of showing off the growth of individual healthy 
plants. The difficulty is that, in the case of evergreens, 
severe thinning and cutting out must be done in spring 
when owners are often away, and very few gardeners 
dare take the responsibility of doing this by themselves. 
All gardeners are also very busy in spring, and so the 
beautiful shrubberies go on choking each other from one 
year's end to another. A thin wood and a thin well- 
ordered shrubbery, turfed underneath, though only mown 
twice a year, is an undeniably beautiful thing. Probably 
it is so striking because it is so very rare. A straight 
line cut through a wood is lovely at all times, but doubly 
so if the edges are well cleared out and the strong pillars 
(stems) spring straight from rough grass or bare brown 
earth, as is the case with fir and beech. Eew things will 
grow under these, but the ground is warm and dry from 
the fallen leaves or fir spines of scores of years. 

From the wild West Coast I went back eastward to a 
garden of another kind, beautiful to a degree from the 
highest cultivation of years and much money admirably 
spent for money alone never makes a perfect garden. 
Here, near the house, tall old yew hedges were glowing 
almost a red brown from the splendid strength of their 
spring shoot, and last year's clipping, but they would 



212 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

never grow and colour like that in dry Surrey. These 
yew-protected courts held all the usual glories of spring 
bedding, well sheltered from spring winds, and at the 
end of a long walk was an effect of blue as gorgeous as 
a purple Apennine a fine old plant of Ceanothiis azureus, 
unpruned, and a mass of bloom from top to bottom and 
hanging forward on a tall garden wall a very beautiful 
effect, and one I have never seen here, as the early 
flowering kinds of Ceanothus are apt to get killed by 
spring drought if not pruned back hard early in April. 
C. rigidus is another beautiful early flowerer. C. Gloire 
de Versailles does here as a shrub, and should be treated 
exactly like the most beautiful August flowering plant 
there is when well cultivated, the Hydrangea paniculata. 
Both these do admirably on the borders of damp woods 
or shrubberies if not too much robbed or in too full sun. 
All they require is not to be choked at their growing 
time, and well pruned indeed, cut down to within a foot 
of the ground in April. The spring pruning and, in May, 
mulching round the roots with leaf mould and well- 
rotted manure are all they require. As time goes on, this 
gives them almost a mound to stand on, which their 
branches gloriously cover. The ceanothus will stand a 
dryer place and more sun than the hydrangea, which 
does not mind partial shade and a north aspect. 

In this same garden a magnificent effect had been 
gained by turning a large old walled kitchen garden into a 
flower garden, preserving the old picturesque apple and 
pear trees for the sake of their blossoms in spring and as 
supports for various creepers in summer. It had all the 
picturesqueness of a large, half wild Italian garden, and 
all the beauty of each plant being healthy in itself, which 
I have never seen anywhere so good as in the best of 
our United Kingdom gardens. The retaining of pic- 
turesqueness can never be a certainty except where the 



MAY 



213 



gardener and the master or mistress work satisfactorily 
together, as is eminently the case in this garden. At 
this particular time of year, this wall garden is reached 
by a walk cut through a field of young grass, full of 
beautiful long-stalked single tulips. There had been broad 
sweeps of fine daffodils, but they were nearly over. In 
the garden were some very fine autumn-sown calendulas 
marigolds we used to call them a Veitch improvement 
appropriately called ' Orange King ' and ' Lemon Queen.' 
I am never tired of fine mangolds ; they flower in spring, 
as well as autumn, only when the circumstances are favour- 
able and the climate mild. 

Ireland, with its beautiful ruins, its churches, its 
high civilisation in the Middle Ages, its later decay and 
misery, its connection with Spain, its mixed population, 
its poverty, its apparent content, its seething discontent, 
its hopeless emigration, its unsolved problems all these 
things, when I am there, so rouse the keenest interest 
in me that I feel I shall never think of anything else 
again ; but alas ! new impressions stamp out the old. 
Oh, that statesmen and patriots would agree with Presi- 
dent Eoosevelt, who said the other day, ' Insistence on the 
impossible means delay in achieving the possible.' 

Immediately on my return I came across Miss Emily 
Lawless's lately published volume of poems, ' The Wild 
Geese.' That which is perhaps the most serious of all 
the phases of Irish difficulties, enduring even till to-day 
in the form of emigration, is so pathetically shown in the 
following poem, that I rejoice in being allowed to copy it 
here. The book cannot be fully understood and appre- 
ciated by English people without the careful reading of 
Mr. Stopford Brooke's admirable preface, not only because 
of its historical teaching and explanation of the title of 
the book and who, thinking of Ireland, can afford for 
one moment to forget its history? but because of his 



2i 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

most appreciative explanation of the various poems. Of 
' Clare Coast ' and the one I have selected, Mr. Stopford 
Brooke writes : ' Then began, as I have said, the great 
exodus of the Irish, and " Clare Coast " is the voice of a 
handful of veterans who, sent over to collect money or 
recruits, are leaving Clare with new exiles for the coast 
of France. Those who speak are "war-battered dogs," 
and their cry reveals the temper and the soul of the Irish 
Brigade. It is close to the reality. " The Choice " has 
the same fruitful motive, but modified by the singer's 
love for a woman, and by the offer made to him of high 
place and prosperity by the Irish Government if he would 
give up his religion and his patriotism an offer made to 
the leaders of the Wild Geese, and rejected by them all. 
And the second part of the poem records the sick long- 
ing he has to see again his land, and his sweetheart, 
whom he has left for ever. It, too, is close to reality.' 
Mr. Stopford Brooke explains that the Wild Geese was the 
name given to those self -exiled Irish soldiers who fought 
as mercenaries for foreign nations. The Irish now fight 
our battles and fight well. I wonder how many of them 
still silently cry as they fall, ' Oh ! that this was for. 
Ireland ! ' Apart from politics, I recommend this book 
to all those with a love of poetry and feelings for 
another's woe. 

THE CHOICE 
I 

I who speak to you abide, with my choice on either side, 

With my fortune all to win and all to wear. 
Shall I take this proffered gain ? Shall I keep the loss and pain, 
With my own to live and bear ? 

For the choice is open now, I must either stand or bow, 

Secure this beckoning sunshine or else accept the rain. 
Must be banished with my own, or my race and faith disown ? 
Share the loss or snatch the gain ? 



MAY 215 

Shall I pay the needed toll, just the purchase of a soul, 

Heart and lips, faith and promises to sever ? 
Six centuries of strain, six centuries of pain, 
Six centuries cry ' never.' 

Then let who will abide, for me the Fates decide, 

One road, and only one, for me they show. 
There is room enough out there, room to pray and room to dare, 
Boom out yonder and I go ! 



II 

Heart of my heart ; I sicken to be with you. 
Heart of my heart, my only love and care. 
Little I'd reck if ill or well you used me, 
Heart of my heart ; if I were only there. 

Heart of my heart ; I faint ; I pine to see you. 
Christ, how I hate this alien sea and shore I 
Gaily this night I'd sell my soul to see you, 
Heart of my heart whom I shall see no more. 



I cannot resist the pleasure of quoting one more poem 
which gives the picture from the point of view of those 
who are left behind : 

AN EXILE'S MOTHER 

There's famine in the land, its grip is tightening still ; 
There's trouble, black and bitter, on every side I glance, 
There are dead upon the roadside, and dead upon the hill, 
But my Jamie's safe and well away in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

The sea sobs to the grey shore, the grey shore to the sea. 
Men meet and greet, and part again as in some evil trance, 
There's a bitter blight upon us, as plain as plain can be, 
But my Jamie's safe and well away in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 



216 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Oh not for all the coined gold that ever I could name 

Would I bring you back, my Jamie, from your song, and feast, 

and dance, 

Would I bring you to the hunger, the weariness and shame, 
Would I bring you back to Clare out of France, 

Happy France, 
From the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

I'm no great sleeper now, for the nights are cruel cold, 
And if there be a bit or sup 'tis by some friendly chance, 
But I keep my old heart warm, and I keep my courage bold 
By thinking of my Jamie safe in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 



On my return from Ireland, I found a somewhat dis- 
consolate letter from my German friend who is a great 
gardener. She seems to have forgotten while she was 
writing that in many parts of England, too, the soil is heavy 
and cold. As a rule, in the centre of Europe the spring 
comes late, as she says, but when it does come it stays ; 
while with us there are often glorious warm April days 
which bring everything on, and May frosts which cut off in 
a single night the azaleas in full bloom. All climates and 
all soils have their trials, and it is in fighting these whims of 
nature that the real interest of gardening consists How 
dull it would be if all seasons were alike, and still more so 
if all soils were the same and all climates temperate ! As 
it is, everything makes a difference : a little clay, a mound of 
earth, a piece of wall, a shelter, a little hole which collects 
the water and so doubles the rainfall, and so on endless 
lessons, as my friend says, to teach patience and one sort 
of philosophy namely, not the resignation which says, ' a 
visitation of Providence,' but the strength to begin again, 
and the wits to find out what has been done wrong and 
caused the failure. For those who dwell on soils in 
some respects unkindly, I insert the letter, as I think 



MAY 217 

we gain strength from the difficulties and experiences of 
others, which is only perhaps a more amiable way of say- 
ing, ' There is something in the misfortunes of our best 
friends that is not altogether disagreeable to us.' 

' Looking back upon, perhaps, the most barbarous 
and death-dealing spring-time in all my garden memories, 
along a very grey line of disappointments and failures, 
sowings of annuals repeatedly killed by cold and wet 
during this April and May, tender and half-hardy bedding 
things shrivelled and checked by frosts and torn by 
raging gales, there are very few bright lights to uplift the 
desponding amateur's heart and teach philosophy and 
patience. Years of apparent " love's labour lost " are 
suddenly crowned by a few of those haphazard successes 
by which nature seems to teach us the double lesson 
never to despair while we can strive, and never to forget 
that we are blind gropers in the dark. In my case, the 
object lesson is taught by a few humble little Alpines. 
You shall have the upshot of it at once, prefacing it by 
the fact, which must always be borne in mind, that, alas ! 
none of my experiences can be of use to you or any 
English friends, as everything that does well in your 
warm sand dies with me, and what will grow in my cold 
soil limeless and slaty as it is would probably suffer 
and die from dryness at the roots in yours. 

' My chief joy has been the growth and bloom of that 
little gem Campanula rupestris. Tiny wee plants of this 
were sent me by Mr. Leichtlin of Baden-Baden. At first 
they filled me with apprehension, for with their thick 
woolly leaves and prostrate growth, and their fragile 
branches, emerging from a woody root-stock not half an 
inch from the ground, they seemed to me doomed to die 
in my heavy, wet, impermeable soil. But I knew how to 
manage the new arrival, thanks to my experience with 
another child of many anxieties, the Campanula pulla 



218 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

which I had tried in vain to grow for six years. This year 
it is full of growth, and has thrown up a dozen or more of 
its lovely, graceful, and delicate deep violet bells, as a result 
of planting it last year in a half shady nook of my little 
rock garden, in almost pure gravel mixed with a little leaf 
mould and sand. I planted it very firmly, and every bit 
of earth between its little crowns I entirely covered with 
small flat stones. The Campanula rupestris was given a 
little deeply-dug rock-pocket, in a rather more sunny 
and sloping place than the C. pulla. It had a little lime 
rubble mixed with the gravel, and I carefully avoided 
bringing the trailing woolly shoots into contact with the 
soil, laying a flat stone under each. The bloom was 
perfectly lovely, and I think by far the best and most 
interesting among the dwarf trailing species. The flowers 
are about an inch long, very constricted in the throat and 
deeply cut at the edges. The colour is a most delicate 
pale lilac with darker stripes going from the constricted 
part up the chalice. It seeds profusely, but the seed is 
not ripe yet, and I watch anxiously to see whether it will 
be fit to use, as it is the only way to propagate it. The 
little side-growths off the woody centre do strike in sandy 
soil in a cold frame, but they never make good strong 
plants. Another little success, after some trouble, has 
been the Adenophora Potanini, a crotchety thing at all 
times and horribly anxious not to be moved. It is 
perhaps not as good as the best platycodon, but desirable 
from the point of view of variety in the rockery's com- 
pound tribe. I have also had a fine batch of Liatris 
spicata, which I look upon with anxious eyes, as I lost all 
the Liatris scariosa last year, and fear my soil is too 
heavy, cold, and water-logged in winter for either of them. 
Bather a pretty group at the top of my rocks was formed 
by the Sidalcea Candida, a charming little stiff white 
mallow not over a foot in height, several tufts of 



MAY 219 

Geranium argenteum, and a lovely, loose-hanging, white 
variety, of which, alas ! I do not know the name. To 
complete the list of my little consolations in adversity, 
let me tell you that the Batnondia pyrenaica threw up 
such masses of their lovely flower stalks that the rosettes 
of leaves were well-nigh hidden. I have a new variety of 
this plant from Mr. Leichtlin with almost pure white 
flowers. I will go no further for fear of ending this with 
a wail, for the failures have far and away outnumbered 
the successes, and it has chiefly been to raise my flagging 
courage that I have apparently been praising what is my 
severest lesson in humility.' 

May 26. My home-coming was further welcomed by 
two new flowers in my garden which gave me great 
satisfaction, and which, if given the cultivation they 
require, do exceedingly well in our light sandy Surrey 
soil. One is a plant praised in gardening books and 
mentioned in catalogues, but which I have hardly ever 
seen growing in English gardens. I brought my first 
from Germany. There it grew in a rock garden in 
heavy, cold soil, facing north. This is conclusive evidence 
of its extreme hardiness. It is described in early and 
late editions of Mr. Eobinson's ' English Flower Garden,' 
and figured in the second edition under the name of 
Phlox divaricata. The Germans add to this name 
canadensis. But in all the editions the colour is in- 
correctly described, as far as my flower is concerned, as 
'lilac-purple,' which many amateur gardeners would 
decide with a shudder meant ' magenta.' In Nicholson's 
' Dictionary of Gardening,' a most useful book, the colour 
is given as ' pale lilac or blueish.' This, though nearer 
the truth, gives no idea of its beauty. The corymb of 
flowers stands up from a bed of dark leaves on a stalk 
about a foot high. Its colour is a beautiful, real pale 
china-blue, more like the blue of the half-hardy Cape 



220 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Plumbago capensis than of any other flower I know. 
When picked it has the great merit of lasting well in 
water. I attribute its rare appearance in gardens to two 
causes, one that it wants dividing gently pulling apart 
and planting out in half-shade every year after flowering 
and replanting in October in a sunny spot where it is 
to flower, and the second is that, if left alone, the leaves 
are eaten during the summer by some unfindable insect, 
after which it dwindles and is worthless as a garden flower. 
So far as I can ascertain, slugs are its great enemy, and 
they seem very partial to its leaves. 

The other flower is also a favourite with me and a 
great horticultural success. We all agree that, as a rule, 
single flowers are prettier than double, but the Arabis 
alpina flore-pleno is a very pretty flower. In appearance 
it resembles a miniature white ten-weeks stock. It is 
easy of increase from cuttings in June, which should be 
replanted in the autumn in full sun. It flowers more or 
less all through the summer, and though it grows quicker 
and stronger, perhaps, in good soil, it flowers more freely 
in poor dry situations. 

After waiting for years to find a sundial to my taste 
and suitable for the centre of my green-paths (see ' Pot- 
Pourri from a Surrey Garden '), I happened to hear 
that a man in Kensington sold balusters from the old 
Kew Bridge, built in 1783 and demolished in 1889. 
I purchased one of these on the top of which was 
placed the face of a sundial, and I have felt it to be 
an immense improvement to the garden at all times 
of year. It is sunk into a small, square, stone base, 
and in spring a few yellow crocuses grow among the 
grass at its feet. It speaks for itself, and no motto sur- 
rounds it. 

Mr. George Alison published in the ' Westminster 
Gazette ' this charming, and to me original, version 



MAY 221 

of the least morbid feeling about a sundial and dark 
days : 

Serene he stands among the flowers, 

And only marks life's sunny hours. 

For him dark days do not exist 

The brazen-faced old optimist ! 

I derive great pleasure at all times of year from a 
way of arranging flowers of my own invention which I 
call floating bouquets. I have the largest size of Green & 
Nephews' ' Muustead Glass ' bowl, the one without a 
stand. This is filled with clear water to the very brim, 
on which various flowers are floated throughout the year. 
If in winter flowers are scarce, a bit of greenhouse fern 
or autumn leaf may be added, but it is of great import- 
ance not to cover the water all over; a corner should 
be left which reflects light as in a pond. The flower- 
fancier may exercise endless inventiveness in this kind of 
arrangement. Most people, I find, like it ; others think 
it absolutely ugly ; for many plants it is practically 
useful, as they live thus in water, whereas, if cut with 
long stalks, they droop their heads immediately. This 
is the case with Christmas roses, and still more so with 
the later hellebores, which are such a joy about Easter 
time ; their soft greens and velvety plum colours look 
lovely so arranged and picked short, the buds being left 
on the plant to come out later. These flowers, if picked 
in the ordinary way, even when the stalk-ends are split, 
fade immediately in water. The forced Niphetos and 
Mar6chal Niel roses look most satisfactory so arranged ; 
indeed, all the tea roses and China roses on this dry soil 
are apt to hang their heads if the stalks only are in the 
water ; floating, they rejoice in the cool water and show 
all their full beauty looking straight up at you. Bunches 
of blue Plumbago capensis do better so than in any other 
way, also P. rosea, the pretty winter-flowering hot- 



222 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

house species ; it is the same with clematis, &c. Each 
flower-lover can find out endless new combinations, and 
which flowers flourish best on the bosom of the clear 
water. 

May 28th. I went as usual to see the Horticultural 
Show, which was more hopelessly crowded than ever. 
I suppose future generations will have large cool 
halls for these much-prized shows, instead of hot, 
crowded airless tents, which are as bad for flowers as 
for human beings. I did not notice much that was 
new. I think it such a misfortune that this great show 
is always at the same time of year. Some pure white 
plants of Verbascum ph&niceum were very lovely, a 
Eubus deliciosus and a Hydrangea stellata (Veitch). 
Hydrangeas are useful plants for people with small 
gardens and greenhouses, as they are nearly hardy and 
so easy to propagate. Tulipa persica was new to me ; 
it had several flowers borne on branching stems, inside 
brilliant yellow, outside golden bronze ; also T. pukhella, 
with small glowing crimson flowers. How I do like 
going back to the type plants ! they are so far more 
interesting, and lovelier too as a rule, than the others. 

What I enjoyed beyond all in that day in London at 
the end of May was that peace ' coming peace ' was 
in the air. Blessed peace ! Everyone seemed to believe 
in it. Will Mr. Laurence Housman, if he sees this book, 
forgive me for quoting his poem, which came out at 
about that time in some paper I think the ' Spectator,' 
but am not sure ? 

THE WINNERS 

We stand one with the men that died ; 
Whatever the goal, we have these beside. 
Living or dead, we are comrades all, 
Our battles are won by the men that fall ! 



MAY 

He who died quick with his face to the foe 
In the heart of a friend must needs die slow : 
Over his grave shall be heard the call, 
The battle is won by the men that fall ! 

For the dead man leaves you a work to do : 
Your heart's so full you fight like two ! 
And the dead man's aim is the best of all, 
The battle is won by the men that fall ! 

Oh ! lads, dear lads, you were loyal and true, 
The worst of the fight was borne by you ; 
So the word shall go to cottage and hall, 
Our battles are won by the men that fall 1 

When peace dawns over the country side, 
Our thanks shall be to the lads that died ; 
Oh ! quiet hearts, can they hear us tell 
How peace was won by the men that fell ? 



223 



224 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



JUNE 

Cuttings of double gorse and ericas A gorse hedge Gerarde on 
Solomon's seal Preserving tulip bulbs after flowering Die- 
tamnus fraxinella in Wiltshire The globe artichoke as food for 
man and goats Peace Glasnevin Mr. Linden's garden at 
Brussels Old wistaria and bignonias grown as shrubs How to 
tell a good soil Mr. G. F. Wilson's wild garden How to grow 
Portugal laurels in boxes Tamarisks and sea-buckthorns grown 
inland The beauties of Polygonum compactum London and the 
24th of June The Rose Show at Holland House. 

June 1st. I forgot to say last month that the best 
time to strike double and single gorse, and some of the 
ericas, is at the end of May. The little young shoots 
should be pinched out and planted in sand under a bell 
glass in the shade. In six months, or the following 
spring, they can be moved. It answers better to buy 
double gorse than single, which can be grown from seed, 
because the double is sent out in pots, and in this way a 
year or two is gamed. A double gorse hedge requires 
nothing but a little cutting back, and an occasional 
mulching if the summer is very dry. When well grown 
a double gorse hedge is one of the loveliest and most 
effective I know, and quite impassable to man or 
beast. There is one in this neighbourhood that is such 
a glory in May that even cyclists stop to look at it. I am 
afraid I cannot say the same of motorists. It is best to 
plant the young gorse in a groove on a raised mound of 
earth, first of all because it protects the growth of its tender 
years from being trodden on, and secondly, the nature of 



JUNE 225 

the plant with its weight of flower causes its branches 
to fall downwards, thus increasing the beauty of its 
wondrous glow. Even well-struck cuttings, if in an ex- 
posed position, where they do best ultimately, want a 
little care such as mulching, or covering with bracken 
or straw the first winter or two. Slightly nipping 
back in spring helps the growth of all young shrubs. In 
the case of laurustinus, large and small branches may 
be cut out with immense advantage. Of course, this 
does not mean cutting back in the gardener's hedge 
sense, as that would remove all the bloom for the coming 
year, while thinning out immensely improves the next 
year's flowering. This applies to all spring shrubs, 
lilacs, wistarias, spiraeas, &c. In a corner of my 
kitchen garden I keep a space for Solomon's seals, digging 
them up for forcing as they are required. Gerarde in his 
' Herbal ' has a delightful allusion to this plant ; he says 
that Solomon's seal is good for 'bruises gotten by 
women's wilfulness in falling against their husbands' 
fists.' 

June 2nd. I find it very difficult to preserve tulip 
bulbs when they are taken up out of beds in order to 
admit of planting for the summer. The best way is to 
take them up and put them, with their leaves still on them 
into a pail of water for half an hour, and then lay them 
in a shady open trench ; cover them up and water, mark 
the place, and when ripe and dry, dig them up and put 
them in boxes for autumn planting. To my mind the 
most attractive are the type, or species, tulips. They 
are beautiful both in form and colour, but they like warm 
sunny situations, a rich loamy soil and to be left un- 
disturbed for years. That is the great difficulty in small 
gardens, as it means a great dry patch all the summer, 
and no turning over of the earth for other plants I saw 
last year, at Wisley, T. linifolia, a bright scarlet, and, as 

Q 



226 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the catalogues truly say, ' magnificent ' ; but at present 
it seems to be scarce, for even in the cheaper Dutch 
catalogues it is marked 3s. a bulb, which I consider very 
expensive. 

One of the June plants which gives me the greatest 
pleasure, and which I strongly recommend for increase 
in both small and large gardens, is Dictamnus fraxinella. 
The white variety, D. /. alba, is much the most beautiful, 
I think. It is a slow grower, and at one time I despaired 
of making it do well. Now it is quite satisfactory. 
Last June, in a schoolmaster's house in Wiltshire, the 
whole of a large dinner-table was decorated with this 
handsome sweet-scented flower, and the blooms were the 
finest I had ever seen. As I sat down next my host I 
thought to myself, ' Now I am going to find out the real 
secret of cultivating the white dictamnus.' His answer 
to my inquiry was, ' I really don't know ; I think it was 
here when I came twenty years ago. We will ask the 
gardener to-morrow." This I accordingly did, and he 
said it had never been moved. He increased it by sowing 
the seed directly it was ripe the seed must be watched 
or it quickly disappears, either by being eaten by birds, 
or through falling out, bursting open in the hot July sun ; 
but he said the quicker way of increasing it is by taking off 
pieces in the spring without disturbing the parent plant. 
Both of these methods I tried on my return home, and 
both answered. The moved pieces look healthy this 
year, though they have not flowered, and I have a fine 
crop of young seedlings. This is one of the many plants 
worth growing, but with which quick effects are not 
attained and patience is required. 

For years I failed in what I call the satisfactory 
cultivation of a favourite vegetable the globe artichoke. 
Of course, I grew them, but they were few and hard. 
Many people said, ' Oh, they don't do in this light soil.' 



JUNE 227 

I never like that answer, as the merit of a light soil is 
that it can always be made. I have now mastered the 
cultivation through the kind assistance of a French neigh- 
bour. The seeds came from Vilmorin, in Paris, and if 
sown in heat in January, and planted out in May and 
well watered, they will produce some artichokes the first 
autumn. The good plants are then selected and marked, 
or the bad ones pulled out, for the seedlings vary con- 
siderably even with the best seed. They require slightly 
protecting in winter with straw or bracken, and in March 
pieces are taken off the best plants, leaving only about 
three shoots on the parent plant, without disturbing it. 
The holes must be filled in, and the plants mulched round 
with good manure. The pieces taken off are planted in a 
row in good soil, and these produce a succession crop of 
artichokes in the autumn, the main plants bearing their 
crop in June and July. In dry soils and hot weather 
copious watering is essential. Another great charm of the 
globe artichoke to me is that its leaves are so beautiful 
and goats are very fond of them. 

On Monday, the 4th of June, I came down and 
opened the papers in the ordinary casual way, and there 
in big letters was the long-expected and scarcely-to-be- 
believed-in news that peace was declared. It had been 
known in London on the Sunday, but no echo had 
reached us here. A large crowd went to cheer the King 
at Buckingham Palace ; but, on the whole, the great news 
seems to have been taken soberly and quietly, very different 
from the reception given to good news during the war, 
when the London populace seemed to rejoice with savage 
rage and almost the lust of conquest. What the news 
must have meant in many homes one can well imagine. 
Here it could only accentuate for a time one huge personal 
sorrow and regret, so then I tried to think what Peace 
with a big P meant to the country at large-- the coming 

Q2 



228 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

back to happy homes, both rich and poor, of those that 
were left and then to realise what it meant out there on 
the ruined and devastated veldt. However much one may 
blame the obstinacy and ignorance of the Boers in not 
understanding the temper of this country, and in not 
realising that the struggle for their freedom was useless 
and hopeless, one could not help pitying the contrast, and 
it was a relief at any rate to feel that now pity and 
sympathy were possible without the perpetual and silly 
reproach of being called a pro-Boer. It recalled to me 
the end of the Crimean war, and yet what a strange and 
different war this has been ! in a sense more like the 
conquest of Scotland and Ireland hundreds of years ago, 
and yet in another sense unique and modern. And, with 
all its failures, the effort certainly was towards making war 
more humane ; for I suppose never before in the world's 
history have wives and children been sent into an 
enemy's lines for protection from famine and death as 
they were sent into ours. Living as I do so much alone, 
I have been struck by the amount of barbaric and sen- 
timental superstition still afloat in the popular mind. 
The daily newspapers rang with the fact that a little 
pigeon had got into St. Paul's, and was noticed as 
an omen during the thanksgiving service for peace. 
A popular poet wrote of it : 

When suddenly lifting my eyes 
To the glooms half discovered above, 

I marked with a start of surprise 
The white wings of a hovering dove. 

Blest messenger come to your home ! 

It is peace, blessed peace once again ! 
And thou, spirit ineffable, come ! 

As at Pentecost, come and remain ! 

How little we know what the future of this peace will 
be, and what the gain will be to England or South Africa ! 



JUNE 229 

The best hope, and perhaps the most beautiful of possi- 
bilities, was expressed anonymously in the following lines 
in the ' Spectator ' : 

THE SETTLERS 
(A FORECAST ON THE DECLABATION OP PEACE) 

How green the earth, how blue the sky, 

How quiet now the days that pass, 
Here, where the British settlers lie 

Beneath their cloaks of grass ! 

Here ancient Peace resumes her ground, 
And rich from toil stand hill and plain ; 

Men reap and store : but they sleep sound, 
The men who saved the grain. 

Hard to the plough their hands they put, 

And whereso'er the soil had need 
The furrow drove : and underfoot 

They sowed themselves for seed. 

Ah ! not like him whose hand made yield 

The brazen kine with fiery breath, 
And over all the Colchian field 

Strewed far the seeds of death. 

Till, as day sank, awoke to war 

The seedlings of the dragon's teeth ; 

And Death ran multiplied once more 
Across the hideous heath. 

But rich in flocks be all these farms, 

And fruitful all the fields that hide 
Brave eyes that loved the light, and arms 

That never clasped a bride. 

Oh, willing hearts turned quick to clay, 

Young lovers holding death in scorn, 
Out of the lives you cast away 

The coming race is born. 

June IQth, I think all garden lovers should visit, 
whenever they can, either at home or abroad, botanical 



230 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

gardens or the larger nurserymen's gardens. Glasnevin, 
near Dublin, is one of the most interesting botanical 
gardens I have ever seen, old and established, and planted 
in the truest botanical style viz., picturesquely, and with 
the earth in parts thrown up into the mounds so essential 
for giving different aspects to plants. I was told by 
friends who visited Bruges this year for, alas ! I did not 
go myself that when tired of the wonderful art exhibition 
there, they found the nursery gardens round the town 
full of attractions and interest. At Brussels, Linden's 
garden has a very good show of orchids and Congo plants. 
The most remarkable feature in the methods of foreign 
nurserymen is the extraordinarily clean and clever way 
in which things are grown. At Mr. Linden's, orchids are 
only watered once a week owing to his system of saucers, 
which enables the plants to get their moisture in the 
nearest possible approach to their natural circumstances. 
Each pot rests on a little porous stand rising from the 
centre of a saucer, the space round remaining full of 
water. There is, of course, no hole in the saucers, which 
helps to keep the houses clean and free from the drip 
which makes the wood and ground of ordinary hothouses 
so damp, and helps to harbour all the pests. The floors 
of these Belgian greenhouses were covered with finely- 
chipped grey limestone. This description, which was 
given me by a friend, makes me long for some practical 
invention that would save the great trouble of the dripping 
of our own greenhouses in winter. It is most destructive 
and extravagant. If ordinary saucers are used for such 
plants, say, as carnations and pelargoniums, or indeed 
anything but water-loving plants, the result is damping 
off and general ill-health. I think zinc trays of various 
lengths and widths filled with shingle, or in some cases 
cocoanut fibre, as for bulbs which want more moisture, 
might solve the drip difficulty and enable shelves to be 



JUNE 231 

placed one above the other without injury, which is 
now impossible. 

In my neighbourhood, Messrs. Waterer's garden near 
Woking has been established over 100 years, and, quite 
apart from their principal business, which is that of rhodo- 
dendrons and azaleas, there are at these nurseries an 
immense number of interesting specimen plants well 
grown in a peculiar way. For those who are young enough, 
and who have large places, it would be of great instruction 
and interest to observe what planting for posterity means, 
though few people care to do that now. At Messrs. 
Waterer's they have wistarias and Bignonia radicans 
(B. grandiflora is the handsomer plant, and does best 
on a house) grown as shrubs, first supported on poles, 
but gradually grown, carefully pruned and twisted about, 
till they form self-supporting and most picturesque groups. 
In any private garden wistarias need never be cut down, 
as the old branches can be laid along the ground, and 
flourish equally well quite a long way off. I know an 
old plant in this neighbourhood that was so saved, and 
which now covers luxuriantly a new pergola. The suckers 
of wistaria are also easily layered in the summer, then cut 
off, and potted up and forced in a cool house in spring. 
The early horticultural shows this year had lilac and 
white wistaria so grown, and also the common laburnum 
as a standard, and very pretty they look in large con- 
servatories. 

It is impossible to give advice about a garden till one 
has seen it, and thoroughly taken in its aspects, its soil, 
its surroundings, and its natural advantages. I should 
love to begin garden-making all again, and to my mind 
perfection would be a woody slope, with a south and west 
aspect, protected from the north and east, and with a 
really good soil. ' What does a good soil mean ? ' I am 
asked. This can easily be judged by the wild flora of 



232 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the neighbourhood. Woods where primroses and blue 
hyacinths grow well are not bad ; but think of the woods 
in Somersetshire or near Petersfield where the wild orchid 
flourishes, the butterfly and bee orchid and the white 
helleborine, not to mention the more ordinary lilac kinds ! 
The herb-paris tribe, with their quaint growth, Solomon's 
seal, wild garlic, forget-me-not, and violets, all of them 
grow in these districts, and later on they are choked and 
covered by stronger-growing things like campions, cen- 
taureas, and euphorbias, hiding the spring carpet of bloom. 
What a picture this is compared with the dry commons and 
miniature flora of Surrey. Unfortunately the soil where 
vegetation flourishes is one apparently less well adapted 
for the health of man, though if the air is bracing and 
people healthy, a rich soil will be considered not unwhole- 
some in the future. The combination of good soil and 
fair aspect is perhaps rare, but I know two gardens in 
Surrey with these advantages. One is partly terraced 
and arranged in the most interesting manner down the 
side of the hill, and more or less divided into the four 
quarters of the world, Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, 
by planting the shrubs, trees, and flowers of each division 
as far as possible together. I had heard of a garden of 
this kind in Scotland, but had never before seen one. 
When it is a little older, it will be as beautiful as it is 
now interesting and instructive. The other garden was 
planted by Messrs. Backhouse, of York, and is down a 
sunny slope with large rocks and very informal terracing, 
and nooks and corners made by throwing up mounds and 
hillocks. Many plants will not grow at all if exposed to 
the summer sun all day long, and the breaking up of 
even a flat piece of ground in small gardens in this way 
is an immense advantage and improvement. All down 
one side of this garden was an artificial streamlet made 
with rocks and pools for various moisture-loving plants. 



JUNE 233 

In making a new place, this very attractive feature would 
not be difficult if the house were built on the top of the 
hill, and the roof-water collected in a large tank. If the 
water were allowed first to flow down the hill of itself to 
show what its natural course would be, all stiffness would 
be avoided and blocking would be made easy ; and with 
the natural rainfall encouraged into the channel a very 
small dribble from the tank would maintain it. 

The garden which of all others I most value and 
admire, and from which I have learnt most of what I 
know, is that of Mr. G. F. Wilson at Wisley. Alas ! he 
died this spring, and one wonders what will become of it 
now that the directing spirit is gone. I believe it was 
twenty-five years ago that Mr. Wilson first began with 
about six acres to turn rough ground, part field, part wood, 
into what is generally called ' a wild garden.' Here I first 
learnt what could be done by thinning out a wood, 
digging ponds, and throwing up the soil into mounds. 
The drawback to this type of garden, which I watched 
with interest, was that it seemed to be a necessity to take 
in more and more fresh ground year by year, and now 
there must be fourteen or sixteen acres under cultivation. 
The plants and shrubs, as they spread and flourished, 
were left alone to grow at their wild will, and new spaces 
were planted with other specimens. It is partly wood, 
partly slopes facing north, and partly flat ground, mere 
ordinary fields, and it immediately strikes even a casual 
observer how much better many things do in the partial 
shade of the cleared-out oak-wood than in the open. 
This is in a great measure owing to the protection afforded 
in spring by the tall trees. Bamboos, for instance, planted 
in this wood flourish amazingly, as do auratum lilies, 
pernettias, all the tenderer heaths, andromedas, rhodo- 
dendrons, azaleas, Hydrangea paniculata, &c., all of 
which were finer specimens than I have seen anywhere 



234 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

else. Needless to say, there are no laurels or any of the 
commoner coarse-growing shrubs. No one must think 
this kind of gardening easy, for it depends on endless and 
intelligent hand-weeding. The plants must be kept clear, 
or they never flourish. When Mr. Wilson made a bed 
in his wood and filled it with the soil best adapted to the 
plants he was going to put in, the place was always 
marked by rough stones from the field. That meant it 
would be kept perfectly clean till the plant grew strong 
enough to need no further care. At no time of year can 
anyone visit this garden without finding flourishing 
specimens of plants he has probably never seen before. 

Experience teaches that a mound thrown up in windy 
exposed places, and planted with hedges or shrubs, is a 
far better breaker of the force of the wind than the highest 
and most expensive wall ; for in a gale the wind hits the 
top of the wall and dashes down on the other side, while 
the waving branches of shrubs break and soften its 
devastating progress a wind-swept garden being, perhaps, 
the most hopeless and disappointing to the gardener. In 
Italy the garden walls are delightfully varied high to the 
north, low to the south, broken in various places to suit 
different plants, tiled on the top here and there for pro- 
tection, ramped on the top if the ground falls in this way 
the picturesqueness of garden walls and their individuality 
as regards each place are immensely increased. 

In all wild gardening there is much difficulty in keeping 
down not only weeds and strong-growing plants, but 
destructive animals like rabbits, hares, rats, and mice, 
which are the most injurious, while pheasants sometimes 
manage to do a good deal of harm. Very useful little 
shelters are made at Wisley by surrounding the small bed, 
till the plants get hold, with a band, about a foot high, of 
perforated zinc. Some people will think this sounds very 
hideous, but, to a real gardener, the sense of protection to 



JUNE 235 

the young plant does away with the very slight disfigure- 
ment such a shelter makes in the wild growth of a wood. 

Wild gardening requires much more knowledge than 
any other kind, and is almost unknown professionally. I 
have never seen planting well done, from an artist's point 
of view, when left to even the best firms. At Wisley 
there are large quantities of the Japanese iris (I. Kampferi). 
grown in artificially made ditches in the open field, or on 
the dry slopes of the ponds, not quite close to the water, 
as K&mpferi does not like damp, especially in winter, 
though it is glad of lots of water at the flowering time in 
summer. The ideal situation for it would be a dry ditch 
in full sun that could be partially flooded in summer. 

The general impression seems to be that bamboos 
want a lot of sun ; they are, on the contrary, perfect wood 
plants, if a space is cleared for them. Mr. Wilson was 
making a big collection of many kinds in his wood, and 
they are flourishing luxuriantly. 

To come back to smaller plants, the Cape montbretias 
do excellently in woods, blooming, as they do, in the dull 
August time. There are eight or ten varieties of epi- 
mediums ; planted together in a bed in a wood, they look 
charming with their early spring growth, but, like every- 
thing else, they must be kept weeded. In autumn their 
leaves turn a good colour. 

Messrs. V. V. Gauntlet & Co. (Japanese Nurseries, 
Eedruth) send out on application, and for inspection only, 
the most charming books, illustrated by Japanese flower- 
painters, of various Japanese plants lilies, Japanese 
pseonies, irises, maples, magnolias, camellias, &c. The 
choice of Japanese Iris Kampferi is particularly ample. 
All the prices are marked in plain figures. 

One of the gardening subjects I have oftenest thought 
out is what I should advise if anyone I cared very much 
about inherited a large house and a large, ready-made, 



236 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

formal garden, with empty beds in winter, and filled in 
summer with bright-coloured half-hardy plants. The 
formal garden, to my mind, is certainly adapted to the 
formal house, though it often shares its ugliness. In the 
case of very beautiful old places I think what looks best 
is either turf right up to the house, especially if the fine 
timber has been spared, such as yews, cedars, oaks, 
beeches, mulberries, &c., or if there is a garden round the 
house, it should be in small proportions, paved, and planted 
with roses, lavender, rosemary, carnations, &c., in large 
masses. The actual gardens for the picking of flowers 
should be near the house, and yet apart from it. Given 
space enough, my idea of perfection for those who live in 
their place all the year round would be to have various 
gardens, of which some would be at rest and others in full 
beauty ; say, a bulb garden, an iris garden, a garden for 
early and late annuals, perennial borders connecting some 
of these together, a double avenue of Michaelmas daisies, 
another of lavender and China roses, and a straight walk 
or terrace with a formal imitation of the way orange-trees 
are grown in Italy. The best I ever saw of this last kind 
of thing was in a large Hertfordshire place last year : the 
trees were Portugal laurels, apparently growing out of 
square boxes such as the orange-trees are grown in 
at Hampton Court. My surprise was great at finding 
the Portugal laurels had thick stems and were perfectly 
healthy. On examination, I found the boxes rested on 
the ground and the trees had been allowed to root 
through. The effect was excellent, and equally decorative 
in winter and summer. Laurels pine in boxes from dry- 
ness, and bays die in boxes from frost in winter if not 
housed. I have never before seen this effort at Italian 
gardening so successfully carried out in England. To 
put it in a few words, the only possible solution for decora- 
tive gardening near large houses is formal design with 



JUNE 237 

informal planting and growth. Everything else can only 
be decided by the accidents of the situation. 

As I said about Ireland, so I feel about almost every 
large place I have ever seen ; pruning, taking out of laurels, 
cutting out broad vistas in the woods, as they radiate from 
the house, wide spaces with shrubs and trees allowed to 
feather to the ground ; all this seems to me what the 
gardens of most big places really require. I have only 
known one place where the owner had the courage to 
root out every laurel, both common and Portugal, within 
half a mile of his house, replacing them with all sorts of 
unusual decorative shrubs. (See splendid list in ' Century 
Book of Gardening/ p. 423.) When actually growing in 
woods, the effect of laurels left entirely alone and un- 
pruned, except to take out dead wood, is, I think, exceed- 
ingly good, especially if they are kept in groups, and for 
the delectation of their owners in winter rather than 
summer. The slight protection of the trees saves them 
from the shabby appearance in spring so often caused by 
frost and wind in the open. Also I have seen one of the 
new kinds of large-leaved laurels, judiciously pruned, 
look almost as handsome as a magnolia nailed to the wall 
of a house or barn. In itself the laurel flower is very 
beautiful when seen close, but this is impossible when the 
shrubs are pruned, as they generally are, so as to flower 
only on the top. Bay-trees, which are hurt by frost even 
more than laurels, would do well in fairly moist woods. 

It is curious that the tamarisk is always considered a 
seaside plant. Certainly it does very well there, but it 
does equally well inland if properly pruned. It is a 
picturesque grower and an amusing plant to play wiih, as 
it can be treated in all kinds of ways as a hedge, in a 
group, cut down every year, or planted far apart from 
other things, and encouraged to grow old, when its effect 
is unique amongst shrubs. I only know one example of 



238 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

really old tamarisks, and these are supposed to have been 
brought from the East and planted by Lady Mary Wortley 
Montagu. The strong black stems and branches are very 
angular in growth, recalling Japanese plants, and their 
feathery tops wave delightfully against sky or distance. 
There is a kind not generally grown, which does well in 
my garden, and its cloud-like pink blossom appears in the 
autumn. Another kind which I first saw at Aix, T. parvi- 
flora, flowers in May, in tiny pink blossoms all along the 
branches before the leaves appear. This, too, I find well 
worth growing. 

Sea-buckthorn thrives to perfection in inland places. 
At Kew they plant it near the pond, where it fruits well 
and gives a golden glow to the whole group of shrubs in 
early spring. Mine does not fruit, thus proving to me 
that the plant needs moisture. 

The spiraeas are innumerable in kind, and make 
beautiful, easily-cultivated ornaments for open shrub- 
beries and borders of woods. I think the reason one so 
seldom sees these shrubs is that they look shabby and 
untidy unless the old wood is cut out once a year. They 
seem to me to require nothing else, and yet it is never 
done, and gardeners seem to prefer doing without them 
altogether or to put them in a border where they are 
unsuitable. If a little ground is cleared round them, they 
send up endless suckers, which should be taken off in 
spring if a fine specimen is desired. In this respect the 
treatment is exactly the same as with all the polygonums, 
though these are herbaceous plants, not shrubs. P. com- 
pactum is one of the smaller varieties, but most desirable, 
for if planted on a bank in full sun and thinned out in 
spring, the wings of its seeds are more beautiful than its 
flowers a lovely rosy pink at the point of every branch. 
P. molle should never be forgotten, as its large white 
flowers in October are very valuable and effective 



JUNE 239 

June I9/i. Not quite hardy bulbs are more mys- 
terious in their wilfulness than almost any other plants I 
grow. You seem to treat them exactly the same, but 
the least little thing must affect them, for you get unex- 
pectedly different results. This is perhaps the reason 
why so few gardeners grow them. The year before last 
I had a dozen or more of Ornifhogalum arabicum, and 
they all flowered most beautifully. They were well 
worth growing, and have the usual merit of their tribe 
that every one flowers in water, and this kind has a 
distinct aromatic odour which is rare with ornithogalums. 
It is not quite hardy, and must be grown in a pot. It 
is a lovely plant with its pale cream petals and jet black 
eye. It is cheap to buy, and with a little care in the 
drying off ought to go on from year to year. This year I 
had a dozen new bulbs ; only two of them flowered, and 
those not very well. After a great deal of pumping, the 
gardener told me he thought the reason of this failure 
was that they came from Holland in a slightly growing 
state and were potted up later than usual. So it resolved 
itself into the fault being mine, as I had ordered the bulbs 
late. These plants are often seen now in London shops. 
They want a little protection, but no heat except the 
sun in spring. My 0. nutans continues to flourish most 
satisfactorily in the grass, and it is a pretty thing ! 

I think those who have big places and pieces of water 
ought not to neglect planting the taxodium or deciduous 
cypress. It is such a beautiful tree, and in favour- 
able circumstances must grow fairly quickly. Perhaps 
it does not live long in this country, for I think there 
used to be many more about in my youth than I see 
now. I suppose it was a fashion when it first came from 
America, where it grows best in the swamps of the 
Southern States. It must have been introduced before 
1640, as Parkinson mentions it and says : ' Its seed was 



24 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

brought by Master Tradescant from Virginia and sown 
here, and doe spring very bravely.' It is not a true 
cypress, of course, but a separate genus. 

I have been singularly unsuccessful with the Eomncya 
Goulteri, having lost it two or three times over. Humi- 
liating confession ! I am now trying it again, and it 
promises well. The finest I know in this light Surrey 
soil is growing under a west wall and is slightly shaded 
to the south by shrubs. It is a very fine specimen, throw- 
ing up suckers in all directions, as if it would say, ' See 
how easy I am to grow ! ' It requires a little protection 
in winter with bracken, straw, or dry leaves. I killed 
mine last year by stupidly ordering that ashes should 
be put round it. Besides its beauty and uncommonness 
for one does not often see it the buds come out in 
water a great merit. Gaura Lindheimeri is a perennial, 
but I have never succeeded in keeping it here over more 
than one winter. I think it is a plant well worth treat- 
ing as a half-hardy annual sown early in January every 
year, and planted out thickly in a sheltered place in full 
sun. It is very attractive, and is much grown in the 
gardens in Paris. 

Tuesday, June 2kth. I was persuaded to go to London, 
like most of the world, with the idea of seeing the Corona- 
tion. The day was foggy, hot, and heavy, and the tired- 
looking crowds were already trapesing through the streets 
as I drove from Waterloo about mid-day. The tawdry 
decorations, the streets and thoroughfares blocked with 
stands, the side streets shut off by dangerous barriers 
such as I had never seen before, gave me an ominous 
feeling of wonder as to what was going to happen. 
I think London never looks so bad and so depressingly 
like a mean but gigantic village as on these festive 
occasions. Grosvenor Square was a mass of workmen 
decorating handsomely and with feverish haste, and when 



JUNE 241 

the news of the King's illness burst on the town like an 
unexpected blast from some evil genius, the almost magic 
arrest of all movement produced an effect which, in its 
own peculiar way, was one of the most remarkable ex- 
periences I have ever had. The contrast was so striking 
between cause and effect. The sickness of one man is, 
as a rule, so small an event, but in this case multitudes 
were instantly stupefied by the fact. By the evening the 
whole world was sympathetically affected by the sorrow 
and disappointment that had fallen upon London, and 
the proposed coronation was only celebrated on a few 
ships at sea, and in the islands of the Hebrides. It was, 
to many of us, rather a revelation of the methods of 
conducting weekly papers, that though the news of the 
King's illness was known on Tuesday, several of the 
weekly newspapers published loyal paragraphs about the 
Coronation, including detailed descriptions of facts which 
had never taken place. 

I carried out my programme of the afternoon, which 
was to go with a friend to the great Eose Show at 
Holland House. As a show it was disappointing, for the 
season was a late one, and the roses were hardly out, and 
hung their heads in the intense heat. The crowd was 
gloomy and with bated breath spoke of but one topic. 
The beautiful building and gardens of Holland House 
remain a unique remnant of the many handsome houses 
and grounds that used to constitute the suburbs of 
London. Holland House, in spite of the black smoke- 
veil cast over it, is still one of the most splendid of the 
Jacobean dwellings. It was built by the well-known 
John Thorpe for Sir Walter Cope in 1607. Poor man ! 
He had no son, and it went to his daughter and heiress. 
She married a smart Cavalier who lost his head in 1649, 
and Fairfax's soldiers were quartered in his hall. The 
after history of the house, with all its Whig associations, 

B 



242 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

in the time of the third Lord Holland, have been so much 
written about and are so well known that they need no 
repetition here. Even in my youth I can remember the 
huge ' breakfasts,' as they were called (really garden- 
parties), when many of the celebrities still haunted the 
place. In a delightful alcove behind the house there 
remains the inscription written by the late Lord Holland : 
' Here Eogers sat, and here for ever dwell with me those 
pleasures that he sang so well.' I fear poor Rogers 
would hardly be much known now but for the lovely 
Turner and Stothard illustrations which adorn his books. 
The gardens have been much enlarged and improved 
by the present owners. I was anxious to see the several 
acres which used to be pasture and have been lately 
added to the grounds, and I must confess it was with a 
feeling of astonishment that I saw what can be done 
with care and cultivation in what is now virtually London 
itself. One had to look at the stems of the few remain- 
ing old trees to realise what was the amount of soot in 
the air, and what an atmosphere the gardener had to 
contend against. The roses looked as healthy as at Kew, 
and the Penzance briars and free-growing climbing roses 
ramped about as if they really believed they were in the 
country. The most interesting part of the new garden 
was an imitation of a Japanese garden. This is a 
very distinct feature which could easily be adopted 
where both money and water were plentiful and where 
the ground sloped gently. It was partly a small rock- 
garden, partly turf, and then a series of pools cleverly 
cemented and connected by an artificial rill which fed 
the various basins, some large and some small. In these 
were different varieties of aquatic plants, especially the 
new water-lilies (Nymphcea). It all looked very charm- 
ing, and on the whole this was the best arrangement I 
have ever seen for growing aquatic plants. In a small 



JUNE 243 

way it could be imitated with tubs hidden by little 
rockeries, and placed one below the other with connect- 
ing tubes, also hidden. The whole of Holland House 
garden is a most interesting lesson as to what can be 
done in poor old London. 

This week of the King's illness was the only really 
hot one we have had this summer, and during it the 
whole air was full of the most gloomy prognostications, 
the gloomiest emanating from the medical profession, and 
from certain headquarters of spiritualistic prophecy, all 
of which, as we know, happily came to nothing. 

A volume came out this summer called ' A Little 
Book of Life and Death,' selected and arranged by Eliza- 
beth Waterhouse, with a frontispiece from a painting by 
Mr. G. P. Watts. To those friends who liked so much 
the verses which were not mine in my other books I 
recommend this selection, for I think it so good as to be 
almost original. It is partly prose and partly verse, and 
from the former I take the following to give a taste of its 
general quality : ' We are evidently in the midst of a 
process, and the slowness of God's processes in the 
material world prepares us, or ought to prepare us, for 
something analogous in the moral world ; so that at least 
we may be allowed to trust that He who has taken un- 
told ages for the formation of a bit of old red sandstone 
may not be limited to threescore years and ten for the 
perfecting of a human spirit.' Thomas Erskine of Lin- 
lathen. 



244 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



JULY 

An account of lately bought gardening books A lost poem by Milton 
Vegetable gardens and rotation of crops How to easily cata- 
logue a garden More half-hardy plants suitable for large pots 
Carnations at Mr. Douglas' Spanish rush-broom. 

July 1st. As at the end of the eighteenth century, 
amidst wars and revolutions of all kinds, botanists and 
gardeners and flower-painters went quietly on their way, so 
it has been now, and since I published my ' Second Pot- 
Pourri ' a great number of excellent gardening books have 
come out, and, as time goes quickly and fashions alter, I 
think it may not be uninteresting that I should give a slight 
sketch of the books I have thought it worth my while to buy 
in the last three years. In 1900 Miss Gertrude Jekyll 
brought out her second book, ' Home and Garden.' Her 
account of her home is most charming, and never did bird 
build a more appropriate nest, and, as the Italians say, ' Ad 
ogni uccello suo nido & caro.' Like her first volume this 
one is excellently illustrated from photographs taken by 
herself, which are very superior to the ordinary run of 
photographic illustration. I feel sure that all Miss Jekyll's 
books will be referred to again and again long after the 
mass of present garden literature is of no more value 
than autumn leaves. Next came out with indefatigable 
energy from her pen ' Wall and Water Garden ' ; here the 
illustrations from photographs begin to fall off and become 
commonplace. They are evidently not taken by herself, 
and have none of the individual charm so noticeable in 
the earlier books. The letterpress, on the contrary, is, I 



JULY 245 

think, more useful, original, and instructive than perhaps 
any of the others. Her advice about cutting up flat 
ground by low walls, uncemented and with earth in be- 
tween, is, I believe, entirely Miss Jekyll's own idea and 
is most useful and beautifying. In wet heavy soils where 
there are no stones, these walls could be made with clinkers, 
or spoilt bricks, as they absorb the moisture, whereas stones 
keep it in. I think anyone who casually looked at Miss 
Jekyll's books when they first came out, will be surprised 
on going back to them to find how much instruction there 
is in them for all sorts of gardens villa gardens, wood 
gardens, field gardens, terrace gardens, and water gardens. 
For those about to make a new garden, the ' Wall and 
Water Garden ' is most essential. I think tanks, both 
big and little, especially oblong and square, are the most 
beautiful additions to a garden. Unless carefully 
watched the builders always place the waste pipe too 
low down. What is really desirable is that the water 
should be level with the edge, whether it be stone or 
brick or merely grass, or, as in the case of dew-ponds on 
the top of a chalk hill, the ground should slope gently 
into the water. Last year came ' Lilies for English 
Gardens, A Guide for Amateurs ' ; ' Country Life Library, 
1901.' Most of these lily notes appeared in the ' Garden,' 
Miss Jekyll being at that time co-editor of the paper. 
I myself have made no progress in lily-growing in the last 
three years. The lilies I buy flower and flourish for one 
year or two, but the summers of late have been hot and 
unfavourable. In spite of trying every kind of cultivation 
and receipt the Lilium candidum is generally more or less 
diseased with me, and the heads of bloom are not really 
fine. The Lilium croceum lasted two or three years, but 
now most of them have died off. I have one little white 
Martagon lily which comes up faithfully year after year. 
Lilium Hansoni was originally brought to me straight 



246 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

from Japan. It flourishes very well, and stands re-plant- 
ing and even dividing. That it has done well in this light 
soil through these last hot dry summers, flowering every 
year, should be noted as I have rarely seen it in other 
gardens. It blooms in June, and has bright green whorled 
leaves up its stalk and an orange flower slightly spotted 
with dark brown. Miss Jekyll says it is a lily that should 
be more known and grown. All the other lilies which 
were brought me from Japan at the same time some years 
ago have dwindled and finally disappeared. The late 
frosts this spring destroyed hundreds of auratums in Mr. 
Wilson's garden at Wisley. I think we may gather from 
Miss JekylTs book that a lily garden means very frequent 
buying of bulbs. They are certainly more worth the 
money than many other plants, and in a woody dell near 
a house there is no more delicious effect than large clumps 
of well-grown lilies protected from cold winds and late 
frosts by refined and not too strong-growing shrubs and a 
certain number of overhanging trees. But half shade and 
moisture they must have, even if this is only procured by 
increasing the rainfall from planting them in a dell into 
which the sides drain. In this situation, and with the 
natural support of shrubs, I have seen Tropaolum specio- 
sum flowering luxuriantly. 

Last of all this year comes ' Roses for English Gardens,' 
by Miss Jekyll and Mr. Edward Morley. I was much 
disappointed with the illustrations of this book. I do not 
think roses growing or cut lend themselves to photo- 
graphy, but ' Roses coming over a Wall ' facing page 60 is 
a lovely exception. I had intended to make a fresh list 
of the roses which have done well here, but all Miss 
Jekyll's advice is so admirable that those who care for 
their rose gardens will be sure to have the book. 

'Chemistry of the Garden: a Primer for Amateurs,' 
by Herbert Cousins. This is a first-rate little book 



JULY 247 

published by Macmillan in 1899, price 9d. Everyone 
should possess it. It is full of helpful, plain instruction 
as regards soils, manures, chemical requirements of plants 
and vegetables, and excellent directions for reducing 
blights and diseases that attack gardens. 

' Small Gardens, and How to Make the Most of Them,' 
by Violet Biddel, another little 9d. book, familiar and 
chatty in style, and modern in feeling, names many plants 
which would otherwise be forgotten, and hints at many 
methods for gaining beauty of form and colour in small 
spaces. Best of all it preaches originality ; for any 
garden, however small, which is the individual expression 
of its owner is of interest to every other gardener, who 
thereby sees vaiiety. 

' Flowers and Gardens,' by Mr. Forbes Watson. This 
book, which I waited for for years, was republished in 
1901, and prefaced very gracefully by Canon Ellacombe. 
It will always be loved and cherished by those who are 
fond of flowers. It curiously recalls some of Buskin's 
writing. Forbes Watson approached his subject from a 
somewhat unusual standpoint ; he was a great lover of 
flowers, a student of botany, and had the artistic tempera- 
ment combined with marked religious convictions. We 
can hardly believe from the portrait in the beginning that 
Mr. Watson was only twenty-nine when he died. He 
practically wrote it on his death-bed. We now know who 
was the friend to whom the notes were entrusted when 
the pen fell from the author's hand, and who so well ful- 
filled his trust. The book has gi'eat charm, a charm which 
is no doubt due to the way in which it reflects the soul of 
the author, who was one of the old-school doctors with 
strongly-developed taste for natural history. Mr. J. B. 
Paton in his preface says : ' The papers published in this 
little volume were written to solace the languor of the last- 
months of life, when a malady, which had crept by slow 



248 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

approaches upon him, broke down his strength, and 
arrested a professional career which had begun but re- 
cently. They betoken a mind gifted with quick, clear, 
and delicate perception, independency of judgment, and 
unsparing truthfulness. These were my friend's charac- 
teristic gifts. They are dimly mirrored in these pages, 
but more clearly in the memory of those who knew him 
well. To them this little volume will be welcome because 
of him ; to others, perchance, it may be welcome for the 
worth it has, because it tells of the beauty there is in 
God's fairest, frailest handiwork in flowers, and bears 
some trace of the rarer amaranthine beauty of a soul which 
wore the white flower of a blameless life.' 

' Favourite Haunts and Eural Studies in the Vicinity 
of Windsor and Eton,' by Edward Jesse. I so much like 
Jesse's ' Gleanings from Natural History ' that I bought 
the above-named from a bookseller's catalogue, and did 
not regret it. So much of the old world in the neighbour- 
hood of London is disappearing that this book is of 
especial interest to the antiquary and the garden fancier. 
He mentions many old and exotic trees seldom now to be 
met with, such as tulip-trees, catalpas, Turkey oaks, 
deciduous cypresses, &c. all these are remains of the 
gardening craze at the end of the eighteenth century. 
The book is illustrated with little old-fashioned prints of 
cottages and churches, amongst them Upton Church, with 
its ' ivy-mantled tower ' of Gray. To those who like a 
chat about things as they were in the middle of the last 
century, I cordially recommend this book. Its out-of-date 
language reads almost like a verse from Genesis which 
gathers the whole firmament into those few words. ' He 
made the stars also.' Jesse reminds us that Gray omitted 
a beautiful stanza from his Elegy, thinking it made too 
long a parenthesis at the end of the poem before the 
epitaph ; but it is well worthy of insertion : 



JULY 249 

There scattered oft, the earliest of the year, 
By hands unseen are showers of violets found ; 
The redbreast loves to build and warble there, 
And little footsteps lightly print the ground. 

' Life of the Fields/ by Eichard Jefferies. This is a 
darling little book by a kind of modern Jesse, full of the 
love of nature and distinguished by that rare spirit of 
unworldliness which, clothed as it is in very different 
form, has made a popular favourite of another book, read 
and deeply cared for by a very different class of reader 
from the one that appreciates Eichard Jefferies. It is the 
peasant and artisan who make a sort of text-book of 
Eobert Blatchford's ' Merrie England,' of which the motto 
is, ' Words ought not to be accepted because uttered by 
the lofty, nor rejected because uttered by the lowly.' Its 
teaching may be summed up in the following extract : 
' Love of truth, love of knowledge, love of art, love of 
fame are all stronger motives than love of gain, which is 
the only human motive recognized by a system of political 
economy supposed to be founded on human nature.' Let 
all young Englishmen who dread failure read this book. 

Mr. Peter Barr, who has lived for some time in South 
Africa, was kind enough to send me two lectures he deli- 
vered at Sea Point Horticultural Society, Capetown : one 
was on ' The Daffodil,' and the other on ' The Lilies of the 
World.' As very few people here can have seen these lec- 
tures, I give one interesting extract from the lily pamphlet, 
and, in passing, would also recommend the Lily Conference, 
reported in the ' Journal of Horticulture,' December 1901, 
which gives a most comprehensive account of all the 
varieties of lilies now grown. The more I read about 
them the more I feel sure that, like hyacinths, for 
ordinary people they represent a nurseryman's bill, as one 
has to buy afresh every year, But the subject is in- 
teresting enough for a real garden-lover to devote his 



2so A THIRD POT-POURRI 

whole attention to lilies and lilies alone. No doubt the 
climate of the Cape and Mr. Barr gives a long list with 
historical notes of those most likely to succeed there 
would prove much more favourable than England, 
especially for the Japanese varieties. 

Under ' American Lilies,' Mr. Barr writes as follows : 
1 Sulphureum (syn. Wallichianum superbum). When in 
Auckland, New Zealand, 1900, I saw in Mr. Ball's 
garden this really handsome lily, and a noble sight it 
was. Height, 5 to 6 feet, with a coronet of seven long 
white flowers surmounting a sturdy stem. I had a letter 
recently from Mr. Ball, informing me that the lily this 
year had fifteen flowers. At another garden in Auckland 
I saw the same lily behaving in a similar manner, and 
with a considerable progeny of all sizes. The owner 
expressed a desire to sell some of them, and I undertook 
to sound the lily's praises as I travelled this progressive 
and aggressive wonderful country, " the home of the brave 
and the free of the Southern Hemisphere." I had a letter 
of thanks recently from the owner referred to, informing 
me he had sold well on to 20Z. worth of the bulbs of 
Lilium sulphureum to the persons to whom I had re- 
commended it. Now, this man a few years previously had 
bought a bulb for 5s. 6d. So say no more about the gigantic 
profits of the Capetown Cold Storage Company. Here is 
a record-breaker for you in lilies, and he expects to reap 
an annual revenue from this original investment of 
5s. Gd. He let me into the secret of increasing the bulb, 
so pardon my not taking you into my confidence, as I 
promised not to spoil his market by letting others know 
how he worked his diamond mine.' 

The other lecture is even more interesting to the 
general public, as it is on the cultivation of the favourite 
daffodil. It is, of course, addressed to those who live in 
South Africa, but it is full of information of the most 



JULY 251 

fascinating kind for everybody. He says : ' Double 
daffodils, as far as I can make out, originated in a wild 
state, but when, and where, and how, are unsolved 
questions. No one in modern times has added a double 
daffodil to the existing ancient forms ; indeed, I am not 
quite sure that we know as many double daffodils as 
Parkinson cultivated in his garden in Holborn, London. 
Some names of double daffodils have been changed, it is 
true, but a change of name does not make a new flower.' 
Then he goes on to describe the wild double daffodils of 
the world. He gives an interesting account of the 
various people who worked on daffodils, and how he 
himself took up the study of the daffodil early in the 
sixties, working on the older forms known to Parkinson. 
Describing how they came into fashion, he says, ' I do 
not suppose that Oscar Wilde knew anything about 
daffodils, but there is no doubt in my mind that the great 
public are much indebted to him for the revolution in 
taste caused by his lectures on aesthetic colours. He 
broke down the prejudice to yellow. The artists followed 
him, and the public followed the artists.' Both lectures 
teem with interest, and I have no doubt they could be 
procured at Barr & Sons', King Street, Co vent Garden ; 
for if the demand was sufficient, Mr. Barr would probably 
reprint them. 

I always think books devoted to one kind of plant 
very interesting. I bought last year ' The Clematis as a 
Garden Flower,' by Thomas Moore and George Jackson, 
of the Woking Nursery, 1872. At that time the clematis 
was very fashionable, now it is not grown enough or 
given the attention it deserves. In Messrs. Jackman's 
catalogue for 1902, they give an excellent description of 
how clematis should be cultivated. They also mention 
that the book I have just named has been republished, 
no doubt with newer information, for the price of 2s. 6d. 



252 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The suggestions as to the various uses to which the types 
of clematis may be applied would be very useful to the 
amateur. I mention, elsewhere, a notable example I saw 
in Suffolk. I must say the illustrations in my old edition 
are in the worst form of mid- Victorian colour-printing 
and drawing. 

Whenever I see in any old book catalogue a work by 
one of those indefatigable gardeners, Mr. and Mrs. Loudon, 
I always buy it. The last one I got is by Mrs. Loudon, 
and is called the ' Lady's Country Companion, or how to 
enjoy a country life rationally.' It is choke-full of in- 
formation, also full of her bad taste in garden planting, 
has excellent teaching about bread and biscuit making, 
cream cheeses, &c. Her experience of goats seems to 
have been narrow, as was natural in the days before rail- 
ways had drained the milk-supply of the country for the 
big towns, and also before the breeds of goats had been 
improved by foreign blood. We find them gentle, 
affectionate, and highly intelligent animals. Her in- 
formation is so often picturesque as well as enlightening. 
For instance, she says of cabbages : ' The cabbage tribe 
is very much improved by cultivation, but the plants 
contained in it require a great deal of manure and 
frequent watering to make them succulent and good. It 
seems strange that such different plants as broccoli, 
cauli flowers, cabbages, Scotch greens, and savoys should 
all spring not only from one genus, but from one species, 
Brassica oleracea, which is, in fact, a British plant, and 
which, I have no doubt, you have seen growing on the 
cliffs of Dover, though you have no idea that a tall 
straggling plant with alternate leaves and very pretty 
flowers could be the wild cabbage.' 

' The Century Book of Gardening : a comprehensive 
work for every Lover of the Garden ' (George Newnes, 
Limited). This is a true title, and I think the book will 



JULY 253 

prove most useful, helpful, and suggestive to anyone 
wishing to learn quickly and easily about gardening. 
I bound my copy in two volumes, as its bulk and weight 
are an objection. The photographic pictures, as usual, 
exaggerate size and distance, but they give a good im- 
pression of many gardens and help people to know what 
they want. The two long lists (one of shrubs and trees 
at p. 387, the other of herbaceous plants at p. 69) alone 
make the book worth possessing, and for those too idle 
to make their own lists as I recommend, marking these 
lists would be a way of cataloguing their garden. 

After resisting the temptation for some years, I pur- 
chased the ' Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening : a 
Practical and Scientific Encyclopaedia of Horticulture for 
Gardeners and Botanists,' edited by Geo. Nicholson, A.L.S. 
My copy is in eight volumes, which makes it easier to 
handle, but it is extraordinary how puzzling the alphabet 
can be when one wants to refer to a book of this kind. It 
is an endless joy to me, and no evening can be dull or 
lonely with one of these volumes to look at under one's 
lamp. 

'The Eomance of Wild Mowers,' by Edward Step, 
1899, was strongly recommended to me, and I got it. 
The appropriateness of the title strikes me every time I 
look into its fascinating pages, which have indeed much of 
the romantic lure which makes a reader forget everything 
else even hunger while the mind is held by a favourite 
book. 

I have been reading lately, with profound interest, the 
little ' Memoire ' of Grant Allen, which came out in 1900, 
when I had not the courage to send for it, because I 
wished so terribly that I could have sent it to my son, who 
had always been fond of Grant Allen's writings. It is a 
very genuine, well-told account of a most interesting 
character. To all who know his work, even partially like 



254 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

myself, Grant Allen is a personality, and his biographer 
quotes, with regard to him, the story of Henry III. and 
Montaigne. ' I like your essays,' said the King. ' Then, 
Sire, you'll like me. I am my essays.' So might Grant 
Allen have replied. My son and I knew nothing whatever 
of the man, and of his fiction I still know nothing, but in 
his other writings he brought home to the ignorant in a 
wonderful and charming manner his own long and deep 
study of the natural sciences. A letter of his from 
Jamaica ought to be deeply interesting to all Englishmen 
who have to deal with the great difficulty of how natives 
can be justly ruled. I am always being told this is done 
better by Englishmen than men of any other nation. But 
have we not also made huge mistakes, and have we not 
much to learn in the matter of just application of laws 
which cannot be equal between white men and black ? 
He is interesting, too, about the much -vaunted flora of the 
tropics. 'The fruits of which one hears so much are 
stringy and insipid ; the flowers don't grow ; and the 
" tropical vegetation " is a pure myth.' This may be 
slightly exaggerated, but I have always suspected some- 
thing of the kind. He says, further, ' The tropics are the 
norma of nature the way things mostly are and always 
have been. They represent to us the common condition 
of the whole world during by far the greater part of its 
entire existence ; not only are they still, in the strictest 
sense, the biological headquarters, they are also the 
standard or central type by which we must explain all the 
rest of nature both in man and beast, in plant and animal.' 
All Allen's life seems to have been hampered by bad 
health and poverty, but the latter probably made him all 
he was. And when he was dying his last words to his 
son were : ' I want no memorial over my remains ; tell 
those who care for anything that I may have done to buy 
a copy of " Force and Energy." ' 



JULY 255 

The whole of this ' Memoire ' to me is extraordinarily 
touching, interesting, and inspiring. To have so little 
time left in which to learn is the true sadness of old age. 
On the first page, in Grant Allen's lovely little miniature 
writing, is the following : ' I don't know that any phrase 
or quotation has ever been of much use to me in life, but 
the two passages most frequently on my lips are probably 
these : What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole 
world and lose his own soul ? and 

To live by law, 

Acting the law we live by without fear ; 
And, because right is right, to follow right, 
Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence. 

Tennyson.' 

I never saw Grant Allen, but Mr. Clodd's book makes 
me intensely wish I had known him, and I think the book 
is what such a book should be, ' a faithful portrait of a 
most fascinating personality.' 

July 10th. In that very charming work, by Mr. Rider 
Haggard, the ' Farmer's Year Book for 1898, with illustra- 
tions by G. Leon Little,' he gives an interesting anecdote 
which touches indirectly on my favourite subject of diet. 
Under date September 8th, when speaking of the obscure 
causes of sunstroke, he says, ' Here is a curious instance 
of the power of an English sun. In a Norfolk village with 
which I am acquainted, lived a man, a retired soldier, 
who, when serving in India, had married a native woman 
and brought her home to England. This woman, while 
working in the fields at harvest-time, was struck by the 
sun and died. Certainly it seems strange that she, who 
had passed her youth beneath its terrific rays, should have 
fallen a victim to them here in foggy Britain.' It is strange, 
but may not the cause have been the great change in the 
woman's food? To pass suddenly in mid-life to an 
English labourer's diet from the Indian peasant's food of 



256 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

rice and vegetables and fruit, would be likely to set up an 
unwholesome condition of the blood which would result 
in mischief. And are not our own people who take much 
alcohol much more affected by sun than other people ? 
I use the word charming, to describe Mr. Haggard's book, 
for two reasons ; first, because it is rare to have a book on 
such a subject from a cultured point of view, and secondly, 
because it is equally rare in these days to have a cheap 
book illustrated from an artist's sketches. In this in- 
stance the illustrations are often very good indeed truth- 
ful, well-drawn, with a human touch, especially in ' The 
Dead Foal,' but, personally, I wish they had been repro- 
duced in black and white instead of brown. They are 
all, to my mind, very superior to the usual machine-made 
reproductions which make the book illustrations of to-day 
so tedious, though I quite own that now and then, at 
long intervals, the photographer, by the happy selection 
of his subject, raises himself almost to the level of an 
artist. A most conspicuous example of this is to be seen 
in Sir Harry Johnstone's important new book about the 
Uganda Protectorate in East Africa. Early in the first 
volume there is a picture called ' An Andorobo drinking 
as primitive man drank,' which in its grace of limb, free- 
dom of action, and extraordinarily lovely balance is, to 
my mind, fit to shake hands with some of the best of the 
world's statues ! I wonder, by the by, if in nature the 
bow was held in the left hand, or whether it appears in 
reproduction reversed as on the lens ? Anyhow, the 
picture is a marvellous representation of its subject. 

July I2thIn an old 'Pall Mall Gazette' I have 
found an account of a lost poem, by John Milton, which 
an Irish correspondent sent to the paper as a literary 
curiosity. As it is not included in any of the later editions 
of the poet's work, and as I am always impressed by the 
excellence of much in the daily papers which, from their 



JULY 257 

ephemeral nature, must needs be soon forgotten, I include 
it here on the chance of introducing it to a few more 

people : 

I am old and blind, 

Men point at me as smitten by God's frown, 
Afflicted and deserted of my mind, 

Yet am I not cast down. 

I am weak yet strong ! 

I murmur not that I no longer see. 
Poor, old, and helpless, I the more belong, 

Father supreme, to Thee ! 

Merciful One ! 

When men are furthest, then Thou art most near ; 
When friends pass by, my weakness shun, 
Thy chariot I hear. 

Thy glorious face 

Is leaning towards me, and its holy light 
Shines in upon my lonely dwelling-place ; 

And there is no more night. 

On my bended knee 

I recognise Thy purpose clearly shown. 
My vision Thou hast dimmed that I may see 

Thyself Thyself alone ! 

1 have naught to fear ; 

This darkness is the shadow of Thy wing. 
Beneath it I am almost sacred here 
Can come no evil thing. 

Oh ! I seem to stand 

Trembling, where foot of mortal ne'er hath been ; 
Wrapped in the radiance of Thy wondrous hand, 

Which eye hath never seen. 

Visions come and go ! 

Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng : 
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow 

Of soft and holy song. 

It is nothing no-w, 

When Heaven is opening on my sightless eyes, 
When airs from Paradise refresh my brow, 

That earth in darkness lies. 



258 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

In a purer clime, 

My being fills with rapture ; waves of thought 
Roll in upon my spirit : strains sublime 

Break over me, unsought. 

Give me now my lyre ! 

I feel the stirrings of a gift divine ; 
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire, 

Lit by no skill of mine. John Milton. 

The tone of sublime joy fulness in this poem reminds 
me of the well-known lines on ' The Celestial Surgeon,' by 
E. L. Stevenson : 

If I have faltered more or less 
In my great task of happiness ; 
If I have moved among my race 
And shown no glorious morning face ; 
If beams from happy human eyes 
Have moved me not ; if morning skies, 
Books, and my food, and summer rain 
Knocked at my sullen heart in vain : 
Lord, Thy most pointed pleasure take, 
And stab my spirit broad awake ; 
Or, Lord, if too obdurate I, 
Choose Thou, before that spirit die, 
A piercing pain, a killing sin, 
And to my dead heart run them in ! 

It is now nearly twenty years since Mr. Eobinson 
wrote his preface to the English edition of Mons. Vil- 
morin's 'Vegetable Garden,' an invaluable book in every 
way, now out of print. I mentioned it before, but return 
to it here because, although I have been about a good 
deal, I have never seen a kitchen garden, old or new, 
planted and managed as Mr. Eobinson recommends, and 
which seems to me admirable for anyone making a new 
vegetable garden. For the sake of those who have not 
the book, I quote the following : ' One point deserves 
the serious consideration of every owner of a garden, and 
that is the " muddle " method of planting the kitchen 



JULY 2S9 

garden with fruit trees and bushes, and so cutting up the 
surface with walks, edgings, &c., that the very aim of the 
garden is missed. It is quite a mistake to grow fruit- 
trees over the kitchen-garden surface. We cannot grow 
vegetables well under them, and in attempting to do so 
we destroy the roots of the trees. This induces canker 
and other troubles, and is the main cause of our poor 
garden-fruit culture. One-fourth of the space entirely 
given to vegetables, divested of walks, large hedges, old 
frame grounds, old walls, rubbish, and other impediments, 
would give a far better supply. Such a spot well culti- 
vated would be a pleasure to see. It is not merely the 
ugliness and the loss of the mixed garden which we have 
to deplore, but the troubles of the unfortunate gardener 
who has to look after such a garden in addition to other 
work. How is he to succeed with many things so hope- 
lessly mixed up? Put the fruit-trees in one part the 
higher ground, if any and the remaining part devoted to 
vegetables, cultivating the ground in the best way, and 
having it always a fertile green vegetable garden. The 
vegetables, too, would be more wholesome from continual 
good light and air, for shade from ragged and profitless 
trees and bushes and hedges is one of the evils of this 
hopeless kind of garden. The broken crops, too (for the 
most part sickly patches) are not such as one can be 
proud of. Separation of the two things, complete and 
final, is the true remedy. There should not be the root 
of a fruit-tree in the way of a vegetable-grower.' 

I agree with every word of this, but many of us have 
bought or inherited old gardens planted on the wrong 
system, and then it must be a compromise. The greatest 
difficulty is that under-gardeners will dig with a spade, 
and so cut the roots of the fruit-trees, which greatly 
injures them when they are young, and perhaps already 
making too little growth. I think fruit-trees, when once 

82 



260 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

established, for this reason do best with the ground under 
them turfed, so long as there is a bare circle round the 
tree so that it can be manured, and mulched, in dry hot 
weather. Years ago Mr. Robinson advised me to sow 
pips of apples and pears, and one of these seedling pear- 
trees has fruited well this year and looks stronger and 
healthier than any other tree in the garden. In size 
and flavour the fruit also surpasses all the rest. 

I have always found great difficulty in growing rasp- 
berries here. Every now and then, in a wet year, I get a 
certain number, but then they are more or less spoilt by 
the excess of rain. I am more and more convinced that, 
as with roses, they want better treatment than I have 
ever given them. In heavy soils, mulching with lawn- 
mowings is sufficient. Here, that is no use. I am sure 
they want heavily mulching with strong manure three 
times a year in the early winter, at flowering time, and 
at fruiting time ; though, perhaps, at the fruiting time, 
liquid manure would be best. In spite of what Professor 
Owen used to say when asked why he did not protect his 
fruit, ' They are the salaries of my orchestra, the wages 
of my choir,' I have wire-netted in a portion of my 
kitchen garden for the protection of the small fruit. 

A kind neighbour and very clever gardener has written 
out for me a rotation of crops in the kitchen garden. 
Farmers pay great attention to this, but in smallish 
gardens it is often too much neglected. 

' Divide garden into five equal parts or sections. In 
No. 5 perennials should be grown, such as asparagus, 
globe artichokes, herbs, strawberries, &c. . . . and no 
rotation applied. 

' In the four remaining parts or sections the rotation 
of crops should be as follows the first year : 

' First Part, or Section A. Generally such plants 
whose produce is stalks, leaves, or flowers. But cabbages, 



JULY 



261 



endive, lettuce, cauliflower, spinach, and (exceptionally) 
early potatoes, celery, and celeriac. 

' This section requires very heavy manuring, applied as 
follows before or during winter : 

'The soil to be dug straight down, and the soil 
scattered on the manure, which must be laid on the inclined 
surface of what has been dug. (See diagram.) 




' The spade must be inserted as upright as possible, 
and be driven in entirely till the foot is level with the soil 
to be dug. The soil thus dug will show only soil on the 
surface, but below the surface each layer of manure will 
occupy an inclined surface, and these inclined layers will 
overlap so that any plant put in will surely reach the 
manure at a depth varying from one (A) to six (B) 
inches. 

' Second Part, or Section B. Such plants as are 
cultivated for their roots : Carrots, onions, turnips, sal- 
sify, scorzonera, chicory. The soil, having been prepared 
as above the previous year, will be found full of rich 
decomposed mould. It should then be trenched, taking 
care that the upper spit is not mixed with the lower spit. 
It will then require no additional manure, root crops being 
best without it. 

' Third Part, or Section C. Such plants as are culti- 
vated for their seeds: Peas and beans. For these any 



2 6 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

addition of artificial manure or ashes may be applied 
(mulching after the bloom has commenced is recom- 
mended, not before). 

'Fourth Part, or Section D. To receive odds and 
ends : Seed beds or hotbeds ; gourds or marrows grown 
on specially prepared places for their culture ; also the 
reserve of flowers for autumn bedding. As the fourth 
section will become first section and grow A in the 
following year, the heavy manuring and the planting of 
biennials (broccoli) should here be anticipated. 

' Each of the four parts of the garden will receive 
the proper culture for A, B, C, and D in regular rotation. 
Thus the first section, which grows A the first year, will 
grow B the second year, C the third year, D the fourth 
year, and A again the fifth year, and so on.' 

July 15th. An excellent way, which I regret not 
having followed, for keeping the lists of all you have in 
your garden a plan as useful as it is instructive is to 
get what are called visiting-books, with the alphabet 
marked on the pages down the side. It is better to have 
two of these books one for shrubs, which would include 
fruit-trees, the other for perennials and annuals of all 
kinds and greenhouse plants. The very earnest student 
might add a vegetable book, with remarks as regards 
success or failure of experiments. 

July 18th. I have continued to experiment with the 
cultivation of plants in large pots. The Pelargonium 
' Pretty Polly ' is shown to full advantage grown in this 
way, and its name is appropriate, for it is very pretty. 
Any of the hardier zonal pelargoniums are satisfactory. 
One of my favourites is ' William Gladstone/ a beautiful 
rose-pink. A great improvement in the last few years 
has been made in these zonal pelargoniums. Mr. Cannell 
has a very fine collection, but in writing for them it is 
desirable to note that none should be sent with that 



JULY 263 

peculiar blue shade, verging on magenta, which kills all 
the other colours. None of the tenderer pelargoniums, 
though they live well out of doors in the summer, show 
to perfection, except under glass. Of these ' Enid ' is one 
of the best for flowering all the winter. Even out of doors, 
I think, the ivy-leaved ones do best against a wall if left in 
ordinary six-inch pots with only moderate watering and 
feeding. Inside, in this way, if the greenhouse is sunny 
they are smothered with blossoms and not too much 
leaved. They simply spend their life in flowering. ' Lord 
Derby,' which one can only describe as a salmon-scarlet 
with a large silver- splashed eye, is a very good one. This 
reminds me of the old, well-known catalogue description 
of a verbena ' " Lady B." a good bedder with straggling 
habits.' ' Lady Mary Fox ' is another of the old-fashioned 
pelargoniums that grows prettily in a large pot, and 
' Lucrece ' is one of the best pink zonals. Of my recent 
discoveries in large plants for these pots I think Cassia 
corymbosa is one of the most effective. It is of shrubby 
growth, with handsome yellow flowers, which continue 
till the frost comes. The plants can be housed in any 
rough place where actual frost is excluded. Its fault is 
that it has that rather tiresome tendency to go to bed 
very early, and when your friends come to tea its leaves 
droop and the petals turn back, and it looks shabby ; 
but the sun of next morning makes it triumphant and 
bold. I can quite recommend it. 

July 28th. I went to-day to pay a visit to Mr. 
Douglas, the well-known carnation-grower at Great 
Bookham. It is always so interesting to see a large 
number of plants of one kind grown to the greatest per- 
fection. His carnations were lovely, and many were his 
own seedlings. Once potted up, he never waters them 
with anything but plain water. I am sure success or the 
contrary must much depend on careful watering. He 



264 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

layers all his carnations in their own pots in the glass- 
houses, gives them quantities of air and sun, and never 
puts any out of doors at all. They root quickly, and by 
keeping his plants in his sunny, low greenhouses, their 
seeds ripen. 

This wet July has made Ligustrum sinense floribundum 
flower profusely, and when it does so I think it is the best 
of all the privets. It should face north, or be in partial 
shade. 

In one of my many happy visits to the East Coast in 
July, I came across, in quite a small garden on a high 
bank facing south-west, against a bright blue sky, one of 
the most beautiful results of cultivation I ever saw in any 
garden. It was the Spanish sweet-smelling rush-broom 
(Spartium junceum), one sheet of golden bloom. It is one 
of the clearest and brightest of all the yellow flowers, and 
keeps for days in water, retaining all its colour at night. 
I instantly asked how it had been treated, and found the 
bank had been well planted with a few young plants far 
apart eight or nine years ago, and that the only cultiva- 
tion it had had was cutting back hard with shears every 
year late in the summer, after it had done flowering, not 
allowing the seeds to ripen. Certainly the result was 
most satisfactory and well worth any one trying, whether 
near the sea or away from it. Even individual plants do 
far better and are hardier if well cut back. I used to lose 
them in winter, now I do not. This rush-broom planted 
on the southern side of the double gorse hedge before 
mentioned would carry on the band of golden blossom 
later into the year. Genista tinctoria planted in a very 
dry place on a wall and cut back hard becomes almost a 
dwarf plant, but flowers in great profusion. I think 
nothing so amusing as success or failure in varying the 
cultivation of certain plants, particularly in small gardens. 

I think the cimicifugas much better worth growing 



JULY 265 

than seems to be the general opinion, for I seldom see 
them. I have both C. racemosa and C. japonica in the 
middle of a large herbaceous bed. They flower at quite 
different times, require no staking, and, being well fed, 
attract considerable attention in my garden. The tall 
thalictrums, T.flavum and T. aquilegifoliiim, I have placed 
near them, and the two together make a very pretty quiet 
background for brighter flowers. I have a specimen of 
sanguisorba which grows like a cimicifuga. Most people 
think them both spiraeas. Sanguisorbas do excellently by 
rivers or ponds, and have a charming growth. 

Bartonia asteroides is an autumn flowering plant that 
appears to ordinary people to be a Michaelmas daisy, but 
its leaf and its habit are quite different. It does best not 
divided, likes a dry sunny place, is more refined and 
graceful, and lasts longer in water than any of the asters 
I know. 

One of the handsomest of the shrubs as a single 
specimen, or in front of other shrubs, is the Chinese 
Guelder rose (Viburnum placatum). Pruning back after 
flowering, and an occasional mulching, is all it requires. 
Its flowers are most striking in spring, and its foliage 
tints beautifully in autumn. 



266 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



AUGUST 

Cultivation of various plants Outdoor fig culture Rhubarb in 
France Effects of Nicotiana sylvestris alba Potatoes in 
succession Colonial branch of Swanley Horticultural College 
for Women ' Animal life ' Letter about monkey's food 
Hampton Court garden and the old railing The motor and 
Bramshill Building a house Rose planting Cooking receipts 
Autumn work in a German country-house kitchen House- 
hold receipts. 

August 1st. I have this year thoroughly conquered the 
difficulty of growing and flowering the single Datura 
cornigera(BrugmansiaKnighti). It is beautifully figured 
in the sixth edition of the ' English Flower Garden.' 
This picture would convince anyone how well worth 
growing it is. In a windy and exposed situation it is no 
use trying to grow it. What I do with it is this : It is 
kept all the winter with other half-hardy plants in a pot ; 
in the spring all the lower suckers are taken off and the 
stem is bared. If you want to increase your plant, you 
leave two or three shoots at the bottom of the plant 
earthing them up, and in the autumn you take them off. 
When you have potted up in the spring it is well, if you 
have room, to leave the plant growing on in a cool green- 
house. It is planted out at the end of May. If the head 
is too thick, a little judicious pruning improves its 
shape. The hole must be well dug and well manured, 
the earth left as a cup round the plant, liquid manured 
later on as the flower-buds form, and copiously watered 



AUGUST 267 

in dry weather. By this method I believe anyone can 
have this plant growing and flowering during the whole 
summer in a way that any gardener would feel proud of. 
The sweet Italian double datura I use as a wall plant in 
a large pot, and have a plant so old that a large knob has 
formed just above the ground, which, I suppose, is 
Nature's way of retaining moisture in its unnatural 
condition of being left in a pot. I have another of these 
double daturas planted in a bed in my greenhouse, and 
cutting it hard back once or twice a year makes it also 
flower twice. In the cultivation of cannas, too, I have 
made great progress. The common kind have luxuriant 
foliage, but the flower is poor. Two years ago I bought 
twelve good ones from Mr. Cannell. Before the frost comes 
they are taken up and put under the shelter of some 
shrub with dry earth thrown over their roots. This 
makes them die down naturally. They are then put into 
a box with dry earth and wintered in the cellar. In 
January they begin to show signs of growth ; they are 
best then taken up and very much divided and put into 
separate small pots. Some should be kept and potted on 
for greenhouse use, the others planted out in rich soil at 
the beginning of June. The great object is that they 
should be good-sized plants ready to flower at the end of 
June. Some heat may be used short of making the 
plants weak. The better sort of cannas never show to 
advantage if they flower too late. A canna called 
' Alphonse Bouvier ' makes a most splendid pot plant on 
my wall. It stands plenty of liquid manure when in good 
growing condition. Most plants stand high feeding when 
they are at their strongest and making their flowers. 
Over-manuring constantly kills young plants. 

We keep our dahlias also in the cellar. They, too, 
form better plants for a good deal of dividing when 
planted out. The shoots should be thinned out as they 



268 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

grow, and all the lower leaves removed in June or July. 
This immensely increases their flowering capabilities. 

(Enothera taraxacifolia has been a most useful plant 
here this wet summer. We have to treat it as an annual, 
as it does not stand our winters. The vagaries of seasons 
have to be much taken into account. All my dry-soil, 
sun-loving plants, which generally do so well here, have 
utterly failed this peculiar season. Another Cape perennial 
which has done splendidly this year is Venidium cal- 
endulaceum. It is of dwarf spreading growth and the 
most showy, orange, marigold-like blooms. Cuttings 
can be taken in August and kept in a greenhouse through 
the winter, but I think growing from seed in a hotbed in 
spring is the better way. 

Francoa ramosa, when grown for the greenhouse, 
should be potted on and not divided. Its wealth of 
bloom, if this point is observed, makes it a handsome 
plant for a greenhouse. 

Many people say to me, ' Do you get figs off your 
trees ? ' I answer, ' Yes, since I have known how to treat 
them.' There is no difficulty in growing good figs out 
of doors, provided first, you have a wall with south 
aspect. Second, select the right sort of fig, such as (in 
mild situations) 'BourjassotteGrise,' 'St. John,' 'Osborn's 
Prolific,' and 'Brown Turkey'. It is of no use to try 
'Castle Kennedy,' ' Negro Largo,' or many others. Third, 
if the shoots grow more than 18 inches long, the ground 
is too rich ; in this case, cut the roots freely and pinch the 
points of the roots. Fourth, no shoots must be shaded ; 
if they are, you may get figs, but you do not deserve them. 
The first frost will destroy the unripe figs. I always 
pick mine off. This information was given me by a man 
who is a most successful fig-grower. It is better to prune 
figs in the spring because some of the shoots may be 
damaged by frost if done in autumn. 



AUGUST 269 

Two or three years ago, visiting in a French country 
house in August, to my surprise, the most excellent 
rhubarb tart was served hot for the English guests ! I 
immediately thought, ' Oh ! a new and refined kind which 
tastes just like plums; how wonderful these French 
are ! ' On inquiry, I found the plants had come from 
England, and that, the family being away, the French 
gardener had been bored by their enormous growth and 
had cut them down in May. Their new green growth 
made this delicious autumn variety. I recommend it to 
all, as it comes in most usefully when the small fruit is 
over. The plants must not be forced or cut for eating 
till May. 

August 3rd. In a beautiful old garden close to the 
Thames, I saw a simple but really lovely effect of garden 
planting. In a small, inner, walled garden were some 
old yews, sombre and dark, and in front, instead of the 
ordinary mixed border or the eternal autumn yellows, 
was an enormous bed entirely planted and very well 
done, not too close together with Nicotiana sylvestris 
alba. Its beautiful long white flowers stood out against 
the dark background, and in the pale evening light the 
effect was magical. One great advantage of this plant 
over the old Nicotiana affinis, is that it does not close by 
day, but, in spite of this, affinis is the best for small 
gardens. The other must be massed and have such a lot 
of room to look really well. Gardeners are rather afraid 
of it, as some years it fails and only goes to leaf. I think 
this is greatly owing to treating it too well in the way of 
rich soil. 

Against autumn and deciduous trees and shrubs in 
the front of park-like scenery, nothing looks so handsome 
as very large clumps of yellow flowers shading up to 
orange, letting montbretias be the highest touch towards 
the red. The endless varieties of perennial sunflowers 



270 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

helianthus and harpaliums, rudbeckias, &c. make these 
easy and successful, and they can be varied and improved 
year by year, as they are all the better for replanting late 
in each autumn. Mr. Eobinson gives such a splendid 
list of the varieties of these sunflowers that I nesd not 
repeat. The great thing to note is the variety in their 
heights. Lately, a double rudbeckia, ' Golden Glow/ has 
been added to these yellow autumn flowers and is most 
effective and useful. In the latest of autumn sunshine 
these yellow flowers look beautiful against autumn 
leaves. 

For mixed borders, a low-growing white phlox ' La 
Eeine ' is a very good one, I find. If cut down, it flowers 
again in autumn. 

All the hardy statices (sea lavender) do well in this 
light soil and, had they more space than I can give them, 
would form a beautiful patch of blue-grey colour in this 
bad month for bloom. They are easily increased, as they 
are what is called root-plants. You dig them up in- 
tending to move them ; probably, the bit you left behind 
produces a finer spray of flower than the large root you 
take away. That means that every piece of root will 
grow if in a sunny, dry situation. 

For those who like unshowy plants with various 
charms of their own, the hardy euphorbias (spurges) are 
a fascinating family to cultivate. The well-known Cape 
spurge (E. Lathyris) is a plant with a distinct habit and 
considerable beauty of foliage and demeanour when well 
grown. It sows itself in this garden, and I merely pull 
up those that are not wanted. E, pilosa and E. amyg- 
daloides are very attractive in spring from their yellow 
flowers, which look like leaves when little else is in 
bloom. 

I have grown for years Veratrum nigrum merely for 
the pleasure of the growth of its handsome, green, crinkled 



AUGUST 271 

leaves in spring, and this wet summer brought me the 
surprise of seeing it throw up its unusual tall flower-spike 
with numberless blackish purple blossoms. There is a 
white variety which I shall now feel encouraged to get. 
They are handsome alpines, rarely seen, for they do not 
thrive in a dry rockery. Cineraria maritima, that distinc- 
tive perennial with grey leaves, I used to lose year after 
year, when I first lived here. Then it struck me to plant 
it on the southern side of a moisture-absorbing shrub, and 
ever since it has flourished year by year, and is one of the 
joys of late autumn. 

I think most gardeners plant their spring potatoes all 
at once ; I find it a great advantage to plant a few rows 
every month up to the beginning of August, as this 
continues much longer the delicacy so prized by many 
people of little waxy new potatoes. Seakale beet is a 
vegetable which does not seem to be generally known. 
I have grown it for some years, and, though it is not 
extraordinary in any way, it makes a pretty dish as 
described in receipts. 

One of the things that my readers never seem to have 
forgiven me was my condemnation of the Virginia 
creeper and the Ampelopsis Veitchii in my first books. 
They never seem to understand that it had nothing to do 
with dislike of the lovely plant, but with the way it was 
misused, and I am as convinced as ever that, like ivy, it 
does spoil beautiful brickwork. This year I have been 
haunted by someone quoting me as an authority as to 
when the Virginia creeper was first grown on London 
houses. When I put it as late as 1841, it was a great 
misstatement. J. C. Loudon, in his ' Arboretum et 
Fruticetum Britannicum,' published in 1838, says, 'The 
Virginia creepers grow freely in the smoke of cities 
and in London, and it was introduced into England in 
1629.' 



272 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

I have lately received papers with regard to establish- 
ing a Colonial branch of the Horticultural College at 
Swanley, Kent. This with a special view to the im- 
mediate demand for competent women in South Africa, 
in which country there is a present deficiency of 70,000 
Englishwomen. The proposal seems to me well worthy 
the consideration of those interested in emigration 
questions. The Horticultural College, in its women's 
branch, seems to have been suffering considerably from 
want of funds. 

Last month came out a new periodical called ' Animal 
Life.' I spent a delightful five minutes in front of it at a 
railway bookstall. It begins with a picture of Sir Harry 
Johnstone's new animal, the Okapi. I am sure many 
especially young people are pining to see this new 
creature : the stuffed specimen is at the Natural History 
Museum at South Kensington. The first article is by 
Professor Garner and called ' Monkey Land,' with such 
pictures of monkeys ! I said to myself, ' I must buy this 
new magazine. First numbers are always the best.' It 
was only Id. The next number had an article on the 
great apes, by Sir Harry Johnstone. That finished me, 
so now I take it in. I wrote to Sir Harry to ask for a few 
more details about the food of the apes in Africa. He very 
kindly answered as follows : ' About apes. They are to 
me a profoundly interesting subject. I look upon them 
as quite half human. Their food consists of the fruit of 
several species of Amomum (a plant allied to ginger and 
to the banana) ; of the core or heart of some palms or of 
other trees ; of mushrooms (most abundant and succulent 
in the great forest) ; of the plums of the parinarium-tree, 
and the fruits of many other forest trees ; of roots (in 
the case of the chimpanzees, of young birds, rats, beetle 
grubs, and other animal food) ; and, finally, of plunder 
from the forest negroes' plantations. The great apes are 



AUGUST 273 

mainly vegetable feeders, but certain chimpanzees readily 
devour flesh.' 

The amomum (from a, not, and momos, impurity ; 
in reference to the quality of counteracting poison) re- 
ferred to here is described in the ' Dictionary of Garden- 
ing ' as a stove herbaceous perennial, chiefly aromatic, 
and formerly used in embalming. I wonder whether the 
fact of the chimpanzees' taste for flesh points to a 
possibility of their evolving through a meat-eating phase 
into humanity ? Sir Harry Johnstone calls them the most 
human of all the apes. 

August 9th. I find in my note-book of last year that 
I went to Hampton Court and never saw its gardens in 
such great perfection. It was as beautiful as could be, 
bathed in soft golden sunlight, not foggy or misty, as, alas ! 
it so often is from smoke, but with clear pearly distances. 
The flowers were really gorgeous, and one saw in per- 
fection the modern kind of bedding. The last of the 
carpet beds have disappeared. In not one bed could the 
earth be seen, no pains and no expense having been 
spared. A lovely arrangement of red and white bouvardias 
scented the cool, moist air, and everything had as much 
water as it wanted. I have never seen a more successful 
public garden. I heard afterwards that all this meant a 
new gardener, and I note it now as an encouragement to 
those who are depressed by failure in their own gardens, 
for this year, the weather being unfavourable, the whole 
thing was utterly different. The herbaceous borders had 
gone to leaf and many of the beds had failed. The 
restoration of the old iron railing, near the river, at the 
end of William and Mary's garden, is a great public 
benefit. It appears that this railing had been carted 
about to various places, some reaching as far as Edin- 
burgh, to save the expense of buying handsome gates 
for public or Crown property. Its restoration to its old 

T 



2 7 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

foundation does much credit to Lord Esher's manage- 
ment during his term of office as First Commissioner of 
Works. 

This year, for a short time, we had a motor-car, and I 
could not help thinking that my agonising fears on first 
driving in it must have been exactly what our grand- 
parents felt when they first used railways. When I meet 
these things along the road which, alas ! I do very often 
what with their dangerous pace, their horrible dust, not to 
mention the smell that poisons the country air, the only 
expression that comes to my lips is, ' Beastly things, how 
I hate them ! ' But when you are in one all is changed. 
There is a sense of power and independence, and almost 
an exultant feeling of rushing through the air and cover- 
ing long distances without effort. This is, I confess, an 
enjoyable experience. Besides, there is the great pleasure 
of enlarging one's area, and of seeing in comfort places 
and towns one could only reach before by two drives and 
a railway journey. The distant visit I enjoyed most was 
to Brams Hill, the famous Jacobean house in Hampshire. 
Such a lovely place and house, quite unspoilt by restoring 
and changing! It is close to Kingsley's old home at 
Eversley, and is so admirably described by Lucas Malet 
in her novel, ' Sir Richard Calmady,' that I felt the thrill 
of a human history when shown the hall where Sir 
Eichard's father died, and the panelled bedroom where 
the agonised mother pressed the naked baby to her 
bosom after making her terrible discovery of its de- 
formity. Booking herself to and fro in a paroxysm of 
rebellious grief, she cried, ' God is unjust ! He takes 
pleasure in fooling us. God is unjust.' From the 
white-panelled old bedroom on the first floor one 
walked straight into a large sitting-room, from the 
windows of which one could see the broad lawn, with the 
summer woods sloping away behind it, where Lady 



AUGUST 275 

Calmady's brother shot the horse. No one could have 
chosen a more perfect background for such a story. The 
house was, I believe, built by the same architect who 
built Holland House, and was intended for the residence 
of Henry, Prince of Wales, son of James I., who died 
young. Its position is my ideal one, and Kingsley says 
of it, ' It stands high, looking out far and wide over the 
rich lowland country from its eyrie of dark pines.' The 
guide-book says, ' The Scotch firs in this park are among 
the oldest and finest in England.' I suppose Scotch firs 
were the fashion when Scotland's king came to rule over 
England. We were pressed to return by the kind owners 
of Brams Hill, and I should much have liked to do so, for 
one never could tire of its beauties, of the old treasures 
it contains, and of the unprofaned air of antiquity which 
surrounds it. But, alas ! the motor departed with 
its owner, and I have had to go back to my ten-mile 
radius. 

On the homeward journey we passed a large open 
space planted with rows and rows of oak-trees, which was 
done by the Government at the time of the Napoleonic 
wars, in a panic that there would be no oak left in 
England wherewith to build ships. Though a hundred 
years old they are still quite small, and as the exact date 
of their planting is known, these straight alleys will be of 
interest to future generations. After driving through the 
glorious old nature-planted woods of Brams Hill, it was 
curious to note the contrast in this dry carrying-out of an 
officially ordered planting. Even to the future genera- 
tions who see these oaks in their old age, they will never 
recall a wood such as, in its wild beauty, suggested the 
French proverb which Miss Una Van Artevelt Taylor 
adopts in the following poem one of a charming series 
written by her for the ' Westminster Gazette ' : 



276 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

NOUS WIRONS PLUS AU BOIS, LES LAURIERS 
SONT COUPES 

The path is there the hedge of high hornbeams, 

Grey-stemmed, brown-leaved, and then the gate, and then 
The little wood we called the Wood of Dreams : 
That wood our hearts will never find again. 
Nous n'irons plus au bois, for well we know 
Les lauriers sont coupes, long, long, long ago. 

In that green place the woodland sunlight streams 

On windflowers white, and every April day 
Paints bluer violets. But our fair-faced Dreams 
As shadows came, as ghosts have passed away. 
Nous n 'irons plus au bois ; nor here nor there 
Our dreams abide, and all the wood is bare. 

The path is there the sudden silver gleams 

Of birch-boughs through the dusk. New eyes will see 
June foxgloves blossom ; to the Wood of Dreams 
New dreamers and new dreams will come but we 
Nous n'irons plus au bois, ah no, ah no ; 
Les lauriers sont coupes even, even so. 

I heard the other day of an American couple visiting 
one of the most beautiful and typical of our south-country 
places, with broad, soft, velvety green lawns. They 
were wild with astonishment and admiration. At last 
the wife exclaimed, ' Oh ! Jack, however do they get 
these lawns here ? I can't understand it. We can't do 
it.' Her husband replied, ' Well, my dear, I guess we 
can't have the two centuries of mowing which these 
places have had ; that may have something to do with it.' 
He was, in a sense, right : some of our old places have 
had over three centuries of mowing. But the climate, 
too, is answerable for a great deal. The cold winters, 
even of the centre of Europe, entirely prevent grass from 
growing as it does with us. We could get a better lawn 
in three years than they could ever have. There is no 
doubt that the British Isles have a quite wonderful 



AUGUST 277 

climate for gardening, though it is little suited for sitting 
out, which many people seem to think is the chief use of 
a garden. 

As I am always planning and planting imaginary 
gardens, or thinking how I should alter the gardens of 
my friends, so I am always building imaginary houses. 
Nothing I see satisfies my ideas of what a modern 
' health house ' should be that is to say, a house which 
is not only a home, but a model-dwelling for acquiring 
the highest degree of physical health compatible with our 
modern life. In small houses and great houses, in 
villadom and in hall, the first thought seems to be that 
the outside of the house should be pretty, or ornamental, 
or picturesque. Now, no one admires beauty more than 
I do, but the first law I should lay down to myself would 
be that the inside of the house, both as regards comfort 
and health, should come before any structural external 
beauty. I do not deny that every house must be adapted 
to its owner, and, of new houses, the one that fulfils this 
best of any that I know is the one which Miss Jekyll lives 
in, which she describes in her first two books. My 
house would of course have to be quite different. The 
outside appearances would have to be very simple and 
very plain. White walls with a red-tiled roof for modest 
houses such as I am speaking of seem to me most suited 
to the English climate. My house should be low, only 
two storeys, but covering a good deal of ground. Beauti- 
ful brick chimneys, and many of them for the sake of 
having my fireplaces in the part of the room best suited 
to its requirements, would be the principal additional out- 
side expense. By beautiful chimneys, I mean such as 
stand out good in form against a clear sky, like those 
which were built to farmhouses three hundred years ago. 
The roof over the windows might have eaves, but there 
must be no eaves where creepers are to be grown. Eaves 



278 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were used before gutters were invented to carry the rain- 
water from the roof and away from the walls. In those 
days, the drip fell on the roots of the plants ; now there is 
no drip, so the plants must receive the rain as it falls if 
they are to be healthy. The absence of eaves being ugly, 
the difficulty might perhaps be solved by having a 
slightly perforated gutter which would allow enough water 
through for the needs of the plants below, but would 
carry off the bulk of the rain-water, but I fear this would 
make the walls damp. But could my little white house 
ever be pretty, whether it cost much or little, seeing that 
it would have to be nearly all windows enormous 
windows, tall and broad ? I hear most people saying^ 
' How frightful and how uncomfortable ! ' It is not only 
a matter of air, as that can be got more or less by small 
windows if intelligently placed and made to open easily, 
but to catch all the sun possible in our sunless climate. 
In the sitting-rooms the windows must be in part glass 
doors reaching to the ground ; for to live in the country 
and not be able to watch nature, the birds pecking, the 
flowers growing, &c., when sitting in a room, seems to 
me a great drawback. Not only must it be possible 

for me 

While safe beneath the roof, 

To hear with drowsy ear the plash of rain, 

but I must see it : I must also, without getting up from 
my employment, be able to see the great storm-clouds 
roll up from the horizon, and the sun rise and set all 
this with firm big windows that do not rattle in the wind 
and that a child or an invalid could open or shut easily. 
What have I ever seen that comes nearest to these ideas ? 
All old English cottages have small windows, and the 
tall windows of the beautiful old Jacobean houses are 
generally very narrow, and the leaded panes do not open 
enough. Perhaps some of the Georgian houses built 



AUGUST 279 

quite at the end of the eighteenth century, full of the 
recollection of their simple Dutch origin, are most like 
what I want, but even these have not enough window 
space for me. I think I should like my drawing-room 
something like the old Queen Anne orangeries, only not of 
course nearly so high or large, and the morning-room 
might have circular windows like some of the old Brighton 
houses. The woodwork would have to be strong, and 
there comes in either initial expense or endless painting. 
I am even Philistine enough now and then to like a large 
pane of plate glass over a fireplace let into the wall, like 
a window without a frame, provided the view is good. 
The flue is led up on each side. 

For ordinary windows, twelve by nine inch panes do 
very well for not too heavy a framework. For exposed 
situations, where windows opening to the ground are 
liable to catch the full force of the west wind, a plan by 
which the heavy plate-glass door slides back in a strong 
iron groove, top and bottom, with a handle inside and 
outside of the framework to move it easily, is far the 
most serviceable and convenient that I have ever seen. 
In bedrooms where the whole of one side of a wall is 
window, there may be a window-seat across, but then the 
glass should come down to within a foot of the seat ; but I 
think shelves under the seat with sliding doors are better 
and more useful than the customary lockers. Doors that 
are cut in half like old cottage and stable doors have 
been too little used of late. 

My dining-room should always face west, and I think 
it a great objection to have the fireplace in the middle 
or at the window-end of a dining-room. It should be at 
the far end, on one side, so that no one has to sit with 
back to the fire ; the table being as near as possible to 
the window. I should never allow hot-air pipes in any 
house of mine, though a stove or large fireplace in the 



2 8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

middle of the house is almost essential for keeping it dry. 
I do not like the usual central hall as a sitting-room, 
because I do not come into the country to sit within 
prison walls, and these halls are generally lighted from 
the top, or from some dark courtyard shut out by opaque 
glass, or the windows are so high up there is no seeing 
out of them. To come in on a fine afternoon, with the 
views perhaps at their very best, to have tea in a darkened 
room, seems to be a non-appreciation of the best the 
country has to give us. Here, again, I know most people 
will disagree with me. I have heard these halls more 
praised than anything else in modern architecture. 

I suppose it would be difficult to manage, but I think 
the best bedrooms ought to have small balconies to 
facilitate air-baths night and morning, or even for sleep- 
ing outside in fine weather. The modern fashion of 
roofed alcoves with open sides and glass to the north 
makes very delightful open-air rooms. Paved yards, too, 
are full of capabilities for sitting out, or for miniature 
pot-gardening. What I like best is sitting in my own 
room with all the windows and doors wide open. This is 
what most people dread as a full draught, but I have 
never found any harm from it. Perhaps a safer plan in 
bedrooms is to have two windows high up towards the 
ceiling, both of which are kept open, as a single window 
in a room, however wide open, does not properly venti- 
late it, because it creates no draught. 

I think the rich man has yet to arise who will build a 
house and furnish it well and in good taste according to 
the ideas, inventions, and manufactures of his own day, 
or perhaps twenty years before. A glimmer of the 
beautiful uses that might be made, for instance, of glass 
and iron was to be seen in the Petit Palais of the French 
Exhibition of 1900. Imitation of old things is in no sense 
true evolution. 



AUGUST 281 

In the building of houses I think the greatest care and 
thought are necessary in order to prevent the builders 
from throwing out the earth of the foundations in a way 
that produces a flat space in front of the house. Given 
that the house is on the slope of a hill, or even on the 
flat, I would rather throw up the earth into a large mound 
on the north or north-east and plant this with any kind 
of shrub liked by the owner, than in any way make a 
terrace in front of the house. Even in the case of making 
terraces, they should be laid out after the house is built, 
and are far prettier if they slope away from the house 
than if they give the appearance of the house being in a 
hole. Having decided where the foundation earth is to 
go, and how it is to be planted in a manner that will 
cause the greatest protection with the least exclusion of 
view, one must try to make up one's mind what one 
really wants most. I came here to a ready-made 
villa garden which I knew could never be really beauti- 
ful or -picturesque ; therefore I decided that what I 
wanted was to grow the greatest number of plants and 
flowers for picking and giving away which could be grown 
healthily in a small space. This can only be done by 
growing an immense variety of plants, as constant suc- 
cession is the only method by which I could gain my 
object. One must always reckon that in certain years 
whole families of flowers fail altogether, so that, besides 
the seasons, one has to provide for wet and dry years. 

The beautiful combinations of flower effects which 
come in all gardens as if by chance, come to me also, 
though sometimes, I confess, by design ; but if I were to 
build my imaginary house it would be on an uncultivated 
piece of ground say, wood, common, or field and then 
I think my object would be to keep the character of the 
ground as it was. In some ways the flat field would 
be the most difficult to manage, and then an effect of 



282 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

wildness would have to be given by breaking up the 
ground and making miniature mountains and valleys. 
In a small space this would be impossible, so that a 
small cottage garden must be straight in design, a 
mixture of flowering shrubs and herbaceous plants. 
The kitchen garden and the orchard would be kept 
apart, as I said before. Endless small hedges would 
have a charming effect on flat ground spring beds 
divided by well-clipped hedges of Bibes sanguitiea ; the 
Japanese loniceras, which flower three times as well 
if grown on short railings of bamboo-sticks instead of 
against a house and pruned twice a year ; the Penzance 
sweet-briars in fact, the combinations for cutting up 
flat ground are innumerable and would occur to any 
good gardener. Long lavender-bordered walks would 
also look very well. I was told this year that the spike- 
nard of the Bible was made from oil of lavender. This 
may have been an adulteration of the ancients ! for Anne 
Pratt says it was made from the spikenard-grass, nardus. 
She adds : ' When an army rides over the plains of 
Persia, covered with this tall grass, an almost overpower- 
ing sweetness, arising from its stems and roots, fills the 
surrounding air. The ointment which takes its name 
from this grass was used among the rich Jews at their 
baths and public feasts. ... Its value among the 
ancients may be inferred from the mention made by 
Horace, that the quantity contained in a small box of 
precious stone was regarded as equal in worth to a large 
vessel of wine.' 

I mentioned before the difficulties of wood-gardening. 
The heather and gorse ground which I mean when I say 
' common,' is so beautiful in itself and so easily enriched 
by plants that require little but what they find, that it 
would be undesirable in any way to spoil its nature, and 
all plants that would not grow without moisture would 



AUGUST 283 

have to be relegated to the kitchen garden. Even there 
it would be better to keep the varieties for each season 
apart, as no real gardener minds large bare places where 
plants are resting, any more than a mother minds her 
children being asleep. The toil and trouble of a garden 
close to the house is that its beauty is expected to be 
perennial and successive through every month in the 
year. This is of course impossible, but even striving for 
it entails immense care and labour if no month is to be 
without outdoor flowers. 

Everybody tries to grow roses, and in many soils they 
succeed without trouble ; but for the best I ever saw in the 
first year of planting, the bed was made in a way worth 
recording. The earth was dug out two feet deep and 
replaced by carefully prepared soils, but instead of mixing 
them all together, or laying the clay at the bottom as is 
usually done, the three soils were laid diagonally one on 
top of the other, clay, richly-manured loam, and the top 
spit. In this way the roots of the freshly planted roses 
found that which they required, at different levels. 

August 26th. My experience in cooking has been 
very different from what it used to be, for I seldom go 
out, and my own food at home is of the very simplest. 
Cookery books of all kinds have become so inexpensive 
that I shall content myself with naming just a few books 
which have come to my knowledge of late, and only give 
in addition such simple cooking hints as experience has 
recently taught me, and which concern health rather 
than gastronomy ; and some still cheaper receipts will 
be found in the chapter called ' Wholesome Pood at 3s. 
a Week.' 

The opposition to simpler foods and the dislike to 
the simple receipts I now give are so widespread that my 
old sympathy with the other side of the question makes 
me give the following little newspaper story of an 



284 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

American Judge's opinion of vegetarianism : ' The Courts 
have granted a divorce to a wife in Cleveland, Ohio, 
whose husband was not only a vegetarian himself, but 
insisted on her following the same regime. She was not 
aware of his dietetic eccentricity until after marriage, 
but she soon found she would have to eat vegetarian 
dishes or go without eating altogether. At last she 
packed her trunks and went off. The Judge ruled that 
in denying his wife the food which to her was a neces- 
sity of life he was guilty of neglect.' 

' Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen, or How to Cook 
Vegetables/ by Janet Boss. (Dent & Co., 1899.) There 
are now innumerable vegetarian cookery books, but I find 
this one most useful, perhaps because it is rather a 
nation's cooking of vegetables than a vegetarian cookery 
book. It is by the same Mrs. Boss of Poggio Gherardo, 
Florence, who sells such excellent olive oil made on her 
own estate. I used to think much change was very 
essential in housekeeping. I now think if people are 
well they like things best dressed most days alike, or 
nearly so, with only the change the seasons bring. 

' Hilda's Diary of a Cape Housekeeper ' is a book every- 
one going to the Cape should get, as it would be very 
useful. It gives many hints besides cooking receipts, 
and an account of the Cape climate every month in the 
year. 

Her former book, ' Hilda's Where Is It of Beceipts,' 
was much appreciated. (Chapman & Hall.) 

A good little book for humble households is to be got 
for one penny, from the School of Cookery, Colquitt 
Street, Liverpool. It is cheap cooking, but not vege- 
tarian. 

An excellent Vegetable Soup. Take two carrots, 

two onions, two turnips, a little spinach, lettuce, endive, 
and son-el. Tie up together a sprig of every sort of herb 



AUGUST 285 

you have in the garden. Boil all in water. When the 
hard vegetables are cooked, take out the sweet herbs, rub 
the whole through a fine sieve, make it not too thick by 
adding the water the vegetables were boiled in, add a 
little butter, pepper, and salt, and serve hot. 

Cheese Salad. For a small luncheon dish, cheese 
salad can be quickly made by putting thinly-sliced or 
grated cheese in the middle of the dish, surrounding it 
with lettuce, endive, or cress, and covering all with a 
good salad dressing. 

Globe Artichokes may be economically treated by 
boiling in the usual way, taking out the choke without 
disturbing the leaves, making a puree of the bottom with 
butter, pepper, and salt, and serving it hot on fried toast 
cut into rounds. The leaves are kept together and served 
cold the next day standing upright in the dish in a little 
mixed oil, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Watercress 
cooked exactly like spinach makes a useful early spring 
green vegetable. Landcress and chervil mixed, cooked 
in the same way, make an equally good autumn puree. 

To Keep a Cake Fresh put an apple with it in the 
storing tin. This keeps it soft for several days on the 
same principle as the well-known receipt for keeping 
tobacco moist by enclosing a few potato peelings in the 
jar with it. 

Chocolate Toast. Take some pieces of the very 
best French chocolate, melt it in a little hot water to the 
thickness of gooseberry-fool. Pour this hot on rounds of 
fried toast. 

A New Jam, and the very best I ever tasted, is made 
of morella cherries mixed with raspberries. 

Onions and Sauce. Peel little onions, and boil 
them tender. Make a sauce apart of butter and flour 
cooked a light brown coffee colour, and mixed with water. 
Stir the onions into this, and serve. Another way is to 



286 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

fry the small onions in butter till a nice brown, then 
braise till tender, and serve hot. 

ChOU Braise. Take a nice spring cabbage, split it, and 
wash in salt and water ; put it in a saucepan of boiling 
water for ten minutes. Take it up, drain well on a sieve, 
put it in a casserole pot for one hour to braise with a 
little butter, and pepper and salt to taste, but no stock 
or water. 

ChOU a la Creme is made when cabbages have come 
to their full maturity, and are hard of heart and large of 
circumference. Boil till quite tender, chop roughly, and 
then pass through a hair sieve ; add thick cream fairly 
liberally, and serve ' piping hot ' and well seasoned, with 
golden-brown strips of fried bread leaning up against the 
cabbage all round. 

Pommes a la Caramel. Four large apples, lb. 

lump sugar, 2 oz. butter, half a cup cold water. Make a 
caramel of the sugar, water, and butter by boiling care- 
fully till it is like a thick brown cream ; flavour it by 
putting in the peelings and pips of the apples. Pass the 
syrup through a sieve, and put it into a saucepan with 
the apples whole or quartered. Stand on the stove to 
simmer for one hour, when the apples should be nice and 
soft, and look a golden brown floating in the syrup, which 
is nearly reduced to a jelly. 

Gnocchi. Bring \ pint milk to boiling point, and 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of semolina, 2 oz. grated cheese, 
1 oz. butter, a little onion. Boil for fifteen minutes in 
double pan, or constantly stirring, turn out, and when cold 
make up into cakes, which flour, and fry a golden brown. 

Puree of Potatoes. Boil in salted water, drain well, 
put back on the fire in stewpan with butter and cream, 
and stir till there are no lumps, and it is about as thick 
as bread sauce. It must not boil. 

Green Sauce. Taking a handful of parsley and one 



AUGUST 287 

of chervil, and some leaves of tarragon, scald with hot 
water, put into a mortar ; do the same with a few leaves 
of spinach, add two gherkins and two spoonfuls of capers ; 
pound all together with a piece of fresh butter, then 
pass the whole through a fine sieve ; mix this into white 
bechamel (see ' Dainty Dishes ') sauce at the last moment. 
Stir and warm up must not boil. Pour this over the 
vegetable the moment before serving. Boiled fish, 
poached eggs, turnips, carrots, branches of seakale, beet, 
oxalis, Jerusalem artichokes, celeriac, waxy potatoes, are 
all good with this sauce. 

Macaroni and Portugal Onion. Soak some 

macaroni in a little milk : cut some very thin slices off a 
Spanish onion. Cook the onion a little first, then add 
the macaroni, and boil till tender. Drain off any milk 
left, and serve dry. 

Apple Meringue. Stew some apples as for apple 
sauce ; when very hot stir in the yolks of one or two 
eggs. Whip the whites and throw over the apple; brown 
in the oven or in front of the fire. 

French Way of Cooking Endive. Boil the leaves 
in lots of salt and water, just as you would spinach or 
cabbage. When tender, pour the whole thing into a 
large sieve, and when the hot water has run off put 
under a tap, and let the cold water run over it in quan- 
tities. This applies to all green vegetables boiled in 
salt water cabbage, sorrel, cos lettuce, cabbage lettuce, 
&c. Then put the endive on a chopping-board, or, if 
required very smooth, pass through a fine hair sieve ; 
in both these cases return it to the fire after having 
first put a pat of butter to dissolve with one spoonful 
of Vienna flour. Do not put the vegetables in before 
the butter and flour are well amalgamated. When this 
is achieved, stir the vegetable well up with the butter 
and flour ; let it simmer another fifteen minutes, add a 



288 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

little cream or even milk quite at the last moment to 
make it soft and pretty. It must not be thicker than a 
thin puree. 

Waxy potatoes, if wanted plain, are best first boiled, 
and then put in the oven to roast on a tin without fat or 
butter. 

Cut raw well -bleached winter chicory leaves as thin 
as possible, and mix with hot beetroot for a winter 
salad. 

Seakale Beet (Cotes de blettes), large ribbed 

leaves. Cut the white ribs in lengths, like a finger and 
as thick as a little finger, boil in a little salt and water 
till tender, having left them in floured water while 
peeling, which keeps them white. Dress with a white 
bechamel. The green parts of the leaves are passed 
through a fine sieve and dressed exactly like spinach. 
For serving you put the white ribs with their sauce in the 
centre and the green all round. 

Potato Salad. Boil the potatoes in their skins at 
least two hours before dinner. Cut them in slices a 
quarter of an inch thick, put them in a china bowl with 
one or two soup ladles of hot broth or vegetable stock, 
and let them soak and remain tepid till dinner-time. 
They should so absorb the broth that they look dry. When 
served mix with a thin mayonnaise sauce, and surround 
with young lettuces previously dressed with oil and 
vinegar. They can be dressed with beetroot, cucumber, 
tomatoes, or herrings. 

Milk Soup. Cut one onion into small pieces, put 
them in a saucepan with some butter, let it fry until it is 
chestnut colour, then add the milk. Let it boil for some 
minutes, then pass it through a strainer and serve. Fry 
well in butter small pieces of bread and serve separately. 

To Bottle Fruit. Put clean cold water into the 
bottles, and sink them in hot water till the water boils in 



AUGUST 289 

the bottles ; cover up top and let it get cold. Put the 
fruit fresh picked into a hot oven for a few minutes, take 
out and cover up till cold. Then drop it into the water 
in bottles ; no sugar, nothing ; cork and seal down at 
once. 

Barley Water. 4 oz. pearl barley, 2 quarts water. 
Thoroughly wash the barley, add the water and boil till 
reduced to 1 quart. Strain through hair sieve (previously 
scalded) and press through some of the barley to thicken. 
Time to reduce three or four hours. 

Semolina Pudding 1 . Boil some milk and sugar to 
taste (best rather sweet), sprinkle in some semolina to 
thicken it, flavour with vanilla if liked. Leave it to cook 
slowly by the fire till as dry as bread-sauce. Then butter 
a pie-dish well with fresh butter and pour in the mixture. 
Bake in an oven till thoroughly brown. 

Sauce Sevillane (enough for two or three people). 
The grated rinds of one orange and one lemon, the juice 
of both, two dessert- spoonfuls of red currant jelly, a little 
cayenne pepper or not. Mix together, and pass through a 
hair sieve. Serve cold in a sauceboat. Good with cold 
meat, or tomatoes cut in slices. Heated, with the addition 
of a tablespoonful of port wine, it is good with roast duck. 

Boiled Cheese. Take a piece of the best English 
cheddar, not Canadian, and melt it. Add a tablespoonful 
of white sauce made with 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour and \ 
gill milk, all well cooked. Serve in dish with lamp under 
it. Eat with dry toast. 

Chestnuts as a Sweet. Peel and boil some large 
sweet chestnuts in water. Prepare a syrup apart, and 
drop in the chestnuts as it boils, and let them get cold 
together. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

Stewed Fig's. Many children are fond of stewed 
figs, but I think they will be found better for everybody 
if, instead of being stewed, they are steeped overnight in 



29 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

enough cold soft water to cover them. A few drops of 
fresh lemon-juice is a grateful addition to grown-up palates 

How to Make a Dry Curry. These directions are 
for 1 Ib. meat, raw preferred, cold will do. Cut two 
onions and one apple in thin slices from top to bottom, fry 
them in a good lot of butter in a china-lined frypan till 
they are golden brown, drain them quite dry from the 
butter, and put them into a Nottingham jar (the round, 
flat shape with lid is the best). Put the butter back into 
the frypan, cut your meat into large dice (no fat or skin), 
fry the meat till it is brown, drain it from the butter, and 
put it into the jar with the apple and onions. 

Put the butter back into the frypan, mix one dessert- 
spoonful of Mrs. Atkinson's curry powder smoothly with 
it, and add two tablespoonfuls of stock ; boil it for 
half a minute, and then empty into the jar with the other 
things, and stir well with a wooden spoon kept on purpose. 
Stand it on the hob and let it simmer slowly for six hours, 
stirring occasionally. The great secret is the slow 
cooking. Should it get too dry, add a little more stock or 
milk. Taste the curry, as some meat absorbs more 
powder than others ; if not flavoured strongly enough, add 
a little more powder just before serving. A little fine- 
grated cocoa-nut added is a great improvement. Serve 
with rice and chutney. 

The above curry powder and chutney are to be got 
wholesale at 13 Church Street, Windsor, or retail at any 
of the London stores. I never eat these things myself 
now, but I am told this kind is exceedingly good, and I 
give the receipt for the many who like curried vegetables. 

Dal Bhat (Indian breakfast dish). Get from the 
chemist \ Ib. ground turmeric, \ Ib. roasted and ground 
coriander seed. Mix and keep in a bottle. 

Soak a pint of lentils in cold water overnight. In the 
morning shred two or three onions, brown them in 



AUGUST 291 

clarified butter, and add a tablespoonful of the mixed 
powder. Strain the water off the lentils, and put them in 
a saucepan with some stock or milk, and the browned 
onions, &c. Put on the lid and simmer gently till the 
lentils are quite soft. If they get at all dry, add a little 
more stock or milk. Serve with a separate dish of boiled 
rice as for curry. The cooked Dal can be kept in a 
basin, and warmed up when required. Pepper and salt 
may be added if liked. The Dal should be about the con- 
sistency of thinnish porridge. 

Partridge, Grouse, or Young- Chickens, & la 
Creme. Half roast a grouse or partridge in butter in a 
saute" pan, with an onion cut in quarters, then take the 
bird and put it in a little casserole. In the saute 1 pan, 
where the bird has been cooking, put a liqueur glass of 
vinegar and reduce to half, add ^ pint of cream, and boil 
with salt and pepper and a little cayenne. Strain it 
over the bird in the casserole, cook slowly for ten minutes 
in the cream, and serve. 

Fig Pudding. 6 oz. of chopped suet, 6 oz. of figs 
cut in small squares, 6 oz. of breadcrumbs, 3 oz. of brown 
sugar, two eggs, little milk, pinch of salt ; mix all together, 
put into a buttered mould, and boil 2| hours. Serve with 
any sweet sauce hot. 

Sabajone (a Venetian sweet dish). Make some 
sponge cake and toast it dry and crisp in a slow oven ; 
cut it into convenient pieces, allowing two for each 
person, and spread thickly with good quince marmalade 
or jelly. Take ten lumps of white sugar, and about two 
tablespoonfuls of water to dissolve them. Whisk eight 
yolks of eggs in a bain marie, and then add to them the 
boiling dissolved sugar syrup. Whisk all hard for ten 
minutes or longer in a bain marie in a pan of hot water. 
Have the hot cake pieces nicely arranged in a silver dish 
for choice, or a white china one, and pour over the frothy 

02 



29 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

sauce just before serving. Sponge rusks will do instead 
of sponge cake, and a little liqueur or wine can be 
sprinkled over them before adding the sauce, and this 
improves the sweet ; but do not let them be too damp and 
soft they should be crisp under the froth. 

The best Gingerbread I know. 1 lb. flour, l Ib. 
black treacle, one dessert-spoonful of ground ginger, one 
dessert-spoonful mixed spice, ^ lb. brown sugar, | lb. 
fresh butter, \ pint milk, \ teaspoonful carbonate soda, 
four eggs, a little finely-chopped citron peel. Mix all the 
dry ingredients together, warm the milk, and dissolve 
the butter in it ; beat up the eggs, then add the milk and 
treacle. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a square cake 
tin, not very deep, or flat saute 1 pan. The mixture should 
be quite a running consistency before baking ; add a little 
milk if necessary. This is a moist, black gingerbread. 

Cold Lemon Souffle*. An economical and excellent 
sweet. Take the yolks of three eggs, the juice of three 
lemons, and grated rind of two. Add \ lb. loaf sugar, 
about a tablespoon of gelatine dissolved in milk. Stir 
all together over the fire till it thickens. Whip ^ pint of 
cream and beat the whites of the three eggs up stiff, and 
stir in gently to the custard mixture. Pour into the souffle" 
dish or deep china dish, and sprinkle with grated crumbs 
and sugar, or with chocolate powder, or, for choice, with 
some chopped pistachio nut, and serve. If in summer 
stand in ice. 

To Cure two Tongues at a Time. These are 
much better than bought ones. 2 Ibs. common salt, If lb. 
black treacle, 1 lb. bay salt, J lb. saltpetre. The salts finely 
pounded and mixed with the treacle. Eub two large 
fresh ox-tongues with the mixture, and turn them every 
day for four weeks or three and a half weeks, letting them 
lie in the pickle. Send them to the nearest curer to be 
smoked for two days. This last is not indispensable, but 



AUGUST 293 

improves them. When cured boil with plenty of vege- 
tables, herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns ; garnish with 
home-made glaze and chopped aspic. 

Cats' Tongues. A good French ice or dessert 
biscuit. 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. pastry flour, mixed with 
cream to a soft paste, adding, perhaps, a little milk and 
flavouring with vanilla or lemon. Put in a forcing-bag 
and force out on to greased baking-sheets in rounds or 
oblongs. Bake in a quick oven, serve fresh. 



C 




Orangeade as made in Paris. Cut the rind of 

two oranges and two lemons very thin, place in a jug, 
pour in 1 pint of boiling water, add very little ginger (to 
taste). Squeeze six lemons and six oranges, add the 
juice of these and a syphon of soda-water. Strain, ice, 
and serve. Blood oranges, when procurable, are best, 
and two or three drops of cochineal improves the colour. 

The best Orange Jelly I know. \ Ib. loaf sugar, 
sixteen or eighteen oranges, two lemons, 1 oz. gelatine. 
Boil the sugar to a syrup, pour it, boiling hot, on the 
thinly-pared rind of two oranges, squeeze the juice of all 
the oranges and lemons, pass through a fine sieve. Add 
the dissolved gelatine and syrup and a few drops of 
cochineal ; ice, and serve. This may not be stiff enough 
to serve in a shape, but it is much nicer than when 
stiffened with more gelatine. 

Sand-Torte (a very good light foreign cake). Clarify 
1 Ib. fresh butter; when cold beat it to a cream, add 
12 oz. white sugar, 1 Ib. potato flour passed through a 
sieve, four whole eggs aud the yolks of two more, the 



294 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

best of one lemon and a few drops of lemon or vanilla 
essence. Beat the whole for at least one hour, and until 
it makes bubbles. Bake in flat round or square, shallow 
mould, buttered and finely breadcrumbed, in a moderate 
oven. Dust over with fine white sugar icing sugar, for 
choice before serving. 

Cold Chocolate in Glasses, as in Paris. Quantity 
for about six custard glasses. Take 6 oz. of good choco- 
late, not less than 2s. per Ib. Dissolve it in hot water in 
a clean copper over the fire just enough water to melt it 
to a paste. Add a teacupful of milk, and let it boil up. 
Pour the mixture on to five yolks of eggs beaten up, and 
put it all on the fire again, stirring it till it just boils. 
Take off quickly and leave it to cool, or in summer stand 
it on ice. 

Bread. People are constantly saying to me, ' One of 
the chief difficulties of your diet is the good bread you 
recommend. The cooks say they have no time to make it, 
many members of the family won't eat it, the bakers won't 
change their methods, and the mill is either far off or the 
flour is all ground by the new method of china rollers, 
which is especially designed to make the flour very white.' 
My answer is that all these drawbacks are easily over- 
come by a little trouble and conciliation. When the cook 
finds that the bread-making is less trouble than cake- 
making (see Eeceipts), and that her mistress cares more 
about it than about made dishes, she soon falls in with 
her ideas. Millers I have found most obliging, and even 
interested in the matter. Our own old water-mills here 
at Cobham, by the Mole side, have been lately bought by 
Henry Moore & Son, of Leatherhead, and on being 
written to they would send to any part of the kingdom 
the various flours I use, and also the fresh bran (see 
receipt for Bran Tea), which is not easy to get in London. 
I asked them for a specimen of English wheat ground 



AUGUST 295 

through stones, and received a most civil answer, in which 
they say they also send a gallon of wholemeal with the bran 
taken out, adding : ' We hardly agree with this ourselves, 
as we think it much better with the bran left in.' This is 
not the first instance I have had that millers themselves 
appreciate the value of bran in wheat meal. Unfortu- 
nately, many modern digestions cannot stand whole meal 
with the bran left in, and for these it is better that they 
should have the bran sifted out either by the miller or at 
home, in which case they can get the phosphates of the 
bran by using it for bran tea. 

I have heard of another mill at Dorking, kept by 
Mr. Atlee, where the wheat is ground in the same way 
with the old-fashioned stones. 

My letter from Mr. Moore concludes : ' If we can do 
anything in the way of experimenting for you, we shall be 
very pleased to do so.' Thus proving that millers who 
have to grind to please the bakers, whose flour cannot be 
too white, are equally ready to please private customers 
when they have the chance. 

For those living in London it may be a convenience 
to know that at the Haymarket Stores they can get the 
finest wheat meal, ground by the well-known Great Barton 
Mills of Mr. Scott, of Ipswich ; also at Bax & Sons, 
35 Bishopsgate Street Without, B.C. When the bread- 
making at home is an insuperable difficulty, a good deal 
can be done by a little love-making to the baker. He is, 
naturally, anxious to please his customers, and will soon 
make wholesomer bread if he finds the public really 
demands it. People who have once had pure wheaten 
bread from a baker will often get him to send it to them 
wherever they go. The poor in their own way are very 
particular about bread, often getting it from a more 
distant village, in the belief that the whiter and puffier it 
is, the better it is. 



296 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Directions for Preparing- Good Unleavened 
Graham Bread (according to Louis Kuhne). Take 
5% Ibs. of unbolted wheat meal (Graham flour), or the un- 
bolted flour of any other grain (in tropical regions maize 
meal with wheat meal or rice grits, &c.), in a pan, pour 
over it about \\ quart (2 wine quarts) of cold water, and 
mix it thoroughly. I consider cold water preferable to 
warm, as experience shows that warm water sets the 
bread in fermentation more readily than cold, and this 
may render the bread somewhat lighter, but less nutritious 
and pleasant to the taste. Now divide the dough into 
three or four equal parts, mould a loaf of each, lay each 
upon a dry tile (not brick) sprinkled with Graham flour, 
wet the loaves well on the top with water, and place each 
with its tile upon an empty flower-pot in the quick stove 
oven or brick oven. No other articles or pots should 
stand in the oven at the same time. The heat in the 
oven must be kept up by a steady fire, and should not be 
immediately intense. In half an hour, during which the 
oven must not be opened, turn the front side of the loaves 
to the back. A quarter of an hour later see whether the 
upper crust is well and firmly baked, and then turn the 
loaves over, as they are usually still soft on the lower side. 
The loaves must now bake until they sound quite hollow 
when tapped in the middle with the finger ; this usually 
takes half an hour longer. One may then feel sure that 
the bread is well baked and the crust not too hard. 

Directions for Preparing- Graham Gruel. To 
obtain a plate of gruel stir up a heaping tablespoonful 
of Graham flour with a little cold water till a liquid pap 
is formed. Pour this into boiling water, and let it boil 
some minutes, stirring continually. Salt very sparingly, 
or not at all. This gruel tastes very good when sprinkled 
over with raisins. (From Louis Kuhne's ' New Science of 
Healing.') 



AUGUST 297 

A Perfect Baby Food. Cut thick slices of Graham, 
or whole meal, or white home-made bread, and bake them 
to hard rusks in a slow oven. Break up the rusks and 
put them into a jar, a Gourmet boiler, or an earthenware- 
lined milk- saucepan with cold distilled water enough to 
make into a thick jelly when cooked. Stew slowly for 
three to four hours, and strain through scalded muslin or 
very fine hair sieve. Mix with warm milk as required. 

The rusks may be made twice a week and stored in air- 
tight tins, but the jelly must be freshly made each morning. 

This food, by the long and thorough cooking of the 
cereal, contains all the elements necessary for the forma- 
tion of strong and healthy flesh and bone tissue, good 
blood, hair, nails, teeth, skin, &c. in short, everything 
required to keep an infant in the best possible condition. 
The Graham or unleavened bread is by far the best, as 
yeast or powder raised breads are likely to upset a child's 
digestion. Neither constipation nor diarrhoea need be 
feared on this food. It is valuable also for invalids and 
the old. 

On the very important subject of bread Mr. Albert 
Broadbent, F.B.H.S., read an admirable paper last 
autumn at the annual meeting of the Vegetarian Society, 
in which he referred to certain remarkable statements 
made by Mr. T. G. Eeed at the meetings of the British 
Dental Association to the effect that modern bread causes 
the destruction of tooth tissue, and that wherever roller 
mills are in operation carious teeth are found instead of 
sound ones. Mr. Broadbent did not think it was neces- 
sary to return to the old stone mills, if we take care not to 
disturb the natural balance of the wheat berry consti- 
tuents by separating out the starch and making our bread 
of that to the exclusion of other valuable parts. He went 
on to say, ' Wherever we find a race of men retaining 
primitive milling customs, or living on uncorrupted 



298 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

grain food, we find their teeth strong, and there is an 
absence of decay. Mr. Albert Carter, surgeon dentist, 
related, in " Natural Food " some few years ago, some 
investigations he had made in this connection. He 
found the natives of Punjab and North- West Provinces 
whether Hindoos, Sikhs, Punjabees, Afghans, or Goor- 
khas had splendid teeth. He went to the banks of the 
Ganges and examined the Brahmin skulls. He failed to 
find one showing general dental decay such as he was 
acquainted with at home. In Ceylon he found that, 
while the native Cingalese had good teeth, the children 
of European parents had dreadfully bad teeth. In 
Australia it was the same ; the aborigines had splendid 
teeth, while the Melbourne dentists were hard at work 
repairing disease in the Colonial-born portion of the 
population. Edwin Cox, Licentiate in Dental Surgery, 
E.C.S., in " Degeneracy and Preservation of the Teeth," 
ascribes teeth degeneracy to the use of white bread. 
This is undoubtedly a serious and important subject, and 
must continue so while we consume more bread than any 
other one food. Bread should be of the very best kinds 
available, and when it is made from the best kinds of 
wheat it forms an almost perfect food. For many years 
I have observed the beneficial results that have followed 
the use of good whole meal bread; with it there is 
scarcely any toothache or neuralgia, and constipation is 
scarcely possible. The teeth are made stronger and less 
tender, owing to the proper supply of lime and phosphates 
contained in whole meal.' 

The following poem is by Mr. A. J. Munby, a con- 
temporary and well-known Surrey poet, and belonging to 
the days that are gone. I read with great pleasure one 
day this spring this spirited description of a class that has 
almost disappeared; brass cans and lively ponies rush 
now along our lanes : 



AUGUST 299 



THE MILKWOMAN 

She was tall and strong, and she walk'd along 

With a firm substantial tread, 
Like one who knows that wherever she goes 

She is earning her daily bread. 

Her frock was print, and there was not a hint 

In the whole of her simple dress 
Of that milliner's touch which adds so much 

To a lady's comeliness. 

Yet she is aware that her face is fair ; 

But she also understands 
That the best of her charms are her stout red arms 

And her strong hard-working hands. 

' It's them,' says she, ' as has work'd for me, 

Wherever my work has been ; 
And as for my face, why it's no disgrace, 

For I reckon it's always clean. 

' Well, there's Jack, I know, he bothers me so 

But what do I care for him ? 
I'll ha' nothing to say to a lad that's gay, 

So long as I've life and limb ! 

' Such chaps may do for a wench like you, 

As is fond of an easy life ; 
But if I get a man, I shall do what I can 

For to make him a working wife.' 

She smiled as she spoke, and she settled her yoke 

On the back of her shoulders broad, 
And she stoop'd to her pails by the area rails, 

And harness'd herself to her load. 

Then she went on her beat through bustling street 

With a step like a martial man's ; 
A step that suits her iron-shod boots, 

And the weight of her clanking cans. 

For her cans and she had the bulk of three, 

And deftly as she might steer, 
'Twas the silent might of her strength and her height 

That kept the pathway clear. 



300 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There were many who eyed her stately stride, 
As she moved through the yielding crowd, 

With her hands on her hips, and a smile on her lips, 
And a look both calm and proud. 

But none, or few, of the gazers knew 

The worth of her humble trade ; 
And beauty alone may never atone 

For the lot of a milkman's maid. 

They could not see what was clear to me 

That the loftiest lady there 
Might envy the part in Dame Nature's heart 

Which is owned by Kitty Clare. 

When first people begin strict diet they are very apt 
to think they will die without change. It has been a 
great humiliation to me to find how much more easily 
the young take to living on nothing but bread, fruit, 
potatoes, vegetables, and cheese than their elders do. 
A contemporary said to me in such a sad voice the other 
day, 'Is it not distressing to find out how one pines 
sometimes for some of the old foods, which at the time 
we ate them we hardly knew how much we enjoyed ? ' 
I earnestly caution people against not only bought 
breads, but also bought biscuits. I am sure that they 
are not the same help to health as things made at 
home, and biscuit-making, which by universal consent is 
now left entirely to manufacturers and bakers, takes even 
less time than boiling potatoes; for a skilful cook can 
make and bake a piling plate of biscuits or wafers in 
fifteen minutes. The exception to my mind is Lemanns 
28 St. Swithin's Lane ; especially his thick captains. 

One's great wish when practising diet is not to make 
the cook feel she is no longer wanted, but that her skill 
can be adapted to all sorts of new requirements. In 
staying away at a friend's house lately the cook was quite 
miserable because she felt she had nothing to do for me. 



AUGUST 301 

In another house I was unfortunately half-poisoned by 
the home-made bread being ruined by much salt, and the 
vegetables tasted as if steeped in brine. 

From a German friend I received in late autumn last 
year a list of what the work had lately been in her 
kitchen. The winter climate is so severe in mid-Germany 
that nothing can be left in the ground and storing away 
from frost is very difficult. Everything is so easily 
brought to our shores all the year round now that we 
have almost forgotten the old days when preserving went 
on in our own country houses. Now most people say it 
is cheaper to buy ; so it may be, but it is not so good. 
My friend complains that she cannot get twice-ground 
whole-meal flour in Germany, and she adds that she can- 
not get bread-making done at home, as her cook has such 
heaps and heaps of preserving to do. My answer would 
be that her family and her household would be in far 
better health with good sound bread to eat and much less 
preserved fruit and vegetables. She asks : ' Would you 
like to hear all we do ? ' and then gives the following 
list : Thirty or thirty-five tins of strawberry compote, 
two dozen marmalade and jams in pots (this does not 
mean orange marmalade, which would be out of season) ; 
ditto clear fruit juice to drink with water, also thick juice 
to use for puddings, sauces ; cherry compotes in tins, ditto 
stoned in glass pots ; marmalades and jams, half-fermented 
juice to drink with water, fifty or more pounds of apri- 
cots dried in oven for winter, servants' compotes, mira- 
belles, the same as above. Cucumbers, two barrels, 
filled and preserved in salt; cucumbers, small green, 
pickled in vinegar ; mushrooms dried in oven and pressed 
in tins, ten quarts of tarragon vinegar for winter use, three 
dozen tins of flageolet beans, three dozen tins of shelled 
and preserved green beans, two barrels cut beans pre- 
served in salt; choucroute, one barrelful preserved in 



3 02 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



salt ; blue plums peeled and preserved in bottles, ditto not 
peeled, preserved in vinegar and sugar ; tomatoes pre- 
served whole in tins to use for ' garniture,' artichoke 
bottoms the same way, and many bottles of tomato 
puree. A good deal of this kind of luxury it seems to me 
desirable to reduce as much as possible, but of course 
everything depends on the size of the household. 

I must not fail to mention one of the most useful 
articles for domestic purposes that has come out to my 
knowledge in the last few years a powdered soap in 
tins, not expensive, to be bought at Harrod's Stores, or 
others, and called Sapon. Its especial use is for the 
washing of all nursery woollen things, Shetland shawls, 
under-clothing, blankets, &c. Everyone I have recom- 
mended it to has been delighted with it. 

Another very charming but expensive luxury has been 
imported from France by Messrs. Goode & Co., of the 
china shop in Audley Street, and if I were going to begin 
life again I should certainly have it copper stewpans of 
all sizes lined with silver beaten into the copper, in the 
old Sheffield-plate manner, before it is made up, and so 
thick that nothing will wear it off. This saves all the 
bother and expense of re-tinning, and the risk to health of 
copper pans being neglected, and not tinned soon enough. 
The price is not at all prohibitive, considering the goodness 
of the pans. 

For Drying 1 Flowers. Take cotton wool and tissue 
paper. Lay the wool on the flower and the fine paper 
over it, and put this between the pages of any old folios 
or books. Tie a string round the books to keep all in 
place, and put them under an impromptu press of a board 
with a stone or weight on it, in the sun if possible, or even 
near the fire. The cotton wool absorbs the moisture and 
the heat dries the flower quickly. The wool prevents the 
delicate petals from being crushed, and so the character 
of the flower is preserved. 



AUGUST 303 

Corns. So many people who refuse to believe that 
one of the minor merits of the simpler foods as ordered 
by Dr. Haig is the cure of corns, still suffer from these 
inconveniences, that I think the following letter too good 
to lose : 

Sir, I trust it may not be beneath the dignity of the 
' Westminster Gazette ' to permit a humble country doctor 
to add his little seasonable mite to the gaiety of nations. 
The one fatal word which is the title of this letter repre- 
sents the most common, perhaps, of the small ills of life. 
Once upon a time ' an old wife ' in the village of Caris- 
brooke said this to me (and her endearment of address 
would have been above suspicion had my readers seen 
her), ' My dear, you may know a lot about Anna Tummy ' 
(I thought this, at first, some hideous gastric surname, 
but I realised almost at once that it was an orthoepic 
liberty only), ' but you dunno nothin' about " karns " I 
do.' Well, I happened to know that this good lady had 
a reputation in the country-side for the relief of the hard 
variety of these elementary drawbacks to easy labour. 
On her death-bed she told me her secret. Here are her 
ipsissima verba, and Heaven forbid that I should lessen 
the force of her teaching by any grammatical paraphrase. 
She said, ' You takes beeswax and you deeps it hot right 
on the karn and covers 'un ; then you puts on a bit o' 
swealed rag and lets 'un set for four days. Then you 
pulls 'un out after you've a-soaked your foot in water hot 
enough for you to bear. And when 'e's out you'll see a 
big hole where he was.' Now, I don't the least care if a 
' thousand and one gems ' of correspondence reach you 
saying the remedy is old. So is the Bible old, but very 
few people know much about it ! 

Your obedient Servant, 

GEOBGE W. E. DABBS, M.D. 

Shanklin, I.W. : December 18. 



304 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Chilblains. Far the best cure for chilblains is a very 
simple one. Kub the feet twice a day, when well warmed 
by a fire, with some soft soap. Chilblains are half a gouty 
symptom, and no doubt the magic is the strong alkali in 
the soap. 

Personal. The following suggestion is worth know- 
ing for anybody who has a bilious headache and is obliged 
to make a speech, or any great effort. Put a whole tin of 
Colman's mustard into a large hot bath, stay in it ten or 
fifteen minutes, lie down after it for half an hour. The 
brain will then be far clearer and better than in ordinary 
health. This is a remedy only to be used for an emer- 
gency. It is, of course, rather a severe trial for the 
circulation, but less likely to be injurious than the drugs 
which are so often taken for headaches. 



35 



SEPTEMBER 

Visit to Northamptonshire Peterboro', Fotheringhay, and Kirby Hall 
Iris in pans for spring flowering A last year's autumn letter 
from Germany Kew and the smoke curse Pruning back of 
shrubby plants to imitate sub-tropical gardening Japanese 
anemones in shade Sunflower seeds as a possible farming 
industry. 

September 1st. Last year I went to stay in Northamp- 
tonshire. On my way down, having an hour at Peterboro' 
station, I visited its magnificent old cathedral the largest 
and most important Norman building that I have ever 
seen. I know nothing really about architecture, but I 
suppose it must have been built just at the Transition 
period, for all the arches are round, except just across the 
nave, where they are slightly pointed, probably the better 
to carry the weight of the tower. The whole effect of the 
church is most remarkably simple and dignified. When 
I got home, I looked it up, and found that Peterboro' 
Cathedral took more than half a century to build from 
1118 to 1193. The eastern aisle, which is Perpendicular, 
was begun in 1438 and not finished till 1528. Katharine 
of Arragon was buried there, and her remains are there to 
this day. Peterboro' stands on the old North road, but 
though I remember that my mother, in speaking to us as 
children of her many journeys from London to Newcastle, 
often talked of York Cathedral, I do not remember her 
ever having mentioned Petevboro'. This perhaps means 
that, although an important place, they only changed 



3 o6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

horses there in the old posting days ; just as we now, in 
trains, pass the most interesting places, only staying three 
minutes at the railway station. During my visit to North- 
amptonshire, I stayed in a most beautiful old Jacobean 
house, not much spoilt and well maintained. My kind 
hostess drove me about to see the sights of her neigh- 
bourhood, and we went first to the village of Fotheringhay. 
The name remains, though the castle has ceased to exist 
where Mary Queen of Scots ended her days. The village 
has evidently shrunk in importance ; the church is very 
large, and alone retains a certain old-world magnificence. 
A farmhouse is pointed out as being one in which the 
soldiers were lodged during the time of the trial. We 
walked a short distance down narrow lanes, between 
farm-buildings, to see the site of the old castle. Even 
when we have read of a certain place in a novel, and 
afterwards visit it, the scene becomes alive with the 
imaginary characters of the book and the whole story is at 
once a reality, as I mentioned before when I visited Brams 
Hill. How much more is this the case when we stand 
on a spot where the prominent figures in history lived, 
and looked with their eyes on what we now see to-day ! 
The general effect of nature never changes ; a stream 
winds as it has always wound, and the long shadows of 
evening are cast by the sun in the same manner at the same 
time of year as they were cast three hundred years ago. 
I had this feeling at its highest pitch when visiting 
Fotheringhay last autumn. All trace of the castle is 
absolutely obliterated, except for a huge grass-grown 
mound, verily a grave. Standing on the mound, it is 
possible to trace the double moats which surrounded 
Mary's last prison, and one huge mass of conglomerate 
stone lies on the surface of the field below. The land- 
scape is very fair a lovely, winding river crossed by a 
stone bridge of a more recent date than the one erected 



SEPTEMBER 307 

by order of Elizabeth after her stay at Fotheringhay and 
which fell into ruin. The broad green meadows, the 
cattle grazing, everything is just as it might have been 
when Mary arrived, full of forebodings, in September 1586. 
As the meadows flooded, the fogs of autumn arose and 
surrounded her, her case became more hopeless, and, 
crippled with rheumatism, she began to lose heart, poor 
thing ! In February came the cruel end, just after her forty- 
fifth birthday. The story told in so many history books 
that her son James razed the castle to the ground seems 
to be a fiction ; for, although his filial affection caused him 
to move her body to Westminster Abbey from Peterboro' 
Cathedral, where she had first been buried, it did not 
extend to the destruction of the castle, as there are 
documents to show it was standing and in good repair 
after his death. Its owner, Sir Robert Cotton, removed 
the woodwork of the hall, where Mary was executed, to 
Connington Hall, in Huntingdonshire, where it still exists. 
Froude gives many interesting details of Mary Queen of 
Scots' last days, but I think it is clear he never visited 
the place himself, as his description is not quite correct. 
He says that the village was nearer the river than the 
castle was ; this is not the case. He leaves out the 
second ' h ' in Fotheringhay, and calls the river ' Nen ' 
instead of ' Nene.' Froude, though so notoriously Pro- 
testant in his views, gives Mary a splendid testimony 
when he says : ' In point of form and grace, Mary 
Stuart had the advantage of her rival everywhere. 
Elizabeth, with a general desire to do right, could con- 
descend to poor and mean manoeuvres. Mary Stuart 
carried herself, in the midst of her crimes, with a 
majesty that would have become the noblest of sove- 
reigns.' Froude, in the twelfth volume of his history, 
gives a most interesting description of Mary's dress on 
the scaffold. It must have been prepared beforehand 

x2 



3 o8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and required much thought. True woman to the very 
end, she made the most of her last opportunity of creating 
an effect. Froude says : ' The lawn veil was lifted care- 
fully off not to disturb the hair, and was hung upon 
the rail. The black robe was next removed. Below it 
was a petticoat of crimson velvet. The black jacket 
followed, and under the jacket was a body of crimson 
satin. One of her ladies handed her a pair of crimson 
sleeves, with which she hastily covered her arms ; and 
thus she stood on the black scaffold with the black 
figures all around her, blood-red from head to foot.' 
Froude describes how, when she placed her crucifix on a 
chair, it was seized by one of the executioners. He was 
made at once to replace it, and everything she had worn 
was burnt at the huge hall fire before the spectators left 
the room, every precaution being taken to prevent the 
keeping of relics. This adds immense interest to the 
fact that, in the year (about) 1830, an old man digging in 
the castle grounds found Mary's ring bearing her initials 
and Darnley's tied with a true-lover's knot. This ring is 
now to be seen in the Waterton collection at the South Ken- 
sington Museum. The supposed explanation of the find- 
ing of this ring is that it dropped unperceived from Mary's 
finger at the time of her execution and was swept up and 
thrown into the moat with the bloody sawdust. The 
moats are dry now, but in winter the Nene still floods the 
lowlands. It is said that many medicinal plants are still 
found about the castle grounds, and a peculiar thistle is 
known locally as ' Queen Mary's Tears.' 

Another of the places in the neighbourhood which I 
went to see was the well-known Kirby Hall, the fairest 
and most Italian of Elizabethan houses. It has shared, 
in these latter days, the fate of Fotheringhay in the time 
of Charles I. The owners, I suppose, finding it expensive 
to keep in repair, removed all the valuables, including the 



SEPTEMBER 309 

panelling and chimneypieces, and allowed this beautiful 
Elizabethan gem to fall into decay. Oh, the pity of it ! 
In Jones's ' Views of the Seats, Mansions and Castles of 
England,' published in 1830, he gives two views of Kirby 
Hall, taken, in my opinion, from the least beautiful sides, 
and in no way doing the house justice. But these prints 
represent the house as well-roofed and showing no signs 
of ruin. No doubt fifty years ago a comparatively small 
sum would have kept it weather-tight and preserved 
it. Now thousands of pounds would hardly restore it. 
This magnificent pile of buildings was founded by one of 
Elizabeth's favourites, Sir Christopher Hatton. The 
guide-books attribute the early part of the building to that 
somewhat mythical genius, John Thorne, who gets the 
credit of having designed all the best houses in England 
for about a hundred years. However much he may have 
been consulted about the planning of this house, it is 
very different and far more remote and Italian in style 
than either Holland House or Bram's Hill. A later 
owner called in Inigo Jones to ' modernise and improve ' 
it. Sir Christopher Hatton died a bachelor before Eliza- 
beth, in 1591, and was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. 

I wonder in what the wealth of England consisted in 
Tudor times that enabled people to build such splendid 
residences. In Suffolk, I am told, there were rich 
clothiers and woollen merchants. Perhaps it was the 
same in Northamptonshire, where the pastures are very 
rich. Or shall we dare to think that the money was 
mostly ground out of the wretched peasantry of the 
country ? I noticed, driving about in Northamptonshire, 
several large old pigeon-houses like those that existed in 
Prance, and which were part cause of the Great Eevolu- 
tion. The pigeons fed on the grain sown by the peasants, 
and the peasants were paid in kind by gifts of these same 
pigeons. 



310 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

September Wth. I have in flower a Cape bulb called 
eucomis, which is seldom seen, but which I think very 
handsome and well worth growing. There are three or 
four kinds ; the one I have is, I believe, called E. undulata. 
I have had it unmoved for several years, so it is quite 
hardy. The flower spikes are about two feet long, and the 
upper half densely arranged in a cylindrical manner. The 
flowers are not showy, but theyilook exceedingly well picked 
and arranged in a vase alone or with some spikes of 
Lobelia cardinalis, 

I have flowered this year for the first time a most 
attractive little rockery plant, with quite a weak-looking 
body and a fine big showy campanula-like flower. It is 
called Cyananihus lobatus. It should be grown on a damp 
rockwork ; this I have not got, but as we have only had 
one fine dry week this year it did not matter, and the 
plant evidently thought it was in a damp spot. 

August, or early in September, is the time to plant in 
pans, just like hyacinths, the small bulbous irises. They 
thoroughly repay growing, and should be planted and put 
in a frame under cocoanut fibre all the winter, and only 
be brought into the greenhouse just before flowering. 
Iris reticulata is the best, as it is very pretty and very 
sweet. I. Bakeriana is another excellent one. 

September 17th. I copy here a letter lately received 
from my German friend. Our gardens are a constant 
interest to each of us, as what does easily and well with 
her does badly with me, and she is then quite jealous of 
the sun-dried little successes of my light soil. 

' We are nearly drowned, and to hear you talk of a 
dry garden sounds like distant myths of El Dorado. For 
a solid fortnight now we have had sheets of water, day 
and night, and everything is decaying and reduced to 
pulp ; one's very bones creep with the damp and feel 
mildewed. It is impossible to work the soil or to go 



SEPTEMBER 311 

on the grass without wearing indiarubber boots, like 
waders. You ought to see it once like this to convince 
you of the numerous difficulties of my gardening the 
parching, cutting east winds and droughts all this spring 
and summer, and then those indescribable masses of water 
that rot and spoil everything, so that when the frost does 
come everything is so saturated and water-logged it starts 
the roots and bulbs from the soil, the water turning to 
solid ice. What makes it a worse grievance than other 
years is the fact of its beginning a month or six weeks in 
advance of the usual time, and thus ruining the whole of 
my painfully -built-up scheme of a pretty September 
garden. The terrible havoc of last year's winter, and the 
heavy snows and frosts of the latter half of March, had 
so effectually ruined all prospects of a good spring garden 
that I set to in April and May, so as at least to ensure a 
good display for the summer and autumn. And, with all 
due humility, I believe I had succeeded ; but now it is 
all battered and beaten into jam, and one could almost 
long for snow to cover it up mercifully. These are the 
woes of strong heavy soils, where things grow luxuriantly 
and drought does but little harm, but where rains do 
untold damage, and a wet autumn means destruction to 
all tender things and disaster among the bulbs. Yet even 
so calamitous a month of September bears some lessons 
one of them not to delay the gathering of seeds of the 
best annuals, the other to push forward planting and 
transplanting of perennials, so as to get them well esta- 
blished in the first days of the month. This exceptional 
year proves that the usual rule of counting upon the 
whole of September for all the transplanting and re- 
planting is not a safe one. For the first time this year, 
driven by necessity and by the rows and rows of corpses 
which I discovered on coming out to Cronberg in April, I 
have really had a good show of annuals and half -bardies. 



3i2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The single branching larkspurs have been quite lovely, 
both in pots on the terrace and in big masses by themselves 
in the little paved flower-garden. There were lavender- 
coloured ones, and a batch of quite lovely bright pink 
coral ones, besides the usual tall white kind and the 
different shades of blue. I had never yet got them to 
thrive in my stiff soil, and I was determined to have them, 
so I deliberately took out eighteen inches of my soil in 
more than half the flower-garden, only leaving those beds 
that were to grow dahlias, asters, pyrethrums, and Michael- 
mas daisies, and replaced the soil by fine compost made of 
sand, road -scrapings, turfy loam, and a very little decayed 
manure. All the annuals sown in February and March 
in pans, or in the soil of a cold frame, were pricked out 
into this good light soil at the end of April, and some were 
sown in place as late as the first week in May. The 
latter were portulacas, a few patches of Nemesia strumosa, 
Convolvulus minor, Viscaria oculata, and the lovely sky- 
blue viscaria. A large square bed of Nigella damasccna, 
sown in a mixture with Omphalodes linifolia and well 
thinned (it makes a perfect mixture and is most satis- 
factory), two big beds of salpiglossis of the largest strain 
(Haage & Schmidt at Erfurt), and smaller patches of the 
dwarf orange-coloured eschscholtzia, as well as the pink 
and white, both very pretty. Large patches of Shirley 
poppies and tall French double ones severely thinned out, 
the giant Machet mignonette, and the pretty bright red 
Stuttgart variety, then the lovely but very ephemeral 
Phacelia campanularia and the beautiful Bartonia aurea, 
the charming Linaria . bipartita and L. Cymbalaria, the 
delightful tribe of Chinese fringed pinks, the purple corn- 
flowers ; all these did beautifully sown in place, and 
would have lasted until frost if they had not been 
battered and smashed by these terrible weeks of deluge. 
The frame-raised annuals were the single delphiniums, 



SEPTEMBER 313 

the rbodanthes and acrocliniums, the tall self-coloured 
antirrhinums ; these last I can never grow except as 
annuals, nor can I the white, the bright yellow and bright 
red, and very dark red, nearly black the Chrysanthemum 
carinatum, the tall, beautiful Cosmos bipinnatus, Commelina 
calestis which began to flower six weeks after sowing, 
when it was only two inches high, and is now still in full 
lovely bloom and two feet high, and a gorgeous gentian 
blue the annual Lupinus Hartwegi and polyphyllus, the 
whole tribe of tall and dwarf orange and pale yellow 
autumn marigolds (tagetes), and the best strains of 
scabious, a large patch of very big-flowered pale lilac, 
exactly like S. caucasica, being excessively useful, besides 
the bright coral pink, the self -white, and the ruby-coloured 
ones. My paved flower-garden was all arranged on the 
principle of a market garden, each kind in a bed, or half a 
bed, by itself, with the exception of two mixed ones, one 
of which I kept nearly entirely blue with lupins, Phacelia 
viscida, Viscaria oculata c&rulea, the Swan-Kiver daisy, ' 
single-branching larkspur, Commelina caelestis, cornflowers, 
nigellas, dark -blue salpiglossis, dark heliotrope, and 
on the edges tufts of dark violas, broken by patches of 
mignonette and the above-mentioned precious Omphalodes 
linifolia as the only exceptions to the general blueness. 
That bed was lovely ; it was about fifteen yards long by 
two and a half yards wide. I forgot to mention tufts of 
the dark-blue Salvia Horminum, and a tuft or two of 
lovely self-sown Veronica Hendersoni, with long blue 
spikes. The Swan-Kiver daisy above named is properly 
called Brachycome iberidifolia, and is lovely. The other 
bed, where I had several annuals mixed and not one kind 
planted alone, was a long narrow bed only five feet wide 
and about twenty long and here I planted all the shades 
of orange and terra-cotta zinnias, the white single larkspur 
of the tallest sort, the yellow antirrhinums, and the white 



314 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

feathery " Comet " aster, and then a large batch of brown, 
yellow, and orange Helichrysum macranthum (both these 
and the single zinnias have been very large and fine and 
satisfactory, and last so wonderfully in autumn and defy 
rain and drought and every fatality of weather) ; also a 
very pretty pink rudbeckia, about two feet high, with a 
lovely mahogany-coloured inside and broad zone all 
round. I found it in flower in a friend's garden in 
Hesse, and gathered some seed.' (It is not an annual, 
I think. Same as Echinacea purpurea, M. T. E.) ' I 
forgot to mention among the annuals I have used 
largely for fringing and filling up the edges of my beds 
of dark-red hybrid perpetual roses is a good strain of 
tiny pink petunias, and Phlox Drummondii in all the 
shades of red, from salmon-pink to nearly black, barring 
all magenta, yellowish, or white. They did beautifully 
and are so pretty and luxuriant now ; also the fringed 
Dianfhus Heddewigi and the Viscaria oculata cardinalis. 
By keeping to tones of red or pink-red, I really got rather 
a nice harmony of colour low-growing in the bed among 
the hybrid perpetuals ; but, alas ! in spite of the book, 
" Chemistry in the Garden," I have again had mildew and 
rust, though the latter, perhaps, to a lesser degree than other 
years, owing to painting the plants with brimstone early 
in March and frequent syringings in the growing season 
with the mixture that book recommends. But the cutting, 
horrible east winds we have here, and the changes from 
very hot to almost freezing which are so common in spring 
and after August, will, I am afraid, always be a terrible evil 
to fight against amongst my roses. To fill the gaps created 
by the winter frost among my rose-beds (especially tea 
roses), I had quantities of self -raised little plants on their 
own roots (cuttings), but they are small and make no show 
yet, so I introduced patches of an early-flowering and 
quite lovely outdoor chrysanthemum, apricot coloured 



SEPTEMBER 315 

with a touch of pink ; it is called " Gustave Grunewald," 
and flowers from August profusely. It has all the 
characteristics of a Japanese chrysanthemum, and not 
the ordinary quite hardy out-of-door flowering kinds. 
When the weather becomes too rough, and the lovely pink 
chrysanthemum flowers become spoilt, I take up all the 
plants and pot them, and they continue to flower well 
into October when the others come on.' (Any rose- 
grower would say, ' No wonder her roses don't do, if, for 
the sake of effect, she plants so many things among 
them.' M. T. E.) 

' Now to tell you about my half-hardies ; the number 
of them is of course very great, and the labour of potting 
and housing increased tenfold to what it is in England, 
from the extreme cold we have, which makes it impossible 
to leave out of doors any sort or kind of veronica, or 
Verbena citriodora, rosemary, cistus, hydrangea, Lobelia 
cardinalis, tritomas, Campanula pyramidalis, or the better 
sort of carnations. The few just named mean hundreds 
of little pots to be got through the winter, if I am to have 
anything like an adequate supply for next year. The 
pentstemons and best snapdragons, too, I keep in pots, 
then a few large plants of the glorious red salvia and the 
other salvia with large pink blooms, the white Paris 
daisy large and small leaved, the yellow marguerite, the 
calceolarias brown and yellow, the pretty blue Agathea 
ccerulea, the best kinds of bright pink verbenas to be kept 
to make cuttings from in the spring, and the best double 
fringed petunias, then all the Cape pelargoniums, the 
tuberous begonias, of which we raised a big batch from 
seed, and had some really splendid shades and sizes. 
I used these largely to produce patches of bright colour in 
the autumn garden and to fill up places from which the 
early flowering phloxes, tulips, English irises, hesperis, 
Aster alpinus, and Campanula persicafolia had been 



316 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

removed to the reserve garden after flowering. These 
gaps were filled by red salvias broken by scarlet tuberous 
begonias, by Paris marguerites with yellow and white 
begonias in between, or by the tall pink salvia which is so 
lovely with the Sedum spectabile as a groundwork. All 
in all this terrible winter, and the havoc among my roses 
and herbaceous perennials, have taught me a lot ; as usual 
necessity being the key to success. I had lost all my fox- 
gloves, tritomas, Anemone japonica, all the finer sorts of 
hypericums, nearly all English and Spanish irises, the 
Spanish squill, and numberless small and pretty alpines 
and other dwarf plants. And so, to save what could be, 
I had to put all my energy on to raising a sufficient stock 
and variety of annuals, and make much use of half-hardy 
and sub-tropical plants from seeds and cuttings; my 
cannas, castor-oil plants, red and green-leaved Indian 
hemp solanums, caladiums, and the three kinds of 
nicotiana, mixed with batches of gladiolus, montbretia, 
amaranthus, and choice cactus dahlias, made a huge 
tropical-looking bed of most decorative effect. All were 
put out the second half of May, some on a trampled 
foundation of manure to help rapid growth. The tall 
daturas made a lovely clump close by, sunk, and planted 
out in the grass, the base of the clump hid by polygonum 
and Desmodium penduliflorum. My sweet-peas, the 
earliest, were raised in the greenhouse, sown in February 
in pots and planted out in April ; the second batch in a 
cold frame in pots and planted out late in May ; the third 
batch sown in place and just a little thinned, watered and 
manured. They are still now in full beauty September 
20 but I never get them as tall or the blooms quite as 
large as the best English ones. Still they are good Eck- 
ford varieties, and I do not grumble, for, no doubt, I shall 
learn by and by. My greatest pleasure among all my 
annuals has been the thorough success of Nemesia strumosa, 



SEPTEMBER 317 

sown in three or four different little patches, in pots, in 
boxes, and out of doors; some pricked out into sandy 
soil and sunny places, some pricked off into boxes or 
large shallow pans, where they bloomed and seeded 
profusely. The biggest plants and profusest bloomers were 
those sown in place. They began to bloom the end of July, 
and are still lovely, and have yielded masses of cut blooms 
and good seed too, though it takes a lot of gathering. 

' A paling, topped by a little red-brick roof, has been 
prettily overgrown with a lovely new (to me) creeper 
called Solamim Wendlandi, tender, and to be treated like 
Plumbago capcnsis. It has large clusters of lovely 
lavender or mauvy-blue flowers, is a strong grower and 
covers a large space in one summer. It was very pretty 
growing alongside of a mass of good snow-white ever- 
lasting pea, with Plumbago capensis, and a mass of 
different shades of heliotrope at the foot of it scenting the 
air at a distance. And now we are on the verge of death 
and decay to all this quickly conjured-up loveliness, and 
the long lottery begins again which always brings sur- 
prises, and will perhaps force us next spring to have even 
more recourse to annuals. The long and short of all my 
efforts is to conclude that gardening in this climate is not 
really worth the trouble, as it means five months of life 
and seven months of death, and a yearly renewed effort 
to produce and reproduce plants that grow like weeds in 
the blessed climate of your British Isles.' 

My friend's sad grumble reminds rne of two or three 
lines in one of Robert Lytton's letters : ' Friendship 
under the chill veil of absence is like a garden covered 
with snow. The roots, the germs, the bulbs all are 
there, but where are the flowers ? ' A garden is never 
without hope. What one thinks is dead springs up strong 
from the root, and what seems to have survived till the 
spring often proves to be dead. 



3 i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

September 19th. To-day we drove to Kew. A lovely 
day here, but on arriving there we were met by a dark 
smoke fog from London. It is very sad how black 
Eichmond and Kew have got lately, and the plants are 
suffering very much. One does not notice it hi the early 
spring, but at this time of year the leaves are black and 
shrivelled, and the glories of autumn will not be for 
them. Oh, why cannot something be done to save us 
from this curse of smoke? The difference during the 
twenty years I have lived here is astonishing. 

I was disappointed with a great deal of the planting 
at Kew ; certainly large fat beds on green grass are very 
unsuggestive and commonplace. The spring garden was 
pretty in general effect, the autumn garden only interesting 
in detail. There were some plants pruned back to form 
interesting sub-tropical-looking foliage, which were far 
stronger and easier of cultivation than the real sub -tropical 
plants often used. They remain where they are planted 
and are merely fed, I suppose, and cut back in spring to 
one shoot. Paulonia imperialis filled one bed. The plant 
comes from Japan, and so might be injured sometimes by 
late frosts in spring. The leaves in this bed were huge, 
and would make a very fine effect in any large place where 
there is plenty of room, and when in flower it must be a 
very handsome plant. It does not do on a sandy soil, nor 
on a very cold damp soil. The stag's-horn sumach (Rhtts 
typhina) was treated in the same way, leaving only one 
shoot to grow. 

The Nicotiana tomentosa alba was quite a failure this 
wet year, and had not one flower, though magnificent 
foliage. I should say it had been put into rather too good 
soil and so had all gone to leaf. There were large beds of 
Clematis Davidiana, not effective. It is a beautiful thing, 
and two or three plants put together would make an 
interesting feature in any large garden, but neither form 



SEPTEMBER 319 

nor colour is good enough for a large bed. The white 
double Rosa rugosa made a splendid group on the grass. 
A great many of the shrubs were well pruned back even 
when not in regular beds. The bays are the hardier for 
this, and the Rhus Cotinus, if much pruned back, is a 
different-looking plant. Rhus laciniata is low growing 
and has lovely foliage. Indigofera Gerardiana is another 
plant well worth growing in a clump, and it also wants 
nothing but pruning back hard in early winter. The 
useful tall polygonums at Kew were not nearly so fine as 
my own. I do not know whether this is from the soil 
being colder and heavier than mine or from not doing 
what seems indispensable to their successful growth 
thinning out their shoots in April to five or six. Properly 
treated, both P. sachalinense and P. cuspidatum are 
superbly decorative, beautiful plants, but I never see 
them what I call properly grown. I saw no montbretias 
planted in the grass, and yet they look most beautiful done 
in that way. Even in a wood, and given moisture, they 
seem to stand a good deal of shade. So do Japanese 
anemones, which look far better planted on the edge of a 
wood, or under some small fruit-trees, than in an ordinary 
border. They hate being disturbed, and look most lovely 
growing of their own accord in the shade ; a little top- 
dressing in spring helps them. They make a great show 
of seeding, but I believe only in one garden in Ireland 
has the seed ever really ripened. The rose ' Caroline 
Testout ' was flowering very well ; it is a good pink rose. 
All the others seemed over; with roses everything 
depends on its being just their best day. 

Perhaps what interested me most in this visit to Kew 
was a cool house where the creepers were admirably 
managed and so well pruned and grown ; they were most 
healthy and covered with bloom. The large conservatories 
of the rich are built far too high, and so the pruning is 



320 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

not done, and the flowers, poor imprisoned things, stare 
out at the sun through the glass at the top. Here the 
creepers were all planted in the ground inside the conser- 
vatory, so their growth was strong and their flowers 
abundant. Blue plumbago, an abutilon ' Golden Gem/ 
I think and that shy flowerer, Hidalgood Werokalsi, was 
right across the house and covered with its good red 
orange blooms. Its foliage and growth are pretty and 
refined as a creeper, but the flowers are very like a single 
dahlia on a thinner stalk. There was an old plant of a 
fuchsia called ' General Eoberts,' that looked very well 
trained against the roof and falling down. That lovely 
thing, the Lonicera sempervirens, was flowering well. I 
never can get it to do very satisfactorily here out of doors. 
In the sun it gets too dry, and in the shade it does not 
flower freely, and becomes blighted ; in this house it was 
seen to perfection. On the shelves there were Solanum 
Melongenas egg plants more curious than pretty, some 
lovely pots of Campanula isophylla variety Mayi, also C. 
Loreyi, both upstanding, and worth growing for variety 
of colour in a greenhouse at this time of year. There 
were many South African plants new to me, but the chief 
interest of all was a large collection of South African 
pelargoniums. Many of these I had never seen, except 
in Andrews' book, ' The Botanist's Eepository,' where a 
great number of these plants are beautifully figured under 
their old name of geraniums which plants they re- 
semble; but pelargoniums are entirely indigenous to 
the southern hemisphere, while geraniums belong to this 
hemisphere and are all hardy ; which, of course, pelargo- 
niums are not in England, except quite in the South, and 
even there they require some protection. I have amused 
myself for the last few years collecting Cape pelargoniums, 
but they are impossible to buy, and trying to get the roots 
straight from the Cape seems rather hopeless, at least so 



SEPTEMBER 321 

I have found. I have about thirty varieties, which I have 
collected with difficulty from different people, but none 
retain their bulbous roots. The prettiest and most curious 
is one figured in the ninth volume of Curtis' ' Botanical 
Magazine,' called now 'Moulton's Gem,' but by Curtis 
Pelargonium echinatum. I have also a rich dark red 
variety spotted in the same way. Eollinson's ' Unique ' 
is another with a particularly attractive flower. Among 
the sweet-leaved varieties the best is the true old ' Prince 
of Orange.' It is not very easy to get now, and I would 
give cuttings to those who care to write and ask for 
them in August and September. This plant is rather 
tenderer than the generality of these sweet-scented pelar- 
goniums, and does best planted in the ground in a rose- 
house or vine-house and well watered, when it grows into 
a large plant. It can then be cut nearly the whole year 
round. 

I saw last year a gardening tool which I have had 
made and slightly improved upon. It is a navvy's crow- 
bar, to which is added a heavy knob of iron 
worked down to a fine point. It goes well 
into the ground by its own weight, and is 
most useful for planting small plants, on 
rockeries or in full beds, or for bulbs in 
grass. When the instrument is in the 
ground it can be shaken about to make 
quite a large hole. In the bottom of this 
hole is powdered some light soil which the 
weak roots easily penetrate. This dimi- 
nishes the necessity of much watering in 
dry weather. An iron tip put to an ordinary 
dibber makes it more useful than when 
only made of wood. 

I increasingly keep seed gathered from 
the best blooms after marking them carefully. In this 



322 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

way, I have no doubt, finer plants are secured than from 
the bought seeds. 

Gerbera Jamesoni, a native of the Transvaal, is a 
handsome, glowing scarlet flower. I bought it two 
summers ago and was told it was hardy. I covered it 
with fern, but that was no use, and it died ; so I was re- 
lieved to find they grow it at Kew in a cool greenhouse 
all the year round. I shall certainly buy it again, as it is 
well worth growing in that way. It is, to my mind, quite 
as interesting and as desirable to grow a variety of 
flowers under glass as out in the open, for those who have 
greenhouses at all. How few people, even of those with 
numberless greenhouses, grow the beautiful Cape heaths, 
of which there are such endless varieties ! They are well 
figured and described in Andrews' ' Heathery,' the folio 
volumes of which I have not got, but it is a superb book ; 
date about 1804. A few of these heaths are grown by 
dealers for the London market, where they are a constant 
bait to those who like flowers in their rooms. But, thus 
imprisoned, they quickly turn yellow and fade and die, as 
they are especially fresh-air-loving plants. And let any- 
one watch, as they walk or drive through London, how 
rare it is, except just in the summer, ever to see an open 
window. Paris is just the same. The house is supposed 
to be aired by the housemaid in the morning which it 
often is not and that is the amount of fresh air it gets all 
day. Growing plants are much to be encouraged in living- 
rooms, especially in those of children and invalids, as 
their healthiness or otherwise is a proof of whether the 
air is fresh or not. 

I have always rather snorted at the modern large 
violets, because I cannot succeed with them, and because 
they are so different from the much-loved ones of my 
youth. But I must own that, when grown to perfection, 
in soil of the strength and moisture loved by the cabbage 



SEPTEMBER 323 

tribe, in full sun, the ' Princess of Wales ' is a splendid 
variety, and has a sweet violet smell when first picked. 
I must try again, across the kitchen-garden, in soil as rich 
as I can make it, and then trust to the wet summers we 
are supposed to be going to have. 

I think that, in large places, Michaelmas daisies, grown 
all together in big beds each side of a path, make a lovely 
graduated colour-mass, as Miss Jekyll recommends. But, 
in smaller gardens, I have an idea that they look best as 
individual specimen plants ; the earlier ones planted in 
half -shade and the later ones in full sun. Aster ericoidcs 
seems to have several varieties. I have a very pretty white 
one which flowers latest of all and looks well in water. 

If the seed of good gladiolus is sown directly it is 
ripe, the plants will flower the second year. 

At page 71 of ' Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden,' I 
mention that I hoped to get a white crown imperial. A 
kind lady offered to send me some. On their arrival, and 
when they grew the next year, they turned out to be 
white Martagon lilies. Messrs. Barr & Son have since 
brought to my notice that there is no white variety of the 
frifcillaria except F. Meleagris, which is quite a low- 
growing one. 

As an example of how the old English duplicate 
names for a flower often conveyed a strange contrast in 
their meaning like ' Love-in-the-mist ' and ' The Devil- 
in-the-bush ' I give the following interesting little anec- 
dote which appeared not long ago in the ' Spectator.' I 
believe the flower alluded to is Amaranthus caudatus, 
often called ' Love-lies-bleeding.' 

' In the current number of the " Cornhill Magazine," 
in an interesting paper entitled "On a Few Conver- 
sationalists," the writer tells an amusing story of Browning, 
and how he received certain flowers from a lady, who, on 
being pressed to give their English names, shyly confessed 

Y2 



3 2 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

they were called "bloody noses." I happened many 
years ago to be staying in a country house when Browning 
told this story in his inimitable way, and he ended with 
the following lines, which I then and there committed to 
memory, and which will, I think, interest your readers : 

" I'll deck my love with posies, 
I'll cover her with roses, 
Should she protest 
I'll do my best 
To give her bloody noses." ' 

In the early days of what was called the aesthetic 
movement sunflowers were much grown in gardens. The 
gardener, however, found it a greedy feeder, and the 
' chaff ' against the ' Greenery -yallery Grosvenor Gallery ' 
school brought it into disfavour; but I still think the 
branching kind grown singly is one of the very hand- 
somest annuals we have, and useful too, as poultry are 
fond of the seed and goats like the leaves. A newspaper 
account the other day set me wondering whether in some 
parts of England farmers could not, with advantage, grow 
the variety named below, which, as is well known, yields 
the seed ; it is eaten as a dessert-nut all over Eussia. 

' The first year of the twentieth century closed with a 
curious sale on the Baltic of a cargo of sunflower seeds, 
which changed hands at III. 5s. per ton. Though a small 
trade has been done in sunflower seed for close on two 
hundred years, this transaction was the first in which a 
whole cargo three hundred tons from Odessa was dealt 
with. In Eussia, where the cultivation of the sunflower 
and the manufacture of oil from its seed is conducted on 
a large scale, the grandiflora is the variety grown. This 
species rises in a slender stalk five feet high, producing one 
monster head, the average yield being as much as fifty 
bushels of seed to the acre. So rich is it in oil that that 
quantity of seed will yield fifty gallons of oil, while the 



SEPTEMBER 325 

refuse of the seed, after this quantity of oil has been 
expressed, weighs 1,500 Ibs. when made into cattle cakes. 
Few people in England who grow the sunflower for 
ornament have any idea of its usefulness. It is among 
neglected crops in which there is money, as is shown by 
the price paid a few days ago. Besides the seed, every 
other portion of the plant can be utilised. The leaves 
furnish an excellent fodder, while in Eussia the stalks are 
prized as fuel, and their ashes, which contain 10 per cent, 
of potash, are readily sold to soapmakers. Naturally, in 
Eussia the chief virtue of the sunflower lies in the oil 
contained in its seed. The oil is of a clear, pale yellow 
colour, almost inodorous and of an agreeable, mild taste, 
so that it is in great request as a table article. Why 
sunflowers are not cultivated on an extensive scale in 
England it is difficult to say. Poultry and cattle like the 
seed either in its natural state or crushed and made into 
cakes. No plant produces such fine honey and wax; 
when the flower is in bloom the bees abound in it.' 



326 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



OCTOBER 

Solomon's love of nature An old letter Zola and fresh air Old 
Harwich inn and curious specimen of Clematis Vitalba Mesem- 
bryanthemums for cliff gardens An old monastery fruit-wall 
Three Pergolas A long- wanted book on trees and shrubs An 
old Suffolk breviary Stories Wild flowers for garden culture 
Wellingtonias on a German hillside Chrysanthemum culture 
Mr. Morley's gift to Cambridge. 

October 1st sees me once more on my dearly loved 
East Coast, with its splendid air, its open skies, its flat 
distances, its boundless seas, and, for me, its kind friends. 
This summer brought me back an old letter written in 
my middle age to a young niece during one of my first 
visits to Suffolk many years ago when out of health. At 
that time I had worldly ambitions, though rather for 
others than myself, and a simple, unartificial rural life 
would have been impossible to me in spite of my strong 
love of Nature. The only vocations which seem to com- 
bine creative work with the simplicity of an unworldly 
life, and yet give scope to great ambition, are those of the 
artist and the author, and as neither of these was for me 
my love of Nature found its main vent in admiration of 
those in whose lives it had played a dominant part. Let 
those who have this love of Nature never crush it, for 
did not the writer of old thus describe the wisdom of 
Solomon ? ' For he was wiser than all men ; than Ethan 
the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the 
sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round 



OCTOBER 327 

about. And he spake three thousand proverbs : and his 
songs were a thousand and five. And he spake of trees, 
from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon even unto the 
hyssop that springeth out of the wall : he spake also 
of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of 
fishes.' 1 Kings iv. 31-33. 

The finder of my letter writes : ' I have been all the 
morning in the attic, which is truly an Aladdin's palace 
of riches and surprises. We were choosing books to have 
in our London home, and out of a " Life of Benvenuto 
Cellini " fell this fat human document. We have read it, 
and I send it to you, knowing it will be a thrillingly 
interesting memory to you. We have so loved reading 
it, and I feel tempted to shake all the books in the hopes 
of finding more ! ' 

' Southwold, July 23, 1886. 

' . . . About friendship, dear, you can judge, about 
love don't think me a horrid old thing coming over you 
with that odious thing experience you must allow me 
to say you cannot judge, either its nature or its power, 
because you have not tried it. It will come some day, 
and you will be the first to admit it is different, and that 
the grasp of the smiling boy is all powerful. 

' I have come across here to-day one of those strange 
stories of life which are more moving than any novel. 
We went to see, M. and I, an old lady, a fisherman's 
widow. She was about seventy, strong and handsome, 
and weather-beaten, very rough at first, and then the 
intelligence, refinement, and talent came out in her talk, 
and you forgot the wild, even dirty exterior. As a girl, 
quite young, she had run away and married a handsome 
fisherman. Her family disowned her and cut her off. 
She was the daughter of a rich Liverpool citizen, brought 
up in every luxury, taught German, French, Italian, draw- 
ing, and natural history. She must have had a wild, 



328 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

strong nature, for she has been very happy. She had 
one son and she dearly loved her husband. She lived 
his life and for years sailed about with him, studying the 
stars and knowing every fish of the sea. Her brother, 

S by name, was a Fellow of the Koyal Society and 

a great naturalist, and she has beautiful books, something 
like my botanical ones, illustrated by him. She wanted 
to see me because of the Earle name a well-known one 
in Liverpool. I wish I had known her sooner, it would 
have interested me, though I have tried here to know no 
one ; I wanted to get away from humanity and its trials 
and temptations. The old lady has six cats, to all of 
which she is devoted. What is strange is that she should 
have kept up her French and been so proud of her intel- 
lectual gifts, yet that she should be content to live in so 
dirty a cottage and be so untidy in her person. She has 
the artistic temperament, and that, I am afraid, left to 
itself, does not care always for cleanliness. All about 
her was eminently picturesque and eminently untidy. 
She has for years written the letters of these villagers, 
and they talk of her, not as one of themselves, but as " a 
real lady." Is it not curious? As M. says, in another 
age she would have been called a witch. Her husband 
has been dead many years, but she talks with pleasure of 
the happiest days of her life, sailing on the wild ocean 
and coasting along the shores in his small open boat, 
and knowing all about the curious live things that 
came up in his nets. I shall probably never see her 
again, but I shall not forget my afternoon with her. . . . 
You must not think from what I said about Zola that 
I like him. I have always hated him, and can seldom 
read him ; only with this book I was agreeably dis- 
appointed, as it has both power and truth. Some of 
the things you say about truths of some kind being put 
into a novel, many people would say of your friend " Tom 



OCTOBER 329 

Jones." There are things in that not much more pleasing 
to me than the butcher's work you describe. Perhaps 
you have forgotten. However, I think in books, as in 
life, even striving at truth has a great charm for me, and 
though gazing at corruption may be sickening, I doubt if 
it is as bad for one as the most beautiful of whitened 
sepulchres. However, you and I often mean the same 
thing, only we express it differently. I certainly do not 
call a doctor a brute for publishing his experience of the 
most horrible diseases and operations. Those who are 
not interested need not read ; to those who are, the beauty 
of the facts effaces entirely the ugliness of the detail. 
And so in the description of the human heart, if the dis- 
ease is possible and true, it has a distinct interest for 
those who study human nature, though it may not be 
beautiful at all. Zola's book deals with that terrible 
question the very narrow line between genius and mad- 
ness, which is one of the saddest problems of poor 
suffering humanity.' 

As I was copying this old letter into my chapter 
came the news of Zola's death from bad air. The 
pathetic account of so slight a cause having so big a 
result is almost allegorical in its significance; for con- 
vinced as I have always been that the motive of his work 
was a noble seeking after truth, the work itself was yet 
full of the miasmatic atmosphere which rises from the 
lowest strata of human nature, and I think there is no 
bathos in saying that if he had habitually slept with open 
windows, he would not only have lived longer, but his 
work would have been much more wholesome. The 
French newspapers call it ' that stupid death which sends 
the literature of all countries into mourning and is de- 
plored by the whole world.' 

October 9th. Never till this year have I seen the old 
town of Harwich, my previous acquaintance having been 



330 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

limited to its name, and the shed at the Great Eastern 
Eailway station on the way to the steamboats. In old 
days Harwich was an important place ; the King's pack- 
boats started from the town itself, and the early Georges 
always sailed from here on their joyful visits to their 
beloved Hanover. In the town there still exists a curious 
old posting-inn called by the unusual sign of ' The Three 
Cups,' and the room where Nelson slept is still shown. 
The reason of my visit to the inn was to see one of the 
strangest natural adaptations of luxuriant growth, of a 
kind seldom seen except now and then with an old vine. 
In the corner of the inn-yard is planted a Clematis 
Vitalba (traveller's joy), which I should think may be 
two hundred years old ; the stem is as thick as an old 
apple tree, retaining of course its twisted, rope-like 
character; the long arms, viz., branches, of the plant 
have been carried across the yard in all directions, 
supported in the middle by a strong post. The plant 
grows in a damp corner next the house ; it must have 
been put there and encouraged by some plant-loving 
landlord, and has been carefully trained and pruned ever 
since. The effect is so rare and so charming that it 
might be tried and carried out with advantage in many 
places. It was such a splendid illustration of what I 
consider one of the first rules of gardening clearly to 
show the hand of man, even to the extent of a certain 
artificiality, and then Nature being allowed to assert her 
sway. Thanks to pruning and care through a century or 
more of growth, this magnificent specimen of a wild plant 
still owes some of its charm to artifice. Given a sunny 
position, an old wistaria might be trained in the way 
described which is exactly how they are treated in 
Japan. 

Loudon says, ' The first clematis brought to England 
was Clematis Viticella in 1569, Virgin's Bower. During 



OCTOBER 331 

the reign of Queen Elizabeth the name of Virgin's Bower 
might be intended to convey a compliment to that 
sovereign, who, as is well known, liked to be called the 
Virgin Queen.' 

I never now visit seaside gardens except on the East 
Coast, where the houses and gardens are close to the sea, 
but it is interesting to observe there how well experience 
teaches, for the clothing of cliffs under the spray of the 
sea, which at one time seemed impossible, has now 
gradually succeeded. My host told me the other day that 
he had had the greatest difficulty in getting Pinus aus- 
triaca to grow. I immediately said, ' Oh, I am so glad ! 
I hate them.' He answered, ' You are wrong : their 
branching habit and sturdy growth from their youth 
make them endlessly useful to us as a protection. But,' 
he added, ' you will be interested to hear, in confirmation 
of what you have often said, that whereas we lost 
hundreds of transplanted plants bought from nurserymen, 
of our own seedlings we do not lose one in a hundred.' 
I am sure this is sound gardening, and corresponds with 
my experience with pears, already mentioned. Wherever 
a plant is difficult to grow and adapt to any particular 
soil, then grow it yourself from seed. It is a slow process, 
but is best in the end. 

The sand cliffs along this Suffolk shore, the feet of 
which the sea is always licking, and at high tides gradually 
undermining and carrying away, have to be most skilfully 
preserved in both the gardens I know best. The fight 
with the powerful element seems a continual excitement 
to the owners, but to others it appears as a pathetic 
struggle against an irresistible foe which is known to be 
slowly devouring England both on the East and West 
coasts. 

One of the most interesting growths on these garden 
terraces, clothing all the artificial rockwork in the most 



332 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

perfect way, is due to various perennial and annual 
mesembryanthemums, which bravely withstand the cold 
and cutting winds. Nothing suits them so well as sand 
and gravel, and they luxuriate and blaze in the sunshine 
and pure air. The large lilac-flowered M. Pomeridianum 
revels in the driest pocket and falls for yards like mer- 
maid's hair over the hot bare surfaces. 

All Cape and Japanese plants can be played with in 
these gardens where the myrtle and fuchsia flower 
abundantly every year. The Cape annuals, Octotis 
grandis and the orange venidium, also do gloriously, but 
even here the beautiful belladonna lily will not do 
against an ordinary south wall. It must be against a 
greenhouse wall where it gets a little heat from the 
inside pipes, or it comes into bloom too late. In one of 
these gardens where it is well established and never 
interfered with, it blooms from August to October in a 
right royal manner, with richer pink blooms and browner, 
stronger stems than I have seen inland. All the genis- 
tas, from least to largest, do splendidly if cut back after 
flowering. 

I complained to one of my friend's clever gardeners 
that my pears would go quickly in the middle. He said 
he thought the cure for that was very early picking. 
They have a tendency in hot soils to ripen first in the 
middle. I long ago discovered how desirable it was to 
pick medlars while still hard and let them ripen in the 
fruit house. 

In an old Suffolk rectory garden, once the property 
of the monks, I heard of a fruit wall with this peculiarity : 
small cupboard-like recesses were built into the wall 
between the fruit-trees and cleanly finished with stone 
slabs, and in these the peaches, nectarines, and apricots 
were placed on being picked to ripen in the sun, and yet 
not be exposed as on the tree to rain, flies, wasps, &c. 



OCTOBER 333 

The entrance to the recess was closed temporarily after 
the fruit was in by a curtain of muslin or a piece of 
glass. I have never seen a fruit wall built on these 
lines, but I expect those old monks knew what they were 
about, and easily brought to their table each day such fruit 
as was ripe and ready. 

My Suffolk friends have taken to constructing strong 
wind-resisting Pergolas. In one garden the piers are made 
of rough stones with strong iron girders sunk into cement 
at the top, and they run from north to south, which seems 
to me the best aspect, as in that way the roots on one 
side are in perfect shade, or in full sun according to the 
requirements of the creepers. The other Pergola runs 
east and west, and the columns are built of brick, while 
the top is made out of the curved beams of the sides of 
wrecked vessels thrown up on the beach. What a calm 
sylvan home for the poor storm-tossed beams to come 
to in their old age ! Another Pergola I saw this year 
entirely made of young larch saplings was very pretty, 
though less substantial than the two I have mentioned. 
Alternating with three poles bound together and three 
across the top, there came a single pole and a single one 
across the top, a far prettier arrangement and more 
substantial looking than when the poles are all single. On 
a flat piece of ground it would be an improvement to sink 
the walk and have raised stonework on each side, slightly 
after the manner of the Amain Pergola referred to in April. 

I think the small -flowered hardy clematises are not 
nearly enough grown on Pergolas, and they are so light in 
their growth that they hardly injure roses or anything else 
they climb on. I mean such kinds as C. paniculata, which 
is even later flowering than C. Flammula ; but in Jackman's 
catalogue they are all so well classified and described that 
there is no difficulty in ordering what is wanted. The 
new hybrid types raised from C. coccinea are very pretty, 



334 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but expensive. I am very fond of two herbaceous cle- 
matises called C. erecta and C. maritima. C. Davidiana 
and C. carulea, too, are beautiful plants well grown. 
They do not like a dry place. None of these are climbers. 
The hardy yellow C. graveolens does well in these sunny, 
wind-swept gardens. It goes on flowering for months, 
the blossoms lasting long after the early ones have 
formed their pretty fluffy seed-tufts. 

In gardens where enlargements are constantly being 
made, it always surprises me to see how much repetition 
goes on. The new beds are generally filled with plants 
that are already flourishing in other parts of the garden. 
I think, if I had a large garden, I would try to keep plants 
apart, and a new bit of ground or a sheltered corner should 
be entirely devoted to new kinds that were not in any 
other part of the ground, or to plants which had failed 
elsewhere. It is so rare in English gardens to find any 
distinctive planting or originality, and I think it must be 
partly due to idleness and laziness, for I can never take 
up any gardening book without seeing thousands of things 
which I still lack. 

October 12th. I see advertised to-day a book on 
' Trees and Shrubs,' part of the ' Country Life Library,' 
by Mr. Cook, editor of the ' Garden.' I am impatient to 
see this book, as it is one I have been waiting for for years. 
Up to now, there has been no really good one that I know 
of, except the rare old ' Arboretum ' of London. I hope this 
book may supply a very real want, for, as I have repeatedly 
said, the ignorance about the pruning of trees and shrubs 
is very great. It is one of the most important parts of 
good gardening, whether practised in the tiny square of 
ground at the back of a suburban villa containing only 
two or three shrubs, or in the largest pleasure grounds of 
the United Kingdom, and yet bad pruning does more 
harm than none at all. 



OCTOBER 335 

While correcting my proofs this book has appeared, 
and I am sure will be a disappointment to no one ; it 
supplies a great want, and no garden library can afford to 
be without it. The photographs are many of them 
beautiful. Photography seems to suit the reproducing of 
trees and shrubs as well as it seems to me to do badly 
for roses either growing or as cut blooms. The book is 
suited to gardens and woods of all sizes, and touches on 
all the varieties of methods and growths for which various 
plants are suitable. The word ' English ' of course 
stands for the British Isles. Towards the end of the 
book there are admirable annotated lists, divided into 
columns under the following heads : Name Country or 
Origin and Natural Order Colour and Season General 
Remarks. Another list gives hardy trees and shrubs for 
beauty of foliage and growth. With a careful study of 
this work no one can go wrong or leave out of his planting 
any desirable or beautiful shrub. The tender shrubs 
that only flourish in the south or west have a chapter 
to themselves. In spite, however, of its great merit and 
general usefulness, the book can in no sense compare with 
J. C. London's wonderful ' Arboretum ' which is almost a 
unique example of labour and industry in garden literature. 
While engaged on this work, which took him years and 
caused him to die heavily in debt, Loudon was in the 
habit of visiting all the large places in England, and on 
one occasion wrote to the Duke of Wellington asking for 
leave to inspect his beeches. The duke answered very 
stiffly in the third person to Bloomfield, Bishop of 
London, forwarding a pair of breeches to London house 
for the Bishop's inspection, having mis-read Mr. Loudon's 
wish to see the beautiful beeches at Strathfieldsaye, as 
a request from the Bishop of London to see the breeches 
he had worn at Waterloo ! 

Even in the last ten years, the marvellous increase in 



336 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the beauty of seaside gardens makes one realise the power 
of man over plant life. This ought to be a great en- 
couragement to everybody in all parts of the world. Give 
plants more or less what they require, and you are sure 
to be amply repaid. 

Crabbe, who lived in Suffolk, and whose botanical 
observations, as Anne Pratt said in a book I had as a 
child, ' had led him to mark the inferiority of the vegetable 
kingdom in the neighbourhood of the sea,' gives the follow- 
ing melancholy picture of the plants of a small town on 
the coast : 

Where thrift and lavender and lad's-love bloom, 
There fed, by food they love, to rankest size, 
Around the dwellings docks and wormwood rise. 
Here the strong mallow strikes her slimy root ; 
Here the dull nightshade hangs her deadly fruit ; 
On hills of dust, the henbane's faded green 
And pencill'cl flower of sickly scent, is seen ; 
At the wall's base the fiery nettle springs, 
With fruit globose and fierce with poisoned stings ; 
Above (the growth of many a year) is spread 
The yellow level of the stonecrop's bed ; 
In every chink delights the fern to grow, 
With glossy leaf, and tawny bloom below : 
These with our seaweeds, rolling up and down, 
Form the contracted flora of our town. 

This year an old local book has lately been published, 
with notes by Lord Francis Hervey. It is called ' Suffolk 
in the XVII. Century : the Breviary of Eobert Bryce, 
1618,' now published for the first time from a manuscript 
in the British Museum. One sentence in his agricultural 
descriptions naturally struck my eye. He says, ' As for 
the goat hee is a stranger with us, hee likes not our fat 
fertile soil, hee comes from our Western parts, where hee 
delights in the hungry feed amongst the sharp rockes, and 
steep mountains, he is very seldome with us unless some 



OCTOBER 337 

for raritie and pleasure doe entertaine them, or for phi- 
sick's several uses doe maintaine and breed them.' 

I think perhaps few of the crowds of tourists who go 
to Suffolk in summer know the two excellent little old 
books descriptive of the East Coast, which Cassell & Co. 
have republished in their ' National Library ' for the 
modest price of Bd. One is called ' Travels in England 
during the reign of Queen Elizabeth,' by Paul Hentzner ; 
the other is a 'Tour through the Eastern Counties of 
England,' 1722, by Daniel Defoe. Defoe describes how 
in those days the poor turkeys were driven to London by 
the road ' in droves from three hundred to a thousand.' 
I think their legs must have grown harder and their fat 
less in the process. Of Ipswich he says what might be 
said to-day, ' An airy, clean, and well-governed town, a 
very agreeable and improving company almost of every 
kind. A wonderful plenty of all manner of provisions, 
whether flesh or fish, and very good of the kind.' He 
mentions the decline in the shipping trade even in his 
day. He only casually notices Harwich, from which place 
he sent round his horses and took a boat up the river 
Orwell to Ipswich. He mentions that the late Dutch wars 
injured the coal trade. The modern grumble is that the 
harbour is silting up, that there is no money for dredging, 
and that the fish are killed by the sewage of Ipswich, and 
that the river is being choked by a luxuriant weed that 
grows in the sewage. The future man, who invents some- 
thing that solves the sewage question, wet or dry, will 
indeed be a benefactor to human kind. 

I came across an old book last year which I have tried 
to get everywhere and have failed. It is called ' Theory 
and Practice of Landscape Gardening,' by H. Eepton, 
London, 1805. The idea of the illustrations and teaching of 
this book could be adopted by anyone wishing to improve 
a large and woody place. What the author did was this : 



338 A THIRD POTPOURRI 

He drew a faithful sketch of the landscape as it was, with 
every tree and shrub and undulation marked. You lift 
up this drawing, and he shows you how he proposes to 
alter it and how it will look when done. In some cases 
he merely opens out the view by cutting down the trees, 
in others he throws up the ground on one side and lowers it 
on another, so showing up a valley which had been hidden 
before. In another case he dams up a stream and turns 
two or three swampy fields into a large lake. The whole 
book, though old-fashioned and hardly to our modern 
taste, is full of suggestive ideas. It is a pity it is so scarce. 
The non-illustrated edition is useless, and one must get 
the first edition of 1805. 

While staying away from home the other day, a kind 
fellow-guest wrote me out the two following stories, which 
made us laugh, and which I at least had never heard 
before. 

At a rent-audit dinner, the squire noticed that a new 
tenant of his, sitting in the place of honour on his right 
hand, was taking nothing to drink, so he said, ' Well, 
Johnson, this won't do, you are drinking nothing,' &c. 
Johnson replied, ' No, squire ; I never drinks nothing with 
my meals.' ' How's that ? ' said the squire, ' are you a 
teetotaller, or suffering from rheumatism or anything, and 
acting under doctor's orders ? ' ' No, squire, faint that. 
It's this way : if you take a bucket full of watter you 
can't get no taters into it, but if you puts the taters in 
fust it's wonnerful what a lot of watter you can get in 
afterwards.' 

A philanthropic old lady in Exeter, very keen on the 
drink question, got hold of a very bibulous old sailor 
whom everyone had given up as a bad job. He had lost 
a leg and one eye, and used to do odd jobs about the 
market place. He told the old lady that, if he could once 
get a fair start on his own account, he would try to 



OCTOBER 339 

reform, many of the jobs he now did being paid for in 
drink. The old lady, after much thought, purchased for 
him a tray to hang round his neck with a broad strap and 
a supply of nice gingerbread, and she taught him the 
following sentence to repeat at intervals : 

' Will any good kind Christian 
Buy some fine spicey gingerbread 
Off a poor afflicted old man ? ' 

When he had sold a shillingsworth, he congratulated 
himself on his strength of abstinence, and thought he 
would treat resolution to just one half-pint. This, need- 
less to say, led to two or three more, and when he resumed 
his station on the pavement his cry became a little 
mixed, and in a loud voice he appealed to passers-by 
with : 

' Will any poor afflicted Christian 

Buy some good kind gingerbread 

Off a fine spicey old man ? ' 

Trade became very good, and he again treated resolution, 
with the result that his cry became : 

' Will any fine spicey Christian 
Buy some poor afflicted gingerbread 
Off a good kind old man ? ' 

In return, I told him the following : ' I am told that 
in the Bankruptcy Court the bankrupt is always asked by 
the Judge if he can give any reason for his failure. A 
young man who was being thus examined promptly 
answered, " Oh, yes, quite easily ; fast women and slow 
horses." I did not know him, but I heard with regret 
that this poor witty young fellow died in the war in South 
Africa.' 

The fashion of everyone discussing health his own 

z2 



340 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

or others' is so common a one now that the taste some- 
times assumes extraordinary developments, and I have 
been told that, two or three years ago in Paris, cinemato- 
graphs of hospital operations were the fashionable diversion 
at evening parties. A check was given to this kind of 
entertainment by one of the guests fainting on recognising 
a friend on the operating table. How history repeats 
itself ! In Ten Brink's latest book on the French Ee- 
volution, he gives a graphic account of Paris dinner- 
tables decorated with toy models of the newly invented 
guillotine, a doll filled with red scent representing the 
victim, and ladies dipping their handkerchiefs in the 
sham blood which spurted out as the head fell into 
the basket. 

To wind up with something more human, I give the 
following letter from Major A. C. Hamilton, 6th Dragoon 
Guards, to his mother, who kindly sent it to the press : 
' Barberton, September 26. I have a little moral story 
which you can publish in a paper if you like with names. 
I dined with Van de Post, whom we took here. He was a 
Free State commandant and Speaker of the Volksraad. He 
told me after the engagement at Eamah he found a soldier 
who had been out all night bleeding to death and nearly 
dead. His doctor said, "It is useless to do anything for 
him," and suggested amputating both legs. Van de Post 
looked in his pocket and found a letter from his mother 
to this effect : " Dear George, I am so anxious about 
you in this terrible war, but I hope you will be always 
merciful to the wounded and respect women, and cause 
as little pain to others as you can, for Christ's sake. Your 
Mother." He was so touched he wired for his carnage 
and the best doctor, sent the man to his own farm, which 
was near, and he quite recovered. His name was George 
Cowan, Mounted Infantry. It would be nice if his mother 
knew this,' 



OCTOBER 341 

In the ' Spectator ' of October 18, 1902, there was a 
review of ' Ballads of the Boer War ; selected from the 
Haversack of Serjeant J. Smith, by " Coldstreamer." ' 
The article was so sympathetic and appreciative that I 
instantly sent for the book. Although I agree with the 
' Spectator's ' praise, I must say I think that many of the 
poems are better than those selected by the reviewer. 
The one which shows a real imaginative power of a 
certain kind deals with a very difficult subject, I should 
have thought ' The Queen's Chocolate.' It is too long 
to quote entirely, but these verses, taken without the 
beginning and the end, explain themselves : 

I never 'ad no truck with gals ; 

Soft, stuck-up things, they seems to me 
An' though I'd h'often see my pals 

A-settin' of 'em on their knee, 
It ain't a thing H'l ever done, 
Cos why ? I didn't see the fun. 

Them gals was nice enough, no doubt, 

I ain't a-contradictin' it ; 
I see'd young fellers walking out 

When I was polishin' my kit, 
An' each 'is bit o' chintz 'ad got ; 
Well, they was welcome to the lot ! 

And, h'as I'm talking, H'l can say, 
Tho' p'raps it sounds a funny thing, 

No woman to this blooming day 
'As give me e'er a brooch or ring ; 

No trunkets, nor the like o' that, 

Nor yet no ribbon from 'er 'at. 

An' h'only one, as I recall, 

In all these weary months o' war, 
'As sent me h'anythink at all, 

(An' she wont never send no more ; ) 
Ah ! what was that, an' 'oo was she ? 
I'll tell you if you'll 'ark to me. 



342 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The Queen was driving h'out one day, 
And, 'appening to pass a shop, 

She calls the drive of 'er shay, 
' 'Ere John,' sez she, ' 'ere coachman, stop ! 

You wait a while outside for me, 

H'l wants to buy some sweets,' sez she. 



The shopman, knowin' who she were, 
'Urries respeckful to the door ; 

' I've thought,' sez she, a-smiling there, 
' As 'ow my soldiers at the war 

Would like a suck o' chocolit, 

So I come in to h'order it ! ' 

' Just send a million boxes round,' 
Sez she, an' quick she writes a cheque 

' I'll pay at onee, ten thousand pound, 
You'll find the signature correck ; 

That's it, Victo-ri-a, Har. I., 

Take care, the h'ink is 'ardly dry.' 

Then h'out she goes, an 1 drives away, 
Without the slightest sort o' fuss ; 

The boxes they comes round next day, 
An' h'off she sends 'em out to h'us ; 

An' that was 'ow I got a bit 

0' Queen Victoria's chocolit. 

The h'only present, fust an' last, 

As any woman sent to me 
In h'all them weary years as passed 

Since first we sailed acrost the sea ; 
I've never 'ad no gifts before, 
An' so I pm-.es it the more. 

An' 'ere's my box, as good as new ; 

I 'aven't touched the chocolit, 
Nor yet I ain't a-goin' to do, 

'Cos why ? Because I values it. 
You'd like to buy it, eh ? Good Lor 
Wot sort o' cove d'you take me for ? 



OCTOBER 343 

Suppose a gal, some New Year's Day, 

Sent off a box o' sweets to you ; 
Would you go off an' sell it, eh ? 

Is that the sort o' thing you'd, do ? 
Wot would 'er Gracious think of it, 
If I should sell 'er chocolit ? 

' She'd never know ! ' sez you ? May -be ! 

(Gawd rest 'er soul ! ) Per'aps you're right. 
But still I likes to think as she 

Is watching 'ow 'er soldiers fight, 
An' smiling somewheres in the sky 
A-seeing 'ow 'er soldiers die ! 

But, h'if she knows or h'if she don't, 

This blooming chocolit is mine ; 
D'you 'ear ? An' part with it I won't, 

So there ! for all you talk so fine. 
I wouldn't sell it now, you swab, 
For fifty, let alone ten bob ! 

Two pounds, sez you ? You'll make it three ? 

Well you're a gentleman, H'I'm sure ! 
Don't push your blooming coins on me ! 

You thinks to tempt me 'cos I'm poor ? 
I may be so ; h'it ain't denied ; 
But still I 'as my proper pride. 

No use a-h'arsking me to sell, 

I'd feel a villain if I did 
(So you an' yours can go to 'ell !) 

I wouldn't, not for twenty quid. 
Take back your money, h'every bit ! 
I'm richer, with my chocolit ! 

October ZQth. Cultivating to perfection some of the 
wild flowers of our own country is, I think, a delightful 
thing to do, at least I do it with several plants, such as 
the blue Geranium armenum, one of the handsomest of 
our wild flowers and worthy of both a good place and a 
bad in every garden. The difference in situation will 
make a fortnight's interval in its flowering, for it grows 
both in shade and sun. The wild yellow toadflax 



344 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

(Linaria Cymbalaria) grows poorly in our hedges about 
here, but it always has a place in my garden and flourishes 
exceedingly from July to November. I grow, too, both the 
willow herbs (Epilobium angustifofaim.) The pink one is 
rather a weed, but the white variety (called French because 
it is not a wild English plant) is more restrained in its 
growth, and groups charmingly with the blue geranium. 

The orange hawkweed and the little pale yellow one 
I consider both worthy of the garden. I have not many 
varieties of ferns as the dryness is unsuited to them, but 
of the Welsh Polypody (Polypodium cambricvm) I take 
some care as its best time is late autumn when all others 
have turned yellow. 

I have derived immense pleasure from the branching 
larkspurs, the seed of which I brought back from Florence 
two or three years ago. I noticed there that it grew all 
over the place like a weed, as my oenotheras do here. 
The seed I brought home has grown most satisfactorily, 
and I always save my own seed now. It is certainly 
slightly different from any that I can buy in England, 
which seems more cultivated and inclined to be double, 
causing it to grow a little less freely. In a number of 
the ' Spectator ' some time ago, I saw a letter, to me 
very interesting, by Mr. H. B. Cotterill, from Switzerland. 
I venture to think that those of my readers who did not 
notice it in the ' Spectator ' will be glad to see it : 
' Sir, In an edition of Milton's " Lycidas," lately pub- 
lished by Messrs. Blackie, I gave what I consider to be 
rather strong grounds for believing the " flower inscribed 
with woe " (i,c., the ancient vaKivOos) to be the larkspur 
(Delphinium Ajacis). Correspondents inform me that 
they have examined larkspurs growing in English gardens 
and have been disappointed by not discovering the 
" A.I.A.I." marks. Perhaps you will kindly allow me to 
suggest that possibly the larkspur examined by them was 



OCTOBER 345 

some cultivated variety of the Consolida, which grows 
wild in these parts, and on which I myself have also 
failed to find the marks in question. Or possibly there 
may be English varieties of the Ajacis which do not 
possess these marks. I can only say that the larkspur 
commonly to be found in Swiss gardens is the Delphi- 
nium Ajacis (a native of Southern Europe, said to be found 
sometimes "escaped " in England), and that I have never 
failed to discover the " A.I.A.L " or " I.A.I." on its petal. 
I am, Sir, &c., H. B. Cotterill, Clarens, Switzerland." 

On reading this letter, I rushed out into my garden 
to see whether I could find the markings on my flowers. 
On the petals of the blue variety, the descendant of the 
Italian seed, I found the white letters ' A.I. A.I.' the cry 
of lamentation in the pagan world quite plainly marked. 
In the cultivated, or double kinds, raised from seed 
bought in England, all trace of them had disappeared. 
I also grow the red valerian. Its old cottage name was 
' Pretty Betty,' and Chaucer calls it ' Swete-wall.' It 
grows in all sorts of places about the garden. It is one 
of those kinds of plants that like dryness and poor soil, 
but as much sun and air as they can get. It is, I believe, 
quite rare to find it wild in England. I never tire of 
varieties of wallflowers (Cheiranthus), and this year 
Mr. Thompson, of Ipswich from whom, as I said before, 
I get all my uncommon and non-nurseryman's seeds 
had a long list of these plants in his catalogue. One 
which he called ' Dresden ' is very like the wild wall- 
flowers found on old buildings. It began to bloom here 
early in October and so gives a cheerful promise of spring 
before winter begins. Anne Pratt, in one of her early 
books, says it was regarded by the Troubadours as the 
emblem of faithfulness in adversity because it smiles 
upon the ruin. In Saintine's ' Picciola,' that character- 
making book which I so loved in my childhood, the real 



346 A THIRDPOT-POURRI 

heroine is a wild wallflower. It is a pleasure to me to 
find that, in my old age, the books that I loved most 
between fourteen and eighteen I enjoy now with a 
renewed freshness. Second childhood I suppose. How- 
ever, ' Picciola ' the ' new book ' when I got it in 1851 
has become, I believe, a schoolroom classic for girls 
learning French. How much worldly wisdom is taught 
from that description of a political prisoner's life ! In my 
enthusiastic youth I thought that imprisonment for a 
righteous cause for liberty, for the good of the people 
would not have been hard to bear, especially if consoled 
by one fragile little plant. In those days how little I 
knew what imprisonment meant ! A man who has him- 
self experienced it, for what he considered a righteous 
cause, refers to it thus : ' Liberty ! Who that has not 
himself been once imprisoned can appreciate what this 
means ? Who that has not had to look forward with aching 
heart and longing soul for days, months, years, to the time 
when he would once again find himself unfettered, free 
to talk to his fellow-man at liberty to exercise the rights 
of his nature's manhood, undeterred by prison rules or 
the threat of warders' reports, can realise what that 
heaven-born word implies ? I was liberated once 
unexpectedly set free, after seven and a half years of 
close imprisonment, and I am almost inclined to say that 
the punishment involved in a penal servitude of that 
duration would be worth enduring again to enjoy the 
wild, ecstatic, soul-filling happiness of the first day of 
freedom. . . . Everything which meets the gaze of the 
liberated prisoner, every thought of the present and the 
future assumes a brighter hue and wears a more blissful 
meaning from the terrible recollection of the felon 
degradation, the narrow cell, the stinted sunlight, the 
loathsome daily task, the brutal warder, and the weary, 
heart-longing expectancy for the hour of deliverance.' 



OCTOBER *47 

This quotation is from a book published by Mr. 
Michael Davitt, called ' Leaves from a Prison Diary,' 
when he returned to the world after his long confine- 
ment. 

There is another well-known testimony to the suffer- 
ings of prison life in a volume of poems written by Mr. 
Wilfred Blunt called ' In Vinculis.' He says in his pre- 
face that these sixteen sonnets were written when actually 
in prison, and he adds : ' They record an episode in the 
writer's life to which, in spite of many austerities and 
some real suffering, he cannot look back otherwise than 
with affection. Imprisonment is a reality of discipline 
most useful to the modern soul, lapped as it is in physical 
sloth and self-indulgence. Like a sickness or a spiritual 
retreat, it purifies and ennobles ; and the soul emerges 
from it stronger and more self-contained. Alas, that these 
influences should so soon lose their power ! And yet, 
fall as we may from the higher level, they do not wholly 
perish, but remain for us a wholesome recollection and a 
standard of all that we can imagine best for this life and 
another.' 

To return to my plants. Playing experiments with 
the sowing of flower-seeds is not entirely without danger. 
This year, instead of ordering the handsome, often-grown 
Helichrysum bracteatum incurvum, I thought I would 
order H. Gnaplialium, in spite of the warning of 'fcetidum ' 
added to its name in the catalogue. Words fail me to 
describe how the horrible smell of this plant haunted the 
garden for at least six weeks. It was like the most evil 
of he-goats. Once I picked some, and the garden gloves 
had to be burnt, as they scented the whole hall. My other 
experiment was H. setosum, described as ' new and from 
the Transvaal ' ; described, too, as a half-hardy perennial 
instead of an annual. It is rather a nice little everlasting 
with a pretty growth. 



348 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The pretty maidenhair tree its Japanese name is 
Ginkgo grows well in any strong soil in the south of 
England. In Northamptonshire, I saw it grown like an 
old pear-tree on a west wall and, as it had been a good 
deal pruned back, the leaves were large and handsome. 
They turn such a beautiful, clear yellow in autumn, that 
it seemed to me a plant to be recommended for wall 
covering. 

Saxifraga Fortunei is a plant seldom seen. It is per- 
fectly hardy, but, as it does not flower till the end of 
October or November, the delicate plumes of blossom are 
injured by cold rains or frost. The way I grow it is in 
pots sunk outside in shade all the summer and well 
watered. As the buds form they are brought into the 
room or greenhouse. I think few orchids are as pretty, 
or repay one so well for so little care. 

The beautiful Californian Delphinium cardinale I find 
very difficult to grow. I have not before named as a stove 
flower for November and December the pink plumbago. 
Like the half-hardy blue one, it lives well in water if floated. 

October 23rd. I have not much increased my little 
collection of orchids, though I have propagated those I 
had. At this time of year the cypripediums are invalu- 
able. Stuck into a small Japanese wedge with a few red 
leaves of the azalea, they form a perfect autumn bouquet, 
and when all Nature is fading away their persistency and 
unfadingness have a peculiar charm. I can add to my list 
Lycaste gigantea: it is in full flower now, and is very 
ornamental in its pot with three long ribbed leaves grace- 
fully curved, and at their foot a bunch of seven or eight 
unusually shaped pale yellow green flowers. This forms 
a naturally growing Japanese combination. I repeat 
what I said before, everybody who has a small stove ought 
to insist on growing a certain number of these easier 
orchids. 



OCTOBER 349 

October %lth. In a letter to-day from my German 
friend there are two gardening paragraphs, one a great 
example of how we sow and our descendants reap, and 
the other a practical experience which may be useful to 
anyone. ' I must tell you how I went to visit a friend 
half-way between Darmstadt and Heidelberg in the Oden- 
wald. She took me a drive into her hills and woods and 
showed me a whole hillside (north-east) very sheltered 
and entirely planted with wellingtonias, Abies macro- 
carpa, and enormous Thuyas and Thuya Globosas, simply 
lovely and quite unique, I should say, in this part of 
Europe. The wellingtonias that are so hideous as single 
specimens on a lawn were grand in a big mass, and so 
healthy, not one yellow twig so picturesque, like huge 
bluish feathers. And think of the variety it made to have 
that hillside of blue in the midst of the black Tannen- 
baums and the golden oaks and beeches in their autumn 
robes ! It was all planted sixty or seventy years ago by 
my friend's father-in-law, Count Berkheim, who was a 
Frenchman, the Berkheims being the oldest feudal family 
of Alsace, and though this one branch is now German, 
they considered themselves French, and talked French in 
the last generation.' 

Her next subject is chrysanthemums. She says : 
' Another thing I have quite made up my mind about is 
that the summer and autumn culture of amateur-grown 
chrysanthemums, as I have seen it practised in nineteen 
out of twenty gardens in England, is not so good as ours. 
Now October 25th I have not one yellow, diseased, or 
missing leaf on any single one of my 150 plants. I am 
sure it is entirely due to the plan of sinking the pots well 
and deep into a heavy wet soil, and especially giving them 
only half as much stimulant all the summer, and hardly 
any artificial manure at all ; plenty of hoof-parings and 
bone-dust in the soil at each re-potting, and always a little 



350 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

very-much-diluted liquid manure from a sink-tank where 
there is plenty of cabbage water. I must tell you that the 
director of the celebrated Palmen Garten, the German 
Kew, came the other day and said he had never seen finer 
plants than ours anywhere, and only wished his were a 
patch on them. I only tell you this because I have always 
felt sorry to see chrysanthemums diseased, and the plants 
so straggling and empty of leaves in most English private 
gardens, for, after all, from October till the new year they 
are the staple material for one's indoor decoration, are 
they not ? ' 

There is a good deal of truth in my friend's remarks, 
and there has been much chrysanthemum disease about 
in England in the last four or five years. I have tried 
sinking the pots, even in this light soil, with great 
benefit. The wet summer has also helped; but I am 
quite sure that the tendency to overfeed cattle, plants, 
and land is one of the dangers in England at this 
moment. 

The cultivation of chrysanthemums is a bother, but at 
the same time we cannot do without them, and I suppose 
as long as gardens last we all shall feel more or less what 
is charmingly told in the following poem from the 
' Westminster Gazette ' : 



CHRYSANTHEMUMS 

We spring from the earth at the winter's birth 

When the ground is bare, 
And we reign supreme, like a passing dream, 

Till the world is fair. 

We brave the gale, and the rain and hail, 

Afraid of none ! 
While our petals blaze like the golden rays 

Of the setting sun. 



OCTOBER 351 

From bronze we shade, and to pink we fade, 

As the rosy morn ; 
And our lips are kissed by the dewy mist 

Of the early dawn. 

To mauve we turn and to crimson burn 

Then fiercer glow. 
But our souls delight in our petals white 

As the driven snow. 

Some of the critics of my other books twitted me with 
my admiration of Mr. John Morley, but that admiration 
has been even heightened by his consistent and dignified 
attitude in political life during the last three years. The 
few people whom I have seen during the present week 
had, I found, entirely missed the letter in which he 
announced his magnificent gift to Cambridge ; and if this 
can happen within sixteen miles of London, I feel it may 
the more easily occur to those abroad, or ill, or temporarily 
debarred from seeing the daily papers. These may be 
grateful to me for giving the full text of the letter here, 
for is it possible to express generosity more graciously 
and interestingly than in these words, which, apart from 
all else, are a model of noble English prose ? 

57 Elm Park Gardens : October 20, 1902. 

MY DEAR DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE, You may have 
heard some months ago that what I hope will be known 
as the Acton Library passed, by the signal regard of a 
friend, into my hands. 

For some time I played with the fancy of retaining 
it for my own use and delectation. But I am not covetous 
of splendid possessions ; life is very short ; and such a 
collection is fitter for a public and undying institution 
than for any private individual. After due inquiry and 
deliberation, and with the possible reservation of an in- 
considerable portion of quite secondary importance, I 



352 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

have decided respectfully to ask the University of Cam- 
bridge, in which you hold the high office of Chancellor, 
to do me the favour of accepting this gift from me. 

The library has none of the treasures that are the 
glory of Chatsworth. Nor is it one of those noble and 
miscellaneous accumulations that have been gathered by 
the chances of time and taste in colleges and other places 
of old foundation. It was collected by Lord Acton to be 
the material for a history of Liberty, the emancipation of 
Conscience from power, and the gradual substitution of 
Freedom for Force in the government of men. That 
guiding object gives to these sixty or seventy thousand 
volumes a unity that I would fain preserve by placing 
them where they can be kept intact and in some degree 
apart. I am led to believe that at Cambridge this desire 
of mine could be complied with. There is no other con- 
dition that I wish to impose. 

In this way, I believe, Cambridge will have the most 
appropriate monument of a man whom, though she thrice 
refused him as a learner, she afterwards welcomed as a 
teacher one of the most remarkable men of our time, 
extraordinary in his acquisitions, extraordinary in the 
depth and compass of his mind. The books will, in the 
opinion of scholars more competent to judge than I, be a 
valuable instrument of knowledge ; but that is hardly all. 
The very sight of this vast and ordered array in all de- 
partments, tongues, and times, of the history of civilised 
governments, the growth of faiths and institutions, the 
fluctuating movements of human thought, all the 
struggles of churches and creeds, the diverse types of 
great civil and ecclesiastical governors, the diverse ideals 
of States all this will be to the ardent scholar a power- 
ful stimulus to thought. And it was Acton himself who 
said that the gifts of historical thinking are better than 
historical learning. His books are sure to inspire both, 



OCTOBER 353 

for, multitudinous though they be, they concentrate the 
cardinal problems of modern history. 

I need not say that it will be a lasting pride and 
privilege to me that my name should, even for a tran- 
sitory moment, be associated in the mind of the Univer- 
sity with the establishment of the Acton Library within 
the precincts of a home so famous. 

Believe me to remain, yours sincerely, 

JOHN MOKLEY. 

October %8th. Weekly, now, the troops are coming 
home, and one wonders how they will settle down to the 
tame life here after all they have seen, and felt, and done 
in South Africa. Not the least regrettable influence of 
war is that it is such a bad preparation for peace. Even 
with young officers, the same thing applies. One has 
to remember that the very natures which do best for 
war wild, reckless, gallant fellows whose parents were 
glad and proud that they should volunteer to go out, are 
the very ones to be a considerable puzzle, both to them- 
selves and to their parents, on their return. The world 
has grown so wise and practical lately, one is apt to 
forget that the old-fashioned parents still exist who glory 
in imperialism, blood and thunder, &c., and who may be 
singularly blind with regard to the consequences of war 
as an effect on character. I can quite imagine a young 
gentleman, who joined the Volunteers or Yeomanry to go 
to South Africa, being a sore trial, on his return, to the 
said type of father who would probably scold and stop 
supplies. If, by misfortune, the mother were of another 
old-fashioned type, who with tears in her eyes would pelt 
him with texts, both parents might easily send him flying 
down-hill via music-halls, racecourses, and pawnshops. 

The ethics of war trouble the hearts of so many 
mothers that I must speak of a great book which has 



354 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

only just come to my knowledge, and which remains 
unknown to many people of the West in spite of the fact 
that it is one of the bibles of the world. It can hardly be 
without interest to a fighting nation that one of the most 
enlightening and inspiring books of the world's literature 
should have been given to a soldier as he stood irresolute 
on the battlefield, palsied in heart by feeling, ' Better 
in this world to eat even the beggar's bread, without 
slaying . . . than by slaughtering ... to enjoy on this 
earth alone blood-stained pleasures, lusted after by those 



To him the Teacher says : ' Thy business is with the 
action only, never with its fruits ; so let not the fruit of 
action be thy motive, nor be thou to inaction attached. 
. . . Surrendering all actions to Me, with thy thoughts 
(resting) on the Supreme Self, from hope and egoism 
freed, and of mental fever cured, engage in battle. . . . 

' Taking as equal pleasure and pain, gain and loss, 
victory and defeat, gird thee for the battle; thus thou 
shalt not incur sin. . . . Therefore, without attachment, 
constantly perform action which is duty, for, performing 
action without attachment, man verily reacheth the 
supreme.' 

There are two excellent translations of the ' Bhagavad 
Gita,' one by Annie Besant, to be had for 6d. in paper 
covers, one by Mohini Chatterji, a large volume full of 
most helpful notes, at 10s. 6d. 

After the publication of my second book, I received 
kind letters and even presents from unknown American 
and Canadian readers. One was an especially pretty 
little drawing of Anemone thalictroides, and some books 
and poems gave me great pleasure. I tried to answer 
and send thanks for everything as it came, but my 
personal sorrow and the black shadow of the war may 
have prevented me at the time from remembering all If 



OCTOBER 355 

there was any omission, I feel sure that in the circum- 
stances it will have been forgiven, and not have been put 
down to ingratitude. If I could write verses, I should 
like to have written these which appeared some time ago 
in the ' Westminster Gazette,' for they express what I so 
often feel that however far we are from our friends' ideal 
of us, the higher they think of us the more they help us 
to become something better than we are : 

VALE ! 

I am not fair, 

But you have thought me so, 

And with a crown I go 
More rich than Beauty's wear. 

I am not brave, 

But fear has made me so, 

And dread lest I forego 
The honour that you gave. 

I am not wise, 

But you loved wisdom so 

That what I did not know 
I learned it in your eyes. 

I am not true, 

But you have trusted so 

That faithfully I go, 
Lest I be false to you. 

If Heaven I win, 

I can no virtue show 

But that you loved me so. 
Will they not let me in ? E. C. 



356 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR IN THE NORTH 
OF EUROPE IN 1825-26 

(REPRINTED FBOM THE ' COENHILL MAGAZINE ') 

I FOUND the other day, when looking through some old 
family papers, a journal written by my father-in-law 
during a tour through Denmark, Sweden, and Bussia in 
1825-26. 

Charles Earle was born in the last days of the pre- 
ceding century, and was consequently in the flower of 
his youth at the time that he writes this journal. He 
seems to have been a young man of a simple, genial 
nature, and in these pages, written only for his own 
amusement, he continually expresses his gratitude for all 
the kindness he received. He was apparently quite 
unruffled by the discomforts and dangers he went through 
by land and water. He narrates several times with the 
utmost simplicity his hairbreadth escapes from carriage 
accidents. In these days an occasional railway accident 
startles us because of the numbers it affects, but the risks 
that our luxurious parents experienced when travelling in 
their solitary grandeur were far greater than those in- 
curred by any individual in modern travelling. Charles 
Earle had the good fortune to be in St. Petersburg at the 
time of the death of the Emperor Alexander I. and the 
accession of the handsome and interesting Nicholas I., 
who began his reign by weakening the power of Turkey 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 357 

and helping on the independence of the Greeks, but closed 
it with his ambitions crushed by the alliance of Prance 
and England with the Turks, and died leaving his peace- 
loving successor Alexander II. to sign the treaty dis- 
astrous to Eussia which closed the campaign in the 
Crimea. I have had immensely to curtail the journal, 
only selecting those passages which seem of some general 
interest. The prophecy at the end, in the light of after- 
events, is distinctly remarkable. 

He begins his journal at Hamburg on July 31, 1825, 
with the following words : ' After having trodden for two 
years in the beaten track of European travellers, and 
after having visited most of the countries south of the 
Baltic, my account of which was stolen from me at 
Warsaw, I have determined, in spite of this misfortune, 
to begin another journal of the tour I am on the eve of 
making through the North of Europe.' 

He leaves Hamburg without regret, and apparently 
finds Liibeck much more interesting. He writes several 
pages in the ordinary handbook style, of which one 
remark may be noticed : 

' I was particularly amused by a picture by Holbein, 
called " Death's Dance," which occupies three walls of a 
chapel in one of the principal churches,' &c., &c. Living 
before the critical age, he simply accepts the attribution 
of this picture. Nowadays we know that the ' Dance of 
Death' was one of the favourite subjects of northern 
mediaeval painters ; and the best critics state that there 
is no authentic record of any ' Death's Dance ' by Hol- 
bein, and throw considerable doubt even on the celebrated 
engravings. 

He left Liibeck on a steamer for Copenhagen with his 
Italian travelling companion, Signor Eossi, and says : 
' On arriving at Copenhagen, I paid my respects to Pro- 
fessor Oirsted, to whom Dr. Young had given me a letter 



358 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

of introduction, and who procured admission for me to the 
fine cabinet of minerals.' 

He constantly mentions visiting museums, and in this 
interest for science there is probably a touch of romance, 
as he was intimately acquainted with Dr. Thomas Young, 
whose wife was the elder sister of the lady whom Charles 
Earle already knew and afterwards married. Thomas 
Young, M.D., was a scientific man of great distinction. 
Among other things, I read that he discovered the law of 
the interference of light, though I know not what that 
means. He also evolved the process of investigation by 
which the received interpretation of hieroglyphics has 
been arrived at. It was he who deciphered the Eosetta 
Stone in the British Museum, and I believe he is recog- 
nised as one of the most ingenious and original philoso- 
phers of his time. 

' They show the tomb of Hamlet in a garden not far 
from the town. A simple stone marks the spot where he 
was supposed to have been buried. On arriving at 
Elsinor we paid a visit to the castle of Cronenburg, a 
fortress commanding the Sound. It is a Gothic struc- 
ture, and from its lofty tower there is a view of which 
travellers are wont to speak in raptures. In order, how- 
ever, to enjoy the prospect, the permission of the Governor 
is necessary ; no easy matter to obtain, as experience 
proved. After passing along corridors innumerable and 
traversing dirty and deserted apartments, we at length 
found the animal in his lair in the inmost recesses of the 
castle. I had seldom seen, and it would be difficult to 
describe, anything in the shape of a civilised being so 
filthy as the said Governor. His uniform, covered with 
the accumulated grease of years and in tatters, contrasted 
with the numerous orders that glittered on his breast. 
' Nein, mein Herr," was the only answer we could obtain 
to our humble request to be allowed to mount the tower 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 359 

to enjoy the view of the Sound. He assured us the 
responsibility was so great that he dared not incur it. At 
length, however, he yielded to our earnest entreaties ; but 
a dirty, slovenly sentry, to whom he gave the order to 
admit us, declared that he had refused. In vain we 
begged he would return and bring the permission we had 
been promised ; so our errand was after all a fruitless 
one, and we descended in no good humour from this 
impregnable fortress.' In the midst of drastic reducing 
of the journal I keep this little anecdote of the visit to 
Elsinor as characteristic of the want of civilisation at 
that time. 

1 August 22nd. On the way to Garlstadt we had had 
one of our numerous carriage accidents, so were obliged 
to remain a few days in the town for some necessary 
repairs. There being so few resources within the walls, I 
was glad to accept the invitation of some brother sports- 
men to accompany them to a neighbouring island, which 
they said abounded with game. After passing a wretched 
night in a peasant's cottage, walking twelve hours the 
following day, and narrowly escaping from drowning, I 
returned without firing off my gun or exchanging a word 
with my friends, who could speak nothing but Swedish. 
The result of the chase was one hare, which, not being 
able to escape from the island, was hunted down by the 
dogs.' 

My father-in-law remained throughout his life the 
keenest of sportsmen. He shot woodcocks in the snow a 
few days before his death at the age of eighty-two. 

' We spent two or three days at Stockholm. The 
streets are for the most part narrow, badly paved and 
very dirty. No capital I have seen contains so few 
good houses as Stockholm.' 

It is rather amusing to note that a modern tourist, 
writing to me while taking this same northern journey, 



360 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

says, on beholding the quays of St. Petersburg, ' I have 
never seen so fine a bit of town ; the only thing at all 
approaching it is Stockholm.' So great a difference has 
grown up in the last fifty years. 

' Whilst at Stockholm I made the acquaintance of a 
Mr. Lloyd, better known as " the Bear-killer." He had just 
returned from an unsuccessful expedition against the 
Russian bears, who, living under a despotic government, 
are secure from the attacks of the stranger, since no one 
can penetrate into the interior of the country without a 
particular kind of passport. Mr. Lloyd was desirous of 
obtaining a general permission to go where he liked, as in 
Sweden ; but his ideas and those of the Eussian police 
on this subject did not exactly harmonise. Whilst at 
Stockholm he received a letter from the author of a tour 
in Sweden and Lapland, requesting him to pick up as 
many anecdotes as he could for the second edition of his 
work. He showed me his characteristically laconic 
answer : " Dear B., Your work already contains so 
many lies that to add to them is not the wish of yours 
truly." 

1 October 6th. We set sail in a packet for the shores 
of Russia. Our voyage was a prosperous one upon the 
whole, and we sailed with rapidity to Bomarsund and 
that cluster of islands, the navigation of which is often 
attended with so much danger. These islands are barren 
and for the most part uninhabited. A pole with a red 
flag was the pilot from the hidden rocks, which are so 
numerous as to render sailing through the islands by 
night impossible. We accordingly passed our second 
night under the lee of the shore, and the following 
morning ran into Abo in good time. Being the bearer of 
despatches for our Ambassador at St. Petersburg, I found 
no difficulty in getting the carriage through the Custom 
House. Abo is a dirty, uninviting place, only famous for 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 361 

the treaty signed there between Bussia and Sweden in 
1743. There is no country on the Continent where the 
posts are so well served as in Finland, and, provided you 
have a coachman who understands putting on the harness, 
you never experience a moment's delay. It was our 
intention to have reached Bjorsby the same night, but at 
a wretched village two posts from that town the rain 
descended in torrents. Notwithstanding this, we deter- 
mined to cavry our intentions into effect ; but scarcely 
had we left the post when the peasant ran us off the road, 
with the wheels of the carriage in such a position against 
a rock that the least movement from within or without 
would infallibly have overturned it. We fortunately 
succeeded in taking the horses off, and, being guided by a 
light glimmering in a window, we waded through mud 
and water until we arrived at the door of a Finland hut, 
the interior of which baffles all description : those, in fact, 
who have had no experience of these unfrequented 
countries would never believe that Christians could live 
in so swinelike a manner.' 

Apparently things have not much improved, as my 
modern tourist before referred to gives the following 
description of a hut he arrived at while on a bear-shoot- 
ing expedition in Finland : ' I am writing now in the 
peasant's hut. It consists of one room, of wood, and 
contains the family (ten in number), selves (two), and 
drivers (two). In one corner is the huge stove, in another 
twelve chickens in a cage. There is a table and a bench. 
I don't mention the other animals, though, I am sorry to 
say, I have already made their acquaintance, and am 
bitten from head to foot. There is a baby in a cradle 
that creaks horribly (the cradle, not the baby) and is 
curiously constructed. The baby is put in a basket hung 
on the end of a long sapling which is attached to the 
rafters. Then somebody crosses his legs and kicks it 



362 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

up with his foot, and the spring in the sapling rocks the 
baby to sleep. I hope there is not a cock among the 
chickens in the corner ! . . . We turned in at 8.30 last 
night, and as there was no room on the floor I spread my 
shouba on the bench, and with my tobacco-pouch as 
pillow was soon asleep. Of course nobody undressed, 
and everybody snored wonderfully; and there was a 
cock in the corner ! ' 

The journal continues : ' The Finlander's habitation 
consists of three houses ; one for the summer, one for the 
winter, and the third for a kitchen. These houses are 
joined together; they are of wood and resemble a 
Swedish cottage. On entering the one in question we 
found a large family assembled in the room, a part of 
whom were in bed, and the others preparing for a wedding 
that was to take place the next day. We in vain en- 
treated them to let us have one of the blackcock then 
roasting for our supper. The good lady of the house, 
however, promised us something to eat, showed us into 
the adjoining room, and lighted a fire. The supper then 
arrived, but, in spite of a faim de loup, I could not touch 
it. The Finland peasant, though small in stature, is well 
made, and, being constantly employed in fishing or hunt- 
ing, is more active than his neighbour the Eussian. Their 
language is peculiar to the country, though many of them 
speak Swedish. They use the Gothic character in writ- 
ing ; the sound of the language is indescribably harsh. 
The Finns are still governed by Swedish laws ; there are 
no nobles. In seasons of plenty they eat five times a 
day; yet, from the severity of their climate and the 
sterility of their soil, there are no people so often reduced 
to want. So great, indeed, is the scarcity during long and 
rigorous winters that they are often obliged to mix the 
bark of the fir-tree with their meal. In spite of all these 
disadvantages they are remarkable for their longevity. 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 363 

The circumstance of the necessaries of life being only 
procured by great and constant labour, which con- 
duces so to health, may be the cause of their attaining so 
great an age. The costume of the women is singular 
enough ; they rejoice in immense earrings, usually made 
of glass, as also their necklaces, though the latter are 
often composed of pieces of money strung together. The 
men adopt the dress of the Swedes. Whilst the marriage 
feast was preparing I was in vain endeavouring to sleep 
on the table, awaiting the first ray of light, which we 
agreed should be the signal for our departure. I had not 
the good fortune to see the bride during our short stay 
under her mother's hospitable roof, but before we started 
we heard a bustle which ushered in a day of no small 
importance. A large party was already assembled, and 
their clean and smiling faces proclaimed the occasion no 
common one. The bride in Finland is obliged to present 
each guest with three yards of cloth and a pair of stock- 
ings ; the guest immediately gives their value in money, 
which belongs to the bride. 

' October 16th. As we drew near to St. Petersburg our 
desire to see some part of the celebrated city was pro- 
portionately great ; but, although we took advantage of 
every rising ground, there was nothing to be seen on all 
sides but a plain of boundless extent, little cultivated, 
thinly inhabited, and offering a prospect of which there 
are few examples in the vicinity of a large capital. But 
at length the river with its interminable quays burst on 
our view. On reaching the middle of the Neva I ordered 
the postilion to stop, that we might contemplate this mag- 
nificent city. Nothing I have as yet seen can compare 
with the coup d'osil this spot presents. Every object that 
the eye ranges over is grand ; the noble river confined in 
its bed of granite, the quays lined with sumptuous palaces 
and extending further than the eye can reach, the 



364 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Admiralty with its gilt steeple in fact, everything we 
beheld was calculated to make a deep impression on the 
mind.' 

Want of space prevents my giving his further de- 
scriptions of St. Petersburg, the sights he saw and the 
interesting people he met. I must pass on to his account 
of the revolt which broke out at the accession of 
Nicholas I. 

' On December 9 the melancholy tidings of the death 
of the Emperor reached the capital the news of his 
illness and of his death arrived almost simultaneously. 
Everyone appeared panic-stricken at this distressing 
intelligence, for the Emperor was equally beloved by all 
classes of the community. His fortitude in adversity and 
moderation in prosperity have justly procured for him 
the admiration of the present age, and I only hope his 
example may be followed by the monarchs of succeeding 
ones. 

' The following morning the troops took the oath of 
allegiance to the Grand Duke Constantine. From this 
time until the courier returned from Warsaw on the 25th 
the public mind was a good deal agitated on the subject 
of the successor to the Imperial throne, for it was known 
that Constantine had formally announced his intention of 
abdicating in favour of Nicholas his brother. On the 
morning of the 25th the solemn renunciation of the Grand 
Duke and on the 26th the manifesto of the new Emperor 
were published, and the Imperial Council, the Senators, 
and the Holy Synod took the oath of allegiance to 
Nicholas. At about 11.30 the Colonels of the Horse and 
Chevalier Guards, of the Pre"obajensky Guards, and of six 
other regiments announced that their respective soldiers 
had taken the oath. From the other regiments nothing 
was heard, but this was attributed to the great distance of 
their barracks. At twelve o'clock intelligence was brought 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 365 

to the palace that several officers of the Horse Artillery, 
having manifested some opposition, had been arrested. 

1 It was at this moment that I passed through the Place 
d'Isaac on my way to the English Library. There was a 
vast concourse of people in the square, and the shouting 
was vehement and uninterrupted. Upon asking my laquais 
dc place what they were calling out, he told me that it 
was in favour of the new Emperor. Thinking this very 
natural, I went on towards the Library. I had not been 
seated many minutes when the wife of the librarian rushed 
in, half -dead with alarm, and told me that the soldiers 
were fighting in the streets, and that the police had ordered 
the doors of all public places to be closed. On leaving 
the house I met the librarian, who informed me that 
General Count Miladorovitch had been shot. I imme- 
diately got into my sledge, and drove towards the scene 
of action, but found all the avenues to the square guarded. 
Not being allowed to pass, I was proceeding to my lodg- 
ings by a circuitous route when I met Count Doernberg, 
who was in search of Lord Strangford. He got into my 
sledge, and we went together to the Hotel de Londres, 
where we found Lord Strangford, who had seen Miladoro- 
vitch fall. We all went back together to the square. It 
was then about one o'clock, and the Moscow Eegiment 
had formed a square after having refused to swear the oath 
of allegiance. Upon seeing such a concourse of people 
assembled, the Emperor went out unattended and pene- 
trated into the midst of the mob, by whom he was received 
with enthusiasm. The presence of the military now be- 
came indispensable, and the Emperor, ordering a battalion 
of the Preobajensky Eegiment to march to the square, 
put himself at the head of it and marched towards the 
revolted troops. He was determined, however, not to 
have recourse to violent measures until conciliation had 
failed. Shortly after this several regiments made their 



366 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

appearance, as it became necessary to oppose force to 
force. The mob began to be very riotous, and, breaking 
down the palings opposite to the Church of St. Isaac, 
armed themselves with bludgeons, and, surrounding the 
Colonel of the Horse Guards, threatened the life of that 
officer, whose forbearance was beyond all praise. It was 
quite evident that in the present temper both of the revolted 
troops and of the people all conciliatory measures were 
useless, and the Chevalier Guards were ordered to charge. 
They were received by a volley from the rebel square. A 
horse was struck close to the spot where I was standing 
with Prince Schwartzenberg ; the ball entered the poor 
animal's shoulder, and it was with much difficulty that 
the soldier dragged him from the ranks. Everyone who 
was present must bear testimony to the noble bearing of 
the Emperor upon this trying and melancholy occasion. 
Neither the tumultuous attacks of the mob nor the obsti- 
nate resistance of the revolted troops could shake the re- 
solution he had formed of not using violent measures till 
all others had proved useless. It was not, in fact, until 
the Metropolitan had harangued the soldiers of the Moscow 
Regiment, and until these had fired several rounds at the 
troops in the square, that he could make up his mind to 
employ a force which would bring matters to a speedy 
conclusion. Such a measure was rendered the more in- 
dispensable as the daylight was fast disappearing. 
Accordingly the cannon were brought up and charged with 
grape. In the hope of intimidating the rebels the first 
shots were fired over their heads, as the marks on the 
wall of the Senate House prove. Seeing this measure 
had not the effect of dispersing them, the next discharge 
was levelled at the square formed by the revolted troops. 
The distance was not more than 100 yards, so that the 
effect of ten guns firing grape on a compact mass may 
readily be imagined. A charge of cavalry immediately 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 367 

followed ; the mob and revolted troops were dispersed in 
every direction and pursued and sabred by the Chevalier 
and Horse Guards. It will never be known how many 
fell on the occasion of this revolt, for the bodies were im- 
mediately put under the ice in the Neva. The son of the 
man from whom I hire my carriage fell a victim to his 
curiosity, and many others narrowly escaped a similar 
fate. The troops that had been engaged during the day 
bivouacked in all the principal streets and squares. The 
most profound tranquillity reigned throughout the city 
that night; not a sound was heard save a sentry's 
challenge and the soldiers talking round their fires. The 
Cossacks, as they were seated round the fires, with their 
long lances and remarkable costume, their horses tethered 
behind them, presented a novel and interesting sight. The 
following morning the troops which had revolted were 
drawn up before the Admiralty, and the colours taken 
from them the previous day were restored to them by the 
Emperor. This was an affecting ceremony. A temporary 
altar had been erected in the snow in the middle of the 
square. Mass was performed by the Metropolitan ; and 
the soldiers, prostrate before their Sovereign, seemed at 
once to implore his forgiveness and to atone for their 
misconduct by a sincere repentance.' 

The following account of the sledge journey to Moscow 
is amusing : 

'January 21st, 1826. We left St. Petersburg for 
Moscow, placing our carriage on a sledge drawn by six 
horses abreast. The cold would have been by no means 
insupportable had it not been for the high wind, which 
was so violent at times as to make us fear the overturn of 
our carriage. The unevenness of the road soon proved 
to me how erroneous were the ideas I had formed of 
sledge-travelling in Russia. The bridges too, except on 
the main road, being only temporary and constructed for 



368 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

sledges with one horse, were not wide or strong enough 
to support us. Our peasant coachman continually left 
the main road and took us across country to save a few 
versts, so next night we were upset into a snowdrift, miles 
from help of any kind, and with no moon or stars to show 
us where we were. Our coachman threw himself down 
in the snow and burst into tears, and from this position 
nothing could induce him to stir. We could do nothing 
but await the return of day. The cold was intense, the 
roof of the carriage covered with ice, and our voices even 
appeared to freeze. Making therefore paths on the snow, 
we began to walk briskly up and down to keep up the 
circulation in our benumbed limbs. At length our wretched 
coachman began to listen to the voice of self-preservation, 
though he had been deaf to that of reason, and, rising 
from his bed of snow, mounted one of the horses and 
rode off for assistance. Hour after hour passed, and no 
signs of his return. At last at daybreak we heard bells, 
which proved to be our friend returning with two or three 
miller's horses, whose efforts, combined with our own, 
succeeded in extricating us. 

'O ye inhabitants of civilised countries, ye dwellers 
amongst hills and vales and verdant fields, think with 
compassion upon those travelling over this dreary waste 
of snow, where there is not a sign of anything animate 
or inanimate except the animals dragging and those driving 
the carriage. To arrive at a relais, which often consisted 
of a solitary hut of wood, was an event that almost 
gladdened the heart, so dreary and desolate was everything 
around us. All the days we spent on the journey, not 
having an appetite for tallow and other Kussian delicacies, 
we were well-nigh starved as well as frozen. 

' At last we saw, to our inexpressible delight, the gilded 
and painted domes and spires of the ancient capital of the 
Czars. But nothing announced the approach to a great 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 369 

city ; not a carriage, nor cart, nor the sign of anything 
living, relieved the dull monotony of the snow-covered 
plain till the Eussian sentry at the gate put out his bar- 
barian hand to receive the passport of civilisation. Inside 
the barrier there was an almost equal degree of desola- 
tion. A street, the end of which no human vision could 
reach, and which we, blinded as we were with the snow, 
could hardly see across, led to the more frequented part 
of the town. We passed many palaces, which seemed to 
have parks as pleasure grounds ; and contiguous to these 
habitations of the great were to be seen the miserable 
abodes of the wretched serfs. Never did I behold such 
apparent luxury in contact with such misery.' 

He stayed in Moscow nearly six months, but states 
that this part of his journal had again been lost 1 

He merely says : 

' The hospitality of the Muscovites was boundless, but 
confined to small family reunions. The day before my 
departure the Princess Z6ne'ide Volkousky (La Corinne 
du Nord) provided me with many letters of introduction, 
much valuable information, and a number of maps of the 
Crimea, &c., she had herself made for me. 

' June 17th. At midnight we started for Odessa, and 
after traversing several of the long and melancholy streets 
of this vast city we arrived at the stone bridge from which 
the Kremlin is seen to the greatest advantage. I know 
not whether it was because I beheld it for the last time, 
but I had never before been so struck with the singularity 
and magnificence of its gilded towers and antique domes. 
There is a mixture of European and Asiatic architecture 
in all the public edifices of Moscow which certainly gives 
it an interest that no city I have yet seen possesses. 
The perfect stillness that reigned all around us at the 
moment we took the last long look at the Kremlin, in the 
uncertain light that the moon cast upon every object, 

B B 



370 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

produced a sensation it is difficult to describe. We 
passed through Tula and Batourin, then to Kiew, 
formerly the capital of Eussia. Nothing can exceed its 
filth and wretchedness, but it is of great historical 
interest. 

' Some days after leaving Kiew we came to the 
steppes. The weather being dry and the road good, we 
travelled with rapidity, this being the only circum- 
stance which alleviated the monotony of the journey. 
You see the sun rise and sink below the horizon as when 
at sea.' 

In spite of the immense increase of luxury in travel- 
ling nowadays, the modern tourist still complains bitterly 
of the discomforts attendant on this same journey. My 
correspondent writes in the train on his way from 
Moscow to Sebastopol : ' I left Moscow on Sunday 
morning. They arrange to stop the train for food, so at 
five o'clock I got out at Tula " the Eussian Sheffield," 
says Murray, " and famous for its hardware." To test the 
hardware I ate a cake, and certainly it was hard harder 
even than the Dover bun though perhaps not so strong 
in another sense as Eussian eggs are. The tea is so 
weak and the eggs so strong that I sent for the manager 
and advised a better distribution of force, but he did not 
understand. ... I have now been fifty-three hours with- 
out sleep or wash, travelling over boundless steppes 
which I am glad to have seen, and hope never to see 
again ! ' 

The journal continues at Odessa : 

' July 20th. On our arrival we drove to the Club 
Hotel, the appearance of which was certainly not inviting. 
Every article of furniture was covered with dust, which 
so filled the atmosphere as to render objects on the 
opposite side of the street almost invisible. The streets 
of the city are broad and uniform, and the houses for the 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 371 

most part of one storey. It is evidently a town in its 
infancy ; in fact, the ground on which it now stands was 
a barren steppe thirty years ago.' 

He gives a long and interesting account of his stay in 
the Crimea, where he was the guest of Prince Woronzow. 
How little he could have anticipated when visiting Se- 
bastopol and Balaclava, which he minutely describes, that 
he would one day have two sons fighting the Eussians on 
that dreary plateau ! 

The journal ends at Brody, a town inhabited chiefly 
by Jews, where he was detained through difficulties with 
his passport, and where he put on paper the following 
reflections suggested during his stay in Bussia : 

'The menacing attitude assumed by Eussia towards 
her neighbour Turkey, the revolution now going on at 
Constantinople on account of the suppression of the 
Janissaries, and the known tendency of Muscovite policy, 
will make this country, probably at no very distant period, 
the battlefield of Europe. Every step which Eussia 
makes towards the Dardanelles must be considered as the 
advance of barbarism against civilisation. Whether this 
inroad of the Northern hordes will take place in the life- 
time of anyone now living, who can tell ? But come it 
must, sooner or later. The Eussians even now talk of 
Constantinople as theirs, and sometimes pronounce the 
words Malta and Gibraltar. What they aim at is 
universal dominion in Europe and the annihilation of our 
power in the East. The Imperial Court is increasing its 
influence every day in Germany by the matrimonial 
alliances it is contracting with the different reigning 
families in that country, and at the same time it is con- 
ciliating the leading diplomatists of Europe by munificent 
presents. The boundary of the Empire will soon be 
removed from the Pruth to the Danube ; and with the 
mouth of that river in the power of Eussia, Austria is 



372 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

annihilated and the commerce of Germany intercepted, 
if not ruined. Some great European convulsion is not 
by any means an impossibility, seeing how restless and 
dissatisfied France is under her present government. 
And Bussia, separated as well by her institutions as by 
her geographical position from the contact of liberal 
opinions, will be ready to pounce, as it were, upon Europe, 
torn and distracted by internal dissensions. We have 
only to observe the preparations Bussia is everywhere 
making, to be sure what her designs are. I saw fifteen 
sail of the line in the harbour of Sebastopol. What 
enemy can they fear in an inland sea like the Euxine ? 
Is it not manifestly assembled to attack Turkey, just now 
enfeebled by the revolt of the Janissaries and im- 
poverished by a defective administration of her affairs ? 
The Bussians are in no hurry to arm Sebastopol, because 
they have no one to fear ; but English engineers are now 
employed there, and I make no doubt that long before 
any necessity arises that place will be rendered impreg- 
nable. If we turn from the South to the North, what do 
we see going on at Kronstadt and other fortified towns 
on the Gulf of Finland? What a fleet is at Kronstadt ! 
I forget how many sail of the line, but quite dispropor- 
tionate to the exigencies of the State in time of peace. 
That the blow is meditated no one can doubt ; all that 
is wanting is a pretext, a favourable opportunity. And 
when the vast resources of the country are organised, 
then the question is : Who is to oppose this inroad of the 
Bussian hordes, this second and perhaps final irruption 
of the Huns ? It is clear Turkey can oppose no effective 
resistance ; her tottering dominions are already falling to 
pieces under the weight of her own intestine disorders. 
Prussia will not she is so bound to Bussia by ties of 
consanguinity and diplomatic cajolery and indeed, if 
she were willing, she could not stem the torrent. Austria, 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 373 

with her heterogeneous and discontented population, has 
too much to do at home to send an army to the banks of 
the Pruth. The Greeks are the co-religionists of Eussia. 
What, then, remains ? England and France. But a 
cordial alliance cannot be reckoned upon between two 
countries who have drawn the sword against each other 
for twenty years. As for the Scandinavian Powers, they 
are prostrate at the feet of the great Autocrat. I really, 
therefore, see nothing that can prevent Eussia from walk- 
ing across Europe whenever she is so disposed. 

1 These somewhat melancholy forebodings were made 
whilst waiting for my passport, and no doubt were in a 
great measure inspired by the wretched place in which I 
then was ! The tilth, the degraded aspect of this town, 
with its loathsome miserable population, no words can 
describe, and great indeed was my joy on seeing my 
courier arrive from Lemberg with the passport which 
was to emacipate us from this Jewish city. The rest of 
our journey was through the fertile plains of Moravia, 
and we made a triumphal entry into Vienna on Sep- 
tember 6th. Those only who have been for some time 
in contact with barbarians can duly appreciate the happi- 
ness of once more finding themselves amongst a civilised 
people ' 



374 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



THE LAST LETTERS OF CAPTAIN SYDNEY 
EAELE, GOLDSTREAM GUARDS 

IT is impossible for me to judge whether these simple 
letters of one of the best of sons will be of the smallest 
interest to those who did not know him. A friend offered 
to publish them in a magazine shortly after his death. 
But then I felt I could not stand giving to the public what 
had been written in confidence to his family. Now it is 
different. It was he who encouraged me, when under 
the shadow of another sorrow, to write my second book, 
and it is indeed to his memory, and with absolute confi- 
dence of his approval, that I dedicate my third. In all 
great sorrows one longs to realise that, in spite of external 
appearances, ' Time's effacing fingers ' are not in any way 
really dimming the memory of what is most dear. I am 
in no sense a worthy mother of soldiers. I gave him very 
grudgingly to the army, and he knew quite well all it meant 
to me when his earnest desire to go to South Africa was 
granted, and he was ordered to join one of the earliest 
batches of Staff officers who were sent out. My own view 
of the war at that time was that it had been brought 
about by a mistaken policy, and was not a just war, and 
that he was not without sympathy for my attitude of mind 
is shown by the letters he wrote on board ship. I think 
he knew quite well as we walked round the garden for 
the last time that we should never meet again. I gave 
him to die for his country not willingly at all, and I publish 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 375 

these characteristic letters, because it is a pleasure to 
myself to see them in print. It is to me the same feeling 
as the preservation of any remembrance, the crystallising, 
and putting as it were into a glass case, of ' a footprint in 
the sands of time.' As with so many in the early days 
of the war, he had the strongest feeling of his coming 
doom, and when he bade good-bye to his soldier- servant 
at Orange Eiver camp, he said he would never see him 
again. Three of the letters came, of course, after the fatal 
much-dreaded telegram. His last words, written two days 
before he was killed, ' I wish it were all over,' expressed 
a desire that peace might come, not for him by his death 
but in a very different sense. The following little notice 
of his short career appeared in the ' Pall Mall Gazette ' of 
December 1, 1899 : 

'A POPULAR GUARDS OFFICER. Captain Sydney Earle, 
of the Coldstreams, killed at the Modder Eiver, was, be- 
sides being one of the best liked and most unaffected 
officers in the Household Brigade, one of the most pro- 
mising of the younger generation of officers in the British 
army. After a brilliant career at the Staff College, he was 
appointed Deputy-Assistant Adjutant-General for instruc- 
tion in the Home District. In this position he conceived 
and initiated an experimental course of instruction for 
Volunteer officers in applied tactics, field engineering, and 
military sketching, and himself conducted the first series 
of classes at Wellington Barracks in the autumn of last 
year. So successful was his scheme that the authorities 
decided to make it a permanent institution in the Home 
District. 

' The handful of Volunteer officers who spent so useful 
and agreeable an eighteen days last year, not only at 
Wellington Barracks but at the Guards' field-days on 
Wimbledon Common, at open-air exercises on the Surrey 
hills, and in studying demolition work at Sandhurst under 



376 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

his guidance, must share the deep regret with which his 
brother officers in the Brigade of the Guards have heard 
of his death on the field of battle. No more genuine man 
or valuable officer served in the brigade. 

1 Captain Sydney Earle was the eldest son of Charles 
William Earle of Cobham. He was born in 1865, and 
entered the army when twenty. His father was killed 
two years ago in a bicycle accident.' 

His name was the only one among the junior officers 
of the rank of Captain mentioned in the ' Times ' account 
at the end of 1899 of those who had fallen in the war. 
Will anyone who lived through them ever forget those two 
dark months, the November and December of that year ? 

I offer my sincere sympathy to all those who have 
suffered as I have done, to those who gave more than one 
son, and to those who suffered even more from their loss 
being of an only son, and perhaps an only child, for they 
cannot realise the one compensation that can come on the 
death of a child which is that it brightens the eyes of love 
for those that are left. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 377 



STARS 

Stars in the North 'world-fragments, that through space 
/Eon on aeon ran their darkling race, 
Strike fiery-white against Earth's airy wall, 
And luminous in dissolution fall. 

Stars in the South ! dim souls, that could not shine, 
While life's dull orbit did their course confine, 
Now, devious hurled on war's opposing breath, 
Flash in a brief magnificence of Death. 

J. PiHOADLH. 



No. 1 

Monday, 9/10/'99 : ' Braemar Castle ' off Gib. 
DEAR MOTHEE, Never can more auspicious start 
have been made ! Everything has gone well,, fine weather, 
perfect ship, and good company. We started soon after 
five, a little after Lionel left, with cheers from a large 
crowd of people. More cheers from a big battleship, the 
'Australia,' I think, lying in Southampton Water. My 

cabin companion is called Captain B of the Army 

Service Corps, and he seems a nice fellow. We have got 
a good roomy cabin on the main deck, port side, just about 
under the saloon and bridge. There are about six or 
seven men I knew before on board, and, of course I have 
already made acquaintance with others. They are almost 
all Army Service Corps, doctors, Army Ordnance Corps, 
and special service (like me). There are just a few going 
out to join their respective regiments. Just before starting 

I received a wire from General T wishing me luck and 

sending messages to Major S and to Miss A , a 

nurse from the London Hospital. She seems a nice 
woman, but has been rather poorly from sea-sickness. 



378 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There are six or seven army nurses on board ; the only 

other woman is a Mrs. B , wife of an A.S.C. officer ; 

she, I believe, is a native of the Cape (not black). I sit 
at dinner and all meals at the Captain's table. I put my 
own name down for it. There are about eighteen at it, 

headed by Col. G and Prince C V . I sit 

between Major S , a special service officer, and the 

ship's second officer, a good fellow. The food is excellent, 
but I am dieting myself strictly. There has not been 
much in the way of combined amusement started yet, but 
I believe a newspaper has been started, as I have been 
asked to contribute, and I hope to get a game of cricket 
this afternoon. It is feeling a little muggy and warm 
now, but I have not begun to put on summer clothes. I 
feel aches about the back and legs, as I always do at first 
on board ship. We have formed a class for early morning 
' Sandow ' exercises in pyjamas on deck. I attended this 
morning. I have got my name down for a very good bath 
hour viz., 7.30 ; this is the most fashionable and sought 
after time. Don't know what has happened to Davison 
[his soldier servant], haven't seen him for about forty-eight 
hours. There is nothing for him to do, the steward looks 
after me and my clothes. This ship, though new and 
splendid, is a slow one, as she is intended for freight ; she 
only goes thirteen knots an hour, so we shall not get to 
Cape Town till about Saturday fortnight i.e., the 27th or 
28th. I can gather no ideas of what we are going to do. 

Prince C V , though he knows a good many 

things, hasn't the faintest notion. We have most of us 
been given secret books compiled in the Intelligence divi- 
sion on the Boers and the Transvaal. We have just been 
attending a lecture on inoculation for enteric by one of 
the doctors on board. I am not going to be done myself. 
People rarely get it over thirty, and the fact of having had 
typhoid is an additional safeguard. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 379 

Tuesday. Getting hotter, but I have not begun 
summer clothes or khaki, though I expect to do so to- 
morrow. I have got pains, as I often do on board ship ; 
shoulders, loins, and legs, liver, and rheumatism I suppose ; 
it will be all right probably to-morrow. Mind you let 
me know comments on ' Pot-Pourri ' No. 2, especially any 
unfavourable ones. I like to hear the other side. I have 
written a heap of letters to different people ; they are taken 
back to London and posted, which accounts for the penny 
stamp doing. I see the penny stamp is to return to its 
original red after this year a good thing too. It will be 
a long time before you hear from me again, and then it 
will only be a tiresome ship letter with no news. I shall 
wire from the Cape any important news. The name of 
place, say ' Kimberley,' would mean I have been ordered 
to Kimberley, the purpose I will try to put in after. Thus 
' police,' ' defence ' to prepare defences ; ' Irregulars,' to 
recruit and drill an irregular force. Those who wish to 
land to-morrow at Las Palmas have been directed to send 
in their names to-day, but nothing has as yet been said 
about uniform. Good-bye, dear mother, let me know all 
you do. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 

No. 2 

Monday, October 16, 1899 : 'Braemar Castle.' 
DEAR MOTHER, I find no mail goes home till three 
or four days after our arrival at Capetown, but still I will 
begin this letter early and jot down things as we go 
along. When we arrived at Las Palmas we found one of 
the Artillery ships beginning with a Z was in there, though 

she left Liverpool about a week before us. P W 

(E.A.) who was with me at S. C. and who married a Liddell, 
came with another officer alongside of us in a boat. I gave 



380 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

him a shout, and he told us they had had no news since 
the 2nd, and had come for newspapers ; he dashed on 
board and collected a few, and then off again, like a 
shot, which was accounted for by the fact of their ship 
being on the point of starting ; in fact, she was off before 
they left our ship. We heard that seven horses had died 
of pneumonia, that they could not get enough water at 
Canaries, and were going to put in at St. Vincent, in the 
Cape Verde Islands. I hope they will twist somebody's 
tail over that business ; it is time that the idea that any- 
one can swindle the Government in time of war should 
be exploded. It was a bitter blow to us to hear that 
there was no news at Las Palmas ; however, before leav- 
ing, we got an answer to a wire which the gunners had 
sent home to Intelligence Department asking for 3^. worth 
of information it was to the effect that Boers had sent 
an ultimatum, and that mobilisation had been ordered ; 
the gunners had gone before it arrived, but we were 
very grateful to them. We have not had much incident. 
A man died on Saturday night of pneumonia and was 
buried on Sunday morning. I have never seen a funeral 
at sea before. We have got eight trained nurses on board, 
very nice women indeed ; they only heard the man was ill 
on Saturday. On the Superintendent applying to give 
assistance, she was met with a flat refusal from the 
Principal Medical Officer. She insisted on seeing the 
man, and saw he was very ill ; but they still refused to 
allow her to nurse him, and he was left to the tender 
mercies of the hospital orderlies. I must say that the 
army doctors make me boil with rage ; they undoubtedly 
killed a man of the Scots Guards this year, by keeping 
him with pneumonia in a tent with a daily range of tem- 
perature of about forty degrees, and in this case on board 
ship, if they had put their miserable jealousies on one 
side and called in the help of a good nurse, I have little 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 381 

doubt the poor man's life would have been saved, or at 
any rate his death would have been made pleasanter. 
Another Crimean repetition ! I have no doubt they would 
have squashed Florence Nightingale if they could. We 
had a good view of Cape Verde while passing. I have 
seen it before, but I don't like it any better, and have no 
intention of purchasing a villa there. I have forgotten to 
say that I had intended to go on shore at Las Palmas with 

S (see below), but on seeing the place all glare, sand, 

and dust, we decided that we should be better on board. 
Those who did go on shore seem only to have exchanged 
a very good luncheon for a very bad one, and to have 
spent about a sovereign to achieve the result. It seems to 
me, as far as I know of them, that we have never had 
an expedition with such good commanders or such an 
efficient Staff. Things ought to go smoothly and well when 
the army corps gets out, provided the contractors have 
done their work as regards transports and provisions. 
The sending out of Army Service Corps and Army 
Ordnance Corps to make preparations is very sound 

and wise, though rumour says that Lord L was 

much opposed to it. I view with a certain amount of 
apprehension the present condition of affairs. If the 

Indian troops have arrived, Sir G. W ought to be able 

to hold his ground in Natal, especially as they have 
withdrawn with great wisdom from the dangerous New- 
castle district. I am not sure that they would not have 
been wiser to withdraw still further (I hear this has not 
been done on account of the coalfields near Glencoe). 
They have no superiority in artillery. This is, I think, 
a pity, but I suppose it can't be helped. With regard to 
the scattered forces round the Northern and Western 
boundaries of the Eepublic, I look upon them as dis- 
playing a strategy of so mean an order as to point to 
political interference. There is no doubt that whenever 



382 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

politicians interfere with military disposition they court 
and invite disaster. Probably in this case, people 
clamoured for protection, saying that they expected to 
have their throats cut ; of course this is not likely to 
occur, as, however barbarous the Boer may be, he could 
hardly kill defenceless people ; the real reason of their 
clamour is that they want their property protected. 
I should encourage them to remove the property by 
denying them protection and by giving compensation to a 
moderate extent for property damaged that could not be 
removed, such as mine machinery. My forces I should 
concentrate sufficiently far from the frontier as to render 
an attack in overwhelming force improbable. I fully 
expect to hear that the different detachments at Tuli, 
Bulawayo, Maf eking, Kimberley, &c., have been mopped 
up : if they are not, the Boers have only themselves to 
blame ; we have played their game as much as the Khalifa 
did Kitchener's at Omdurman. I also expect a pretty 
general Dutch rising in the Colony, which also would 
have been less likely to happen if our total available 
forces had been concentrated somewhere near the line 

Colesberg-Burghersdorf . Major S , whom I mentioned 

above, is one of the special service officers. He is a Staff 
College officer and was on the same staff with me at last 
year's (Wareham) manoeuvres as D.A.A.G. He is a cousin 

of Sir Leicester S , who was a distinguished general. 

Before coming out, he was Major at the depot of his 
regiment, the 21st (E. Scots Fusiliers) at Ayr. He brought 
out a draft years ago to his regiment in Natal. The day 
they landed was the day the Boers cut up the British 
regiment at Bronkerspruit. He was hurried up with his 
draft to the front, and was present at Laing's Nek, where 
he was employed to take ranges for the Artillery, who 
could not take their own, as they were not at home with 
the new range-finder and were really garrison gunners, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 383 

not field ditto. He was in the camp the day of Majuba, 
and, after the armistice, went up to Pretoria, where he 
remained for some time with his regiment very interest- 
ing man to be with. I hope we may keep together, but of 
course we have no idea of what we are going to do. We 
have had several tremendous tropical storms of rain, just 
as if all the fire brigades in the world were playing on us. 
To-morrow we cross the line, and then we hope to meet 
the head wind which will make things cooler and dryer. 
Your thermometer has been a comfort. I sleep with it 
close to my bunk ; the heat has not been excessive, about 
89 on the bridge is the most I have heard of. I have had 
no difficulty in sleeping soundly. The greatest misfortune 
I have had at present is with my pyjamas. I asked 
Davison to get a beautiful pair of wide floppy ones 
washed, and they have come back like acrobatic tights. I 
am reading Ball's ' Story of the Heavens ' out of the ship's 
library excellent ! I also read a good bit of ' Pot-Pourri ' 
No. 2, and find it also excellent. I see you state that 
nothing grows under beech ; I saw beautiful shrubs with 
a sweet white flower (very well known, only I can't re- 
member the name) growing under the beeches at Ames- 
bury, the Antrobus' place. I find that in the ' Globe ' I 
bought just before starting, there was a criticism very 
favourable and complimentary, but nothing really in it ; 
still I was glad to see just one notice. I forgot to make 
any arrangements about having newspapers sent out. 
Something in time to catch the weekly mail which would 
give a summary of the week's news would be very accept- 
able. If there is a big war, a file of some daily paper 
would also be an interesting thing to keep for me to look 
at on return. 

Thursday, 19/10/'99. We are now well over the 
line and have met the trade winds ; it has never been 
oppressively hot, and now it is perfect as regards tempera- 



384 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

ture. I think the Government treat the men on board 
ship with considerable meanness ; almost all the men on 
board are skilled men of some kind or another, and as 
such receive ' Corps Pay,' the lowest rate of which is 
6d. a day ; this they lose from the moment they step on 
board. Of course the idea is that their skill is not required 
on board ship ; but still they don't go on board of their 
own choice, and they feel that their loss of pay is a 
grievance, and I agree. They have no beer, and I believe 
no liquor ration on board. Now, moderation is a great 
virtue, but enforced total abstinence for no definite 
reason seems to me to be unwise. While actually on a 
campaign it may not only be advisable, but necessary, 
but it should be universal ; if Pte. T. A. is compelled to 
be a teetotaller, so should the G.O.C. and all other 
officers. For future reference I am going to jot down 
my ideas on the conduct of a war against the Boers. 
A campaign of this kind necessarily forms an exception 
to several of the best known rules of strategy, as the 
advantage of rapidity of action is greatly diminished 
from our point of view in consequence of the English 
becoming stronger and the Boers weaker (owing to the 
consumption of supplies, the diminution of wealth, sick- 
ness of men and horses, desertion and evaporation of 
enthusiasm). Political reasons i.e., the protection of 
both Cape Colony and Natal oblige us to commit the 
gravest of strategical errors viz., a separation of force 
without any possibility of mutual support. This mis- 
fortune should, it appears to me, be reduced to a mini- 
mum at the outset of the campaign by massing each 
of the dividing forces at such a distance from the border 
as to render an attack upon either a difficult and 
hazardous operation ; in fact, we want to gain time. We 
undoubtedly must expect loss of prestige by leaving 
places undefended and exposed to the mercy of the Boers, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 385 

but that is better than the destruction or capture of one or 
more small garrisons. The next move depends upon 
whether the Dutch inhabitants of Cape Colony rise ; if 
they do, no forward movement should be made against 
the Boers, until the country has been properly policed by 
the soldiers ; in fact, let them (the Boers) stew a bit. The 
police duties must be carried out with rigour, and should 
consist of total disarmament and of partial confiscation of 
property of disloyal colonists. Arms should be given to 
loyal colonists, and armed local police forces raised. If 
there is no trouble of this kind, or if it has been put down, 
I should devote my attention to the establishment of an 
advanced base somewhere on the line Colesberg-Bur- 
ghersdorf. The railway bridge over the Orange Eiver 
will probably have been destroyed, but the passage of the 
river, and ultimately the repair of the Bethulie bridge, 
will probably present no very great difficulties, though it 
should not be attempted till a considerable force has 
arrived at the front (especially artillery) ; the general 
advance on Bloemfontein should not be begun till the 
whole of the army corps and line of communication troops 
have arrived at the front. From this point the advance 
must be made in conformity with the rules of European 
campaigns cavalry screen, advanced guards, &c. If 
the enemy is met with, he probably would not be in great 
strength, as it is difficult to see how the Transvaal would 
be able to take many men or guns away from the Trans- 
vaal border. But whether he is strong or weak, he must 
be gently ' levered ' out, a considerable display of artillery 
in his front, and turning movements of cavalry and 
mounted infantry round his flank. There may be oppor- 
tunities of getting him on the run, when horse artillery 
and cavalry can act with boldness, but they must be 
carefully chosen ; the one thing to avoid is running up 
against a selected position to be shot, as the Boer himself 

00 



386 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

puts it, like buck in the open. Now the Boer, owing to 
being mounted, has great tactical mobility ; but in order to 
keep the field for any length of time, he must have his 
waggons, which serve him as tents, kitchens, and store- 
houses ; he has therefore very little strategical mobility, 
and it ought therefore to be easy either to separate him 
from his waggons, or at least to drive him and his waggons 
back on Bloemfontein. In either case it is difficult to see 
how he is to avoid a disaster, his inferiority, especially in 
artillery, is so evident. I am rather of opinion that one 
serious reverse to the Boers would be sufficient to stop 
the whole war. If not, the whole proceeding must be 
begun again, this time with Bloemfontein as the advanced 
base. Our line of communications will by this time have 
assumed gigantic proportions, and any advance will of 
necessity be a slow matter. However, as I have already 
pointed out, that is attended by little disadvantage except 
expense. We have, I believe, eleven battalions to guard 
our communications, and these, with all available local 
forces, will have their work well cut out for them. Great 
strictness must be enforced, and if the line is tampered 
with, the people of the district should not only be fined 
to make good the damage, but be compelled to work at it 
with their own hands. The further advance must be 
conducted on similar lines, except that immediately after 
crossing the Vaal Eiver steps must be taken to remove 
any troops still blocking the line from Natal. Pressure 
upon their line of communication with Pretoria, &c., will, 
if they are in large force, probably effect this; if their 
force is small, it may be necessary to detach a force from 
the army corps to co-operate with the Natal force. After 
our forces have got within supporting distance of each 
other, further actions must depend upon what the enemy 
do. If they, as they most probably will, fall back upon the 
Pretoria forts, I look upon the campaign as at an end, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 387 

probably without a further engagement ; if they retreat in 
some other direction, they at best can only hold out a 
certain time ; their best course is to take up some inter- 
mediate and, if possible, flanking position, to bar our 
advance on Johannesburg and Pretoria. If we avoid the 
frontal infantry attack, we still ought to have little diffi- 
culty. These are my views before seeing the opening 
moves ; they will of course be modified when I see what 

happens. Colonel E , our senior special service officer, 

tells me that he anticipates great difficulties from the 
fact that the Boers take women with them in the waggons 
to cook and look after the teams, &c. Our business will 
naturally be to go for the waggons and try to shell them, 
capture them and destroy them in all possible ways ; 
there is no doubt that the women will shoot and will 
probably get killed, and of course a howl will be raised 
about fighting against women. It is a serious business, 
as people will not accept the only rational answer, which 
is that the women should remain at home, where they 
would be safe. 

Friday. Three days ago we espied the ' Mexican,' 
the mail ship which left a day after us, lying across 
our bows in the far distance flying the signal ' un- 
manageable'; great excitement on board we thought 
she had broken down, and that we should have to tow her 
to St. Helena. However, when we got within a mile of 
her she steamed off on her true course, and we have never 
seen her again. The probable explanation is that she 
had got some small matter wrong with her machinery, 
and had stopped to put it right. Another excitement 
we yesterday passed the homeward-bound mail-boat 
' Dunvegan Castle,' but she was two and a half days late. 
Why ? we can't tell a possible explanation is that, as the 
interior mail trains have stopped running, there were 
delays in getting the letters from all the seaport towns. 

cc2 



388 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Perhaps they delayed her in case she might have been 
wanted to bring troops from Natal to Cape, or vice versa. 
We expect to find Capetown crowded with refugees, so 
much so that it is doubtful whether we can get in at an 

hotel. S and I propose trying the new hotel, ' The 

Gardens,' beyond Government House ; we may of course 
be sent on at once. 

Sunday. Weather turned quite chilly and cool. 
There is rather a heavy swell, though no breeze to 
speak of. We have gone back to serge clothes, having 
been in khaki all the rest of the time. I wish now 
that I had brought more clothes of all sorts ; it is 
much better to have too much than too little, and no 
questions were asked as to the amount of baggage we 
had. I am also afraid that I left my notebooks, that I 
looked out carefully, behind ! However, I think I can 
replace them somehow. The captain and officers of the 
ship have invited us all to supper on Wednesday next 
very civil of them. I hope the company will bear the 
expense. I have recently read the ' Convention of '84, 
London ' have you ? I never thought we had much 
right in this affair, and now I am convinced we have 
absolutely none. I am not surprised we would not con- 
sent to arbitration ; no impartial person could possibly 
give it for us. If Lord Derby did not intend to resign all 
rights of any kind over the Transvaal, he was jolly well 
taken in by old Kruger and Co. ; but one would have 
thought that anyone could have seen to having what 
they wanted put down on paper a clerk in a bank could 
have done that. 

Wednesday 25th. We expect to be in to-morrow 
afternoon. Weather improved, but quite cool, and last 
night a tremendous thunderstorm, which is most unusual 
in these latitudes at this time of year. I read ' Sybil,' by 
Dizzy, out of the ship's library the other day, and on 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 389 

turning over ' Pot-Pourri ' I see you mention it as giving 
an account of the times. I thought it very interesting, 
but of course the whole tone is in the fashion of the last 
generation. The swells talked and thought in a way 
hardly conceivable at present. I had no idea Dizzy had 
such liberal ideas. Why didn't he do a bit more ? For 
instance, he is always jeering at foreign Missions ; while 
home heathen or miserables exist, I should like to see 
them made a criminal offence. The excitement about 
news is of course intense. The possibilities are so wide 
I wonder whether the telegraph will have broken down. 
I don't think Kruger knows his business if it hasn't. It 
is just possible we may be in time to catch the in-going 
mail if she is late, so if this letter ends abruptly and 
without signature, you will know that I have just sealed 
it down and chucked it in in time to catch post. 

Saturday %8th. Arrived yesterday : af ternoon and heard 
the exciting news of first three battles. No one had any 
orders for us, but to-day I went to Headquarters and 
have received orders to go to De Aar, where the advance 
base is expected to be established. There are a good few 
troops there, and I think I have been lucky. I shall be 

working under Major H , who was at the S.C. with 

me a great comfort to have a friend. Du C , who is 

Staff officer, has been more than kind. I have got a Horse 

Artillery reservist as groom. J D has also been 

most attentive and helpful. Please thank Uncle Henry 
for his letters. I had an interview with the bank 
manager, and he was charming, and said he would 

do all to help me. I have not seen Lady E C , 

she is at Rhodes's place. I am going to leave your book 
for her if possible. I have bought some provisions, which 
may be useful or not, but still it is a safeguard to have 
them. I have no idea what my work is going to be ; 
probably preparing for the advance of the army corps ; 



39 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

they ought to be here in about a fortnight. S is going 

to East London, not nearly such a good post. Every- 
one is very jolly and cheerful here, and pleased with our 
having held our own. I have only seen the General in 
the distance, not to speak to. I must close now to make 
my final preparations, and get down to the station. I am 
dining with Du C . Much love to all. Bather dis- 
appointed at not getting any letter by the ' Mexican.' 
I suppose they were posted too late. I have sent a wire 
to let you know my whereabouts ; you had better still 
address Standard Bank. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 3 

(From Cape. My only letters are to you.) 

Sunday, Oct. 29, '99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, On arriving here I found your com- 
forting little note, and the extract from the 'Globe' 
which, as you will see by my other letter, I had already 
read. I was also given the telegram about Max, which 
was indeed good news, though I am afraid it will greatly 
increase your worries. However, by the time he gets 
out and up to the front the serious business will be over. 
Alas ! I hadn't a moment at Capetown to get the photo 
done. It was all rush from beginning to end. I gave 

'Pot-Pourri,' No. 2 to J D to give to Lady E 

C . I received a wire on my way up it was about 

twenty-nine hours' journey to say that my saloon was 
going to be put in a siding, so that I could go on 
sleeping peacefully; but I found that that was im- 
possible, so I bundled out at about 1.30 A.M., and 
got a good night's rest in an empty carriage. This 
morning, soon after I got up, I met my new chief, Major 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 391 

H , Camp Commandant, who met me in a most 

friendly manner. He told me I was to sleep in the office, 
which is a large, airy, well-found waiting-room. Nothing 
could be more comfortable, and it has far exceeded my 
wildest hopes. Meals very fair we get from station con- 
tractor, in company with a large number of newspaper 

correspondents. One of them, P L , I know, a 

friend of Lord B 's. The Lochs will tell you all about 

him ; he is always civil to me. Immediately after break- 
fast I met Col. C B , who commands the regi- 
ment here the Lochs can tell you all about him and to us 
came Major Henry Earle, who is the second in command ; 
he was very civil, and it certainly is very refreshing meeting 
friends at every turn. After I had settled down a bit, I rode 

round the place with Major H on Col. B 's pony. 

Everything is in perfect order, and in an advanced condi- 
tion. We first inspected the spot selected for General 

W 's camp and mess, who is expected soon ; quite a 

nice garden with shady trees, and water laid on. A railway 
official has prepared for him a bath-room and kitchen, as 
he had the necessary range, &c., to put in a house he was 
building. We next went on past the little hospital and 
the medical camp (chiefly Volunteers) to the remount 
officer, and, practically, bought a couple of horses. I am 
going to try them with a saddle on to-morrow. They are 
poor-looking beasts ; but I dare say they are willing one 
of them is about thirteen years old, but has good strong 
legs. I think that one will be my first charger. I had 
the good fortune to pick up a Horse Artillery reservist as 
groom in Capetown. This will be a great comfort, as 
he can ride my second horse and carry kit. I have, of 
course, hardly got to know what my work will be ; but it 
will consist chiefly of making arrangements for the large 
number of men and horses that will use this point as 
their advanced base when the army corps lands. 



392 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Monday, Oct. 30th. In the afternoon I walked round 

the defences with Major H and an intelligent young 

sapper called W ; he has done excellent work all 

through, and has been particularly clever in making a gun 
carriage out of iron rails, chiefly with his own hands. 

After Kimberley was invested a Hotchkiss gun and 
ammunition came through here, but no carriage. However, 

that is all put right by W ; he has tried his gun, and 

bar the first shot, which missed the hill aimed at altogether, 
and is supposed to have fallen on a Dutchman's farm 
about five miles away (he has asked us to discontinue 
this practice), he has done very well with it. Except for 
the fact that the defences are much over extended (about 
three and a half miles for one battalion), they are very 
satisfactory, and I think it would require a very large 
force to do us any harm. We have small look-out posts 
all day long. Scouts ride out just before dawn, and all 
night the forts are held by strong picquets. Some of the 
forts are very neatly made, and without artillery I don't 
think the Boers could ever turn us out. I dined in the 

evening with F of the A.S.C. at a little mess of Army 

Service Corps, E.E., and A. Ordnance. I got up in the 

middle of the night to receive Col. G , the cavalry 

A.A.G., who was passing through on his way to Cape- 
town. Several correspondents also arrived Knight, of 
the ' Morning Post,' and Bennet Stanford, of the ' Daily 
Mail.' There was also a very suspicious Irish-American 
who came out in the ' Mexican.' He is supposed to have 
married Kruger's daughter ; he refused to drink the 
Queen's health ; he stated he was going to Aliwal North 
to buy horses, and had 1,000 rounds of ammunition and a 
Mauser gun. This morning we have wired on to have 
him stopped, if he cannot show a pass or give a good 
account of himself. A wire was received to-day from 
the Postmaster-General asking who gave military people 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 393 

authority to act as censors to telegrams. No one did, 
but it is hardly likely we should allow all sorts of 
rumours and real reports of important moves to fly about 
all over the country. Heaps of telegrams come to me, 
but we hardly stop any, unless they contain anything 
which may disturb the existing quiet as regards local 
farmers, who are pretty friendly on the whole i.e., they 
are willing to sell us anything. This morning I went to 
try my two quads ; one is so yellow that I propose calling 
them Mustard and Cress, which ought to please a vege- 
tarian mother. I think I shall take them both. After 
breakfast I went out to decide upon camping grounds for 
cavalry brigade and infantry division ; they had been 
mapped out before, but in a confused manner ; they are, 
I think, now square. There is of course plenty of room, 
but we want all the camps near water, which is also 
abundant, but we have had to wire for more pipes, &c. 
We have had absolutely no news of any kind lately, but 
that is good news ; every hour we get stronger and the 
enemy weaker, and the Dutch colonists less likely to 
rise. This afternoon I am going for a ride with Major 

H (with whom I am getting on admirably, and who is 

evidently a very good man) and Col. B to consider a 
portion of the defences, and to visit two Dutch farmers in 
the neighbourhood. 

9.40 P.M., Holiday. Mail closes at 10 P.M., so I have 
just left Station Eestaurant, where I have been dining 

with H and B , to close this. The day has been 

hot ; the railway engineer tells me that the thermometer 
showed 94 in the shade at his house, but your ther- 
mometer shows maximum 86, and is now at 75. The 
dust was bad, with a strong wind ; my evening bath was 
heavenly. The dryness of the air is rather trying, and 
the regimental buglers can hardly play, and one's nails 
get brittle at the end ; but it makes one feel fit and well. 



394 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The difficulty is to avoid drinking. I got down to a very 
small ration on board ship : half-cup of tea at breakfast, 
half -glass water and lime-juice at luncheon, and one glass 
(half-pint) very weak whisky-and-water at dinner, but I 
think that is too little here ; so I am increasing my 
evening allowance it encourages perspiration, which is a 
relief in the dryness. We had about six drops of rain in 
the afternoon. I am thoroughly well and happy, and con- 
sider myself quite out-of-the-way fortunate, as I think the 
most interesting part of the show will come my way ; but 
I am reconciled to the thought that I may be left behind 
here, in which case, however good my work, I shall get 
little credit ; it is only the advertisers who can hope for 
much, but I expect to have the satisfaction of knowing 
that I have made their way easier and smoother. Much 
love. 

Your affectionate son, 
SYDNEY EARLE. 



No. 4 

2/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Your dear letters received ; most 

cheering, as I was a bit depressed at news of C 's 

force in Natal. They are making the mistakes I expected, 
detaching small forces to be mopped up in detail. From 
the meagre information to hand, it is hard to see what 
the authorities wanted in Natal, unless it was to score a 
victory before being superseded, which is a cause that 
often makes mistakes. We hear the Boers are crossing 
the Orange Eiver at Norval's Pont and Bethulie, but that 

has been expected for a long time ; and General B has 

ordered troops at Naauwpoorfc to concentrate here ; I felt 
sure that he would not have had all these detached posts 
to tempt the enemy. Kimbeiiey and Mafeking seem to be 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 395 

holding out well, and no doubt we shall do the same. We 
have been strengthened to-day by a battery and a half of 

artillery, among whom is F W , whom I saw at 

Las Palmas. I am very busy here ; got up at 3.30 this 
morning to receive gunners, and have been at it ever 
since (5 P.M.). The Naauwpoort garrison will probably be 
arriving all night. I think it is evident that we have 
underrated numerical strength of Boers, and that we shall 
have a harder nut to crack than even I expected. We 
shall have a pretty strong force when the garrison from 
Naauwpoort arrives ; we want a good many, as 
we have a lot of valuable stores and a large extent 
of ground to watch. I have paid for my two ponies, 
and have got them down in the camp, not far from 
my office, but I have been too busy to ride. The 
weather two days ago became suddenly cold. Your 
thermometer was down to 49 in my room, and it must 
have been nearly freezing outside at night. The flies, 
which are a nuisance, manage to revive by day. I have 
got Davison out of the camp of the Yorkshire Eegiment, 
which he hated on account of the dust, and he lives 
now near the station, in the guard-room, much more con- 
venient for me. We are expecting General F W 

to come up here, or even General B , but we know 

nothing definite. H gets newspapers sent out, which 

is a comfort, as I read them. I wish I had made arrange- 
ments to have some sent out. I have just heard a rumour 
that wires to Ladysmith have been cut, so we sha'n't get 
any news from them for some time. It is difficult to 
understand how Boers are able to keep the field so long ; 
their organisation must be very good. 

L has taken a photograph of me on my pony 

' Mustard,' which I shall perhaps be able to send home to 
you. I shall number my letters, and send them off to you 
as I write, as the mail service might break down. I am 



396 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

going to write to Max now, so that he shall get some- 
thing on arrival. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 
Let me hear all about book. 



No. 5 

Sunday, November 5/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHEB, Things are still very busy here 
indeed, but we don't get much news. On Friday the 
troops at Naauwpoort were brought here with all their 
stores for the purpose of concentration ; it was very well 
and smoothly carried out ; the railway people worked 
wonders ; but, of course, it has created a bad effect in the 
country, as it is practically an evacuation and change of 
plan. Major Eimington's Guides form part of this force ; 
they are an irregular force of colonials, and do excellent 
work as scouts and spies ; they have been more or less in 
touch with the Boers all the time ; they seem to think 
that the Free State Boers don't mean to come down far 
this way ; on the other hand, there are rumours that about 
4,000 of these have crossed at Norval's Pont, and are 
coming this way, but they are still sixty miles off. In an 
open country like this we ought to get three or four hours' 
warning of their approach, and so be ready for them. 
I don't think they can possibly have any artillery, and we 

have got a good bit. General W arrived yesterday 

to take over the command. I hope this will be a per- 
manent arrangement for some little time, as we have 
been suffering from changes in command as senior men 
arrive. 

The weather is unpleasantly dry and windy, cracks 
one's lips, but we do not suffer from heat or cold about 
54-77 in my room. I am sitting now (7 A.M.) facing the 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 397 

bright sun, on the platform, very comfortable and warm. 
On Friday we had a most terrible dust storm, covered 
everything about two inches thick and gave one a thick 
layer of it between shirt and skin. The same evening we 
had a thunderstorm with a little rain. We get dreadful 
dust every afternoon. Martial law was proclaimed for the 
district on the 3rd, though we only heard about it yester- 
day. We stuck up a notice about registration of people 
and closing of bars. Anyone found selling drink to 
soldiers or natives is to be locked up and his goods de- 
stroyed publicly. This has given me a lot of work getting 
out the passes which I shall have to continue to-day and 
this evening. There were rumours last night again that 
the rail had been cut between this and Capetown, which has 
delayed all the trains. It was, of course, not true, as the 
wires were working, but still I expect every moment that 
it will be done ; the people are evidently very disloyal. 
The proclamation of martial law may make a difference 

if they carry it out strictly. Major E seems a very 

nice fellow, and I should think a good soldier. He 
certainly gets a lot of work out of his men, and his praises 
are always being sung by the station-master. The rail- 
way officials and telegraph are beyond all praise. Mr. 

C , traffic manager ; Mr. C , station-master ; and 

Mr. F , chief telegraphist, are all Al. A farrier 

corporal-major of the 1st Life Guards is standing about 
two yards off, which seems home-like ; we have already 
had a talk. We have large working parties out every day 
under the Engineers. They are making excellent works, 
but our whole line is much too extended, though it is difficult 
to know how to avoid it, owing to the nature of the ground 
and the extent to protect. We have got enormous stores 
here, thousands of animals, so that it would be a tempt- 
ing place for the enemy to make a dash for ; but I fancy 
he would get more than he bargained for. We are going 



39 8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

to have some experimental alarms just to see how the 
disposition works out. The General and his Staff (Majors 

B and C ) are forming a small mess, and H 

and I are going to join them ; but we shall probably not 
get as good food as at the Station Eestaurant, which 
would be quite good but for the flies. We think it pro- 
bable that the first troops to arrive will come up here, 
unless they are wanted in Natal, or unless they decide to 
concentrate them further back, say at Beaufort West. 
They should begin arriving on Monday or Tuesday at 
Capetown, and I suppose Max will come about the middle 
of the week. It would be nice if he came up here. I am 
now writing at noon in my office and bedroom at the 
station ; there was a momentary lull in the business in 
which I had time to write a few words. We have just 
had news only railway news, which is, as a rule, very in- 
accurate that there has been a victory in Natal. Let us 
hope it is true. It is now about 6.30, and I am still at 
work and likely to be for some time to come, though I 
shall get some food about seven o'clock. I ain getting 
very little exercise at present, which is tiresome. 

Very much love to you all. I may possibly get off 
another letter to-morrow. 

Tour affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

The Boers are evidently coming into Cape Colony, and 
the line to Norval's Pont has been ordered to be destroyed 
by us. 

No. 6 

Monday: De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHEB, Just a line to say all well. It looks 
to me as if Boers were not coming our way after all, they 
seem to me to be just wandering through their own 
friends' country doing nothing. We have arrested one or 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 399 

two about here ; one, a ganger on the line, was fonnd with 
a very dirty Mauser which he said he had borrowed to 
shoot rock rabbits. I have had a letter to-day from 
my old Colonel, who is on the Staff at Capetown. 

L , of the ' Times,' tells me he is trying to get a 

rider into Mafeking, so I propose trying to get a letter 

in for N C . We had a rehearsal to-day of 

what to do in case of attack. Our guides, Bimington's 
Horse, appear to be excellent scouts, and we shall probably 
get good warning of any attack. I have been in De Aar 
now just over a week, and I feel as if I had never been out 
of the country or town. I hope I sha'n't be here for ever. 
The station and telegraph people still work wonders. 
Love to all, 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EAKLE. 

No. 7 

9/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Things going on well; rumours of 
enemy being near are getting less frequent, which causes 
disappointment in camp ; people are getting jealous of 
those in Natal. We have heard to-day that the mail is 
in, but she is very late : two days we have heard nothing 
of arrival of troops. I have written and wired to Max to let 
me know of his arrival. We think it almost certain now 
that the Guards' Brigade will come up here jolly lucky 
for me to be with my friends. I have had a line from 

V C to-day. She seems to like your book, and is 

going to appropriate it, though I only meant to lend her 
my copy. As you wrote my name in it, however, you must 
do it in another. I have forgotten whether I have 
mentioned what luck I have had in my clerk S. Major 
S , of the B.S.A. Police. He was on his way to join his 



400 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

corps when he found he couldn't get on, and was com- 
mandeered here ; he is invaluable and such a nice man. 
He was one of the raiders, but does not seem bloodthirsty ; 
he says that most of them were under the impression 
that the raid had something to do with the natives. We 
have got a bad dust storm to-day, otherwise the weather 
has been perfect ; in fact, I have nothing to complain of in 
any way as regards comfort, except an all-consuming 
thirst which comes from the dust particles in the air. 
I had the misfortune to crush my fingers this morning. 
I was tying my pony to the iron railway bridge here, 
when he jerked his head up and caught my hand between 
rein and iron railing. I am afraid I shall lose some 
nails. I have had it bandaged by doctor to keep it clean, 
and it is now quite comfortable. We sent a portion of 
our artillery away to-day. I believe they contemplate 
a reconnaissance towards Belmont to put a shell or two 
into the Boers. My idea is that all the Boers near us 
are merely doing a sort of promenade round the country 
to visit their friends on the side of boundary. We 
caught three beauties to-day. A father wired to his two 
sons, students at Stellenbosch, to come home at once, and, 
from letters and information, evidently for purposes of 
joining Boers. The farm lies north of here, but at the 
next station south, the lads got frightened about passing 
through De Aar and sent for their father, who came a 
long way round in a cart to fetch them. They are now 
all in gaol, and it will go pretty hard with them I expect, 
though they are no worse than all the rest. I don't think 
the preparations generally in South Africa are in such 
a forward state as was imagined. I expect the war will 
last at least a year. If they had at once pushed pre- 
parations, war might have been saved, though only to 
lead to another crisis. Longing for your next, very well 
and happy. Turner forgot to put in my regimental 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 401 

bridle with my saddlery ; that will take the shine off my 
entry into Pretoria. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 

No. 8 

ll/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, I heard yesterday of the death of 

poor G K F ; so sad for his wife he was a 

real good fellow, and his loss is a great one to all. The 
news was only telegraphed by correspondents to-day. 
We knew that a reconnaissance was going to take place 
to disturb enemy and keep him on the move a bit : it 
appears to have been successful in attaining its objects. 
The proportion of officers hit appears extraordinary^-four 
officers and two men. The reason is that in a recon- 
naissance an officer constantly goes with a small party of 
men to some place to get a good view. The men of 
course lie down while the officer is observing, and then, 
when finished the party retires with the officer last. It 
is most difficult to tell here the difference between an 
officer and a man in khaki at anything over 400 yards, 
except from the way he moves about. There is some 
talk of giving company officers guns to complete the 
resemblance, but I don't think that will be done. It 
appears now that all the first arrivals have been diverted 
to Natal, and I suppose Max and the Guards' Brigade 
will be among them a great disappointment to me, as I 
had hoped to see them here, but possibly a good bit of 
luck for them, as apparently there is little doing on this 

side. We are expecting Lord M to-night, only there 

seems to be some doubt as to his movements, as we had 
a wire to say on his arrival ' Tell him to go back again.' 
The wire must have been sent just about the time he 
was starting on a thirty-six hours' journey with many 

D D 



402 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

stops on the way, so it is perfectly inexplicable. There 
doesn't seem to be quite so much business doing here 
now for me, though mules and stores and railway 
material of all sorts are coming, and we are holding camp 
ready for arrival of troops. I now hear that Guards are 
probably coming up here : if so we shall have a good time. 
There is a rumour that another poor fellow has died at 
Orange Eiver ; his wound was supposed to be only a flesh 
one, and he was reported going on well ; it may prove 
quite untrue. The weather has been good lovely bright 
days (except for sand storms) and clear cold nights, nearly 
freezing, I should think. The flies bother me a great 
deal. I tried to remember fly trap out of ' Pot-Pourri,' 
bread and jam on the top of a jar and soapy water under- 
neath, but it didn't do much good. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

Love to all. I hope to see Douglas to-night. 

No. 9 

Sunday, 12/ll/'99 : De Aar. 
DEAR MOTHER, Things are mighty quiet to-day, 

very little doing. Lord M arrived at about 1.30 A.M. 

this morning. I waited up for him, but they were all 
asleep when the train came in. I saw a clerk, however, 
and he told me that Douglas had been kept behind, 
and was to join some irregular force. I am afraid 
he will be disappointed, but it may turn up trumps for 
him. Three pieces of baggage of his are here. I have 
wired to him for instructions, but can get no answer. It 
was a disappointment not to see him, but everything was 
forgotten in the joy of getting your letters you did not 
say what Max was coming out as, though you say some- 
thing about police, so I gather that you mean assistant 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 403 

provost marshal to a division. I call the notices in the 
paper most complimentary much more intelligent praise 
than last time ; the Leeds paper was not among them, 

though. Lord M did not stop long ; he went to 

Church Parade, at which we had ' Child she-bear ' hymn, 
and then went round the camp and on to Orange Eiver 
at about 12.30. He seemed in excellent spirits and 
form; his two A.D.C.s I know. Most of troops now 
here are moving to-morrow to Orange Eiver, and others 
go on Tuesday ; we shall be left with three guns, 
which have been mounted on the neighbouring kopjes, 
half company mounted infantry to act as scouts, 
and probably two battalions of infantry when they 
arrive. We are expecting almost at once a portion of the 
1st Battalion Highland Light Infantry, who were with 
me at manoeuvres this year, a very nice lot of fellows. 
I shall be glad to meet them again. As regards my own 
future, I really can't make out what I shall do ; it would 
really be very bad luck to stick here all the time, but I 
don't see how I can hope to get on far for some time. 
Please tell Lionel that I am most grateful for his letter 
and for forwarding my things, which have not yet reached, 
but I have no doubt that they will do so soon. He 
has acted quite rightly with regard to signing of cheques. 

I had a letter from Messrs. H explaining the matter, 

but I sha'n't answer them it is not worth while after such 
a lapse of time. Major Eimington's Guides are an excellent 
body of men, half-soldiers, half-detectives ; they ought to 
get great praise for the work they are doing : hardly a 
mouse stirs in the country without their knowing all about 
it. The rather vague rumours of large bodies of Boers 
moving about in various directions towards Colesberg and 
Hanover Eoad, Philipstown and Petrusville, have almost 
entirely stopped, but we don't know here where the 
enemy have gone to, as we don't see reports except in our 

p D 2 



4 o 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

neighbourhood. I don't like this forward move on 
Kimberley; it again smacks of politics and playing up 
to the B.P. Detached forces of this kind are unsound in 
principle, and as far as the ultimate result of the cam- 
paign is concerned, it would be much better to let 
Kimberley fall than to risk the entanglement of a whole 

division. M is the man to make it a success, if 

anyone can. It makes matters much more interesting 
knowing so much of what is going on as I do. Every 
wire is brought to the office, and I act, usually, as censor, 
and very strict we are ; we let none of the usual reporters' 
bosh through. They meet a man they have never seen 
before, who tells them of something he thinks has 
happened 100 miles off, and they wire it off as gospel, 
or rather they would do so if it wasn't marked ' (Stop. 
S. Earle),' which means that the message does not go on 
except by post to the P. -M. -General. Am going to bed 
for a bit. Have only had about three hours' sleep the 
last two nights. Much love. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 10 

13/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Just a line before mail goes. Nothing 

.to record except that General W (who nearly 

turned Gladstone out for Mid-Lothian) arrived here. Also 
the llth Co. E.E., with whom I lived at manoeuvres 
this year. Quite nice to see old friends. We are expecting 
2nd Bn. Coldstream Guards to arrive to-morrow morning. 
Davison, who has nearly shaved all his hair off except a 
sort of thatch on the top, quite beamed when I told him. 
We are worried off our heads about returns, figures, &c. ; 
they are never correct, but we get them somewhere near. 
The remount officer finds he has got thirty more mules than 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT SYDNEY EARLE 405 

he bought, though he has lost a lot through straying. We 
are to have half the Highland Brigade here, including, I 
think, my friends of the Highland Lt. Inf. who were 
at manoeuvres. We had good news from Mafeking 
to-day ; they seem to be holding their own well. We tried 
our Hotchkiss gun to-day on its new mounting ; it shot off 
well, but it only fires an armour-piercing shell for torpedo 
boats. It would frighten more than hurt. Mail just off. 
Good-bye ; write often. Correspondents here have been 
' Times,' ' Morning Post,' ' Daily Mail,' ' Sun.' Collect 
any notes about De Aar. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 
Douglas Loch wired to have his luggage sent. 

(On a little extra sheet was written.) 
In some of our seized correspondence we sometimes 
come across some amusing yarns. One story told in a 
letter as a fact is that the British soldiers have had to be 
tied together, two and two, all the way up from Capetown. 
They are so terrified of meeting the Boers that without 
this precaution they would all escape and run away on 
the way up ! the absolute unconcern and indifference on 
the part of the real Mr. T. Atkins is most marked. I don't 
think he either knows or cares whether there is a Boer in 
the country. He doesn't like being without a canteen ; on 
the other hand, I think he prefers doing fatigue and out- 
posts to drill and barrack life. 

No. 11 

15/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Things are fairly humming now. 
Troops are being pushed up as quickly as possible to 
Orange Eiver with a view to an advance on Kimberley 
rather a wild scheme, in my opinion. I hope they are not 



406 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

under-rating their enemy ; they can't have a very good 
opinion of him, as, of course, there has been nothing 
except promenades and the sieges of Kimberley and 
MafeMng open towns defended almost entirely by ir- 
regulars, and yet they have been unable to take them, or 
at any rate they have stood out for a long time. But to 
advance against the enemy with such an exposed line of 
communication as we have got would, in ordinary circum- 
stances, be the height of folly. There is a large force of 
the enemy only about fifty miles from here, and he could 
get in and bag us all with stores if he was determined ; 
but, instead, he remains at Colesberg and sends in the 
traders of that town to Naauwpoort to ask the railway 
authorities to hand over any foodstuffs that there might 
be there ; the latter wired for instructions, and were told 
' Certainly not ; send foodstuff south.' A most amusing 
way of conducting a raid. Our garrison has been con- 
siderably weakened now, but it will become stronger 
again later, and we shall have troops in trains sleeping 
here every night, though they would hardly be much use, 
as they would not be prepared for a sudden attack. Of 
course we have got scouts on the look-out at a consider- 
able distance out. The 2nd Battalion Coldstream Guards 
passed through yesterday, and a portion of them slept in 
their train here ; they were looking very fit and well, and 
Davison and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing our pals, and a 
lot of reservists greeted me in one way or another. Un- 
fortunately, their first train took us by surprise. Cape- 
town had not notified their coming, so I had nothing 
ready for them for breakfast ; however, they soon got some 
coffee, and they were all right. The second half I did ' slap- 
up,' tea and biscuits, provided by Colonel B , oranges, 

bread and a pint of beer on sale ; dinner ready for the 
officers. The Scots Guards arrived to-night, and an am- 
munition column. The New South Wales Lancers are 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 407 

here. We fairly worried them ; we had no warning of their 
arrival, and they had orders to get out here from Capetown. 
As soon as they ' were out," and had got their camp in 
order, a wire from Orange Eiver said, ' Send them on ' ; 
back they bundled, horses, baggage, and everything, into 
the train. It was then discovered that they had no trans- 
port, and were deficient in many equipment things. Of 
course they were not expected to form part of the force, 
so we wired for instructions, and now they are finally out 
here, and very glad we are to have them ; from what I 
saw of them at manoeuvres I should say they will make 
admirable scouts. They took their worrying too, well, 

considering how annoying that sort of thing is. ' D 

that Staff ! ' Things are now working smoothly at Cape- 
town. 

The line of communication station staff is not in 
working order yet ; I have no doubt it will improve. 
I hope to send you a poem culled from a local paper 
on Martial Law at De Aar to-morrow, if I can get a copy. 
I see little chance of my moving from here for some time ; 
it will be rather dull to spend many months at De Aar. 
Love to all. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 

P.S. I haven't written to a soul except you; you 
must make my apologies for me. I am very busy. 
I started 4.15 this morning and did not get a wash till 
1 P.M., and have been at it till now, 7 P.M., and shall start 
again at 8.30. 

No. 12 

16/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, I got a wire early this morning to 
say I was to go at once to Orange Eiver to join 
mounted infantry of Methuen's force, in what capacity I 



408 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

do not know. I am glad to get up to the front, but I am 
sorry that I am going to take up a job of which I know 
nothing, as it is a bad time to learn. However, one can't 
tell what luck one may have, but I don't think I am 
suited for the work. I am too heavy physically. The 
troops I shall be with will be probably the Northumber- 
land Fusiliers, but I don't know yet. I am leaving 
almost the whole of my kit here in charge of a man 

named Mel , a storekeeper ; I dare say he will 

look after it all right. It is possible that I shall be 
separated from Davison ; that will be an awful blow, 
both for him and for me, but it can't be helped. I 
expect my letters will get few and far between now, as 
the opportunities for writing will almost cease. 
Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 13 

18/ll/'99 : Orange Biver. 

DEAR MOTHER, I have arrived here and joined the 
Mounted Infantry of the Loyal N. Lancashire Eegiment 
(the 47th Foot), and I now command a section in it. The 
captain of the company is, I believe, junior to me, but I 
have to do subaltern's work i.e., take my turn of orderly 
officer ; it is the very last job in the world that I expected. 
However, the job seems interesting, and I will do my 
best to do the thing well ; the reason I and some other 
officers have been taken is that there were so many 
casualties when poor C K F was killed. 

They say we are to start on Monday on our march to 
Kimberley ; but I have my doubts as to whether we shall 
go there at all, as it has been so advertised that we are 
going there, it has been officially announced, and the war 
correspondents allowed to wire it, that it looks to me as if 
our real ' point ' was to be somewhere else, say Norval's 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 409 

Pont or Bloemfontein. We are to take nothing with us 
but blankets and a waterproof sheet and one or two 
things on our horses or in our pockets, I am going to 
take my groom Gasten on with me, but Davison I must 
leave behind. We shall live entirely on the ration, 
tinned meat and biscuit, and I hope some lime-juice. We 
shall probably have great difficulties about water. I am 

sitting writing now in W B 's tent, which I am 

sharing. It is very hot ; your little thermometer, which I 
shall have to leave behind, now reads 88. I shall, I am 
afraid, lose almost all my kit, unless Davison can manage to 
get it on somewhere. In consequence of my sudden move 
I have not managed to get hold of my mail letters for this 
last week a dreadful deprivation. I have not heard a 
word of Max ; they have evidently got confused over him 
and me already. I was put in orders to-day as belonging 

to the Grenadiers ; and Colonel C told me that he 

was under the impression that Max was up here, and he 
wanted to ' commandeer ' him to make him serve in 

his battalion in the place of poor A T . Two of 

Max's letters have just arrived here, re-directed to me ; 
rather distressing. I am not even taking any writing 
things with me now, except a notebook and stylo. Much 
love. Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 



No. 14 

19/ll/'99 : Orange Eiver. 

DEAR MOTHER, I have got the mail that I thought 
had gone wrong. . . . 

I hear Max is in Capetown now, not Natal, as I 
thought, but I have had no wire from him, though he 
might have got my address from the bank, even if my 
wires missed him. They are going to try to get him up 



410 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

here to fill T 's place. I have been trying to get moved 

from the mounted infantry to one of the battalions of the 
Brigade, but without success. We are moving across the 
river to-morrow, to encamp on the other side, near where 
the Guards are. What we are going to do then we don't 
know, though it has been carefully given out that we are 
going to Kimberley so carefully and so openly that I 
have my doubts. I should not be surprised myself if we 
made a sudden turn off to the right and tried to get down 
to Norval's Pont. This would relieve matters, I think, at 
Kimberley, and we would effect a junction with troops 
coming up vi& Naauwpoort. They are even loading 
trains for Kimberley, but that may be another blind, as 
they could send them vid De Aar and Norval's Pont, 
where the railway is re-opened ; anyhow, we expect excit- 
ing times the next few days. 

I shall be glad to get away from the discomforts of 
this camp to the discomforts of the open field. We are 
taking no baggage at all, and shall probably be unable to 
wash or even take off our clothes for a fortnight or more. 
I shall have no stationery with me except a field note- 
book, so you mustn't expect letters. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 15 

Tuesday 22nd: Near Belmont, on sort 
of outpost duty, watching enemy. 

DEAR MOTHER, We marched the day before yester- 
day across the Orange Biver, and bivouacked on the north 
side, not far from the Guards' camp, where I got a wash 

in Col. S 's tent, a mug of beer and a little soup and 

some bread and tinned meat, so I didn't do badly. I had 
a wire from Max to-day to say he was coming up to join 
the 3rd Batt. We were ordered to start off at 12.30 A.M., 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 411 

but that was afterwards altered to 2.30 A.M. My section 
consists of about twenty men, all old soldiers, and dread- 
ful ruffians in private life I should think, but not bad 
fellows to deal with, though totally without discipline. 
The non-commissioned officers are also worse than use- 
less ; they do nothing but sleep. We went as portion of 
the baggage escort, and we marched without incident to 
Witteput. I saw a good many friends on the road and 

heard use some dreadful language on having his eye 

nearly put out by a native mule driver. The march was 
short and easy, but the transport seemed quite up to its 
work. There were a farm and stores at Witteput, and we 
managed to get a tin of herrings and some bread, so we 
did well. We took our horses out to graze, and just as 
we were bringing them in there was an alarm that some 
of the enemy were advancing. We saddled up and 

dashed off, then heard that Lord M was missing. 

However, he was discovered quietly sitting at the foot 
of a kopje watching events. The alarm was false ; the 
enemy had fired five shells at the 9th Lancers, and 
killed a horse, I believe. In the evening I borrowed a 
bucket from the New South Wales Lancers and had a 
good wash. My men know nothing about looking after 
themselves, they are like idle children. I am teaching 
them a few useful habits. After a good night I was 
roused at 2.30 A.M. and at 3.30, having had a little coffee 
and bread, the whole of the M.I. trotted off in the moon- 
light towards Belmont, the place where they had the 
skirmish the other day. On getting to Belmont Farm we 
dismounted, and lined the kopjes, and except for small 
changes we are here still, though it must be about 
9 o'clock. My watch stopped yesterday a great misfor- 
tune. I suppose the dust has got into the works, or I 
have banged it about somewhere. Soon after we arrived 
here we saw numerous small parties of the enemy, I should 



4i2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

think about 300 in all, coming out from behind one hill and 
going behind another, without much aim apparently, except 
to graze their ponies ; the men are almost all out of sight, 
but I can see their ponies with my glasses about three 
miles away. We expect to be reinforced to-day at 6 P.M., 
so we have a good long wait before us, and mighty little 
prospect of any food, though we have a day's ration on 
our horses, which are about 400 yards away. We heard 
a few shots fired on the outpost line probably someone 
got the jumps. I expected to be excited the first time I 
saw the enemy, but it seems as natural as anything now. 
The 2nd Staff (Methuen's) came out with us this morning. 
I waved to Douglas from my humble position. My 
captain seems nice, but he is not the man to keep these 
rough diamonds in order. He is too serious ; they only 

get sulky. My brother section commander is called L 

of the Bombay Army. It seems a queer turn of the 
wheel that I am commanding 20 men of the N. Lan- 
cashire Eegiment, while Max will command 120 
Grenadiers with two officers. In addition to having to 
live my time away from friends, my subordinate position 
will quite prevent my getting any professional advance- 
ment; it is bad luck. We have got E as Staff 

Officer to the M.I., and though he has been very civil to 
me, he probably hates the Guards as much as his father 
does, which accounts for my being put with this company. 
I have just jumped up in a great hurry on seeing a nasty 
looking snake making for me. He was apparently as 
much frightened as I was, as he has nipped under a stone. 

I have no stick to kill him with. 

About 4.30 p.m. My picquet was. withdrawn about 

II A.M. to the farmhouse, which belongs to an English- 
man named Thomas, and where we joined the reserve. 
I got some milk, and later a little bread and jam from the 
farmer. All of a sudden the Boers opened fire on us with 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 413 

a gun, not a very big one a six-pounder I should think 
and from a long way off they made quite good practice, 
and during the afternoon they have put about fifteen 
shells into the small amphitheatre surrounding the farm 
pond and spring. Taking horses to water is the signal to 
shoot. I expected to feel anxious, but instead, I only felt 
curiosity and excitement. Of course we all ducked under 
big stone walls on seeing the smoke. Then came a pause 
before hearing the report, then the whistle of the shell, 
and then the explosion of the shell. Some did not explode 
at all ; one went thump into the rocky ground about 
twenty yards from me without exploding. Another 
missed the farmhouse just over, and exploded in the hill- 
side beyond, about two feet from a goat who was taking a 
snooze, but without hurting him. The ostriches seemed 
alarmed it is a great game here for the soldiers to pursue 
the birds and snatch out their feathers, which they then 
put inside their helmets to keep their heads cool, and 
as a present for their girls on return. We are expecting 
the advanced guard of the force this evening at 6 P.M. 
We shall probably have a battle to-morrow, which we 
ought to win easily, if we don't throw masses of infantry 
against the Boers before thoroughly shaking them with 
artillery. We are travelling as light as we possibly can 
nothing but blankets and a waterproof in cart, great-coat, 
&c., on horse. We draw rations with the men ; good bread 
or biscuit ; the tinned meat might be better, some is good 
and palatable, other tough, stringy, and nasty to look 
at a question of economy ; but I am sure soldiers would 
sooner be spared dinners and extravagances on their 
return if they might have the best possible on service. 
One should remember the initial value of the article is so 
little compared with the value of the article delivered 
here. 

Am giving this to groom to post if possible, 2.30 A.M. 



4M A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Thursday. We expect battle to-day. We protect 
advance of Guards' Brigade. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 



No. 16 

26/ll/'99 : Near Graspan. 

DEAR MOTHER, I hope you got my fifteenth letter, 
dated from Belmont ; it was entrusted to a wounded 
sergeant of the Coldstreams, who promised to post it. 
We have had an anxious three days. Thursday we fought 
the battle of Belmont, and though we turned the Boers 
out of an almost impregnable position, we lost heavily 
in so doing. My company was operating on the right 
flank of the Guards and artillery, but we were unable to 
do much ; we began by drawing the fire of the enemy to 
enable the artillery to have a target. We remained under 
fire until the position was taken, and then we dashed 
round the south side of the great kopje and tried to catch 
the enemy trekking away ; but it was impossible to dis- 
tinguish friends from enemy ; in fact, the Grenadiers fired 
at a portion of one company. We got a few waggons and 
a small laager of the enemy, we then tried to get still 
further round, but they got away so cleverly and so 
quickly, covered by the fire of a few men, that we never 
did any good. We then went away still further from the 
rest of the force (which in my opinion is wrong, as in 
these great plains it is most important not to lose all 
cohesion), and coming on to the top of a rise, a gun 
opened fire on us at a very short range, supported by rifle 
fire ; we stopped there for some time, but did no good. If 
we had been able to get up some guns, it might have been 
all right, but still the detaching of small forces is what 
so often leads to disaster. We then returned slowly and 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 415 

got some water and Boer bread (an excellent sort of rusk) 
from this laager. We destroyed about 15,000 rounds of 
their ammunition ; they have plenty more, though. I saw 
Max, who, I hear, did splendidly on the afternoon, and 

heard about losses of Brigade. I saw C and B 

with their wounds dressed walking about quite cheerfully. 
Max gave me your letter with father's ideas about war, in 
which I quite concur ; it seems the most ridiculous thing 
that we should be going through every sort of horror in 
order to shoot at total strangers who have never done us 
much harm. They are splendid fighters too, from what 
I can see, and they make full use of the wonderful 
country in which every two miles there are perfect posi- 
tions which fulfil all the requirements that a most 
ingenious engineer can contrive a first-class position in 
Europe may fulfil five or six conditions, leaving four or 
five others unfulfilled ; here every one is fulfilled, abso- 
lutely ready made, except an abundant supply of good 
water. 

The day after the battle our company started long 
before daybreak to support the armoured train, which was 
going to repair the line. We sent out scouts in front and 
flanks. I took charge of a small rearguard and the left 
flank scouts ; all went well till we got nearly here. I was 
then sent off with a few men to a small farm about three 
miles to the right, where we thought we saw Boers and 
waggons, but on arriving we found only black farmers with 
oxen. I purchased a drink of milk all round from them, 
and was just going to water my horse at a pond when I 
saw in the far distance a big gun fire at the armoured 
train, which proceeded to retire rapidly. I at once set off 
to support it, and on arrival found that an officer and two 
of our scouts had been fired on at close range, and were 
missing. 

We have since found that the officer and one man 



416 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were killed ; the other is lying here dangerously wounded, 
shot through the back of the head. It was no good 
attempting to repair the line farther, so all retired to 
Belmont, where we stopped the night alone, all the rest 
of the army marching out north. Yesterday we did not 
start till 5 A.M., as our horses and men were very tired. I 
borrowed a basin from the farmer, whose house had been 
turned into a hospital, took it into his vegetable garden, 
which had of course been completely stripped, and had a 
fine wash, which was only spoilt by the near neighbour- 
hood of a decaying horse this was the evening of the 
armoured-train day. Next day we started off in pursuit 
of our friends, arrived just in time for the opening of 
what I suppose will be called the engagement of Gras- 
pan. We had no orders, but we had an idea that the 
9th Lancers were round on the right flank (east), so we 
rode round, being shelled at two or three places without 
result, though the aim was very good. We found the 
9th snug under a kopje. We could not tell how the fight 
was going, but our artillery fire, which had been going on 
for a couple of hours, stopped suddenly, and we saw Boers 

on three sides of us. Colonel B G was jusi 

going to retire when we perceived that the Boers them- 
selves were retiring, so we went on further round, very 
well concealed, till we got to a place where we could see 
them leaving the kopje with their waggons. There is no 
doubt that the Lancers ought to have charged home here, 
supported by us, instead of which we dismounted and 
fired at them. I am afraid we frightened them more than 
we hurt them. Anyhow, there were hundreds of them 
going away, trekking across the plain ; a perfectly orderly 
rabble, no hurry or confusion ; it is always so, for every 
man works for himself in this open country. We got on 
our horses again and pursued, but got no closer ; we gave 
them a parting shot or two, but they were still round us 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 417 

on two sides. The Lancers then retired, and we were 
told to hold a kopje to cover their retreat ; we had a 
ticklish time, but got out of it all right, one man shot 
through the cheek and neck. They shelled us going back, 
but only got a horse. I don't know yet whether we are 
doing much good ; we are camping on enemy's position, 
but that is only a barren honour, specially as the 
water is infamous, same for animals and men, and all the 
colour of coffee. I hope it won't give disease. I am 
trying to drink it only boiled, but the dryness makes one 
dreadfully thirsty. I am suffering, like most of us, from 
bad cracked lips, and have no grease to soothe them. To- 
day we have a rest day, but I expect we shall go out this 
afternoon. Much love. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 
I wish it was all over. 



INDEX 



A , Miss, 377 

Abbott, Archbishop, 101 

Abo, 360-361 

Acacia, yellow, 160, 169 

Ackland, Dr. W. H., 75 

Acorns, eatable, 164 

Acton, Lord, 351-353 

AdenopJiora Potanini, 218 

Adulteration of food, 32, 100 

Advertisements, teaching of, 52 

Agaves (aloes), 163-164, 170 

Agneau-de-lait, 94, 96 

Agnew, Lady, 107 

Aix, 238 

Albumen, daily allowance of, 85- 
86, 111; digestion of, 105 (see \ 
also under ' Proteid ') 

Alcohol, hereditary effect of ex- 
cessive drinking of, 51 ; Plas- 
mon as a substitute for, 55; 
Maeterlinck on, 73-74 ; effects 
of, 256 

Alison, Mr. George, 220 

Aliwal North, 392 

Alkaline salts in potatoes, 71 

treatment, 44 

Allen, Grant, 253-255 

Allinson, Dr., 15 ; ' Medical 
Essays,' 30; on diet for uric- 
acid diseases, 45 

Allman & Son, 34 

Allopathy, 30 

Almond cream, preparation of, 
69-70 

Almonds, prussic acid in, 62, 
98-9; in diet, 69, 71, 130; 



varieties of, 98; oil of, 99; 

amount of proteid in, 111 
Aloes, 163-164, 170 
Alternanthera, 208 
Amalfi, 198, 333 
Amaranthus caudatus, 323 
American food reformers, 112 
Amesbury, 383 
Amomum, 272-273 
Ampelopsis Veitchii, 271 
Amygdalin in almonds, 99 
Amygdalus Davidiana, 152 
Anaemia, diet for, 45, 67 
Analysis of food, 104; on the 

Continent, 100 
Andover, 121 
Andromedas, 233 
Anemones, 165, 172, 354 
Angelo, Michael, 173 
' Animal Life,' 272 
Anthropoid apes, teeth of, 28 ; 

diet of, 29 

Antrobus family, 383 
Appendicitis, 126 
Appetite, importance of, 67 
Apple and nut diet, 98 
dumplings, 128 ; pudding, 

baked, 129 ; meringue, 287 
Apple-trees, 212 ; prunings of, for 

goats, 103 ; grown from pips, 

260 

April, notes for, 175-202 
Aquarium, 98 ; at Naples, 185 
Arabis alpina flore-pleno, 220 
Army Service Corps in South 

Africa, 381 

2 



420 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Arnold, Dr., 75 

Art, pre-Raphaelite school of, 58 ; 

modern, 205 
Artichoke, leaves of, for goats, j 

103, 227; Globe, 226-227, j 

260 ; how to serve, 285 
Asparagus, 4-5, 17, 260; xanthin 

in, 48 

Asphodels, 197-198 
Asters, 265 

' Astolat Press,' 100-102 
Atlee, Mr., 295 
Atwater, Professor, 27 
Auckland, 250 
August, notes for, 266-304 
' Aurora Leigh ' quoted, 202 
' Australia ' battleship, 377 
Austria, and Russia, 371-373 
Ayr, 382 
Azaleas, 216, 231-233, 348 



B , Captain and Mrs., 377- 

378 

B Colonel C., 391, 393, 406 

B General, 394-395 

B Lord, 391 

B Major, 398 

B W., 409 

Baby food, 297 

Backhouse, Messrs., 232 

Bagnoles-de-1'Orne, 63 

Baiffi, 179, 184 

Ball, Mr., 250 

Ball's ' Story of the Heavens,' 

383 

' Ballads of the Boer War,' 341 
Bamboos, 170, 233, 235 
Bananas, 115 
Bankruptcy Court, story from 

the, 339 
Barberton, 340 
Barcelona nuts, 130 
Barley and raisin pudding, 129 
_ bread, 126 

porridge, 112 

water, 70, 113, 289 ; receipt 
for, 128 

Barr & Sons, 251, 323 

Barr, Mr. Peter, 210, 249-251 

Batourin, town 370 



Battle Creek Sanatorium, 112 

Bax & Sons, 126, 295 

Bay-trees, 162, 236-237 

Beaconsfield, Lord, ' Sybil,' 388 

Beale, Dr. Lionel, 11 

Beans, 4, 17, 57, 261 ; uric acid 
in, 18, 48 ; ancients abstained 
from use of, 49 ; used by the 
Greeks in balloting, 49 ; as 
food for the poor, 109 ; from 
Madeira, 144 ; preserved, 301 

Beaufort West, 398 

Beaumont, Sir William, 208 

Bee-keeping, 124 

Beech-trees, 211, 236, 383; at 
Strathfieldsaye, 335 

Beer, 32, 50, 90, 121 

Beer-money for servants, 145 

Beetroot salad, 288 

Bell's ' Life and Light ' series, 
26 

Bellet, 161 

Belmont, 400, 410-411, 416; 
battle of, 414-415 

Benham, Dr., 75 

Berkheim, Count, 349 

Berlin Conference on Tubercu- 
losis, 88, 158 

Bertschinger, Dr., 100 

Besant, Mrs. Annie, 354 

Bethulie Bridge, 385, 394 

' Bhagavad Gita,' 354 

' Bibelots ' series, 101 

Bible on flesh foods, 48 

Bignonias, 231 

Bills, payment of, 138-139 

Biscuits, use of, in travelling, 66 ; 
making, 252, 293, 300 

Bjorsby, 361 

Black, Dr. George, 75 

Blacker, Dr., 75 

Blackthorn, 153 

Blatchford, Robert, ' Merrie Eng- 
land,' 249 

Blight, 247 

Bloemfontein, 385-386, 409 

' Bloody Noses,' 324 

Blunt, Mr. Wilfred, In Vinculis,' 
347 

Boer War, 89, 194, 227-228; 
incident in the, 340 ; ' Ballads 



INDEX 



421 



of the,' 341 ; Captain Sydney 
Earle's letters on the, 374-417 

Bonn's Classical Library, 183 

Boix, Dr., 27 

Bomarsund, 360 

Books, see under Cookery, Diet, 
Education, Gardening, Health, 
Hygiene, Poems, &c. 

Booth, Charles, 139 

Boracic acid in mucus colitis, 68 

Boron in bread, 65 

Borrow, George, quoted, 147 

Botanical names and the igno- 
rant, 170 

gardens, 229-230 
Botticelli, painter, 174 
Bouchard, Dr., 27 
Boulouris, 161 

Bourget's 'Homme d'Affaire,' 165 

Bouvardias, 273 

' Braemar Castle,' 377-379 

Brams Hill, visit to, 274-275, 
306, 309 

Bran tea, 113, 294 

Brassica oleracea, 252 

Brazil nut soup, 130 

Bread, Graham brown, 4 ; gyp- 
sum in, 65 ; receipt for, 296 ; 
amount of proteid in, 111 ; un- 
fermented, 126 ; flour for mak- 
ing, 294-295; on bought, 295, 
300 ; Boer, 415 

and fruit diet, 120 
Breakfast, hour for, 4 ; omission 

of, 15-16, 27 

Briar root for pipes, 161-162 

Brighton, 279 

Brindisi, 176 

Brink's ' French Revolution,' 340 

British Dental Association, 297 

British Museum, 358 

Broadbent, Mr. Albert, 26, 297 

Broadbent, Sir William, on con- 
sumption, 96 

Broadlands Home, 77 

Broadmoor, 72 

Broccoli, 252, 262 

Brody, town, 371 

Bronkerspruit, 382 

Brooke, Mr. Stopford, 213-214 

Brouardel, M., 158 



Brown, T. E., ' Letters ' quoted, 3 

Browning, Eobert, 323-324 

Browning, Mrs., 202 

Bruccio, curd made from goats' 
milk, 96 

Bruce, Hon. Mrs. F. J., 26 

Bruges, nursery gardens at, 230 

Brussels, 230 

Bryce, Eobert, ' Suffolk Breviary,' 
336 

Bulawayo, 382 

Bull, sex vigour in the, 55 

Bullant, architect, 167-168 

Burgundy wine, 67 

'Buried Temple, The,' quoted, 
72-74 

Burne-Jones, painter, 54 

Bushey art students, 124 

Butter, 88, 90; as an aid to 
digestion, 71 ; nut, 112 ; cocoa- 
nut, 117 



C , Colonel, 409 

C , General, 394 

C , Major, 398 

C , Mr., traffic superinten- 
dent, 397 

C , Mr., stationmaster, 397 

C , E., ' Vale,' poem, 355 

C , Lady E., 389-390, 399 

C , N., 399 

C- , V , Prince, 378 

Cabbages, 252, 260 ; how to serve, 
286 ; on cooking, 287 

Cain, sculptor, 166 

Cakes, how to keep fresh, 285 ; 
foreign, 293 

Calendulas, 213 

Calomel in eczema, 46 

Cambridge University, 351-352 

Camellias, 235 

Camembert cheese, 90 

Campanulas, 217-218, 320 

Campions, 232 

Canary Islands, 162 

Cancer, cause of, 47 

Cannas, 267 

Cannell, Mr., 262-263, 267 

Cannes, 162 ; visit to, 169-172 

Cantani, Dr., 78, 80, 84, 86-87 



422 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Cape montbretias, 235 ; bulbs, 
310; pelargoniums, 320-321; 
heaths, 322 ; plants, 332 
Cape Colony, 398 ; Dutch rising 

in, 382, 385 

Capetown, 249, 378-379, 388 seq. 
Capetown Cold Storage Co., 250 
Cape Verde Islands, 380-381 
Caprera, Island of, 200 
Capri, 196-197 
Capucine convent, 198-200 
Caracciolo, Admiral, 186 
Carbolic acid in mucus colitis, 68, 

188-189 

Carisbrooke, 303 
Carlsbad waters, 44 
Carlstadt, 359 

Carmichael, Dr. D. George, 76 
Carnations, 230, 236, 263-264 

Carnivora, 28 ; sex vigour in the, 
55 

Carnivorous habit in man, 25, 
29, 72 

Carrots, 261 

Carter, Mr. Albert, 298 

Carvalho, Miolan, 166 

Casein, 78 ; in separated milk, 90 

Cassell's National Library, 337 

Cassia corymbosa, 263 

Cataloguing a garden, mode of, 
253, 262 

Catalpas, 248 

Cats' tongues (biscuits), 293 

Cauliflowers, 252, 261 

Ceanothus, 212 

Cedars, 236, 327 

Celeriac, 261 

Celery, 261 

Cellini, Life of Benvenuto, 327 

Cenotaphs, 193 

Centaureas, 232 

Ceylon and the tea industry, 32, 
51 

* Chambers's Encyclopaedia ' quo- 
ted, 99, 164 

Champagne in dyspepsia, 61, 70 

Charwoman and Cabinet Minister, 
109 

Chatsworth, 352 

Chatterji, Mohini, 354 

Chaucer quoted, 345 



Cheese, 5, 78, 84-85, 88 ; melted, 
7; curd, 8, 129; as a substi- 
tute for meat, 67, 69 ; in diet, 
86-87 ; Camembert, 90; goats', 
96 ; amount of proteid in, 111 ; 
for dinner in various forms, 
113 ; and macaroni patties, 
127; Gruyere, 127; cream, 
252 ; salad, 285 ; boiled, 289 

Cherry and raspberry jam, 285 

Chestnuts, leaves for goats, 103 ; 
purchasing of, 115-116; how 
to stew, 128 ; as a sweet, 289 

Chicken farming, 124, 150 

Chicory, 261 

Chilblains, cure for, 304 

Children, management of, 30 ; 
diet for, 50, 52 

Chinese method of preparing tea, 
51 ; payment of doctors in 
health, 62; flowering shrub, 
152; Guelder roses, 265 

Chocolate in glasses, cold, 294 

toast, 285 
Chou braise, 28G 

a la creme, 286 
Choucroute, preserved, 301 
Christmas roses, 153, 221 
Chrysanthemums, how to grow, 

349-350 ; poem on, 350-351 

Cicero's essays, ' Old Age ' and 
' Friendship,' 184 

Cimicifugas, 264-265 

Cinematographs of operations, 
340 

Cineraria maritima, 271 

Claude, artist, 206 

Clematis, 222, 318, 330-331 ; ' as 
a Garden Flower,' 251-252 ; at 
Harwich, 330 ; for pergolas, 
333-334 

Clergy and the diet question, 104 

Cleveland, U.S.A., 284 

Clodd, Mr., 255 

Cobham, 294, 376 

Cocoa, 17 ; xanthin in, 48 ; sub- 
stitute for, 113 

Cocoanut butter, 117 

Cod-liver oil, 90 

Coffee, 4, 17, 42, 50 ; uric acid 
in, 18, 48; condemnation of, 



INDEX 



423 



31, 141 ; goat's milk with, 93 ; 
substitute for, 113 

Colds, open-air treatment of, 159 : 

Coldstream Guards, 404, 406, 
414 

Coleridge's ' Table Talk ' quoted, 
180-181 

Colesberg, 403, 406 

Colesberg-Burghersdorf railway, 
382, 385 

Colitis, 68, 71, 126 

Comfrey for goats, 103 

Congo plants, 230 

Connington Hall, 307 

Constantinople, 371 

Constipation the proof of indi- I 
gestion, 52 ; in vegetarian diet, j 
81-83, 87 

Consumption, high feeding in, j 
41 ; treatment of in sanatoria, ' 
83, 96, 178 ; Berlin Conference | 
on, 88 ; Sir William Broadbent | 
on, 96; suggestion for the 
King's new hospital for, 96 ; 
exemption of goats and asses 
from, 96: letter on the in- 
fectiousness of 156-158; Na- 
tional Association for the Pre- 
vention of, 157-158 

Convention of London, 3 884, 388 

Cookery Books, 283 ; (see also 
Health books); Kellogg, Dr., 
' Science in the Kitchen,' 5, 
32 ; Fernie, Dr., ' Kitchen 
Physic,' 75 ; ' Dainty Dishes,' 
287 ; Hilda's ' Diary of a Cape 
Housekeeper,' 284 ;' Where Is 
It of Receipts,' 284; instruc- 
tions for elementary schools on 
cookery, 105 ; Liverpool School 
of Cookery book, 284; Ross, 
Janet, ' Leaves from our Tus- 
can Kitchen,' 284 

Cooking reduced to once a week, 
116 

Cooks, 140-141, 144 

Cope, Sir Walter, 241 

Copenhagen, 357 

Copper stewpans lined with silver, 
802 

Cork-trees, 164-165 



' Cornhill Magazine,' articles from 
the, 107 seq., 133-151, 323, 
356-373 

Corns, cure for, 303 

Coronation decorations, 240-241 

Correvon, M., quoted, 153 

Corrosive sublimate as an anti- 
dote for microbes, 1 88 

Corsica, 162 ; goats in, 96 

Cottar farmers, art students as, 
124-125 

Cotterill, Mr. H. B., letter on 
larkspurs, 344-345 

Cotton, Sir Robert, 307 

Cotton-seed oil for frying, 116 

' Country Life,' 103 ; ' Country 
Life Library,' 245, 334 

Country life and slum-dwellers, 
123; desire for, 124; advan- 
tages of, 147; expenses of, 
148 seq. 

Cowan, George, 340 

Cows, artichoke leaves as food 
for, 103 

Cowslips, 155, 206 

Crabbe, poet, 336 

Cranberries, 144 

Crawford, Marion, ' The Rulers 
of the South,' 49 

Cream, no proteid in, 90 
; Cream cheeses, 252 

Cremation, 200-201 ; Garibaldi 
on, 200 

Crespi, Dr., 75 

Crimea, 369, 371 
j Crimean war, 194, 228, 357 
I Crocuses, 155 
| Cronberg, 311 
| Cronenburg, Castle of, 358 
i Crops, rotation of, 260-262 

Cruelty to animals in Italy, 177 

Cucumbers, preserved, 301 

Cud-chewers, teeth of, 29 

Curd cheese, 8, 129 
i Currie, Sir P., 208 

Curry, to make a dry, 290 
i Curtis, Miss Adela, 26 
: Curtis, A. C. and the ' Astolat 
Press,' 100-102 

Curtis & Davison, booksellers, 
32 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Cyanthus lobatus, 310 
Cypress-trees, 172, 239-240, 248 
Cypripediums, 343 



D , J., 389-390, 406, 408 

Dabbs, Dr. G. W. B., 303 
Daffodils, 152, 155, 213 ; ' Lecture 

on,' 249-251 
Dahlias, 267-268 
' Daily Mail,' 77 ; war correspon- 
dent, 392, 405 

' Dairy Farm in Miniature, A, ' 103 
Dal Bhat (Indian breakfast dish), 

290 

Dalmatia, 162 
Dante quoted, 46 
Danube, river, 371 
Dardanelles, 371 
Darmstadt, 349 
Date pudding, 127 
Dates, albumen in, 111 
Datura cornigera, 266-267 
David, statue of, 173 
Davison, Mr., 378, 383, 395, 404, 

409 

Davitt, Michael, quoted, 346-347 
De Aar, 389-410 
' De PHorlogiographie, 1 168 
De POrme, architect, 167-168 
Deane, Dr. E. Edmund, 75 
Defoe, Daniel, ' Tour through the 

Eastern Counties,' 337 
Delphiniums, 348 
Denmark, tour in, 356 seq. 
Depopulation of rural districts, 

108, 123 seq. 
Depression caused by indigestion, 

120 

on change of diet, 45-46 
Derby, Lord, 388 

' Devil in the bush, the,' 323 
Devonshire, Duke of, Mr. Mor- 

ley's letter to, 351-353 
Dewey, Dr. E. H., on diet, 8; 

4 A New Era for Women,' 15, 

27; 'True Science of Living,' 

32 

Dictamnus fraxinella, 226 
Diet of the author, 4-7 

Dr. Haig's, 6, 8, 17, 41-42, 62, 



75- ; Salisbury, 6, 46, 50 ; vegeta- 
rian, 6, 8-11, 25, 43-44, 60, 67 ; 
meat, 6, 10, 16, 18, 28, 46, 48, 
50 ; moderation in, 8, 30 ; 
change of, 11, 53, 88, 121, 255, 
300 ; of anthropoid apes, 29 ; 
of man, fruits and seeds, 29 ; 
Dr. Allinson's, 30; in illness, 
34, 62-64, 66-68; difficulties 
of change of, 46-7, 59, 60-61, 
67; wrong, the cause of dis- 
ease, 40 ; of a doctor, 42 ; in 
uric-acid diseases, 45-46; de- 
pression on change of, 45-46 ; 
serious study of, 46, 51-52, 
68; in old age, 47, 56; for 
children, 50-53 ; in schools, 
54-55; the cure for obesity, 
58 ; in indigestion, 61-62, 67 ; 
while travelling, 64-66, 204; 
dry, 69; the cure for skin- 
diseases, 71-72 ; Maeterlinck 
on, 72-74 ; homes for instruc- 
tion in, 76 seq. ; a friend's 
criticisms on, and Dr. Haig's 
reply, 78-88 ; habit in, 87-88 ; 
the question of quantity in, 78 
seq., 84-87 ; of nuts and apples, 
98 ; universal interest in the 
question of, 104 ; at three 
shillings a week, 109 seq. ; 
cheapest form of, 120; plea 
for a simpler form of, 120 seq., 
204 ; the cure for corns, 303 
Diet, books on (see also under 
Health books) : Sir Henry 
Thompson's ' Diet in Belation 
to Age and Activity,' 13-14 ; Dr. 
Haig's leaflets on diet, 24 ., 
45, 48-49, 57; 'Diet and 
Food in Relation to Strength 
and Power of Endurance,' 

25, 41, 86 ; Eustace Miles's 
' Muscle, Brain, and Diet,' 25 ; 
' Failures of Vegetarianism,' 
25 ; 'Better Food for Boys,' 

26, 53-54; 'Forty Vegetarian 
Dinners,' 26; 'Science in the 
Daily Meal,' 27 ; ' Fruits, Nuts, 
and Vegetables : their Uses as 
Food and Medicine,' 27 ; Mrs. 



INDEX 



425 



Anna Kingsford's 'The Perfect 
Way in Diet,' 28; T. B. Allin- 
son's 'Book F,' 30; A. W. | 
Duncan's ' Chemistry of Food,' i 
32; A. W. Duncan's 'Foods j 
and their Comparative Values,' 
32; Hutchinson's 'Dietetics,' 
32 ; Smith's ' Fruits and Fari- 
nacea,' 32 ; Albert Carter's 
' Natural Food,' 298 
Dieting, doctors on, 6, 11 ; weight 
in, 58, 61, 78 seq., 85 seq. 

Dietists, dinner to, 20 ; and hotel- 
keepers, 64, 66 

Digestion, 79, 87 ; mental irrita-' 
tion bad for, 60 ; aids to, 71 

Digestive organs, in man, 29, 60, 
79, 81 ; of the cud-chewers, 
29 

' Digit of the Moon : A Hindoo 
Love Story,' 37-39 

Dinner, the hour for, 56 

Dinners and teas to the poor, 35 

Diosma capitnta, and ericoides, 
211 

Doctors, imaginary conversation 
between two, 42-43 ; and the 
treatment of vegetarians, 52- 
53, 61-62; list of those who 
advocate a non-flesh diet, 75 ; 
and vegetarianism, 83 ; and 
their bills, 138 

Doernberg, Count, 365 

Dorbay, architect, 168 

Dorking, 295 

Douglas, Mr., 263 

Dover, 252 

Drill Hall exhibitions, 152-154, 
207, 210 

Drinking, hereditary effect of 
excessive, 50-51 ; Maeterlinck 
on, 7374 ; at meals, mode of, 
112 ; stories, 338-339 

Drunkenness, 48 

Dry diet, 69 

Du C , 389-390 

Du Cerceau, architect, 168 

Dublin, 204, 230 

' Dunvegan Castle,' 387 

Dyspepsia, diet in, 61, 67 ; acid, 
71; produced by milk, 86; 



and tea drinking, 141-142 (see 
also under Indigestion) 
Dyspeptics, diet for, 5 ; long life 
of, 6 ; meal hours for, 57 ; 
diet for, with reduced cooking, 
118 



E , Major, 397 

E , Staff officer, 412 

Earle, Charles, Journal of, 356- 
373 

Charles William, 376 

Major Henry, 391 

Lionel, 377, 403 

Max, 390, 396-402, '409-415 
Captain Sydney, 253 ; last 

letters of, 374-417 

Early rising, 142 

Eating, love of, 59-60 

Economy in housekeeping, 142 

Eczema, 46 ; diet in, 71 ; the 
cause of a tragedy, 71-72 

Edinburgh, 273 

Education, Books on : 'An Ideal 
School, or Looking Forward,' 
by Preston Search, 35 ; ' Educa- 
tion and Empire,' by B. B. 
Haldane, 36 

defects of modern, 149 

Edward VII., King, new sana- 
torium for consumption, 96; 
and the diet question, 104 ; 
interest in the Society for the 
Prevention of Tuberculosis, 
158 ; illness of, 241, 243 

Egg-plants, 320 

Eggs, uric acid in, 16, 78, 85 

' Eighteen hundred a year,' 133- 
151 

Elementary Schools, Instructions 
on Cookery for, 105 

Eliot, George, 137; 'Bomola,' 
191 

Elizabeth, Queen, 307, 331 

Ellacombe, Canon, 247 

Elsinor, 358-359 

Elysee, Palace, 166-167 

Emulsin in almonds, 99 

' Encyclopaedia Britannica ' 
quoted, 161 



426 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Endive, 261 ; French mode of 

cooking, 287 

Enteric, inoculation for, 378 
Epilepsy, diet for, 45 
Epimediums, 155, 235 
Ericas (heaths), various, 207-210, 

224 
Ersldne, of Linlathen, Thomas, 

243 

Esher, Lord, 274 
Eton and the diet question, 52 
Eucalyptus-trees, 169 
Eucomis, 310 
Euonymus, 195 
Euphorbias, 232, 270 
Evergreens in London, 195 
Everlastings, 374 
Eversley, 274 
Exercise in indigestion, 61 
for invalids, 62, 86 
Exeter, 338 

' Exile's Mother, An,' poem, 215 
Eye, training of the, 149-150 



F , of the Army Service Corps, 

392 

F , Mr., chief telegraphist, 397 

F , C. K., 401, 408 

' Family Budgets,' articles on, 

107 seq., 133-151 
Farming, various kinds of, 124- 

125 ; goat, 89-106 
Fat, reduced by diet, 57-58, 61 ; 

digestion of, 105 ; in diet, 110 ; 

in goat's milk, 93, 119 
February, Notes for, 152-159 
Ferments, 99 
Ferns, 195 

Fiesole, Mino da, 173 
Fig-trees, outdoor culture of, 268 
Fig pudding, 291 
Figs, albumen in, 111 ; stewed, 

289 

Finland, 361-363 
Fir-trees, 211 ; Scotch, 275 
Fish in rheumatism, 5 

salt, the cause of leprosy, 47 

uric acid in, 16, 47-49 
Flesh foods, Bible on, 48 ; uric 

acid in, 48 (see also under Meat) 



'Fleurs et Montagnes,' poems, 
153 

Flint, Dr., 75 

Florence, 191, 284, 344 ; visit to, 
172-173 ; letter on, 173-174 

Flour, various qualities of, 116, 
294-296 

Flourens, M., on man's frugi- 
vorous nature, 29 

Flower-growing, 124 ; in London, 
difficulties of, 194 

Flowers, in table decorations, 
144-145 ; floating arrangement 
of, 221-222 ; how to dry, 302 ; 
wild, 343-344 

Fly-trap, 402 

Folco, Sina, 174 

Food, adulteration of, 32, 100 
wrong, the cause of disease, 
40; the study of, 51-52 ; che- 
mistry of, 53; on board ship, 
65-66 ; Maeterlinck on, 73 ; 
instruction in elementary 
schools on, 105 ; wholesome, 
for the poor, 107-32; Re- 
formers, 108, 112 (see also 
under Diet) 

Forget-me-nots, 207, 232 

Formic acid in almonds, 99 

Forsythia suspensa, 153 

Fotheringhay village, 306-307 

France, visit to the South of, 
160 seq. ; ' Renaissance of Art 
in,' 167; and Russia, 372- 
373 

Francoa ramosa, 268 

Frankfort, 171 

Frejus, 166 

French Exhibition of 1900, 280 

hours for meals, 57 

plums, albumen in, 111 
Froude on Mary Queen of Scots, 

307-308 

Frozen provisions, 65 

Frugivorous habit of man, 28- 
29,72 

Fruit, albumen in, 111 ; puddings, 
113 ; and bread diet, 120 ; farm- 
ing, 124 ; to bottle, 288-289 

Fruit and seeds, man's proper 
diet, 29, 43 



INDEX 



427 



Fruitarians, 54; on board ship, i 

65-66 

Fruit-trees for London, 195 
how to grow, 259-260 
Fruit-wall, an old, 332-333 
Fry, Mr.- Roger, 206 
Frying, oil for, 116 
Fuchsias, 320 
Furnishing, 138, 149 



G , Colonel, 378, 392 

G , Colonel B., 416 

Gambling, 134 

' Garden, The,' 207, 245, 334 

Garden City Association, 109 

Gardening, wild, 198, 208, 233- 
235, 282; recent books on, 
203; in winter, 204; letters 
from Germany on, 217-219, 
301-302, 310-315, 349; new 
tool for, 321 

Books on : Mr. Eobinson's 
' English Flower Garden,' 155, 
198, 208-209, 219 ; Moggridge's 
'Flora of Mentone,' &e., 161, 
105; 'Riviera Notes,' 171; 
Jekyll and Morley's ' Roses for 
English Gardens,' 246 ; Nichol- 
son's ' Dictionary of Garden- 
ing,' 219, 253, 273 ; Gerarde's 
' Herbal,' 225 ; ' Century Book 
of Gardening,' 237, 252-253 ; 
Miss G. JekylPs 'Home and 
Garden,' 244 ; ' Wall and 
Water Gardens,' 244-245 ; 
'Lilies for English Gar- 
dens,' 245-246 ; ' Country 
Life Library,' 245, 334; Her- 
bert Cousins' ' Chemistry of 
the Garden,' 246-247, 314; 
Violet Biddel's ' Small Gardens 
and How to Make the Most 
of Them,' 247; Forbes Wat- 
son's 'Flowers and Gardens,' 
247-248 ; Edward Jesse's 
' Favourite Haunts and Rural 
Studies in the Vicinity of 
Windsor and Eton,' 248-249; 
Richard Jefferies' ' Life of the 
Fields,' 249 ; Peter Barr's ' The 



Daffodil' and 'Lilies of the 
World,' 249-251; Moore and 
Jackson, 'The Clematis as a 
Garden Flower,' 251; Mrs. 
London's ' Lady's Country 
Companion,' 252 ; Edward 
Step's ' The Romance of Wild 
Flowers,' 253 ; Rider Haggard's 
' Farmer's Year-Book for 1898,' 
255-256 ; Vilmorin's ' Vege- 
table Garden,' 258 ; J. C. Lou- 
don's 'Arboretum et Fruti- 
cetum Britannicum,' 271, 334- 
335 ; Andrews' ' The Botanist's 
Repository,' 320 ; Curtis' ' Bo- 
tanical Magazine,' 321 ; An- 
drews' ' Heathery, '322; Cook's 
' Trees and Shrubs,' 334-335 ; 
H. Repton's ' Theory and Prac- 
tice of Landscape Gardening,' 
337-338 

Gardens, advantages of, 150 ; 
ideal position for, 231 ; shelter 
for, 234; lily, 245-246, 249- 
250 ; mode of cataloguing, 253, 
262; kitchen, 258-262, 283; 
rotation of crops in, 260-262 ; 
wall and water, 244-245 ; sea- 
side, 331 seq. 

Garibaldi, Guiseppe, 174; and 
the Naples Museum, 178 ; 
autobiography of, 186 ; resi- 
dence of, 200 

Garlic, wild, 232 

Garner, Professor, 272 

Garrod, Dr., 5 

Gassendi on man's frugivorous 
nature, 29 

Gasten, Mr., groom, 409 

Gastro-intestinal inflammation, 
70, 126 

Gates, Mr., 91; on dry treatment 
of sewage, 92 ; his goat farm, 
97, 102-104 

Gauntlet, V. V., & Co., 235 

Gaura Lindhcimeri, 240 

Gem Supply Company, 35 

Genistas, 264, 332 

Genny, Dr., 75 

Genoa, 161-162, 201- 202 ; ' Flora 
of,' 165 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Geraniums, 219, 320 ; wild, 343 

Gerbera Jamesoni, 322 

German waters, 44, 46 

Germany, treatment of tubercu- 
losis in, 41 ; analysis of foods in, 
100 ; letters on gardening from, 
217-219, 301-302, 310-315, 
349 ; fruit-preserving in, 301- 
302 ; and Eussia, 371-372 

Gibbon's ' Eoman Empire,' 179- 
180; Coleridge on, 180-181; 
Frederic Harrison on, 181- 
183 

Gibraltar, 371, 377; goats in, 
96 

Gingerbread, receipt for the best, 
292 

Girls, training and education of, 
35-39 

Gladiolus, 210, 323 

Gladstone, W. E., 404 

Glasnevin botanical gardens, 229- 
230 

Glencoe, 381 

Globe,' 383, 390 

Gnocchi, receipt for, 286 

Goats, 89-106, 347; sex vigour 
in, 55 ; Mr. Bryan Hook's 
' Milch Goats and their Man- 
agement,' 91 seq. ; Toggenburg, 
91, 96, 102 seq.; fat globules 
in milk of, 93, 119 ; food for, 
94, 103-104 ; Mr. Pegler's book 
on, 94; their yield in milk, 
95,102; prejudice against, 95- , 
96; cheese, 96; their exemp- I 
tion from tuberculosis, 96; | 
' A Dairy Farm in Miniature,' I 
103 ; milk in London, price of, 
119 ; in Suffolk in the 17th 
Century, 336-337 

' Golden Treasury ' series, 184 

Goode & Co., 302 

Gorse, 224, 264 

Gourds, 262 

' Gourmands, Des,' 33 

Gourmet boiler, 127 

Gout, 34, 63; 'La Physiologic 
du,' 32 ; water for ddnking in, 
35 ; diet for, 45-46, 61, 71, 84 ; 
Plasmon in, 55 ; milk and ' 



cheese as the cause of, 78, 86- 

87 

Gramnivorous animals, sex vi- 
gour in, 55 
' Grape nuts,' 8 
Graspan, 414, 416 
Gray's 'Elegy,' missing stanza 

of, 248-249 

Great Barton Mills, 295 
Great Bookham, 263 
Greek civilisation, high level of, 

193 
Green & Nephew's glass bowls, 

221 

Green sauce, 286-287 
' Greenery - Yallery Grosvenor 

Gallery,' 324 

Greenhouses, how to keep dry, 230 
Grenadier Guards in South 

Africa, 409, 412, 414 
Grouse a la creme, 291 
Gruel from Graham flour, 296 
Guards' Brigade in South Africa, 

399-402, 410, 414 
Guelder roses, Chinese, 265 
Guildford, goat farm at, 91 ; a 

day in, 97, 100-102 
Gums in underfeeding, 8, 61 
Gypsum in bread, 65 



H , Major, 389-395, 398 

H , Messrs., 403 

Haage & Schmidt, 312 

Habit in diet, 87-88 

Hadwen, Dr., 75 

Haggard, Mr. Rider, 255 

Haig, Dr., 3, 27, 30, 40, 110, 303 ; 
on coffee, 4 ; on asparagus, 5 ; 
on diet, 6-8, 17, 24 n., 41-42, 
62, 75 ; on rheumatism, 17- 
18 ; ' Uric Acid in Disease,' 
23-25 ; ' Leaflets ' on his diet, 
24 n., 45, 48-49, 57 ; ' Diet and 
Food,' &c., 25, 41, 86 ; diet for 
consumption, 41 ; on uric acid, 
44, 46; on the progress of 
enlightenment, 48 ; on meal 
hours for dyspeptics, 57 ; his 
diet for fat people, 58 ; patients' 
cases, 62-64, 66-71 ; his ad- 



INDEX 



429 



dress, 75; his home for in- 
valids, 76 seq. ; criticisms on 
his diet, 78-84 : his reply, 84- 
88 

Haldane, B. B., ' Education and 
Empire,' 36 

Hall, W. H. Bullock, ' The 
Bomans on the Biviera,' 166 

Hamburg, 357 

Hamilton, Major A. C., 340 

Hamilton, Sir William and Lady, 
185 

Hamlet, tomb of, 358 

Hampton Court, 236, 273 

Hams, curing of, 150 

Hanbury, Mr. Thomas, 171 

Hanover Boad, 403 

Hares, 234 

Harris, C. J., 43 

Harrison, Frederic, quoted, 181- 
183 

Harrod's Stores, 302 

Harwich, 329-330, 337 

Hatton, Sir Christopher, 309 

Hawkweeds, 344 

Hawley, 208 

Haymarket Stores, 295 

Headaches, caused by uric acid, 
42 ; diet for, 45 ; from indiges- 
tion, 120 ; cure for bilious, 304 

Health, 1-88 ; a stranger's letter 
on, 2 ; of the author, 3-5 ; 
undermined by adulterated 
food, 32; where to obtain 
books on, 32 ; Natural Health 
Society, 34 ; ' Paradise of,' 46 ; 
study of, 52; a sure sign of 
good, 58-59 ; International 
Health Association, 112 ; sub- 
jects, legislation on, 158 ; the 
houses best for, 277 seq. ; dis- 
cussion of, in public, 339-340 

Health, books on (see also un- 
der Cookery) : Dewey, Dr. E. 
H., ' A New Era for Women : 
Health without Drugs,' 15, 
27 ; ' True Science of Liv- 
ing,' 32 ; Haig, Dr., Uric Acid 
as a Factor in the Causation 
of Disease,' 23; Miles, Eus- 
tace, ' Avenues to Health,' 26 ; 



Kellogg, Dr., 'The Stomach,' 
32; Pouchet, M., ' Plural ite de 
la Bace Humaine,' 28 ; Cuvier, 
' Le Regne Animal,' 29 ; Law- 
rence, Professor, ' Lectures on 
Physiology,' 29 ; Bell, Charles, 
'Diseases of the Teeth,' 29; 
Allinson, T. B., ' Medical 
Essays,' 30; Searle, Henry, 
' Tonic System of Treating 
Affections of the Stomach and 
Brain,' 31 ; Fernie, Dr., ' Her- 
bal Simples,' 32; Huxley's 
' Elements of Physiology,' 32 ; 
'La Physiologic du Gout' de 
Brillat Savarin, 32 ; Lancaster, 
Owen, ' A Short Account of the 
Human Body,' 34; 'Water: 
How it Kills its Thousands,' 
35 ; Maeterlinck, ' The Buried 
Temple,' 72-74; 'Herald of 
Health,' 99; Kuhne, Louis, 
' New Science of Healing,' 296 ; 
Cox, Edwin, ' Degeneracy and 
Preservation of the Teeth,' 
298 

' Heart of the Empire, The,' 108 

Heath gardens, 208 

Heaths, 161-162, 207-210, 233 ; 
books on, 322 

Hedgerow cuttings for goats, 103 

Heidelberg, 349 

Helichrysums, 347 

Hell, Dante on, 46 

Hellebores, 221 

Henry IV., 168 

Hentzner, Paul, ' Travels in Eng- 
land,' 337 

Herb eaters, 29 

' Herbal Simples,' 32 

Herbs, sweet- smelling, 162 

Hertfordshire garden, 236-237 

Hervey, Lord Francis, 336 

Heywood, Mr., 4 

Hidalgood Werokalsi, 320 

High feeding, cure, 41 ; insanity 
from, 41 

tea, 121 

Highland Light Infantry, 403, 
405 ; Brigade, 405 

' Hindoo Love Story, A,' 37-39 



43 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Holbein's ' Dance of Death,' 357 
Holland, third Lord, 242 
Holland House, 275, 309; rose 

show, 241; gardens of, 242- 

243 

Holly, 195 
Hominy with cheese, 113 

fried, 128 
Homoeopathy, 30 
Horace quoted, 193, 282 
Horses, rheumatism in, 18, 92 
Horticultural Show, 222 
Hospitality, 144 
Hotel-keepers and dietists, 64, 

66 
Housekeeping in country, 148 seq. 

in town, 135 seq. 
Housemaids, 145 

Houses, on building, 277-281 
Housman, Mr. Laurence, 222 
Houston, Miss, 72 
Howard, Dr. E., 75 
Hyacinths, 154-155, 232, 249 
Hyaenas, food of, 29 
Hydrangeas, 212, 222, 233 
Hyeres, 161 
Hygiene, books on, 32 
Hyssop, 327 



ICE for thirst, 70 

Illness, diet in, 34, 60 

Imaginary conversation between 
two doctors, 42-43 

Imprisonment, Michael Davitt 
on, 346-347; Wilfred Blunt 
on, 347 

' In Memoriam,' 101 

' In Vinculis,' by Wilfred Blunt, 
347 

Income, expenditure of, 138 

India and the tea industry, 32, j 
51 

Indian breakfast dish, 290 

Indigestion from tea-drinking, | 
31 ; as the cause of constipa- j 
tion, 52 ; the cause of diseases, I 
60, 120; diet in, 61-62, 67 i 
(see also under Dyspepsia) 

Indigo/era Gerardiana, 319 

' Individualist, The,' 165 



Inflammation, gastro-intestinal, 

70 

Insanity from high feeding, 41, 48 
from tea-drinking, 142 
Intelligence Department, 378, 

380 
International Health Association, 

112 
Invalids, effect of vegetarian diet 

on, 60, 67-68 ; exercise for, 62, 

86 

Ipswich, 295, 337 
Ireland, tea-drinking in, 142 ; 

visit to, 204 seq. ; emigration 

from, 213-215 
Iris garden, 236 
Irises, 154-155, 165, 170, 199, 

235 ; time to plant, 310 
Italian Government and Pompeii, 

190-191 

Italian may, 200 
Italy, diet in, 64 
Ivy, 195 



JACKHAN, Messrs., 251, 333 

Jam, a new, 285 

James I., 275, 307 

Jameson, Mrs., ' Diary of an 
Ennui6e,' quoted, 189-191 

Jameson Eaid, 400 

Japan, Bishop of, 121 

Japanese decorations, 145, 178, 
192 ; nurseries, 235 ; garden, 
242 ; lilies, 246, 250 ; loniceras, 
282 ; anemones, 319 ; treat- 
ment of wistarias, 330 ; Ginkgo, 
maidenhair-tree, 348 

Jasminum midiflorum, 152 

Jeaffreson, J. C., ' Lady Hamilton 
and Lord Nelson,' 185 

Jekyll, Miss, 277, 323 ; works on 
gardening by, 244-246 

Jersey cows, 103 

Jesse, Edward, ' Gleanings from 
Natural History,' 248 

Jessop, Miss Florence, 76 

Johannesburg, 387 

Johnston, Dr., 75 

Johnstone, Sir Harry, 256 ; letter 
on monkey's food, 272-273 



INDEX 



Jones, Inigo, 309 

Jones' 'Views of Seats, Mansions, 

and Castles of England,' 

309 
' Journal of a Tour in the North 

of Europe,' 356-373 
' Journal of Horticulture,' 249 
Jovvett, Benjamin, 3 
Julius Caesar on goat's cheese, 

96 

July, notes for, 244-265 
June, notes for, 224-243, 267- 

268 



KALES, flowering, 197 

Karlsbad, 64 

Katharine of Arragon, 305 

Keats quoted, 147 

Keith, Dr., on diet, 8 

Kellogg, Dr., 27, 112; 'Science 
in the Kitchen,' 5, 32 ; ' The 
Stomach,' 32 

Kew Bridge, old, 220 

Kew Gardens, 155, 209, 238, 242, 
318-319, 322; of Germany, 
350 

Khalifa, the, 382 

Kid, roast, 93-94 

Kidney padding, illness from eat- 
ing, 178 

Kiew, 370 

Kimberley, 379, 382, 392-394, 
404-410 

Kingsley, Charles, 274-275 

Kirby Hall, 308-309 

Kitchener, Lord, 382 

Kitchens, German, 301-302 

Knight, ' Morning Post ' corre- 
spondent, 392 

Koch, Dr., on tuberculosis, 88, 
158 ; antidote for microbes, 
188 

Konig, Professor, 112 

Kremlin, the, 369-370 

Kronstadt, 372 

Kruger, ex-President, 388-389, 
392 

Kugler's ' Handbook of Painting,' 
185 

Kuhne, Louis, 296 



L , officer, 412 

L , Lord, 381 

L , P., 391, 395, 399 

La Cava, station, 200 

La Mortola, 171-172 

'La Hose de Noel,' poem, 153- 
154 

Laburnum, 231 

Lactic acid, 78 

Ladies' maids, 140 

Ladysmith, 395 

Laing's Nek, 382 

Lalange, Adolphe, 32 

Lancers, 9th, 411, 416-417 

' Lancet,' 201 

Landcress, as a vegetable, 285 

' Landscape Gardening,' 337-338 

Lard, substitute for, 117 

Larkspurs, 312 ; markings of, 
344-345 

Las Palmas, 379, 381, 395 

Laurels, 236-237 

Laurustinus, 170, 225 

Lavender, 236, 270 ; oil of, 282 

' Lavengro,' 147 

Lawless, Miss Emily, ' The Wild 
Geese,' quoted, 213-216 

Lawns, Americans on English, 
276 

Le Veau, architect, 168 

Leghorn, 161, 201 

Leichtlin, Mr., 217, 219 

Lemann's biscuits, 300 

Lemberg, 373 

Lemon souffle, cold, 292 

Lemons in Italy, 198 

Lentils, 5, 17 ; uric acid in, 18, 
48 ; as food for the poor, 108 
seg. 

Leprosy, 71 ; cause of, 47 

Lescot, architect, 167 

Letter, an old, 327-329 

Lettuce, 261 

Liatris, 218 

Liddell, Miss, 379 

Lilacs, 225, 231 

Lilies, 199, 233, 235, 245-246, 
323, 332; 'for English Gar- 
dens,' 245; 'of the World,' 
249-250 

Linden, Mr., 230 



432 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Linnaeus, on man's frugivorous 

nature, 29 

Lion, sex vigour in the, 55 
Lippi, painter, 174 
Liverpool, 327-328 
Liverpool School of Cookery, 284 
'Lives of the Twelve Caesars,' 

183 

Lloyd, Mr., 360 
Lobelia, 310 
Loch family, 391 
Loch, Douglas, 402, 405, 412 
London, 135 seg. ; ' Life and 

Labour of the People in,' 

139 ; flowering plants in, 194- 

195 
London (Bloomfield), Bishop of, 

335 

London Hospital, 377 
Longden, 102 
Loniceras, 320 
Loubet, President, 96 
Loudon, Mr. and Mrs., 252 
Louis XIV., 168 
Louvre, the, 167-168 
' Love-in-the-mist,' 323 
' Love-lies-bleeding,' 323 
' Love's Labour Lost,' by Owen 

Meredith, 173 
Loyal North Lancashire Eegi- 

ment, 408, 412 
Liibeck, 357 
Lucerne for goats, 103 
Lung Arno, 172 
Lyttle, Dr. J. Shaw, 75 
Lytton, Bulwer, 191 
Lytton, Bobert, quoted, 196-197, 

317 



M , Lord, 401-404, 407, 411- 

412 
Macaroni, 7 ; cheese, 113 ; and 

cheese patties, 127 ; & la tripe, 

127 ; and Portugal onion, 287 

Mel , storekeeper, 408 

Madeira, 162 

Maeterlinck quoted, 72-74, 203 ; 

his appeal against meat and 

alcohol, 110 
Mafeking, 382, 394, 399, 405-406 



Magnolias, 235, 237 

Maidenhair tree, 348 

Maize, Indian, 125 ; with cheese 

113 ; bread, 126 
Majuba, 383 
Malet, Lucas, 274 
Mallock's 'The Individualist,' 

165 

i Malta, 371 ; goats at, 96 
I Manchester, International Health 

Association of, 112 
j Mangold for goats, 194 
I Manures, 247 
Manuring, 261 
Maples, 235 

March, notes for, 160-174 
Marigolds, 213 
Mario, Jesse White, 186 
Market gardening, 124 
Marrows, 262 

Marseilles, 162 ; ' Flora of,' 165 
Martial, quoted, 194 
Mary Queen of Scots, 306-308 
' Materia Medica,' 9 
May, notes for, 203-224, 238 
Meals, hours for, 56-57, 116 
Meat, one of the causes of cancer, 
47 ; amount of proteid in, 111 ; 
the sale of diseased, 177 
Meat diet, 6, 10, 62 ; uric acid in, 
16, 18 ; man's teeth not adapted 
for, 28 ; hereditary effect of, 
51, 122 ; in dyspepsia, 61, 67- 
68 
Medical books, old and new, 31 

(see also wider Health books) 
Medici, Catherine de, 166-167 
Mediterranean heath, 161-162 
Medlars, 332 
Medstead, 77 
Meissonier, Madame, 169 
Meissonier's studio, 168-169 
Melbourne, 298 

Mellin's food, in dyspepsia, 61, 
70 ; as a substitute for tea, &o., 
113 

Mental irritation bad for diges- 
tion, 60 

Mentone, 171 ; ' Flora of,' 161 
Menus, vegetarian, 113-115, 117- 
119 



INDEX 



433 



Mercer, Dr. A. B., 75 

Mercury in eczema, 46 

Meredith, Owen, quoted, 173 

' Merrie England,' 249 

Mesembryanthemums, 332 

Metabolism, 9, 80, 86 

Metropolitan Hospital, 77 

' Mexican,' E.M.S., 387, 390, 392 

Michaelmas daisies, 236, 265, 323 

Microbes in dust, 163 ; antidote 
for, 188 

Miladorovitch, Count, 365 

Miles, Eustace, 40, 55, 57 ; works 
by, 25-26, 53-54 ; on diet in 
uric acid diseases, 45 ; home 
recommended by, 77 

Milk, 78, 84-85 ; separated, 4, 7, 
90, 93 ; in diet, 86 ; in consti- 
pation, 87; of goats, 89 seq., 
119 ; ignorance of the properties 
of, 90-91 ; of sheep, 96 ; albu- 
men in, 111 seq. ; fat globules 
in, 93, 119 

Milk soup, 288 

' Milkwoman, The,' 299 

Miller, Dr. E. P., 99 

Milton, John, lost poem of, 256- 
258 ; ' Lycidas,' 344 

Mimosa, 116 

Mitchell, Dr., 75 

Modder River, 375 

Model village, 122 

Moggridge's ' Flora of Mentone,' 
161 

Monkeys, food of, 272-273 

Mont St. Michel, 201 

Montagu, Lady M. W., 238 

Montbretias, 235, 319 

Moore, H., & Son, 294 

Moore, Mr., 295 

Moral self-control, 55 

Moravia, 373 

More Pot-Pourri,' 2, 77, 244, 
379, 383, 390, 403 ; American 
reception of, 354-355 

Morley, Mr. John, quoted, 137 ; 
his gift to Cambridge, 351-353 

' Morning Post ' war corre- 
spondent, 392, 405 

Morrison, Arthur, 107, 115 

' Morte d'Arthur,' 101 



Moscow, 367-370 

Mothers and the training of 

children, 36 
Motley, Mr., 1 
Motor-cars, 274-275 
Mowat, Dr. Thomas, 75 
Mucus colitis, 68, 71 
Mulberry-trees, 195, 236 
Munby, Mr. A. J., quoted, 298- 

300 
Munthe, Dr. Axel, quoted, 187- 

189 
Murray's 'Guide to Pompeii,' 

187 ; ' Guide to Russia,' 370 
Mushrooms, 17, 272 ; dried, 301 ; 

xanthin in, 48 
'Mustard' and 'Cress' (two 

horses), 393, 395 
Mustard bath for bilious head- 
aches, 304 

Mutton, leg of, mode of using, 151 
Myrtle, 162 



NAAUWPOORT, 394-396, 406, 410 
Naples, goats in, 89, 185; visit 
to, 175 seq. ; sanitary condition 
of, 187-189 ; museum, 193 
Narcissi, 154-155 
Natal, 381-388, 394, 398-399, 409 
National Association for the Pre- 
vention of Consumption, 157 
' National Review,' 195 
Natural Health Society, 34 
' Natural History, Gleanings 

from,' 248 

Natural History Museum, 272 
Nature in art, 205-206 
Neapolitan violets, 170 
Nelson, Lord, 185-186, 330 
Nemesia strumosa, 316-317 
Nene, river, 307-308 
Nerves injured by tea drinking, 

51 ; in underfeeding, 61 
Nervous diseases, high 'feeding 

in, 41 

Nervousness, from indigestion, 
120 ; from excessive meat eat- 
ing, 122 

Neuralgia, diet for, 45, 67 ; inter- 
costal, 63 

P P 



434 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Neva, river, 363 

New English Art Club, 205-206 

New South Wales Lancers, 406, 
411 

' New Trafalgar, A,' 100 

Newcastle, 381 

Nice, 161 

Nicotiana sylvestris alba, 269 

Nightingale, Florence, 381 

Nightshade, deadly, 48 

Nordrach treatment for tubercu- 
losis, 41 

Northamptonshire, visit to, 305 
seq. ; maidenhair-tree in, 348 

Northumberland Fusiliers, 408 

Norvals Pont, 394-398, 408-410 

' Nouilles lactees Suisse,' 100 

Nuremburg, 161 

Nut butter, 112, 117; cutlets 
129, 132 

Nuts, 43, 111 ; 'Fruits, Nuts, and 
Vegetables,' 27 

Nuts and apples, diet of, 98 



OAKS, 236; 'Turkey,' 248; Go- 
vernment plantation of, 275 

Oatmeal, amount of proteid in, 
111 

Oats, cause of rheumatism in 
horses, 18 ; bread from, 126 

Obesity, cure for, 57-58, 61 

Observation, powers of, 149-150 

October, notes for, 326-355 

Octotis grandis, 332 

Odessa, 324, 369-371 

(Enotheras, 268, 344 

Oil as an aid to digestion, 71, 
of almonds, 99; cloth, 165; 
olive, 284 ; stoves, 117 

Oirsted, Professor, 357 

Okapi, 272 

Old age, diet in, 47, 56 

' Old Glory,' 170 

Oldfield, Dr., 75 

Olive oil, 284 

Olive-trees, 172 ; at Cannes, 169 

Omdurman, battle of, 382 

Onions, 7, 261 ; braised, 131 ; 
how to serve, 285-286 

Open-air treatment of colds, 159 



Operations, cinematographs of, 

340 

Opium, 32 

Orange jelly, the best, 293 
Orange River, 385, 394, 402-410 
Orange River Camp, 375 
trees, 144, 236 
Orangeade, as made in Paris, 

293 

Orchids, 154, 230 ; wild, 232, 348 
Ornithogalums, 239 
Orwell, river, 337 
Ostriches and the soldiers, 413 
Owen, Professor, 29, 260 
Ox-tongues, to cure, 292 



PEONIES, 235 

Pffistum, 176, 196 

Page-boys, 146 

' Palace of Truth,' 36 

' Pall MaU Gazette,' 256, 375 

' Palmen Garten,' 350 

Palms, 170, 272 

Parents and the diet of children, 

52-53 

Parinarium-tree, 272 
Paris, 226, 240, 340; Opera 

Comique, 166 ; restaurants, 64 ; 

visit to, 168-169 
Parkinson, Mr., 251 ; on cypress- 
trees, 239-240 

Parkyn, receipt for, 127-128 
Partridge a la creme, 291 
Paths planted with thyme, 163 
Paton, Mr. J. B., 247 
Patties, macaroni and cheese, 127 
Pattison, Mrs. Mark, 'Renaissance 

of Art in France,' 167 
Peace in South Africa, 222, 227 
Pear-trees, 212 ; grown from pips, 

260, 331 ; prunings of, for 

goats, 103 

Pears, early picking to save, 332 
Peas, 4, 17, 261 ; uric acid in, 18, 

48,57 

Pegler, Mr., 94 

Pelargoniums, 230, 262, 320-321 
Penzance, sweet briars, 242, 282 
Pergola, at the Capucine convent, 

198-200 ; in Suffolk, 333 



INDEX 



435 



Pernettias, 233 

Peterborough Cathedral, 305, 307 ! 

Petersfield, 232 

Petrusville, 403 

Pheasants, 234 

Philanthropic, suggestion for the, 
95-96 

Philipstown, 403 

Phillips, H., 76 

Phlebitis, 63-64 

Phloxes, 219, 270, 314 

' Picciola,' 345-346 

Pigeon-houses in France, 309 

Pigs, keeping of, 150 

Piles, diet for, 67 

Pinus austriaca, 331 

Pipes, briarwood, 161-162 

Plane-trees, 165 

Plants, overfeeding of, 350 

'Plasmon,' 13, 54, 56, 110-112; 
biscuits, 8, 18 ; in rheumatism 
and gout, 55 ; in mucus colitis, 
68 ; in gastro-intestinal inflam- 
mation, 70; as a drink, 113 
seq. ; in cooking, 127 

Platycodon, 218 

Playfair, Dr., 41 

Pleas for a simple diet, 120 sea., 
204 

Pliny on the uses of cork, 165 ; 
4 Letters,' 183 

Plumbagos, 220-221, 320, 348 

Poems quoted : Keats', 147 ; Cor- 
revon's ' La Hose de Noel,' 153- 
154; J. Ehoades' poem on 
flowers, 155-156 ; Owen Mere- 
dith's 'Love's Labour Lost,' 
173 ; Shelley's ' Ode to Naples,' 
190; Sir Henry Taylor's ' Philip 
van Artevelde,' 194 ; Eobert 
Lytton's ' Sorrento Eevisited,' 
196-197 ; Mrs. Browning's 
'Aurora Leigh,' 202; Miss 
Emily Lawless' ' Wild Geese,' 
214-216; Laurence Housman's 
4 The Winners,' 222-223 : on a 
pigeon in St. Paul's, 228 ; ' The 
Settlers,' 229 ; missing stanza 
of Gray's ' Elegy,' 249 ; Lord 
Tennyson quoted, 255 ; lost 
poem by John Milton, 257- 



258; E. L. Stevenson's 'The 
Celestial Surgeon,' 258; Miss 
Una van A. Taylor's 'Nous 
n'irons plus au bois,' 276 ; on 
rain, 278 ; A. J. Munby's ' The 
Milkwoman,' 299-300 ; Eobert 
Browning quoted, 324 ; Crabbe 
quoted, 336; a sailor's street 
song, 339 ; ' The Queen's Cho- 
colate,' 341-343; 'Chrysan- 
themums,' 350-351 ; ' Vale,' 
355 ; J. Ehoades's ' Stars,' 377 

Polenta cutlets, 125 

Polygonums, 238, 319 

Pommes a la caramel, 286 

Pompeii, 184; art treasures of, 
178 ; visit to, 186 seq. ; ' Last 
Days of, 7 191 ; books on, 192 

Poor, food for the, 108 seq. 

Portinari family, 174 

Post, van de, 340 

Postcard box, automatic, 97 

' Pot-Pourri from a Surrey 
garden,' 220, 323, 389, 402 

Potatoes, poisonous berries of, 48 ; 
mode of cooking, 71, 288; 
baked, 113; to keep when 
cooked, 116 ; souffl6 with nuts, 
130 ; early, 261, 271 ; puree of, 
286 

Poultry-keeping, 150 

Poussin, artist, 206 

Pratt, Anne, 282, 336, 345 

Prescriptions for weakness on 
change of diet, 45 

Press, and the diet question, 104 

on the training of the eye, 149 ; 
on tuberculosis, 158; and the 
Coronation, 241 

Pretoria, 383, 386-387 

' Pretty Betty ' (red valerian), 346 

' Pretty Polly ' (Pelargonium), 262 

Primroses, 232 

Privet, 195, 264 

Proteid food, 55 ; in obesity, 61 ; 
daily allowance of, 78 seq., 85 
seq., 104, 111, 119-120; in 
separated milk, 90 ; amount of 
in various foods, 111 ; in flour, 
116 (see also under Albumen) 

Protene, 13, 112 



436 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Pruning, necessity of, 211, 237, 

319-320, 334 
Primus Pissardii, 152 ; spinosa, 

153 
Prussia acid in almonds, 62, 



Pruth, river, 371, 373 
Puddings, fruit, 113 ; raisin and 

barley, 129 ; semolina, 289 
Pullar, Dr., 75 
Pythagoreans and the bean, 49 



QUACK DRUGS, 32 

Quacks, 31 

Quadrumana, diet of the, 29 

'Queen Mary's Tears' (thistle), 

308 
' Queen's Chocolate, The' (poem), 

341-343 
' Quo Vadis,' 183 



B , Colonel, 387 

Eailway carriages, infection in, 
156-158 

Baisin tea, 112, 131 ; and barley 
pudding, 129 

Baisins, albumen in, 111 

Baleigh, Sir Walter, 48 

Ramondia pyrenaica, 219 

Banunculus, turban, 172 ; Per- 
sian, 210 

Raspberries, 260 

R6camier family, 32 

Receipts, 125-132, 151, 284-297, 
302-304 

Redruth, 235 

Beed, Mr. T. G., 297 

Beinholdt, Dr. Chas., 75 

Beligion, 59 

' Benaissance of Art in France,' 
167 

Rheumatism, 34 ; fish in, 5 ; 
cause of, 17-18, 86-87 ; in 
horses, 18, 92 ; water for 
drinking in, 35 ; diet for, 45-46, 
61, 71, 84 ; ' Plasmon ' in, 55 

Rhoades, Mr. James, 155 ; poem 
by, 377 

Rhodes, Cecil, 389 



Rhododendrons, 231, 233 

Bhubarb, 269 

Rhus Cotinus and laciniata, 319 

Bibes sanguinea, 282 

Rice, 7 ; with cheese, 113 ; bread 
from, 126 ; croquettes, 130 

Richmond, 318 

Rimington's Guides, 396, 399, 
403 

Rippingills's oil-stoves, 117 

' Riviera Notes,' 171 

'Riviera, The Romans on the,' 
166 

Roberts, Captain, 200 

Lord, ' on treating soldiers,' 
21-23 

Robinson, Mr., 219; 'English 
Flower Garden,' 155, 198 ; on 
heaths, 208-209 ; on vegetable 
gardens, 258, 260 ; list of sun- 
flowers, 270 

Rockery plants, 310 

Rogers, Samuel, 242 

Roman ruins at Baisc, 179 

Rome, 175 

Romneya Coulteri, 240 

Roosevelt, President, quoted, 213 

Root crops, 261 ; plants, 270 

Rosa rugosa, 319 

Rosemary, 236 

Roses, 170 ; Christmas, 153, 221 ; 
in water, 221 ; Holland House 
show of, 241; for English 
gardens, 246; Chinese Guel- 
der, 265; soil for, 283 ; on 
growing, 314-315 ; difficulty 
of photographing, 335 

Rosetta stone, 358 

Rossi, Signer, 357 

Rotation of crops, 260-262 

Royal Engineers, 404 

Royal Hospital for Children and 
Women, 77 

Royal Scots Fusiliers, 382 

Rubus deliciosus, 222 

' Rulers of the South,' 49 

Rural districts, depopulation of, 
108 seq. 

Rush-broom, Spanish, 264 

Ruskin, John, 247 

Russia, tour in, 356 seq. 



INDEX 



437 



Eussia, Alexander I. of, 356 ; 
death, 364 

Alexander II. of, 357 

Grand Duke Constantine of, 
364 

Nicholas I. of, 356 ; acces- 
sion, 364 



S , Colonel, 410 

S , Sir Leicester, 382 

S Major, 377-378, 381-382, 

388, 390 
S , Sergeant-Major (B.S.A. 

Police), 399 

Sabajone (Venetian dish), 291 
Sage, 162 
St. Claude, 161 
St. Helena, 387 
St. Hospice, tower of, 161 
St. Paul's Cathedral, 228, 309 
St. Petersburg, 356, 360, 363-367 
St. Raphael, 160-1 
St. Thomas of Canterbury, 101 
St. Vincent, 380 
Saintine's, ' Picciola,' 345 
Salad, cheese, 285 ; potato, 288 
Salisbury cure, 6, 46, 50 
Salsify, 261 
Salt one of the causes of cancer, 

47 

Salutaris Water, 35 
Sande-Torte (cake), 293 
Sandhurst, 375 
' Sandow ' exercises, 378 
Sandwiches of almond cream, 70 
Sanguisorbas, 265 
Sapon (powdered soap), 302 
Sardinia, 162 
Sauce, green, 286-287 ; Sevillane, 

289 
Saving, habit of, 133 seq. ; object 

for, 147 

Savoury vegetable stew, 128 
Savoys, 252 
Saxifrages, 163, 348 
School Board curriculum, 120 
Schwartzenberg, Prince, 366 
Scorzonera, 261 
Scots Guards, 406 
Scott, Mr., 295 



Sea-buckthorn, 238 

Seakale beet, 271 ; to cook, 288 

Sea Point Horticultural Society, 

249 

Sebastopol, 370, 372 
Second childhood, 346 
Sedentary occupation, diet for, 

54, 62, 67 
Seeds, growing from, 170, 331, 

347 ; preservation of, 322 
Semolina pudding, 289 
Senile decay, 104 
Sensuality and diet, 55 
September, notes for, 305-325 
Servants and diet, 121 ; wages 

and treatment of, 139, 141 
Sewage, dry treatment of, 91-92 ; 

question 337 
Sex vigour in animals, 55 
Shanklin, 303 
Sheep's milk, 96 
Shelley, 'Ode to Naples,' 190; 

cremation of, 200 
Shelter for gardens, 234 
Shingles, 46, 64 
Shopping, 144 
Shrubs, treatment of, 225 ; lists 

of, 237, 253 

Shuckburgh, E. S., 184 
Sidalcea Candida, 218 
Sienkiewicz's ' Quo Vadis,' 183 
Skin-diseases cured by diet, 72 
Slaughter-houses, cruelty in, 177 
Slough, 76 
Slums, overcrowded condition 

of, 122-123 
Smoke nuisance, 318 
Smoking, hereditary effect of, 

50-51 

Snake's head iris, 155 
Snowdrops, 152 
Soap, powdered, 302 
Social reformers on diet, 108 
Society for Prevention of Cruelty 

to Animals, 177 
Socrates quoted, 144 
Soda, bicarbonate of, 45 : salicy- 

late of, 45, 63 ; in bread, 65 ; 

in mucus colitis, 68-69 ; water, 

70 
Soil, how to tell a good, 231-232 



438 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Solanums, 317, 320 
Solomon's seals, 225, 232 
wisdom, 326-327 
Sorrento, 196 ; poem on, 196-197 
Souffle potatoes with nuts, 130 
Soup, vegetable, 284 ; milk, 288 
South Africa, deficiency of women 

in, 272 ; return of troops from, 

353; Captain Sydney Earle's 

letters from, 374^17 
South Kensington Museum, 308 
Southwold, 327 
'Spectator' quoted, 222, 229, 

323, 341, 344 

Spencer, Herbert, on diet, 15 
Spikenard of the Bible, 282 
Spinach, 261 

Spiraeas, 200, 225, 238, 265 
Spitting, on the habit of, 156- 

157 

Stag's-horn sumach, 318 
Standard Bank, 390 
Stanford, Bennet, 392 
Starch, digestion of, 105; in 

flour, 116 

'Stars '(poem), 377 
Starvation, cure, 11, 70-71 ; 

death from, 50; from under- 
feeding, 67 

Steamships, food on, 65-66 
Stellenbosch, 400 
Stevenson, B. L., quoted, 258 
Stockholm, 359-360 
Stonehenge, 201 
Strangford, Lord, 365 
Strathfieldsaye, 335 
Strawberries, 260 
Suffolk, visit to, 326 seq.; 

' Breviary,' 336 ; books on, 337 
Sugar in gout and rheumatism, 

46 ; in diet, 110 
Sugden, Mr. B., 102 
' Sun ' war correspondent, 405 
Sundial, 320-321 
Sunflowers, 269-270; for goats, 

103, 324; grown for profit, 

324-325 

Sunstroke, 255-256 
Surrey, gardens in, 232-234 
Swanley Horticultural College, 

272 



Sweden, tour in, 356 seq. 

Sweet peas, 316 

Swiss Government and the ex- 
port of goats, 102 

Switzerland, goats in, 96 ; analysis 
of foods in, 100 ; letter from, 
344 

Synaptase in almonds, 99 



T , A., 409-410 

T , General, 377 

Table decoration, 144-145 

Tamarisk, 237-238 

Taylor, Miss U. van A., quoted, 
275 

Taylor, Mrs. Fleetwood, M.D., 75 

Taylor, Sir Henry, quoted, 194 

Tea, 17, 121 ; afternoon, 6-7, 42 ; 
uric acid in, 18, 48 ; condemna- 
tion of, 31-32, 141 ; hereditary 
effect of, 50 ; excessive drink- 
ing of, 51, 142 ; various qua- 
lities compared, 51 ; Chinese 
mode of preparing, 51 ; goat's 
milk in, 93; substitute for, 
113 

Teeth as an indication of man's 
proper diet, 25, 28-29 ; books 
on the, 29, 298; early decay 
of, hi the present generation, 
89, 297-298 

Teetotallers, 83 ; use of tea and 
coffee promoted by, 50, 142 

' Temple Classics,' 101 

Tennyson, Lord, 101 ; quoted, 
255 

Thalictrums, 265 

' The Choice ' (poem), 214 

' The Settlers ' (poem), 229 

' The Winners ' (poem), 222 

Theosophy, 20 

Thirst, treatment of, in illness, 
70 

Thistles, 308 

Thomas, Mr., 412 

Thompson, Dr. Alexander, 183 

Thompson, Mr., 345 

Thompson, Sir Henry, on diet, 
13-14 ; on cremation, 201 

Thome, John, 241, 309 



INDEX 



439 



' Three Cups Inn,' The, 330 

Thrift, habit of, 133 seq. 

Thrombosis, 63 

Thuyas, 349 

Thyme, 162 ; for paths, 163 

Tiger, food of the, 29 : sex vigour 
in the, 55 

' Times,' 88, 376 ; war corre- 
spondent, 405 

Titian's landscapes, 206 

Toadflax, wild, 343 

Tobacco, to keep moist, 285 

Toggenburg goats 91, 96, 102 seq. 

Tomatoes, stewed, 129 

Tool, a new gardening, 321 

Toothache among the troops in 
South Africa, 89 

Toulon, 161 

Tradescant, Mr., 240 

Tragedy caused by eczema, 71-72 

Tranquillus, C. Suetonius, 183 

Transvaal, 385, 388 

' Traveller's joy,' 330 

Travelling, diet while, 64-66, 70 

' Treating,' Lord Roberts on, 21- 
23 

Tree heaths for briarwood pipes, 
161-162 

Tuberculosis (see under Con- 
sumption) 

Tuileries, ruins of the, 166-169 

Tula, town, 370 

Tuli, town, 382 

Tulip-trees, 248 

Tulips, 207, 213, 222, 225-226 

Turkey and Russia, 371-372 

Turkeys, 337 

Turner, Mr., 400 

Turnips, 261 



UNDERFEEDING, 19 ; the gums in, 
8, 61 ; from non-assimilation, 
41 ; Dr. Haig on, 67 

' Unit Library,' 101 

Upton Church, 248 

Uric acid, 17, 18, 42-44, 60-61 ; 
definition of, 16 ; in eggs, 16, 
78 ; as the cause of disease, 23- 
25, 78 seq., 84 ; as the cause 
of headaches, 42 ; diet, 45 ; in 



flesh and vegetables, 48 ; foods 
free from, 68-69, 85, 87, 110; the 
cause of gout and rheumatism, 
86 (see also under Xanthin) 



VAAL river, 386 

Vaccination, 10 

' Vale ' (poem), 355 

Valescure, 160-161, 169 ; heaths 
of, 162 ; cork-trees at, 164-165 
books on, 165; fragments of 
the Tuileries at, 166-168 

Van der Goes, Hugo, 174 

Vegetable, stew, 128; gardens, 
258-262; soup, 284 

Vegetables, amount of proteid in, 
111 

' Vegetarian,' newspaper, 43 ; 
creed, 97, menus, 113-115, 117- 
119 ; Society, 297 

Vegetarian diet, 6, 8, 11, 25-27, 
43-44; books on, 26, 27; 
objections to, 48, 58 seq., 108 ; 
for children, 52 ; list of doctors 
who advocate, 75 ; homes for 
instruction in, 76 seq. ; ques- 
tion of quantity in, 78 seq., 84 
seq. ; constipation in, 82-83 ; as 
taught in schools, 105 ; on three 
shillings a week, 109 seq. ; plea 
for a, 120 seq. (see also under 
Cookery books and Diet) 

Vegetarianism and sociability, 
52 ; and sentiment, 60, 177 ; 
effect on invalids of, 60 ; 
Maeterlinck on, 72-74 ; and 
the medical profession, 83; 
Virchow on, 122 ; an American 
judge on, 284 

Vegetarians, unscientific, 41; in 
the Army, 53 ; dining out, 
57 ; and cruelty to animals, 177 

Veitch & Sons, 210, 213, 222 

Venidiums, 268, 332 

Veratrum nigrum, 270-271 

Verbascum phceniceum, 222 

Verbena, 263 

Vesuvius, 175-176, 187, 201 

Victor Emmanuel, King, of Italy, 
174 



440 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Vienna, 373 ; flour, 116 

Villiers, Charles, 12 

Vilmorin, M., 'Vegetable Gar- 
dens,' 227, 258-259 

Vine-clad Pergola, 198-200 

Vinton & Co., 91 

Violets, 171, 232, 249 ; on grow- 
ing, 322-323 

' Violettes de Parme,' 170 

Virchow, Dr., 27, on vegeta- 
rianism, 122 

Virginia creeper, 271 

' Virgin's bower,' 331 

Volkousky, Princess Zeneide, 36 



W , General, 391, 396, 404 

W , sapper, 392 

W , Sir G., 381 

W , F., 379, 395 

W , General F., 395 

Wagner, composer, 59 

Wales, Henry, Prince of, 275 

Wallace, Mrs., 99 

Wallflowers, 207, 345-346 

Walnuts, 130 

Walters, Dr., 75 

Wareham, 382 

Warsaw, 357, 364 

Water, when to drink, 7; for 

gout and rheumatism, 35 ; 

' How it kills its thousands,' 

35 

Watercress as a vegetable, 285 
Water-lilies, 242 
Waterer, Messrs., 231 
Waterhouse, Elizabeth, 243 
Waters, German, 44, 46 
Waterton Collection, 308 
Watts, Mr. G. F., 243 
Weight in dieting, 58, 61, 78 

seq., 85 seq. 
Weir-Mitchell, Dr., 41 
Wellbank, Mr., 127 
Wellington Barracks, 375 
Wellingtonias, 349 
Welsh polypody, 344 
West Surrey Dairy Co., 97 



Westminster Abbey, 307 

' Westminster Gazette,' 155 ; let- 
ters to the, 156-158, 303 ; poems 
from the, 221, 275-276, 350- 
351, 355 

Wheatmeal bread, 126 

White, Dr. Charles, 75 

Whitmore, Mr., 195 

' Wholesome Food for the Poor,' 
107-132, 283 

Wild flowers, 343-344 

gardening, 198, 208, 233-235, 
282 

' Wild Geese,' The, 212-216 

Wilde, Oscar, 251 

Williams, Dr. R, 27 

Williams, Mr., 200 

Willow herb, 344 

Wilson, Dr. Helen, 75 

Wilson, Mr. G. F., 233-235, 246 

Wimbledon Common, 375 

Winchester, 101 

Windsor, 290 

Wine, the purchase of, 144 

Wisley, 225, 233-235, 246 

Wistaria creeper, 175, 225, 231, 
330 

Witteput, 411 

Woking, 231 ; ' Nursery,' 251 

Wolf, food of the, 29 

Wood gardening, 211, 237, 282 

' Workman's budget,' 108 

Worthing, 178 



XANTHIN, 45, 48, 85 ; in fish, 49 ; 
in eggs, 85 ; in lentils, 108 
(see also under Uric acid) 



YEW hedges, 211 
Yews, 172, 236, 269 
York, 232 ; Cathedral, 305 
Young, Dr. Thomas, 357-358 
Yuccas, 207 



ZOLA, M., 328 



Spottiswoode & Co. Ltd., Printers, New-street Square, London. 



THE LfRRARY 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 

Los Angeles 
This book is DUE on the last date stamped below. 



FEB 16 1953 



arm L9-25m-9,'47(A5618)444 




SB 



Earle - 



E12pb A third pot- 



SB 
455 
E12pb 
1903 




NOSCAf 
HUTEf 



REEF 

POINT 

GARDENS 

LIBRARY 



The Gift of Beatrix Farrand 

to the General Library 
University of California, Berkeley 



A THIED POT-POUEEI 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



Twenty-sixth Edition. Grown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY GARDEN. 

With an APPENDIX by LADY CONSTANCE LYTTON. 

DEAN HOLE, in an article upon the work in the Nineteenth Century, 
says : ' There is not time for further enjoyment of this sweet, spicy 
"Pot-Pourri;" no space for further extracts from this clever and 
comprehensive book ; only for two more earnest words to the reader 
Buy it.' 

Fifth Impression. Large Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd. 

MORE POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY 
GARDEN. 

4 This second volume has all the charm of the first. It is just 
the friendly chat of a lady who has not only read books, but knows 
all about her kitchen, and, if possible, more about the garden she 
loves. On each, sound, useful information is pleasantly conveyed.' 

PUNCH. 

London: SMITH, ELDEK, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place, S.W. 



THIRD POT-POURRI 



BY 

MES. C. W. EAKLE 

AUTHOR OF ' POT-POURBI FROM A SURREY GARDEN ' ETC. 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDEE & CO., 15 WATEELOO PLACE 
1903 

[All rights reserved] 



LANDSCAPE 
ARCHITECTURE 

Home now your comrades come again, 

But you come not. 
For them life's triumphs still remain ; 

You draw Death's lot. 

Oh, lying far from home away, 

Feel not so far; 
For, though all come, my heart does stay 

There where you are. 

B. FULLEB MAITLAND. 



June 1902 



TO THE MEMOBY 

OF 

SYDNEY EAKLE 

I DEDICATE THIS BOOK 



796 



I WISH to offer my very best thanks to my friend, 
Miss Adela Curtis, and my niece, Lady Constance 
Lytton, for the very material help they have given 
me with this book. 



CONTENTS 



HEALTH 

PAGE 

Eeasons for more about health A stranger's letter En- 
couragement from Dr. Haig Details of my diet Eeason for 
early breakfast Asparagus poison Arguments of opponents 
Dulness of diet Eeason of benefit felt on first going 
back to mixed foods Test of underfeeding Dentist story 
Opposition of medical profession Their indifference to diet 
The ordinary man at his breakfast-table Doctors to be 
educated by the public Uses of Plasmon Necessity for 
mothers and children to learn physiology Definition of 
uric acid Instincts not safe guides Difficulties of hos- 
pitalityLord Boberts on ' treating 'List of useful books 
Home education of girls: two methods Hindoo love 
story 1 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 

Imaginary conversation between two doctors Advertisements 
versus Dr. Haig Bemedies for depression on beginning diet 
The old need not fear change of diet Tea-drinking and 
the Chinese The Bible and meat- eating Pythagoreans 
and the bean' Better Food for Boys,' and the schoolmaster 
Difficulties of the diet Fat and thin women Mediaeval 
and Greek idea Individual cases Maeterlinck's testimony 40 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



SUPPLEMENT 

PAGE 

Home started in Buckinghamshire, under Dr. Haig, for in- 
struction and practice in uric-acid-free foods A second 
home in Hampshire for fleshless diet, recommended by 
Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A. Critical paper, by a patient of 
Dr. Haig Dr. Haig's answer to same .... 76 



GOATS 

Goats at Naples Possible solution for milk difficulty in rural 
districts A toothless generation Ignorance as to nourish- 
ing value of separated milk Mr. Hook on goat-keeping 
Personal experiment Boast kid and agneau-de-lait 
Beasons for prejudice against goats Suggestions for the 
philanthropic Immunity of goats from tubercular disease 
Day at Guildford Almonds The Astolat Press Mr. 
Gates' herd of Toggenburg goats Feeding of goats- 
Chemistry of food to be taught in elementary schools . . 89 



WHOLESOME FOOD ON THREE SHILLINGS A 
WEEK 

Cornhill' budgets Food reformers and lentils Taste for 
savoury foods Nervous appetites Cabinet Minister and 
charwoman The healthy foods Maeterlinck's appeal 
against meat and alcohol Food values To feed a family 
of four on 12s. a week Nut milk A week's menus, and 
cost Ditto, with once-a-week cooking Advantage of living 
in country Goat's milk at a London dairy Cheapest and 
healthiest diet at 2s. 4d. a week To wean servants from 
the beef-beer-tea faith Possible purpose of meat-eating 
phase in evolution A philanthropist's experiment 
Amateur farmers A pair of Bushey art students Beceipts 107 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 133 



CONTENTS xi 



FEBRUARY 

NOTES FKOM NINE MONTHS OF A SCRAPPY JOURNAL 

1901-1902 

PAGE 

Forcing cut branches Amygdalus Davidiana Early spring 
flowers under glass Bulbous irises Epimediums in pots 
Letter to ' Westminster Gazette ' on railway carriages and 
tuberculosis Congress on tuberculosis in 1901 . . . 152 



MARCH 

Valescure Tree heath and briar-wood pipes Fragrant herbs 
and thyme carpet Aloes and agaves Cork-trees Frejus 
Ruins of the Tuileries : De 1'Orme and Bullant Meis- 
sonier's picture of the burnt Tuileries Cannes Eucalyptus- 
trees La Mortola Arrival at Florence Turban ranun- 
culus Mino da Fiesole Letter about Florence . . . 160 



APRIL 

Arrival at Naples Museum English Society for the Prevention 
of Cruelty to Animals at Naples Slaughter-houses in 
England Art objects from Pompeii sometimes echoes of 
modern Japan Baise Coleridge and Harrison on Gibbon- 
South of Italy less affected by barbaric invasions than other 
parts Aquarium Goats Dr. Munthe on the housing of 
the poor Mrs. Jameson's picnic Pompeii : smallness of 
the houses Mr. Eolfe on Pompeiian pins and matches 
Cenotaphs and war memorials Pompeiian gardens as models 
for London Sorrento and Amalfi Garibaldi on cremation 
' Aurora Leigh ' 175 



MAY 

Apology for more gardening notes Journey to Ireland New 
English Art Club A modern landscape recalling Claude at 
his best Spring in the West of Ireland Glorification of 



xii A THIRD POT-POURRI 

PAGB 

flat garden by old yuccas Persian ranunculus Want of 
thinning out and pruning a universal fault An East Coast 
garden Cultivation of Hydrangea paniculata' The Wild 
Geese ' Gardening letter from German friend Two good 
spring plants A sundial Floating bouquets The May 
horticultural show 203 



JUNE 

Cuttings of double gorse and ericas A gorse hedge Gerarde 
on Solomon's seal Preserving tulip bulbs after flowering 
Dictamnus fraxinella in Wiltshire The globe artichoke as 
food for man and goats Peace Glasnevin Mr. Linden's 
garden at Brussels Old wistaria and bignonias grown as 
shrubs How to tell a good soil Mr. G. F. Wilson's wild 
garden How to grow Portugal laurels in boxes 
Tamarisks and sea-buckthorns grown inland The beauties 
of Polygonum compactum London and the 24th of June 
The rose show at Holland House ..... 224 



JULY 

An account of lately bought gardening books A lost poem by 
Milton Vegetable gardens and rotation of crops How to 
easily catalogue a garden More half-hardy plants suitable 
for large pots Carnations at Mr. Douglas' Spanish rush- 
broom 244 



AUGUST 

Cultivation of various plants Outdoor fig culture Rhubarb in 
France Effects of Nicotiana sylvestris alba Potatoes in 
succession Colonial branch of Swanley Horticultural Col- 
lege for Women 'Animal life' Letter about monkey's 
food Hampton Court garden and the old railing The 
motor and Bramshill Building a house Rose planting 
Cooking receipts Autumn work in a German country-house 
kitcher Household receipts . , 266 



CONTENTS xiii 

SEPTEMBER 

PAGE 

Visit to Northamptonshire Peterboro', Fotheringhay, and Kirby 
Hall Iris in pans for spring flowering A last year's 
autumn letter from Germany Kew and the smoke curse 
Pruning back of shrubby plants to imitate sub-tropical 
gardening Japanese anemones in shade Sunflower seeds 
as a possible farming industry 305 

OCTOBER 

Solomon's love of nature- An old letter Zola and fresh air 
Old Harwich inn and curious specimen of Clematis Vitalba 
Mesembryanthemums for cliff gardens An old monastery 
fruit-wall Three Pergolas A long-wanted book on trees 
and shrubs An old Suffolk breviary Stories Wild flowers 
for garden culture Wellingtonias on a German hillside 
Chrysanthemum culture Mr. Morley's gift to Cambridge . 326 

THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR IN THE NORTH OF 

EUROPE IN 1825-26 , 356 



THE LAST LETTERS OF CAPTAIN SYDNEY 

EARLE, COLDSTREAM GUARDS . . 374 



INDEX .... .... .419 



A THIED POT-POUEEI 



HEALTH . 

Reasons for more about health A stranger's letter Encouragement 
from Dr. Haig Details of my diet Reason for early breakfast 
Asparagus poison Arguments of opponents Dulness of diet 
Reason of benefit felt in going back to mixed foods Test of 
underfeeding Dentist story Opposition of medical profession 
Their indifference to diet The ordinary man at his breakfast- 
table Doctors to be educated by the public Uses of Plasmon 
Necessity for mothers and children to learn physiology De- 
finition of uric acid Instincts not safe guides Difficulties of 
hospitality Lord Roberts on 'treating' List of useful books 
Home education of girls : two methods Hindoo love story. 

I MUST apologise to the public for the apparent poor- 
ness of idea in again repeating my somewhat tiresome 
title. I heard Mr. Motley, the historian, once say, a title 
should be ' telling and selling.' A ' Third Pot-Pourri ' 
will very likely turn out to be neither of these, but it 
seemed to me the most honest title I could think of 
towards those who were kind enough, not only to read, 
but to like, my former books. They may find the matter 
in this book better or worse ; the manner is exactly the 
same as before, and it could hardly be otherwise at my age. 
I must, perhaps, also apologise for putting the Health 
chapters prominently forward at the beginning of this 
book, and I can only ask those who have no interest in 

B 



2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the subject to skip them altogether. They are written for 
those who asked for them. The chapter headed ' March ' 
in my second book, ' More Pot-Pourri,' which contained 
my personal confessions about diet, brought me such a 
number of touching and appealing letters from people of 
all sorts in every part of the world, that I cannot help 
thinking it almost a duty I owe to the readers of that book, 
to tell them as plainly as I can what I have learnt further 
about the subject, which for want of a better title we may 
call Diet, or Food, and its effects on the health of all 
classes of the community. 

A great many people will merely laugh and think it very 
conceited and ridiculous that I should set up my opinion 
in matters of health against the great majority of the 
medical profession ; but to anyone who has acquired good 
health, even late in life, the blessing is so inestimable, 
that it is only natural to try to help others to attain 
it. A note received the other day from a complete 
stranger stimulated me, perhaps, more than any other to 
feel that the knowledge and experience I have gained 
in the last three years might really be of some use to a 
few human beings. In this last of several letters, my un- 
known correspondent says, ' I am not likely to forget to 
associate your name with my improvement, and you, on 
your side, will have the satisfaction of knowing you have 
been the means of brightening and bettering our family's 
existence.' 

Now, it seems to me that, however ridiculous it may 
appear to be very much absorbed in any one subject, if 
taking the trouble to publish a book upon it can call forth 
such an expression as this, and benefit, say, half-a-dozen 
families, I am well rewarded. As a further justification 
of my action in this matter, I should like to quote what 
T. E. Brown says in one of his delightful ' Letters ' : 
1 1 believe that Jowett, like so many Englishmen, carried 



HEALTH 3 

the principle of not " pinning his heart upon his sleeve for 
daws to peck at," so far as to forget that, besides the 
pecking daws, there are the craving hearts of others . . . 
craving for the food which, God help us, is not too 
abundantly spread upon the tables of this world.' Sym- 
pathy comes naturally to those who have prosperous 
circumstances, and I, who enjoy life so abundantly, 
in spite of age and sorrows, on account of my health, 
cannot help responding to appeals, from those who 
suffer, for further information as to the means by which 
I obtained it. 

I am always being asked what I do myself. So far as 
I can, I will tell this exactly, first briefly stating that my 
health, which was good three years ago, has been dis- 
tinctly improving both as regards endurance and nerve- 
power, and this in spite of heavy trials and sorrows borne 
a great deal alone, which to a nature like mine, after a 
life spent as mine has been, is no small additional suffer- 
ing. Added to this, late in life I have had thrown upon 
me the entire management of house, garden, servants, 
stables, hospitality, which means a great strain on 
memory, especially after a lifetime with a man who 
shared all this with me, taking on himself the sole re- 
sponsibility of much of it, and financially directing the 
whole. 

My own conviction is, that though I started by myself 
on what I consider the right road as regards diet and 
health, yet without the assistance and support of Dr. Haig 
I should never have had courage to persevere against all 
opposition, and so have reached a level of health which 
has enabled me to withstand all this, and be so much 
better and stronger than either my mother or most of my 
aunts and uncles, who, with constitutions strong enough 
to live to a great old age, did so with much suffering from 
constaniailments loss of hearing, sight, and brain-power. 

B2 



4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

A great many people may think that my improved health 
is a matter of imagination, and I am the last to deny that 
the mental attitude has an immense effect on the success 
of diet ; but with due allowance for this, my present 
increased mental and physical power is a somewhat 
unusual record, considering my family history, which is 
one of strong constitution and bad health. 

To come now to the details of my diet : At breakfast, 
8 A.M., I eat a thick slice of home-made brown bread of 
the kind known as 'Graham,' made without yeast [see 
receipts in August] (to be bought from Heywood, 42 Queen 
Anne Street, London, W., but better made at home), with 
butter and marmalade, and a cup of hot separated milk 
tinged with coffee. I have reserved to myself the right to 
continue this self-indulgence of a small amount of coffee 
in my milk, in spite of Dr. Haig's warnings : first, because 
I so dislike the taste of milk, and secondly, because it 
leaves me something tangible to leave off in case advanc- 
ing years should make me less well. But I have a 
nephew who looks with horror at an aunt whom he used 
to think of as a kind of prophetess, who sits down at 8 
in the morning in front of a coffee-pot. People often ask 
me why I breakfast at 8. My general answer is that I 
like it, and that it gives me a nice long morning ; but the 
real reason why I recommend it to others is, that if food is 
taken at all in the morning, it must be taken five hours 
before the luncheon time, as I think piling on another 
meal before the previous one is digested is one of the 
many causes of ill-health in the present day. 

At my second meal, 1.30, 1 eat potatoes and vegetables 
that are in season, experiencing no harm from young peas 
or beans, but finding asparagus quite a poison to me. 
Three years ago I wrote to Dr. Haig, saying that I had 
been less well, and asking if it could be from asparagus, 
as I had been eating it twice a day for ten days during my 



HEALTH 5 

full spring supply. He answered that, as far as he knew, 
asparagus was quite harmless, and that he thought I must 
have taken a chill. Last year, on the same symptoms 
reappearing, I wrote again. Dr. Haig replied as follows : 
' I write a line at once to tell you what I know will 
interest you that the asparagus is the cause of all your 
troubles.' This did not surprise me very much, as I knew 
that thirty years ago Dr. Garrod, the great gout specialist 
of that time, used to forbid asparagus to his patients. In 
winter, for the sake of change, I sometimes eat some well- 
cooked lentils. At this meal I generally eat salad, with 
about an ounce of cheese and a good big slice of home- 
made white bread with butter. If I still feel hungry I eat a 
milky pudding and some stewed fruit. This is unwise for 
those who are dyspeptics, as fruit and vegetables are best 
kept for separate meals (see Dr. Kellogg's ' Science in the 
Kitchen ') ; fortunately, I have had a good digestion all 
my life. My great object has always been, within certain 
health conditions, to keep my feeding as nearly as possible 
that which will fit in with the non-dietists who surround 
me. For instance, I always serve potatoes with fish, that 
I may take something and so save the depressing effect of 
a person sitting so long at table without eating anything ; 
and once or twice a month I have been known to take a 
little bit of fish if I fancied it, especially if I have been 
lunching or dining out, though I have proved conclusively 
that so simple a food (according to ordinary ideas) as 
plain boiled fish, if I eat it two or three days running, 
has a distinctly injurious effect on the rheumatic pain 
in my hip. 

This sensitiveness to change of food is one of the 
strongest arguments used by the opponents of diet, and I 
confess it has some disadvantages ; but this applies to all 
forms of abstinence, and I would rather suffer occasionally 
than submit to an habitually low standard of health. The 



6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

enemies of dieting and most doctors to whom I have 
spoken about it are of the number declare that the great 
objection to strict dieting is that it weakens the digestion. 
This, I think, is quite true of the Salisbury diet namely, 
meat and hot water, as that gives the digestion next to 
nothing to do, and dilutes the gastric juices with quan- 
tities of hot water ; but Dr. Haig's diet of cereals, cheese, 
milk, salad, raw fruit, and vegetables, is by no means easy 
of digestion, and the quickness with which I am now 
made aware of the harmf ulness of many things that I used 
to take with apparent impunity, is in my opinion due, 
not to a weakened digestion, but to a return of healthy 
sensitiveness, induced by living for a long time on the 
natural food of man. I am quite sure if meat were given 
to horses, cows, or monkeys, though starvation might force 
them to eat it, they would be made very ill by such a diet. 
Rightly or wrongly, this seems to me the attitude to take 
towards the objection raised against what is called the 
' weak digestion ' of the vegetarian. 

We have always been told that dyspeptics live for ever 
this only means that nature is severely kind and sets 
pain as a sentinel to warn them when they have eaten 
something which they are unable to assimilate, and ex- 
perience teaches them what to take and what to avoid ; 
whereas the person of strong digestion, warned by no 
suffering, swallows everything and thinks he may do so 
with impunity. We all know how healthy children and 
healthy animals show when anything disagrees with them, 
and some of us well remember how the old nurses used 
to say, ' The sick baby always thrives,' meaning the baby 
whose stomach refused to be overloaded. 

At 5 o'clock, for the meal which I still call ' Tea,' with 
the same truthfulness that I say ' The sun sets ' though 
I know it doesn't, I drink one or two teacups of separated 
milk and hot water in equal proportions, and eat two or 



HEALTH 7 

three pieces of toast made from home-made white bread, 
with butter, jam or honey, or watercress. 

The meal at night when I am alone I own I seldom 
enjoy. I sometimes, besides home-made bread, have 
melted cheese (see receipts), or macaroni, sometimes 
rice and onions or other vegetable, with bread and butter 
and a little dried or fresh fruit, or both. At meals I drink 
very little indeed, milk being counted as nourishment 
rather than drink, but if I feel thirsty I take a little 
water great thirst I should look upon as a sign of bad 
health, unless produced by excessive exercise. It is not 
a necessity, but I constantly drink a tumbler, or half a 
tumbler, of either moderately hot or cold water on getting 
up in the morning or on going to bed, or perhaps both. 

Many people would say, ' So strict a way of diet would 
make life unbearable,' but after a time this strictness so 
changes the taste that the simpler foods are really enjoyed, 
and I distinctly think, that when people have dieted for 
several years, the amount of harm done by an occasional 
relapse is so small that the social convenience of it makes 
it worth while, so long as it is acknowledged as a conces- 
sion to weakness and not a thing to be continued. It is 
what is done every day that matters. 

People often tell me they feel so much better when 
they leave off the diet. This would only be a proof to me 
that they had not strictly dieted long enough, or had been 
under-nourished, and that the return to stimulating food 
does for them what alcohol does for those who already have 
too much in their system, and is merely a putting back of 
ultimate cure. I think all who have tried the diet 
for some time can always regulate it according to their 
varying requirements, if they will read the books and 
give the matter a little consideration. I, for instance, am 
always being told that I underfeed, and Dr. Haig never 
sees me without expressing his surprise that I am as well 



8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

as I am, considering that I live a good deal on vegetables 
and certainly, as a rule, take much below the correct 
amount of proteids for my age and weight. My under- 
feeding cannot be serious, for I sleep my six or seven 
hours, have not lost or gained flesh, and feel perfectly well. 
I often have tried to add food of a more nourishing kind, 
such as curd cheese, Plasmon biscuits, milk, &c., but after 
a few days I generally find it has a tendency to bring on 
a slight return of rheumatic stiffness. I am inclined to 
think that the doctors who preach great moderation, 
whatever the diet, such as Dr. Keith and Dr. Dewey, have 
a good deal of truth on their side, as, though the proper 
standard of strength will never be attained by the under- 
fed, still the full allowance of food may go to feed the 
particular weakness or ailment which people of a certain 
age are almost sure to have, and will thus prevent them 
reaching the level of health they might have on a lower 
standard. People seem to assimilate food so differently 
that, given there is no permanent pallor, especially no very 
white gums, or sense of fatigue, each one must judge a 
little for himself what he requires. Did I not suffer less 
from fatigue than I have ever done in my life, I should try 
harder to live up to the standard settled by physiologists 
as necessary to health, and which would doubtless be 
essential were I younger. I tried some Grape-nuts in the 
winter and felt a hot Hercules for a few days, but I believe 
them to be distinctly a gout-making food. 

Two or three years ago I had occasion to go to an 
oculist to see if my spectacles required strengthening. 
I begged him to test my eyes thoroughly. At the end of 
the interview I asked him if in every respect they were up 
to a good average standard for my age. He said most 
certainly they were, and in a most healthy condition. 
I then asked whether he would be surprised to hear that I 
had for some years been what is called a vegetarian. He 



HEALTH 9 

immediately assumed a serious medical manner and said, 
1 Up to now it seems to have done you no harm, but, 
please, don't go on with it too long ! ' the manner implying 
that terrible things might happen. I smilingly replied that 
I promised I would give it up the moment I was less well. 
I mention this to encourage people to meet the opposition 
which they must expect from all doctors, nurses, aurists, 
oculists, and dentists in fact, all the minds trained on 
the lines of the regular accepted medical teaching. The 
study of food in relation to health is a branch of medical 
science as yet in its infancy, for the best authorities, as 
may be seen in the standard text-books on Materia 
Medica, own that they know next to nothing of meta- 
bolism, or the changes undergone by food in the body. 

A great many people tell me that diet involves so 
deep a knowledge of physiology that they cannot possibly 
undertake it. They cannot risk the responsibility of going 
against their doctor. They say to me, ' How can I fight 
a man who has given his lifetime to the study of these 
things, and who must know so much more about them 
than I can, even if I give my best attention to studying 
them ? ' But is this the truth ? Has not the doctor been 
taught to study drugs for the cure of disease rather than 
food as the basis of health ? He never gives diet much 
consideration except in the case of over-eating in severe 
illness. In giving a mother rules for the health of her 
children, doctors will constantly recommend fresh air, 
exercise, and above all sufficient nourishment ; but they 
rarely give any details as to the best kind of nourish- 
ment. I have heard of a doctor who recommended a 
non-flesh diet to one of his patients, and on expressing 
his surprise at finding he had really followed it, said, 
'There are at least 120 of my patients who would be 
benefited by it, but not one of them would do it.' I 
think this is only natural, as the moment the patient was 



io A THIRD POT-POURRI 

better he would say, ' Does Dr. - - practise this diet 
himself and in his own family ? If not, why am I to do 
it now I am better ? ' Can anyone think that vaccination 
would be so universally accepted if doctors and their 
children were not themselves vaccinated ? 

Only those people who have strength of character 
enough to take responsibility against public opinion 
should attempt the simpler food diet. To begin it hap- 
hazard with no knowledge and little faith is almost 
bound to end in failure. The undeniable success of the 
diet upon myself has caused many people to say, ' There 
is no doubt this diet suits you,' with an emphasis on 
the ' you,' intended to convey ' what suits you, would 
be fatal to me.' With these I go no further. The real 
fact is an immense number of people are very fairly well, 
and much enjoy the good things of life, including food, 
between their attacks of illness. They entirely forget the 
expense of time, strength, and money entailed by these 
little attacks of colds, bilious headaches, feverishness, &c., 
the mornings spent in bed, the afternoons on a sofa in 
a darkened room, the days lost at business from bronchitis 
and influenza. 

If people could once be persuaded that the reduction 
of luxurious food does mean improved health, I think I 
should hear less about the extreme self-denial involved in 
my diet. The man who comes down in the morning and 
grumbles because he likes neither of the two hot dishes 
provided for breakfast, would be the last to consider him- 
self either a luxurious liver or an invalid ; but, having 
been convinced by the preaching of years that he must 
' keep himself up ' by eating well, any change from a 
three-meal a day meat diet, without considering sand- 
wiches at 5 o'clock tea, strikes him with horror as a 
low diet which will result in ' running down ' and losing 
the strength of mind and body so necessary for work. 



HEALTH ii 

This ' running down ' does indeed happen not infrequently 
as a result of the old-fashioned unintelligent vegetarianism. 
A great obstacle to change of diet is the family doctor. 
I have known two or three who sadly needed it them- 
selves, and having tried it more or less for a few months, 
pronounced it a failure because the good result was 
not instantaneous. The best results never come under 
eighteen months or two years. I wish to warn people 
that if they consult their doctor no diet will be tried. 
The doctors must be educated by the public. The ma- 
jority of them have no idea of giving up their own food 
and social enjoyment, though I have heard of a few of 
those very men recommending it to their wives I Doctors 
are good kind men on their own lines, and devoted to 
their profession as long as it means curing illness by 
drugs ; but a little reflection teaches us that the members 
of a learned profession are naturally the very persons 
least disposed to innovation upon the practices which 
custom and prescription have rendered sacred in their 
eyes. A lawyer is not the person to consult upon bold 
reforms in jurisprudence, and a physician can scarcely be 
expected to own that diet may cure diseases which resist 
an armament of phials. Every feeling of a doctor must 
be against a system which does not profess to be a cure 
of active disease, but a radical reverse of all the pre- 
conceived ideas of maintaining health, and is also a 
denial of the principles taught by the College of Surgeons. 
All the same there are hopeful signs that a great change 
is coming about. Dr. Lionel Beale used to tell young 
practitioners many years ago that they would often come 
across cases for which starvation was the only cure, but 
he said, 'Of course, if a patient came to you and you 
advised him to starve himself, you would never see him 
again. But there are many ways of inculcating good 
advice without shocking the nerves of sensitive people 



12 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

who suppose that abstinence from food for a few hours 
means death. Tell your patient not to take any solid food 
for a week. Order him a little beef-tea three times a day. 
Towards evening he may take with it a biscuit, or a little 
dry toast. ... By a little exercise of ingenuity you may 
suggest various things to take that will satisfy him, but 
which altogether will not amount to much.' 

To-day's post brings me this account of what is called 
a ' holiday doctor ' in a neighbouring village. The patient, 
a strict vegetarian, had caught measles. She writes : 
' We had a sensible young doctor who knew nothing of my 
ordinary way of living. He gave me no medicine, and 
recommended me to give up lobster and pork. He was 
much interested because I had rheumatism in the joints, 
which he said he had heard of in measles, but never seen. 
As to medicines, he said he never took any himself. As 
I said I did not like them, he said he would not offer me 
any till I asked him for some. " But," he added, " most 
people will have them, even if one only sends them 
a little coloured water." With high fever I have always 
before this had headache, but this time I had no headache. 
The rash mshed out, and vanished suddenly the second 
day. I have had a most comfortable illness, and really 
actually feel the better for it.' The recommendation not 
to eat pork and lobster makes me think of a story of 
forty years ago. An uncle of mine, Mr. Charles Villiers, 
returning from one of the German baths, told us he had 
been much amused by the German doctor in his parting 
instructions, saying, after a good deal of apologetic attempt 
to soften the blow, ' There is one thing I really must beg 
you not to eat, and that is bear's flesh ! ' 

The oft-repeated injunction of doctors to eat chicken 
and fish after illness has sometimes amusing results 
amongst the uneducated classes. A soldier who had been 
off duty for some days with a severe bilious attack came 



HEALTH 13 

back and said with pride to the inquiring officer that he 
was much better, and his wife had given him a 'nice 
dinner of tinned salmon ! ' 

My last word is, if you want to try the diet on children, 
you must have both faith and knowledge enough to fight 
nine doctors out of ten, although in my experience, with 
adults, they are quite willing to leave all matters of food 
and even drink to the patients themselves, merely 
cautiously changing the wine or recommending none at 
all. I had one friend, a doctor, who had the honesty to 
say to me after years of threatening me with every kind 
of misfortune, ' Mrs. Earle, what would happen to doctors 
if everybody lived as you do ? ' He also confessed to me, 
with great generosity, that in consequence of what I had 
said, no doubt assisted by the way the profession recom- 
mends Plasmon,he had had great success with two inebriate 
female patients by making them drink dissolved Plasmon, 
mixed with tea, milk, barley-water, &c. Plasmon should 
never be used without being first dissolved by boiling it 
in a little water, and this must be done even when it 
is introduced into puddings, cakes, biscuits, or any food 
or drink whatsoever. Plasmon is now being so much 
used by those who I consider are already suffering from 
over-feeding, that both Plasmon and Protene, as well as 
many other concentrated foods, promise to be, in my 
opinion, a considerable danger in the future. 

Sir Henry Thompson, in his most practical and 
temperately written book, ' Diet in Eelation to Age and 
Activity,' says : ' Respecting the act of eating itself, it is 
desirable to add a few words here. Not many persons 
learn the importance of performing it rightly in youth and 
middle life. Indeed, it ought to be taught among other 
elementary lessons in physiology at every school in early 
life, a short course of which would be much more im- 
portant and far more interesting than some of the other 



14 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

courses which the existing curriculum contains. I mean 
by this, a simple description of the chief internal organs 
connected with digestion and how they act. Every child 
at eight or ten years of age should know what becomes 
of his bread and butter, and of his meat, when he gets it. 
I can scarcely conceive a better subject than this for a 
simple and entertaining talk to a class of these young 
people, with a diagram on the wall showing the chief 
organs contained in the chest and abdomen. Another 
chat about respiration and the circulation of the blood 
would follow at a later period. The subject is regarded 
with suspicion by the public, from the imposing effect of 
the five-syllabled Greek term "Physiology," which suggests 
the idea that I propose to teach young children " science " ! 
as if that term, let me remark, whenever it is used, 
denoted anything more than an "exact knowledge re- 
specting the matter in hand." ' 

How many mothers possess this knowledge which Sir 
Henry Thompson declares should be familiar to 'every 
child of eight or ten ' ? Can it be so very abstruse and 
difficult if children of this age can begin to learn it 
through the medium of ' a simple and entertaining talk ' ? 
A gardener who means to be successful is not content to 
work on hearsay ; he takes care to acquaint himself with 
the best books on the chemistry of soils, and by careful 
experiment builds up for himself a first-hand knowledge 
of the best foods for his plants ; and the same process is 
followed by the horse-breeder and the farmer of crops 
and cattle. The human animal alone, most precious and 
costly of all, is reared on the traditions of nurses and 
doctors, the mother apparently not thinking it her business 
to know anything of its anatomy and physiology, or of 
the chemistry of the food on which its healthy growth 
must so largely depend. For want of such knowledge, 
moreover, she is not really capable of judging of the 



HEALTH 15 

fitness of either doctor or nurse. Many of the women 
who object that this subject is too difficult for them will 
spend hours every day in reading current works of fiction, 
history, biography, travel, politics, &c., in order to establish 
or keep up a reputation for being ' well-read,' ' cultured,' 
or whatever the phrase may be which conveys the im- 
pression that they can take intelligent, if not brilliant, 
part in dinner-table conversation on the interests of the 
hour. If part of the time now spent by women in doing 
as a matter of course the work which contributes towards 
' social success ' were to be given to the elements of 
physiology, hygiene, and the chemistry of food, the health 
of future generations might be enormously improved. 
These are not subjects which can give any social brilliance; 
they merely lay the foundation of physical, mental, and 
moral well-being in the family and the race. This is my 
reason for including at the end of this chapter a few of 
the books which quite clearly explain all that it is de- 
sirable to know ; Dr. Allinson's books, which are read and 
understood by thousands of the poorer classes, supply a 
good deal of instruction in a popular form. 

Eeturning from London, in February this year, where 
I had caught a cold in the head which never laid me up for 
an hour, I fancied I was a little less well. A friend sent 
me the American Dr. B. H. Dewey's book, ' A New Era 
for Women ' his text being Herbert Spencer's words : 
' If there were no eating without hunger, and no drinking 
without thirst, then would the system be but seldom out 
of working order.' The book is full of useful information, 
his panacea being the abolition of breakfast and eating 
nothing till 12 or 1 o'clock. Out of curiosity I tried this 
for ten days with the same kind of benefit that I used to 
feel in old days when I took a tonic that suited me. I did 
not continue it for the same reasons which prevent my 
doing several things that I believe would be better for 



16 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

me the unsociability, and finding that I got too hungry 
by 1.30, the luncheon hour, which I could not conveniently 
change. I think a great many people who live on the 
ordinary food, and have eaten a large dinner the night 
before, will find benefit from cutting off breakfast alto- 
gether, or, at any rate, diminishing it. 

My great difficulty is when I pay visits, but as they 
seldom last for more than a week or ten days, and I have 
the courage to ask for servants' cheese even of the swellest 
butler, and as change of air always gives me an appetite, 
I generally come home feeling better than I went, whether 
I have underfed or not. This is the case even if I have 
eaten fish once or twice boiled fish, one of my remaining 
temptations, seeming to me one of the most harmless of 
uric-acid-containing foods. This term, uric acid, I find is 
bewilderingly mystifying to most of my friends, who seem 
to think it is a medical glorification of ordinary acidity. 
So far as I understand it, it is a necessarily component 
part of our body, but 75 per cent, of modern human 
beings have an excess of it. Every bit of flesh food, in- 
cluding fish and eggs, contains a certain portion of this 
substance, of which we have already too much ; therefore 
the very facility with which we digest it adds to its 
injuriousness, while its tonic properties add to its attrac- 
tiveness. 

One of the questions I am constantly asked is, ' Why 
may we not follow our instincts, and eat light foods in 
summer and meat in winter ? ' I should answer : Because 
I believe that many of our eating and drinking instincts, 
not coming from that actual healthy hunger which finds 
dry, good bread and plain water a delicious repast, are on 
the level of the inebriate's desire for alcohol. Given that 
we are underfeeding, we need more nourishment i.e., food 
containing albumen or proteid in hot weather than in 
cold, when we lead, as a rule, much more sedentary lives, 



HEALTH 17 

and take much less out of ourselves. What many people 
call ' natural ' is often most ' artificial/ and generally 
wrong. All my generation were brought up to think that 
beef-tea and porfc-wine were naturally essential to fight 
the weakness consequent upon illness and fever ; now, 
except in very remote country districts, beef-tea is never 
ordered except as a substitute for brandy i.e., stimulant 
without nourishment. 

It is no small compliment to what is expected of diet 
that many people who have been ill or ailing for years 
under the ordinary regimen, and with the advice of 
various physicians, when they visit Dr. Haig, and begin 
his methods, express great anger if not instantly better, 
and instead of returning to give him the chance of 
changing his prescription viz., readjusting the diet 
throw up the whole system in disgust as a failure. This 
is, of course, most unreasonable. The other cause of 
anger against Dr. Haig is that he changes the details 
of the dietary he recommends. At first he had to accept, 
as all doctors do, the conclusions of others as to the con- 
stituents of food ; and in consequence he recommended 
the pulses peas, beans, and lentils. Further personal 
experience and first-hand investigation convinced him 
that these and a few other vegetable substances as 
asparagus, tea, coffee, cocoa, and mushrooms contained a 
poison differing but slightly from, and in no way less 
injurious than, the animal poison of uric acid. To me, 
changes in detail, round a central idea, are the greatest 
proof of intellectual growth. 

A vegetarian friend has related to me the explanation 
of the well-known story which goes the round of London, 
and is cited by doctors when asked by patients if they shall 
try Dr. Haig's diet, or consult him for rheumatism. The 
story is that when Dr. Haig read a paper on flesh-eating 
as the cause of rheumatism, before a medical congress 

c 



i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

some years ago, a member present asked a question which 
' floored him ' viz., why rheumatism was prevalent in 
many countries where no flesh was eaten ? The imme- 
diate answer did not occur to Dr. Haig, as he had not 
then carried his researches far enough to know that the 
pulses peas, beans, lentils and other vegetable sub- 
stances, as tea, coffee, &c., contain even more uric-acid- 
producing poison than meat itself. The question, how- 
ever, set him to work on those foods, with the result that 
he soon discovered the full answer to the question, 
and published it. This important point seems to have 
escaped the notice of those members of the profession who 
content themselves with telling only the first half of the 
story, which gives an inaccurate and unfair impression. 
I myself have often been asked why horses get rheu- 
matism. My answer has always been, ' Too many oats ' ; 
for years ago, from his study of animals while soldiering 
in wild countries, my husband used to tell me that excess 
of cereal foods, with their high percentages of acid salts, 
caused rheumatism in horses unless well balanced by 
fresh green foods. 

I have found that my difficulties in wishing to provide 
my guests with what they like to eat have been immensely 
increased of late years. As long as one's friends are 
mixed feeders, a great variety of diet is necessary. The 
best solution has seemed to me that the invalids should 
have their meals apart, and that in mixed company there 
should be three side-tables. On one of these, soup, fish, 
meat, and vegetables ; on another, farinaceous foods 
and stewed fruits, Plasmon and other biscuits ; and on 
another, fresh raw fruits and nuts. The great thing is to 
reduce courses and to serve dinners more as luncheons or 
suppers, everything being brought in at the same time 
This helps to disguise what people eat, and what they 
don't eat. Cheese is always offered with the salad to 



HEALTH 19 

those who do not eat meat. I have no wish to be ex- 
travagant and give dainties which no one will eat, and a 
whole dinner of soup, fish, two meats and a sweet, for one 
or two people, while the rest eat only some vegetarian food, 
is rather obviously uncomfortable not only for the hostess 
but for the guest and I confess a general tone of ab- 
stinence, and desire to prove indifference to food and 
drink, have greatly increased in my house in the last few 
years. This is in a measure due, no doubt, to people's 
kindness of heart and friendliness towards an old woman 
with a crank ; for I know my sons have often been con- 
doled with on the excessive pity it is that their mother 
has gone mad on the food question, the speaker putting it 
down, no doubt, to nervous depression from starvation, or 
failure from old age. 

I, myself, have now considerable dread that mere 
abstemiousness should lead to underfeeding, which all seem 
agreed upon as the greatest danger for the young ; and if 
mixed feeders ask my advice, I say, ' Knock off wrong foods 
at breakfast as much as you like, but keep your other 
meals very much what you have been accustomed to until 
you have time to attend properly to the subject, and 
decide what is really the best diet for you.' Sportsmen 
and others who lead an habitually outdoor life can eat 
most things, and a middle-aged nephew, who has always 
led a healthy country life, said to me lately, ' My system 
is never to allow my stomach to dictate to me. The other 
day I took a glass of beer which, as you know, I never 
drink. It disagreed violently with me ; so I said, " Very 
well ; you shall have it every day for a week, and I got 
perfectly used to it. Then I left it off.' There is a rough 
truth in this ; an immense number of people can eat, with 
apparent immunity, for many years the food they are used 
to. But this is a question of training the digestion to 
assimilate and not refuse unaccustomed food, and is quite 

c2 



20 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

a different matter to well-digested food introducing poison 
into the system, if that food contains poison. 

A friend staying with me received the other day the 
following account of a large dinner to mixed dietists, after a 
meeting on Theosophy, the description being by a semi-con- 
vert to strict diet who was present : ' I was much amused 
to see one odd-looking person after another, with various 
degrees of dyspeptic appearance, helping themselves, with a 
pious air of exclusiveness, to one tomato, or a dish of beans, 
while some took fish, and others refused it with horror, 
and all agreed that meat was anathema. Certain stolid, 
wholesome-looking folk ploughed steadily through the 
whole menu, from soup to fruit ; and another entertaining 
point to the naughty scoffer was the amount of food-talk 
among the " dietists," while the brutal carnivora had 
leisure to devote themselves to other subjects ! One of 
the elect, who was daintily regaling himself on an apple 
and a glass of milk, explained to me, as I ate my salmon 
and cucumber, the brutalities of the slaughter-house and 
fisheries, and when I demurred to the statement that 
animals reared for food have a bad time of it, my opposite 
neighbour leaned forward and solemnly informed me that 
" some day I should have to be eaten " ! ' Does not this 
comic account of a modern effort to imitate the old bar- 
baric method of bringing people together by providing 
them with food and stimulants, rather suggest that, in 
the future, the one animal function we still perform in 
public eating and drinking may cease to be the pivot 
of sociability, and that when we wish to see a friend, old 
or new, we shall some day write : ' Come and have a chat 
with me ' instead of ' Come and dine, or lunch, or have a 
cup of tea ' ? 

The accusation that dietists talk too much about their 
food is perfectly true, and must be guarded against ; at 
the same time, I am all for people talking about the sub- 



HEALTH 21 

jects that particularly interest them at the moment, for 
' out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh,' and 
the tendency of conversation at many dinner-tables, even 
when stimulated by meat and wine, often does not rise 
above the level of sport, scandal, or games. A few years 
ago it was bicycles, now it is motors that often absorb a 
whole evening. 

The breaking up of uniformity in food may be the 
initial stage of transition to a higher civilisation, luxury 
in social entertainment, both in food and drink, having 
governed the world too long. Just think what it means 
as showing the change that has come over the world, that 
a conquering general on his return home should think it 
desirable to write such an appeal to his countrymen as 
Lord Eoberts' letters to the press on ' treating ' soldiers. 
He wrote two letters, the second emphasising the first ; 
and so much did I honour him for such action, and so 
important did I feel it to be to spread the knowledge of his 
wishes in every possible way, that, together with some 
of my neighbours, I had large posters printed and 
circulated in the village, giving the full text of the letter, 
and headed in red ink : ' Eeturn of our soldiers from South 
Africa.' I take the liberty of including the letter here, 
' lest we forget ' : 

' Sir, Will you kindly allow me, through the medium 
of your paper, to make an appeal to my countrymen and 
women upon a subject I have very much at heart, and 
which has been occupying my thoughts for some time ? 

' All classes in the United Kingdom have shown such a 
keen interest in the army serving in South Africa, and 
have been so munificent in their efforts to supply every 
need of that army, that I feel sure they must be eagerly 
looking forward to its return, and to giving our brave 
soldiers and sailors the hearty welcome they so well 
deserve when they get back to their native land. 



22 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

'It is about the character of this welcome, and the 
effects it may have on the reputations of the troops whom 
I have been so proud to command, that I am anxious, 
and that I venture to express an opinion. My sincere 
hope is that the welcome may not take the form of 
" treating " the men to stimulants in public-houses or in 
the streets, and thus lead them into excesses which must 
tend to degrade those whom the nation delights to honour, 
and to lower the " soldiers of the Queen " in the eyes of 
the world that world which has watched with undis- 
guised admiration the grand work they have performed 
for their Sovereign and their country. From the very 
kindness of their hearts, their innate politeness, and their 
gratitude for the welcome accorded them, it will be 
difficult for the men to refuse what is offered to them by 
their too generous friends. 

' I therefore beg earnestly that the British public will 
refrain from tempting my gallant comrades, but will 
rather aid them to uphold the splendid reputation they 
have won for the imperial army. I am very proud that I 
am able to record, with the most absolute truth, that the 
conduct of this army from first to last has been exemplary. 
Not one single case of serious crime has been brought to 
my notice indeed, nothing that deserves the name of 
crime. There has been no necessity for appeals or orders 
to the men to behave properly. I have trusted implicitly 
to their own soldierly feelings and good sense, and I have 
not trusted in vain. They bore themselves like heroes on 
the battlefield, and like gentlemen on all other occasions. 
Most malicious falsehoods were spread abroad by the 
authorities in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal as 
to the brutality of Great Britain's soldiers, and as to the 
manner in which the women and children might expect to 
be treated. We found on first entering towns and villages, 
doors ^closed and shops shut up, while only English-born 



HEALTH 23 

people were to be seen in the streets. But very shortly 
all this was changed. Doors were left open, shutters 
were taken down, and people of all nationalities moved 
freely about in the full assurance that they had nothing 
to fear from " the man in khaki," no matter how battered 
and war-stained his appearance. This testimony will, I 
feel sure, be very gratifying to the people of Great Britain, 
and of that Greater Britain whose sons have shared to 
the fullest extent in the suffering as well as the glory of 
the war, and who have helped so materially to bring it to 
a successful close. 

1 1 know how keen my fellow-subjects will be to show 
their appreciation of the upright and honourable bearing, 
as well as the gallantry of our sailors and soldiers, and I 
would entreat them, in return for all these grand men 
have done for them, to abstain from any action that might 
bring the smallest discredit upon those who have so 
worthily upheld the credit of their country. 

' I am induced to make this appeal from having read, 
with great regret, that when our troops were leaving 
England, and passing through the streets of London, their 
injudicious friends pressed liquor upon them, and shoved 
bottles of spirits into their hands and pockets a mode of 
" speeding the parting " friend which resulted in some 
very distressing and discreditable scenes. I fervently 
hope there may be no such scenes to mar the brightness 
of the welcome home. 

' I remain, Sir, yours faithfully, 

'ROBERTS, F.M.' 

HEALTH BOOKS 

4 Uric Acid as a Factor in the Causation of Disease,' 
a contribution to the pathology of high blood-pressure, 
headache, epilepsy, mental depression, paroxysmal haemo- 



24 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

globinuria, and anaemia, Bright's disease, diabetes, gout, 
rheumatism, and other disorders, by Alexander Haig, 
M.A., M.D. Oxon., F.R.C.P., Physician to the Metro- 
politan Hospital, and the Royal Hospital for Children 
and Women; late Casualty Physician to St. Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital. Fifth edition, with seventy-five illustra- 
tions. (Churchill, London.) 

In spite of having mentioned this book before, I must 
re-name it here at the head of these health books, as the 
more I understand the subject, the more I am convinced 
that it is one of the most important books on medical 
science that have ever been given by a doctor to the public. 

I am told that it is much disputed here in England, 
though how it is scientifically disproved I am not able to 
judge. It has been translated into German, and, with 
their usual broadmindedness in matters of science, German 
doctors and scientists are taking a deep and practical 
interest in Dr. Haig's researches, and are even coming 
over here to consult him ; whereas in England I was 
lately told by a medical man of high standing and large 
practice, that ' Dr. Haig stood alone in his opinions, which 
were not shared by a single member of his profession.' 
Anyone who knows even as much of the matter as I do, 
knows this to be quite untrue. How far Dr. Haig's book 
has been seriously considered and answered in his own 
country I am not in a position to decide, but I do know 
that I have the names of over a score of doctors who are 
working on his lines. 1 

The book is a big one and costs 14s., a sum which 
may be deterrent to many in these non-bookbuying days. 
It is hard reading, highly technical, and almost impossible 
for a lay-mind to read straight through ; but as a book of 

1 Leaflets of instruction in the best ways of beginning the diet 
are given by Dr. Haig to his patients, and are to be got by writing 
for them to A. Haig, Esq., M.D., 7 Brook Street, W. 



HEALTH 25 

reference it is singularly clear and instructive, the index 
being so good that any subject can be readily looked 
up. 

' Diet and Food in Eelation to Strength and Power of 
Endurance.' Haig. Fourth edition. Seven illustrations. 

This book, costing only 2s., has been prepared by Dr. 
Haig for the general public in order to make plain and 
easy the A B C of his theory, so that the many sufferers 
from the diseases he has specially investigated may begin 
their studies and have an opportunity of being able in 
time to judge for themselves. 

I must again repeat that all hope of real improvement 
in the standard of health must come through the intel- 
ligent experience of the public teaching the doctors. 

Even those who already possess the earlier editions of 
this book I strongly recommend to get this latest one, as 
it contains valuable additional pages on bread foods i.e., 
not only good home-made unadulterated loaves and bis- 
cuits, but all the many kinds and combinations of cereal 
products, such as wheat, barley, oats, maize, rice. There 
is also an interesting page of dental illustration, which 
ought to end the old controversy as to man being car- 
nivorous or omnivorous. 

One of the most interesting converts to the diet is 
Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A., the well-known tennis champion 
and Cambridge coach, who has frankly given to the 
public his personal experience in ' Muscle, Brain, and 
Diet/ a book which contains most useful general instruc- 
tion about food and health, together with some excellent 
cookery receipts for the simpler diet one of which I 
include in my list of cooking receipts, it being in my 
opinion much too good to be missed. Two other useful 
volumes for the student of food as the basis of health, 
are Mr. Miles' ' Failures of Vegetarianism,' which is far 
more helpful than all the successes I have ever read of, 



26 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

because it warns beginners of the errors they are almost 
sure to fall into if unguided : and ' Better Food for Boys,' 
a little Is. number of Messrs. Bell & Sons' ' Life and Light' 
Series, which brings the subject poignantly home to 
parents, guardians, and schoolmasters, and by providing 
a table of food values enables everyone, girls and adults, 
as well as boys, to calculate the right quantity and kind 
of food necessary for health though nothing but personal 
trial and careful observation and patience will teach each 
individual the best food for his or her particular constitu- 
tion and way of life. 

' Avenues to Health.' This last of Mr. Miles' books on 
this subject is, perhaps, the most important of all, for it is 
brim full of generally interesting information culled from 
ail kinds of sources, old and new, Western and Oriental, 
as to the best means to attain and maintain the highest 
physical and psychical health. 

My friend, Miss Adela Curtis, writes me the following 
notice of three useful pamphlets : 

' When first we opened our bookshop, we got a 
quantity of little penny books on diet from Mr. Albert 
Broadbent, of Manchester, and experimented by putting 
one or two in the window, and about the shop casually 
among the other books. It may interest you, as much as 
it amused us, to learn that these little things were picked 
up, looked into, and bought by all classes of people, 
whenever we happened to bring them forward. One of 
these, " Forty Vegetarian Dinners," of which 20,000 have 
been sold, contains an interesting introduction by the 
Hon. Mrs. F. J. Bruce, whose testimony as the mother of 
a large and healthy family, and the head of a household 
numbering some twenty-two members, is exceptionally 
valuable, seeing that she has nothing but praise for the 
system after sixteen years' practice. 

' Another of these dainty pennyworths, now^ in its 



HEALTH 27 

seventeenth thousand, is called " Science in the Daily 
Meal," and gives carefully proportioned dietaries for six- 
teen days, as well as helpful advice for curing common 
ailments, and many remarkable extracts on the evils of 
modern diet from the works of Professor Atwater, the 
great American chemist, Dr. R. Williams of the Middlesex 
Cancer Hospital, Drs. Haig, Bouchard, Boix, Virchow, 
and Kellogg. This little book has lately been enlarged 
to a 3d. edition in paper and 6d. in cloth. 

1 "Fruits, Nuts, and Vegetables : their Uses as Food 
and Medicine," a new 3d. edition of a booklet which has 
gone to its forty-fourth thousand, is an admirable com- 
pilation, adapting the quaint and half-forgotten lore of 
many herbals to the needs of modern life/ 

A friend sent me the other day Dr. B. H. Dewey's 
book, ' A New Era for Women : Health without Drugs.' 
This book seems to have considerable attraction for many 
people, but I should say it was rather addressed to those 
who take drugs, or who over-eat, as his great panacea for 
health seems to be leaving off breakfast a remedy much 
more necessary in America, where they have ten dishes at 
that meal. He preaches a great deal what we are all be- 
ginning to know and even to believe that Nature is a 
wonder worker. His system of no-breakfast is based on the 
fact that sleep never makes anyone hungry, the gnawing 
sensation in the morning which people mistake for hunger 
being caused by the indigestion of the previous night's 
dinner or supper. Food will certainly stop this pain, but 
only at the expense of further digestive trouble, and hot 
water would be the best treatment of this spurious hunger, 
as it would cleanse the stomach of its unwholesome con- 
dition and help it to regain a normal and healthy desire 
for food. Most people relieve it by biscuits and milk in 
the night. Of course, there is such a thing as healthy 
hunger in the morning for those who have well digested 



28 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

their dinner the night before, and who have done several 
hours' work before breakfast. 

1 The Perfect Way in Diet.' A book which for its size 
contains a greater wealth of scientific information than 
almost any I know on the subject, is ' The Perfect Way 
in Diet,' by Mrs. Anna Kingsford, M.D. It is a transla- 
tion of her ' These pour le Doctorat ' presented at the 
Faculte de Medicine of Paris on taking her degree in 
1880, and is just one of those good things which the 
public is apt to lose sight of in the rush of new books. 
The treatise opens with a clear and able condensation of 
anatomical and physiological evidence for man's frugi- 
vorous habit, culminating in the following passage : ' If 
we have consecrated to this sketch of comparative anatomy 
and physiology a paragraph which may seem a little 
wearisome in detail, it is because it appears necessary to 
combat certain erroneous impressions affecting the struc- 
ture of man which obtain credence, not only in the vulgar 
world, but even among otherwise instructed persons.' 
How many times, for instance, have we not heard people 
speak with all the authority of conviction about the 
' canine teeth ' and ' simple stomach ' of man, as certain 
evidence of his natural adaptation for a flesh diet ! At 
least we have demonstrated one fact : that if such argu- 
ments are valid, they apply with even greater force to the 
anthropoid apes whose ' canine ' teeth are much longer 
and more powerful than those of man and the scientists 
must make haste therefore to announce a rectification of 
their present division of the animal kingdom in order to 
class with the carnivora and their proximate species all 
those animals which now make up the order of primates. 
And yet with the solitary exception of man, there is not 
one of these last which does not in a natural condition 
absolutely refuse to feed on flesh ! M. Pouchet, in his 
' Plurality de la Kace Humaine,' observes that all the 



HEALTH 29 

details of the digestive apparatus in man, as well as his 
dentition, constitute ' so many proofs of his frugivorous 
origin ' an opinion shared by Professor Owen, who re- 
marks that the anthropoids and all the quadrumana derive 
their alimentation from fruits, grains, and other succulent 
and nutritive vegetable substances, and that the strict 
analogy which exists between the structure of these 
animals and that of man clearly demonstrates his frugi- 
vorous nature. This is also the view taken by Cuvier in 
' Le Regne Animal,' Professor Lawrence in ' Lectures on 
Physiology,' Charles Bell in ' Diseases of the Teeth,' 
Linnaeus, Gassendi, Flourens, and a great number of 
other eminent writers. The last-named scientist gives 
expression to his views after the following manner : * Man 
is neither carnivorous nor herbivorous. He has neither 
the teeth of the cud-chewers, nor their four stomachs, nor 
their intestines. If we consider these organs in man, we 
must conclude him to be by nature and origin frugivorous, 
as is the ape. It may possibly be objected that since, 
according to natural structure and propensities, man is a 
fruit and seed eater, he ought not to partake of those 
leguminous plants and roots which belong rather to the 
dietary of the herb-eaters, whose organisation we have 
shown to differ in so many details from that of man. It 
may be urged that trouble is wasted in proving to what 
order man belongs by nature, since with him, alone of all 
animals, Art has superseded Nature, and has enabled him 
by means of fire, condiments, and disguise, to eat and 
digest without disgust, and even with relish, the food of 
the tiger, the wolf, and the hyena. Such objections are 
not without an air of reason; and I shall meet them 
first by the frank statement that the most excellent and 
proper aliments of which our race can make use consist 
of tree-fruits and seeds, and not of the plants themselves, 
whether foliage or roots.' 



3 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Just lately a book has come to my hand which I think 
will be of the greatest use to those who are staggered by 
Dr. Haig's scientific language. It is called ' Medical 
Essays,' by T. E. Allinson, physician and surgeon, but note, 
as he does on his title-page, that he is * Ex ' L.E.C.P., &c. 
This book, in 1901, had reached its twenty-ninth thousand, 
a sale as cheering as it is enormous, showing as it does 
how its teaching must have permeated all classes. It is 
in fact a popular mixture of very short articles on health, 
food, ailments, management of children, and general in- 
structions for right living, and makes the whole subject 
of physical well-being so plain and straightforward, that 
I think no head of a young family should be without it. 
So many are deterred from trying moderation and abste- 
miousness by the severity of Dr. Haig's measures, that it 
might help them greatly to read Dr. Allinson's explanations, 
and begin by trying his less strict form of diet. I should 
certainly have bought his largest book (price 10s. 6d) if I 
had known of it. As it was, I got Book F. at 6s. Gd., 
which is naturally less complete. 

Dr. Allinson's main principle seems to be that the 
greater proportion of disease is brought about by our own 
ignorance. I know well that in my youth when I ate a 
large breakfast, which always made me feel uncomfortable, 
I did it with the sincere belief that I was adding to my 
strength and working power during the day, whereas it 
often took me an hour and a half to get over the first 
effects of the meal, especially in winter. Dr. Allinson 
states in his preface that what he writes is also ' the be- 
ginning, I hope, of a school of healing that will take the 
place of allopathy and homoeopathy.' I feel sure that while 
medicines are still taken, strict dieting is much impeded 
in its benefits. Till all drugs are left off, few can judge 
of what they want in the way of food. 

' A Treatise on the Tonic System of treating Affections of 



HEALTH 31 

the Stomach and Brain.' By Henry Searle, Surgeon, Ken- 
nington Common. Published by Richard & John Taylor. 
London. 1843. 

Amidst the rush of modern medical books, it is not 
otherwise than sobering and extremely interesting to take 
up an old book, and see what doctors believed and what 
they taught sixty years ago. It is one of the most 
beautiful articles of the creed of the profession, that no 
knowledge they obtain, no invention they make must ever 
be kept secret, but always openly given both to fellow- 
members and to the public. This is a noble idea, and 
often constitutes the great difference between a doctor 
and what is called a ' quack,' for the latter is apt to keep 
his discoveries to himself in order to make money out of 
them. 

There are many notable things in this old book, and 
the stuffing and tonic system we were all brought up on 
is well argued ; but I mention it chiefly for its strong con- 
demnation of tea and coffee so early as 1843. The 
increase of tea-drinking in all classes is astonishing. Mr. 
Searle says, ' Previously to the introduction of tea into this 
Kingdom, disorders of the stomach were by no means so 
prevalent as they have been since. Tea in the evening is 
found particularly refreshing, and is therefore considered 
an indispensable article of diet ; but the refreshing 
effects of tea are not always unalloyed, most unpleasant 
symptoms of indigestion being sometimes experienced im- 
mediately after taking it. As tea-drinking is a univer- 
sally established practice, it would be vain to recommend 
its discontinuance ; but it may be strongly urged that tea 
should be taken in small quantities, and of moderate 
strength, and that those who are troubled with indiges- 
tion should combine with it a large proportion of milk.' 
Only so did this timid doctor in the early Victorian 
period venture to advise the public. In my lifetime tea 



32 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

has been entirely discontinued after dinner. Twenty 
years ago I can remember how the tray used to come in 
after dinner, and be almost universally refused ; and is it 
not quite possible that the same fate may be in store for 
the 5 o'clock custom when once the young realise how 
bad it is for themselves and their children after them ? 
Alas, the same economic danger stares one in the face as 
with meat, beer, or spirits : hundreds would be ruined in 
India and Ceylon if the drinking of tea were appreciably 
to decrease, but I confess I have no sympathy with those 
who make money by the adulteration of food, or by the 
sale of beer, spirits, tea, opium, quack drugs, or anything 
else that brings ruin and misery through bad health to 
millions of human beings. 

Other books that I should like to recommend to 
students of health are Hutchinson's ' Dietetics,' Parke's 
' Practical Hygiene,' Dr. Fernie's ' Herbal Simples ' (5s.), 
Dr. Kellogg's ' Science in the Kitchen ' (12s. 6d.), and 
' The Stomach/ Mr. A. W. Duncan's ' Chemistry of Food,' 
and ' Foods and their Comparative Values,' Dr. Lehmann's 
' Kational Hygiene,' Dr. Poore's ' Eural Hygiene,' Dr. 
Dewey's ' True Science of Living,' Smith's ' Fruits and 
Farinacea,' Huxley's ' Elements of Physiology.' 

These and many other books, English and American, 
on health, education, &c., are kept in stock, as a rule, by 
Curtis & Davison, 4 High Street, Kensington. 

Having given the public this list of books, which, I 
believe, will help the introduction of a new and a better 
era, I cannot resist the pleasure of speaking of a French 
classic, ' La Physiologic du Gout, de Brillat-Savarin,' re- 
published in 1879 by the Librairie des Bibliophiles with 
Eaux-fortes par Ad. Lalauze. 

My own old edition was of 1841. Most people know 
his famous aphorism, ' Dis-moi ce que tu manges, et je te 
dirai ce que tu es.' This book by the friend of the Reca- 



HEALTH 33 

miers has all the charm of the best eighteenth-century 
French literature. 

It is perhaps unkind, but I should be more than human 
if I withstood the temptation to quote here what he says 
about the doctors in his day, in his chapter called ' Des 
Gourmands ' : ' Des causes d'une autre nature, quoique 
non moins puissantes, agissent sur les m^decins : ils sont 
gourmands par seduction, et il faudrait qu'ils fussent de 
bronze pour resister a la force des choses. 

' Les chers docteurs soiit d'autant nrieux accueillis que 
la sante, qui est sous leur patronage, est le plus precieux 
de tous les biens ; aussi sont-ils enfants gate's dans toute 
la force du terme. 

' Toujours impatiemment attendus, ils sont accueillis 
avec empressement. C'est une jolie malade qui les 
engage ; c'est une jeune personne qui les caresse ; c'est 
un pere, c'est un mari, qui leur recommandent ce qu'ils 
ont de plus cher. L'esperance les tourne par la droite, 
la reconnaissance par la gauche ; on les embecque comme 
des pigeons ; ils se laissent faire, et en six mois 1'habitude 
est prise, ils sont gourmands sans retour.' 

In the editor's note to the 1879 edition he has a sen- 
tence which I think may form a motto very applicable to 
the eaters of the simpler foods compared with those who, 
up to now, have met to consume fish, flesh, and fowl. I 
claim that in the future the simpler foods may be as dainty 
and attractive as those recommended by Savarin, and that 
the contrast between the meals of the future and of the 
present will be as great as between the French cooking 
and the Eoman : ' Et d'ailleurs, il ne faut pas s'y tromper, 
la cuisine est veritablement un art, art tout moderne, art 
tout fran^ais, et qui trouve en France son chantre le plus 
autorise. Les grands repas des Eomains n'e*taient qu'un 
brutal amas de plats gigantesques, ou les mets et les 
ingredients de toutes sortes se trouvaient confondus dans 

D 



34 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

des sauces dont la seule analyse nous souleve aujourd'hui 
le coeur. La description du plus beau festin de Lucullus 
ne peut rien inspirer d'analogue a la douce emotion qu'on 
ressent en lisant le recit du simple et succulent dejeuner 
du cure", si onctueusement racont6 dans le paragraphe des 
" Varies " qui a pour titre " L'Omelette au thon." ' 

I would recommend all those interested in the instruc- 
tion of the young to get ' A Short Account of the Human 
Body,' by Owen Lancaster, lecturer to the Natural Health 
Society, published by Allman & Son, 67 New Oxford 
Street, W.C., price 2s. 6d. It contains a coloured picture 
of a manikin with the skin removed, and folds that lift up 
and show the position of the internal organs. This 
diagram is exciting and interesting, and would inspire the 
young with a kind of reverential feeling for their internal 
machinery, of which they know so little, and which they 
treat so often with great unfairness. It has long been 
said a man is a fool or a doctor at forty. I fear, then, I 
know many fools, especially among women, who more 
frequently starve themselves and overwork than men 
do. What I want is that all, even the quite young, 
should respect their bodies, and believe that health also 
means beauty and strength ; that all should know the 
difference between health, or what we are intended to be, 
and that continual, uncertain, ailing condition so common 
with young, middle-aged, and old, and to which people 
actually think it a virtue to submit. How few, even 
among nurses, know that if anyone is struck down by any 
kind of accident, the first thing to do, as with a man 
wounded in full health, is immensely to reduce nourish- 
ment and quantity of food ! I have several times known 
more injury to come from overfeeding when all exercise 
is stopped than from an accident itself. Wherever there 
is a weak or injured part, there the mischief will settle, 
especially where the constitution is gouty or rheumatic ; 



HEALTH 35 

and this, as should always be remembered, is the case 
with seventy-five out of every hundred persons. 

'Water: How it Kills its Thousands.' This is a 
pamphlet issued by the Salutaris Company, which is well 
worth reading, if only for the caution against hard water 
as a drink for the gouty and rheumatic. Those who 
cannot afford habitually to buy Salutaris Water may like 
to know that it is easy enough to have distilled water at 
home by getting one of the stills supplied by the Gem 
Supply Co., 6 Bishop's Court, Chancery Lane, E.G. 

Would it not be better if, instead of expressing the 
heartiness of our rejoicings by giving enormous teas and 
dinners to the poor, which often make them ill or un- 
comfortable for days after, we were to give them wholesome 
food to carry away to their homes, which they would often 
spin out to last a week, and which would help the sick and 
healthy alike and cost the givers no more ? 

After the * Health ' chapter, the subject in both my 
former books that roused most opposition and yet most 
interest was what I said about girls their training, rela- 
tion to their mother, &c. In fact, I have several times 
been asked to give more of my advice. I never have any 
' views,' except as the outcome of my own experiences, and 
all my dear nieces, real and adopted, have now grown 
into women and are bringing up their own children. 

Opinions on education grow quickly, and as the subject 
is of perennial interest to me in a general way, I can only 
mention a book or two which may be found useful and 
have come to my knowledge, almost by chance, in the last 
few years. All that is newest, most enlightening, and 
most stirring seems now to come from America, and I can 
recommend strongly to all a book, full of concentrated 
instruction and valuable suggestions, called ' An Ideal 
School, or Looking Forward,' by Preston Search, United 
States Superintendent of Schools, one of the 5s. ' Inter- 



36 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

national ' Series, published by Arnold. An English book, 
lately published with an idea of awakening more general 
interest in the subject, is 'Education and Empire/ by 
R. B. Haldane. 

But to mothers, when education is over, I can only 
repeat what I have said before that when all has been 
said and done with reference to education, human nature 
remains the same, and the really important thing for 
mothers. to do is to try to know their own children. 
They may exhaust themselves in efforts to make their 
daughters sweet, attractive, graceful, and marriageable, 
but unless they realise that no young people, any more 
than the rest of us, can live up to an ideal, the end is 
often artificiality and deceit in the children, and bitter 
disappointment to the parents. 

It seems so easy, in theory, for parents to know their 
children; but, in fact, nothing is more difficult. There 
are two courses open to every mother of young children, 
say, to the age of fifteen. One is, to hold up in practice 
and precept a high ideal, and persistently encourage the 
children always to act up to this standard, so impressing 
its importance on them that they come to feel it a proof of 
their personal affection for her to try to come up to it, at 
least, in her presence, even to the extent of acting a part 
to please her. This way, though often satisfactory in 
childhood, generally ends, so far as my experience goes, 
in disaster to character, for in insensibly forcing them to 
appear to be something they are not, it actually helps to 
train them in habits of deception and lying. 

The other course is to make up one's mind to the 
probability of naughtiness, selfishness, want of good 
manners, or any other undesirable but natural expression 
of themselves in fact, to live in what is called the ' Palace 
of Truth,' trying to discover the plan Nature has outlined 
for them, and helping them to fulfil it by natural growth 



HEALTH 37 

rather than forcing them, however gently and skil- 
fully, into some mould of our own choosing. This way 
brings a good deal of mortification to the mother and 
condemnation of her training from her friends; but I 
firmly believe that this method turns out in the end the 
truest and best human beings, and if the mother's own 
example, supported by the father's, has meanwhile 
declared and upheld her ideal of what her children should 
be, they will probably realise it in later life. 

I am always being told that everything is now very 
different from my day, but I still maintain, as I said in 
my former book, that all those differences are superficial. 
It is but the outward fashions that change. Only three 
years ago was published one of the most charming books 
of imagination that has appeared for a very long time 
' A Digit of the Moon : A Hindoo Love Story.' A great 
many people were disappointed at finding out that it was 
original and not a translation ; but to my mind it only 
adds greatly to its charm and interest that an Englishman 
living in India should have been able in these days to 
write such a book. It is perhaps too well known to justify 
a long quotation from it here. All the same, life is so 
full that many miss what they would like to see, and this 
description of man's notion of how woman was made 
seems to me a literary gem : 

' One day, as they rested at noon beneath the thick 
shade of a Kadamba tree, the King gazed for a long time 
at the portrait of his mistress. And suddenly he broke 
silence and said, " Kasakosha, this is a woman. Now, a 
woman is the one thing about which I know nothing. 
Tell me, what is the nature of woman ? " Then Easak6sha 
smiled, and said, " King, you should certainly keep this 
question to ask the Princess, for it is a hard question. A 
very terrible creature indeed is a woman, and one formed of 
strange elements. Apropos, I will tell you a story. Listen ! 



38 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

'"In the beginning, when Twashtri came to the 
creation of woman he found that he had exhausted his 
materials in the making of man, and that no solid elements 
were left. In this dilemma, after profound meditation, 
he did as follows. He took the rotundity of the moon, 
and the curves of creepers, and the clinging of tendrils, 
and the trembling of grass, and the slenderness of the 
reed, and the bloom of flowers, and the lightness of leaves, 
and the tapering of the elephant's trunk, and the gh 
of deer, and the clustering of rows of bees, and the joyous 
gaiety of sunbeams, and the weeping of clouds, and the 
fickleness of the winds, and the timidity of the hare, and 
the vanity of the peacock, and the softness of the parrot's 
bosom, and the hardness of adamant, and the sweetness 
of honey, and the cruelty of the tiger, and the warm glow 
of fire, and the coldness of snow, and the chattering of 
jays, and the cooing of the Kolila (the Indian cuckoo), 
and the hypocrisy of the crane, and the fidelity of the 
chakriwaka; and compounding all these together he 
made woman and gave her to man. But after one week 
man came to him and said, ' Lord, this creature that you 
have given me makes my life miserable. She chatters 
incessantly, and teases me beyond endurance, never 
leaving me alone ; and she requires incessant attention, 
and takes all my time up, and cries about nothing, 
and is always idle; and so I have come to give her 
back again, as I cannot live with her.' So Twashtri 
said, ' Very well,' and he took her back. Then after 
another week man came again to him and said, ' Lord, 
I find that my life is very lonely since I gave you back 
that creature. I remember how she used to dance 
and sing to me, and look at me out of the corner of 
her eye, and play with me, and cling to me ; and her 
laughter was music, and she was beautiful to look at 
and soft to touch ; so give her back to me again/ So 



HEALTH 39 

Twachtri said, 'Very weB,' and gave her bock again. 
Then, after only three days, man came bade to him again 



come to the cocchisum that she is more of a, trouble than 
a pleasure to me, so please take her hack again/ But 
Twashtrisaid,'Oii*onyou! Beoff! I wffl have no more 
of this. You most managp how you can.' Then man 
Mid; 'Bat I cannot fire with her/ And Twashtri re- 
plied, 'Neither could you fire without her/ And he 
turned his back on man and went on with his work. 
Then man said, 'What is to be done, for I cannot five 
either with or without her ?* - 

And Basakosha ceased and looked at the King. But 
the King remained silent, gazing intentty at 
of the Princess.' 



40 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 

Imaginary conversation between two doctors Advertisements versus 
Dr. Haig Eemedies for depression on beginning diet The old 
need not fear change of diet Tea-drinking and the Chinese 
The Bible and meat-eatingPythagoreans and the bean ' Better 
Food for Boys ' and the schoolmaster Difficulties of the diet 
Fat and thin women Mediaeval and Greek idea Individual 
cases Maeterlinck's testimony. 

HAVING done my best in the last chapter to tell about 
myself, I think it may be of some interest to those who 
are trying to help themselves, and who have, probably, 
those they love best and all the world against them, that 
I should now give some account of my personal observa- 
tion of others, and the details of a few cases that have 
come more particularly under my notice, these having 
been kind enough to send me their individual experience. 
Some are patients of Dr. Haig, others have been induced 
to try the diet from reading Mr. Miles' book, or from 
seeing the conspicuous benefit I have derived from the 
diet. 

For a long time I thought Dr. Haig was the only 
medical practitioner of the kind, but the last six months 
have convinced me of my error, and now it seems to me 
that the idea of wrong food being a great cause of disease, 
is quite in the air and widespread. But it cannot be too 
often repeated, that the work of Dr. Haig and his col- 
leagues is not primarily a specific cure of disease, but a 
scientific research into food, their aim being to establish a 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 4I 

high standard of health on a simple and sound foundation 
of right diet. Being a doctor, however, Dr. Haig's 
experience must necessarily lie among the diseased, or, at 
least, the non -healthy, and this gives his system of diet a 
most severe trial. I must honestly say that, in all the 
cases that have come to me, there has never been one 
healthy person ; all have been suffering more or less from 
headaches, dyspepsia, anaemia, gout, rheumatism, weak- 
ness, &c., in spite of belonging to a class that has every 
chance of high feeding in the ordinary way, though many 
of them, from non-assimilation, have been as underfed as 
the unscientific vegetarians. I confess I am still puzzled 
by the apparently good results of the cramming system, 
which has been so generally adopted for nervous diseases 
by the medical profession, and of which Drs. Playfair and 
Weir-Mitchell are the renowned exponents. The benefit 
is, I believe, only temporary, and the over-stimulation of 
cramming on meat and wine is so dangerous for nervous 
temperaments that many cases of death and madness 
might be written down as ' victims of the medical pro- 
fession/ The high-feeding cure for tuberculosis has given 
this system such an immense fashion, that in Germany 
it is recommended as a preventive measure as well as 
a cure, it being well known that the weakly form the 
best soil for the germs of the disease. I know a German 
mother who sent her only and very delicate son of sixteen, 
reduced by overwork and examinations, to Nordrach, the 
consumptive cure place, to face the possible infection, 
that he might be fed on a system which she could not 
induce him to follow at home. The result was so satis- 
factory that he was willing to go back there for his 
summer holiday in the following year. The lesson to me 
from this, is not that the Nordrach meat diet is best for 
the purpose, this being attained with greater ultimate ad- 
vantage upon the Haig diet (see * Diet and Food,' p. 108), 



42 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but that a person can be made to eat food enough by 
the help of a mental effort, or by the moral influence 
of some other human being, such as a doctor, friend, or 
nurse. The immediate results of the stuffing system tend 
immensely to support Dr. Haig's theories, as represented 
in the following imaginary conversation, written for me 
by a doctor : 

' K. If you take only small quantities of food, you 
may continue some meat, and even tea and coffee, with 
but little harm. 

1 H. I grant this to a certain extent, and I know that 
a little uric acid is better than a great deal ; but I can 
show that it always does harm to take any uric acid, and, 
personally, I never swallow a grain of it, if I have power 
to leave it out. 

' K. Well, it does not seem to harm me ; I am much 
better than I used to be, and I am old and yet feel well. 

' H. Let us get to facts ; will you tell me, for instance, 
what your old diet used to be and what your present 
diet is ? 

' K. My ordinary diet might have been 1,200 grains of 
albumen per day. I then formed 12 grains of uric acid 
per day, and I introduced some 8 grains more in flesh 
and tea. I thus had to deal with 20 grains of uric acid 
a day, and with this I suffered badly from headaches. 
My present diet is about 800 grains of albumen, and I 
form 8 grains of uric acid, and introduce in the small 
quantities of flesh and tea I take some 8 or 4 grains more. 
I thus have to deal with some 11 to 12 grains of uric 
acid a day, and have no headaches. 

' H. No doubt this is a gain ; but what about your 
nutrition, and circulation ? 

' K. I lead a quiet life, and get up late ; but I am able 
to walk for several miles every day, and do a good deal 
of reading and writing. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 43 

1 H. But your blood colour is nowhere near the proper 
standard, and your circulation in skin and all organs is 
slow, so that their nutrition is feeble. Now I know a 
man who is at present in his eightieth year, and who 
would do in one hour all the exercise you take in a day 
(Mr. C. J. Harris, often mentioned in the " Vegetarian " ) ; 
his ordinary day's work is thirty to forty miles on his tri- 
cycle, and he not infrequently rides fifty to sixty miles, 
and on several occasions has done a hundred in the 
twenty-four hours. His blood colour is good, his circula- 
tion is good, he is in every way strong and well nourished ; 
and the reason is simple, for he takes, each day, his 
physiological allowance of albumens, quite free from 
uric acid, while you only take two-thirds of your physio- 
logical allowance (800 in place of 1,200), and you further 
hinder your circulation, and injure your blood colour, by 
swallowing uric acid, which he does not. 

' K. I do not wish to do as much as Mr. Harris, I am 
content with my life as it is. 

1 H. But you only live one-half the life that Mr. Harris 
does, and produce only one-half of the effect in the world ; 
if you are content with half a life, when a whole one is 
open to you, well and good ; that is your affair ; but you 
will not persuade me that the half is equal to the whole.' 

The following is a doctor's note on the Mr. Harris 
referred to in the conversation : ' I may say that I have 
been watching Mr. Harris carefully for some years, that 
he always takes a physiological allowance of albumens, 
and produces a physiological amount of urea (which I 
have repeatedly estimated). There is no doubt where his 
strength and power come from ; and he gets his albumens 
chiefly from bread, nuts, and fruit, with very little milk or 
cheese, and at times none of these last. On K.'s diet such 
work as Mr. Harris does is impossible.' 

Time after time I have heard of various people, and 



44 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

even doctors, trying the diet and giving it up after a few 
weeks or months, finding they could not do their work on 
the non-stimulating food. My family are then much 
surprised that this does not bring home to my mind a 
sense of failure. All it does do, is to convince me that very 
little is yet known of the right mixtures of food ; that there 
is, in most cases, a more or less severe reaction to be 
reckoned with from the accumulated uric acid rushing 
into the blood on the withdrawal of the meat-tea-and-wine 
diet, and that good results can rarely be expected, except 
with the young and healthy, under eighteen months to 
two years time. The change is too radical and permanent 
to be effected hurriedly. 

The hoarding of uric acid in the system seems to me 
to be Dr. Haig's great scientific discovery, and the one 
most disputed by other medical men. His work proves 
conclusively to me that all benefit from German waters, 
alkaline treatment, &c., is only a temporary palliative, 
necessitating constant return, with danger of severe 
relapse in the end. I have known cases of extreme illness, 
and even death, from missing a course of Carlsbad waters 
for one season. The advertisements that explain health 
questions so clearly to the public every morning and even- 
ing in the newspapers are all based upon the old theory, 
that it is possible to clear the whole system of uric acid by 
alkaline drugs and mineral waters. If the advertisements 
are right, Dr. Haig's theories are all wrong. The first thing 
that put him on the scent of error in the old accepted 
idea, was that none of the usual remedies bring away any 
uric acid, though, of course, they clear it from the blood, 
and, therefore, give the well-described sense of relief to 
the patient. This made him ask, ' Where does it go ? ' 
He now declares, after years of examination, that it is 
deposited on the soft tissues, the internal organs, the brain, 
the muscles, nerves, bone- joints, &c., waiting either to set 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 45 

up disease in them under the action of any favourable 
external circumstance, or again to enter the blood stream 
and cause distress as soon as rising alkalinity will dissolve 
it. He maintains, in his books, that the sole real cure is 
to stop the introduction of foods containing uric acid, or 
its equivalent, xanthin, and replace them by a diet which 
he considers suitable and natural for man. 

It is undeniable that, with most people, a few months 
of the diet causes great depression and weakness, which, 
for those who cannot take rest from work, is sometimes so 
serious a matter, that it means giving up the diet or the 
work. Great relief would be found in these cases if they 
took, in summer, 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of cold water and hot water added 
till the mixture is of the warmth of a cup of tea, or, in 
winter, a 5-grain dose of salicylate of soda. Neither of 
these remedies being a tonic, but rather a depressant, it is 
obvious that the relief experienced must be due to the 
effect they have in clearing the blood of the uric acid 
which has been brought into it from the tissues on its way 
out of the body. They must be kept in reserve for times 
when rest is impossible, and so enable the patient to con- 
tinue the diet which is to bring about ultimate cure. The 
same effect can be produced, by a temporary lapse back 
to the old uric-acid diet, which is an immense triumph to 
the enemies of the system, though perfectly intelligible to 
any student of Dr. Haig's theory. He himself has taken 
the trouble to publish leaflets expressly recommending a 
very gradual change of diet in order to avoid any severe 
degree of this depression and apparent exhaustion. 

Dr. Haig, Dr. Allinson, and Mr. Miles all seem to 
think that uric-acid diseases, such as gout and rheu- 
matism, headache, neuralgia, anaemia, epilepsy, would 
cease to exist if their diet were adopted. For as much 
as it is worth, my own personal experience and my 



46 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

observation of others under various doctors and treat- 
ments absolutely corroborate their views. Doctors are 
still very much divided in their opinion as to meat being 
bad for gout and rheumatism, and very many of them tell 
gouty and rheumatic patients to eat plenty of meat and 
not much sugar, farinaceous, or carbohydrate substances ; 
so it is not their opinion that uric acid is increased in the 
system by flesh foods. These very doctors, however, 
always prescribe the medicines which, as Dr. Haig shows, 
clear the blood of uric acid but throw it back upon the 
tissues. Of late years, in severe cases of eczema and 
shingles, their great salvation seems to be the much-dis- 
carded remedy of mercury (calomel). Only the future can 
prove how far the few are right and the many wrong in this 
matter. In all probability diet will take centuries to have 
a fair trial, for the changes it would involve in every 
department of our modern life are almost unthinkable. 
I am most anxious that anyone who is at all interested 
in anything I have to say, not only as regards the im- 
provement of his own health but the benefit to the 
whole human race, should remember that the subject is 
one which demands at least a year of close and careful 
study, that it is in no sense like the German waters, or 
Salisbury cure, or any other diet prescribed for illness, a 
temporary affair with the hope of returning cheerfully to 
luxurious living ; it is a road on which may be written 
what Dante wrote over the entrance to Hell : ' Lasciate 
ogni speranza voi che entrate.' There is absolutely no 
return without greater injury from the increased sensi- 
tiveness of the body and the quicker realisation of what 
is injurious food, but I do deny that the road leads to 
Hell ; I should like to add that, even when adopted late 
in life, it leads to the Paradise of Health. I am also the 
last to deny that, however strong this belief may be, it 
does include self-denial even to the old ; for, when people 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 47 

are no longer young, habit has become second nature, 
and with people all round you eating what you have 
always been accustomed to, it does require a certain 
amount of strength of mind to refuse all the dishes that a 
few years ago you would have gladly eaten as the most 
wholesome food. It has taken me nine years of ex- 
perience to find out how injurious the most simple food 
of the flesh-eater, such as the invalid diet of boiled fish 
and chicken, really is. 

A great many elderly people say to me, ' I am too old 
to change ' ; only civility prevents me from saying to their 
face, ' I think you are quite wrong : it is never too late to 
mend. Many of the symptoms you suffer from would 
be immensely lessened if you did change.' As regards 
benefit, a great deal, of course, must depend on how much 
actual disease is already set up in the system, and in the 
case of old people it is even more important than with 
the middle-aged to avoid the crisis described above as 
depression and weakness. On the other hand, it should be 
remembered that at no other time of life is it so dangerous 
to overfeed and so little injurious to underfeed as in old 
age. I believe the time is not far distant when it may be 
discovered that the great cause of cancer is meat and salt, 
as leprosy is supposed to originate in eating salt fish in 
large quantities. 

There are no doubt a few people whose healthy faces 
shine and beam when they tell you they can eat every- 
thing. They are seldom really ill, they have beautiful 
teeth and complexions, strong bright healthy hair, and 
their nerves are not overstrung. But I think everyone 
will admit that these people, in all classes, are distinctly 
rare in civilised Europe in this year of our Lord 1902. 
Also, if you question them closely, you will generally find 
that they take mineral waters, aperients, pain-killers, 
and various other drugs, and are frequently affected by 



48 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

changes of temperature, fatigue, missing a meal, east 
wind, &c. 

Many people quote the Bible in favour of flesh foods, 
saying, 'If meat had been very injurious, one would 
expect to find some warning words advising people not to 
eat it.' According to this line of argument, vegetarians 
have been hardly used at finding no warning against the 
deadly nightshade of our damp meadows, or the poisonous 
berries of the potato which cost Sir W. Ealeigh some 
pangs when he ate them by mistake on first discovering 
the plant. 

In a letter I have received this morning from Dr. 
Haig in answer to things I had told him, I having been 
depressed at the little progress made by what I consider 
the new enlightenment, he says : ' I have now no doubt 
that the cause will succeed, and that success cannot be 
too great or come too soon, for there are to-day millions 
and millions of people who are suffering, dying, or be- 
coming insane simply from ignorance.' I believe this 
opinion of Dr. Haig's will gain ground, and that twenty 
years will make an enormous difference in the under- 
standing of everyone on the subject of food. Nowadays, 
if we see a man drunk, we are half angry and half sorry, 
but we do not require telling that he has taken too much 
alcohol to bring him to the state we see him in. I 
believe that, in course of time, the same knowledge will 
be ours with regard to right and wrong feeding and its 
obvious results. 

I am fond of distributing Dr. Haig's leaflet, which 
explains most clearly that the xanthin of certain vegetable 
substances peas, beans, lentils, mushrooms, asparagus, 
tea, coffee, cocoa is the equivalent poison to uric acid in 
fish and flesh. Apropos of this latest discovery in the 
chemistry of food, I was amused to come across the 
following the other day in that very popular book of Mr. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 49 

Marion Crawford, ' The Eulers of the South ' : ' Hallam 
says somewhere that mankind has generally required 
some ceremonial follies to keep alive the wholesome spirit 
of association. It is hard to say now how many of the 
curious rules of life adopted by the Pythagorean brother- 
hood should be traced to this motive, and many of these 
contain more wisdom than appears in them at first sight. 
The brethren abstained from eating flesh, as most mystics 
have done, but they were as careful never to eat beans.' 
So many of our most modern inventions were known to 
the ancients that I feel the reason for the Pythagorean 
rule ' abstain from the bean ' is quite as likely to have 
been due to a knowledge of its harmful properties in 
dietetics as to a dread of that life of political intrigue 
which was symbolised by the bean used by the Greeks in 
balloting. 

An amusing instance came to me lately of how little 
these leaflets are understood even by intelligent and 
educated people, when a father wrote to me as follows : 
' A cowardly thought arose in my mind of submitting the 
leaflet to a friend of mine who is obliged by circumstances 
to devote much attention to his inside, but unhappily in 
an unguarded moment I remarked to Mrs. G., in the 
presence of the most intelligent of our cats, "I am 
surprised that you should provide so much fish for the 
household, when you know Mrs. Earle's leaflet says that 
fish positively reeks with xanthin." I don't know how 
the leaflet which riots in that particular subject of organic 
chemistry came to be torn into little bits, but for me it 
disposes of the subject altogether, which is too abstruse 
for the man in the street, and needs an expert to confirm 
or deny. " Xanthin " may be as real as " microbes," but 
is equally invisible, and I have my doubts about the whole 
lot of scientific conclusions based upon these insects or 
fish or whatever they are.' So carelessly had the leaflet 



5 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

been read that my correspondent can talk of the xanthin 
in fish ! 

A curious case of the effects of the harm the Salisbury 
cure has brought about in unintelligent hands was told 
me the other day by a friend. His mother-in-law lost 
her teeth, and her gums were too tender to admit of 
artificial aid. She therefore took pulped meat, often three 
pounds a day, and strong soups. Between the age of 
fifty and sixty she became very ill, and a great London 
specialist was sent for. After seeing her he took the son- 
in-law aside and said, * All her symptoms point to a secret 
store of alcohol. Are you quite certain this is not the 
case ? ' Both the son-in-law and the servants were quite 
certain that she had nothing of the kind. She did not 
even take wine. But it is interesting to note that the 
stimulating meat-juices had produced the same symptoms 
as drink, accompanied by great exhilaration and depression. 
At sixty she died of starvation, with no organic disease 
at all. 

The question often asked me, and which moves me 
most, is what I recommend for the feeding of children. 
There is no doubt that the strongest argument which can 
be used against drunkenness and debauchery is the heredi- 
tary effect it has on children. Doctors now say that the 
children of confirmed smokers are far sooner injured by 
smoking themselves than the children of very moderate 
or non-smokers. It seems to me that this may be an 
explanation of the younger generation of the present day 
being so much more quickly and harmfully affected by 
tea than we were. Both coffee and tea have got much 
cheaper, and their use has been immensely promoted by 
the preaching of the teetotallers. Clergymen's wives, 
nurses, and all classes of over-worked women and men 
of the conscientious type, who would repudiate the help 
given to them by a glass of beer, habitually stimulate and 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 51 

injure their nerves by excessive tea-drinking. I think 
there is no doubt that Indian and Ceylon tea are more 
injurious than even the poor quality Chinese which is 
sold in England to-day. This may be an additional 
explanation of the increased nervous disease among the 
poor, who love the rank flavour of the cheap Indian teas, 
and stew them long to extract all the goodness. Let people 
who doubt this try leaving off tea for a few months, and 
then see how it affects them on taking to it again. One 
of the strongest arguments for tea-drinking is that the 
Chinese have drunk it for centuries and remain what they 
are. I sat at dinner the other evening, next an English- 
man who had lived many years in China. I soon began 
to question him as to how far he thought the tea-drinking 
in China had been injurious to the natives. He said that, 
so far as he had ever been able to ascertain, he thought 
that it was absolutely harmless, but this probably from 
the way they made it. A small pinch of sun-dried leaves 
just as much as they could take up between the finger 
and thumb was put into a small cup, boiling water 
poured on it, the cup covered up with its saucer for a 
minute or two, and the infusion drunk when it had cooled. 
It was then scarcely more than hot water with a slight 
flavour of tea. Besides the harmlessness of this mixture, 
no doubt the Chinese are better able to take tea through 
never having reduced their strength and created compli- 
cated diseases by centuries of excessive meat-eating and 
alcohol. For poison from the European way of tea- 
drinking, as from excessive smoking or drinking of alcohol, 
is supposed to be hereditary and is consequently more 
quickly injurious in the second or third generation. If 
this is so, surely the consideration and study of the effects 
that food has on the body is in no sense a ridiculous or 
degrading subject. So many people say, 'It is so un- 
worthy always to be talking or thinking about food or 

E2 



52 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

health.' Their one wish is laughingly to put it aside and 
shift the responsibility of their own and their children's 
health on to the shoulders of the doctors, not even taking 
the trouble to learn what the modern advertisements try 
to teach them, viz. which foods are digested in the upper 
stomach and which in the lower, or that constipation is 
the commonest proof of indigestion. 

This question of the diet for children seems to me to 
be full of difficulty, and I should say cannot be under- 
taken without the consent of the father. This he is not 
the least likely to give unless he has studied the subject 
enough to wish to adopt it for himself as well as for his 
children. The first object of ambition to an intelligent 
boy or girl is to try to imitate father, and if he con- 
stantly throws brickbats at dieting the case is hopeless. 
I am sure in a few years the great school difficulty will be 
much lessened, and that if a boy is anxious to continue his 
regular home food, there will in time be a house for non- 
stimulating diet at Eton. One of the keenest vegetarians 
I know succeeded in converting her daughter who was 
out of health, but had no effect on her son-in-law or her 
grandchildren. Where father and mother are agreed, I 
think the experiment of bringing up children as vegetarians 
may fairly be tried, though probably even those parents 
hardly realise the difficulties before them. A great deal 
will depend on how they can train their children mentally. 
In any case, in the present state of things, the parents 
can hardly ever go away from home together for any 
length of time, or to a distance which prevents their quick 
return, as the children ought not to be left to the sole 
care of even the best of nurses. She cannot be expected 
not to send for a doctor the moment anything goes wrong, 
and he in turn would, from want of practice among 
vegetarians, fail to understand the sensitiveness of the 
children. The nurse would have no weight in explaining 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 53 

to him the wishes of the parents ; whereas if the parents 
were present probably the doctor would not interfere with 
the diet. The plain truth is that it all resolves itself into 
a question of character and knowledge in the parents. 
When a doctor finds that he has to deal with men and 
women who have taken the pains to acquaint themselves 
with the elements of physiology and the chemistry of 
food, his tone is very different from the one he uses, 
naturally enough, to the young and ignorant mother who 
appeals to him to make her sick child well, as if he 
worked by miracle, and who submits to be told by him 
that if she brings up her children on a non-meat diet she 
is ' a very wicked woman.' 

My object in repeating these things so often is that 
radical changes in diet can only be brought about by the 
public, and children are not likely to take to what their 
parents and elders do not practise ; though if the parents 
are iion-meat-eaters the consequences of home example 
may act powerfully in this, as in other matters, when they 
grow to man's and woman's estate. One case, at least, I 
know where the diet has been successfully carried through 
school and college and joining a regiment, where the 
young man was looked upon as rather a curiosity, but was 
left unmolested. 

I am always supposed to be proselytising, and last 
year I sent to an old friend, a middle-aged schoolmaster, 
Mr. Miles' 'Better Food for Boys.' He says in reply: 
' I have read and thought over Miles' book. It seems to 
me that the question is mainly a medical one.' This 
sentence epitomises what so many think and feel, and 
when I say, 'But apparently the medical profession 
refuse to give the matter serious thought and experiment,' 
this closes all discussion, and I am looked upon as a pre- 
judiced idiot. This I try to bear with the philosophic 
calm of a non-meat-eater. He writes further : ' To a lay- 



54 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

man there is much in what Miles says, and for a large 
number of adults for any adult, in fact, who leads a 
sedentary life, I believe his system is beneficial. I am 
following it myself in moderation that is to say, I have 
knocked off meat meals and substituted Plasmon for them, 
and already dread the idea of sitting down to a big dinner. 
But if the practice becomes general, what a blow it will 
be to the social side of life ! You can't seriously sit down 
to rice and stewed fruit with half a dozen friends.' 

My friend's despair about the social side being reduced 
to stewed prunes and rice is very much as if he invited 
his friends to cold shoulder of mutton and potatoes. For 
festive occasions endless combinations and much luxury, 
attractive to all the senses, could be made. Even for the 
severest stage of diet the fruitarian if a housekeeper 
spends half what she does on fish, game, poultry, &c., 
for a dinner-party, she might have the most gorgeous and 
attractive display of the best fruits to be had in any 
market, and a cook once trained to the food would produce 
endless dainty varieties of cakes, biscuits, nut-creams, and 
rolls. These people who think that the social side of life 
must suffer with the disappearance of meat from our tables 
seem to forget that cereals, fruits, and wine'are the foods 
which the highest imagination of man has always thought 
the most fit for the feasts of the Gods, a detail eagerly 
seized upon by Burne-Jones for representation in his 
famous picture on that subject. 

To go back to my letter : my friend says, ' I cannot 
persuade myself that the health of boys suffers from a 
meat diet. They do not, as a rule, overload the stomach 
and take strenuous exercise. Of course, it may fairly be 
said that if you bring boys up on meat they will be less 
likely to take to the simpler foods later on. But there are 
great difficulties in the way. Miles' diet cannot be made 
compulsory, and at a big school two systems cannot well 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 55 

be worked, but I think schoolmasters might do much good 
by example and by preaching. That is the line I follow. 
The question which the author raises in his opening 
chapter is of the utmost importance, but there, again, only 
a doctor is qualified to give an opinion. Is sensuality 
less developed in gramnivorous animals than in the car- 
nivorous ? I doubt it. Plasmon is becoming popular 
with doctors. I am convinced that any baddish rheumatic 
or gouty tendencies would be the better for it.' I should 
like to say to this last sentence that this attitude towards 
Plasmon of thinking it a ' cure ' for rheumatism and gout 
is as dangerous as it is prevalent. In itself this valuable 
preparation is no cure ; it is a highly-concentrated proteid 
food, which enables people to leave off the alcohol, and 
the uric-acid-forming foods they have been used to. The 
allusion to animals seems to me rather wide of the mark. 
All Nature, even in flowers as described in the botanical 
language which I have known to shock prudish mothers, 
is apparently wasteful ; but, as I understand it, the word 
sensuality implies a moral conception i.e. the antithesis 
of self-control, and this is a province with which Nature 
in the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms has 
nothing whatever to do. What I suppose my friend really 
means to ask is, whether sex vigour is less in gramnivorous 
animals than in carnivorous ? Had he thought for a 
moment, it would probably have come to his mind that 
the bull and the goat are almost proverbially used in art 
and literature to express this vigour rather than the lion 
and tiger. In Mr. Miles' books there are frequent allusions 
to the point, which is always puzzling schoolmasters, 
as to how to increase physical strength with moral self- 
control. Schoolmasters solve the difficulty by incessant 
games, to the detriment of learning. Mr. Miles' solution 
is non-stimulating food and drink. 

I was pleased to see that my friend sympathised with 



56 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

me about the facility of carrying out the diet in old age, 
and the benefit of teaching by example. 

One advantage of taking to a diet of simpler food late 
in life is that it lessens to a great degree the family and 
social opposition, which from the kindest of reasons is 
almost universal. Abstinence in old age is looked upon 
as rather a virtue by the young, but when practised by 
their own contemporaries they consider it as a sign of 
eccentricity, affectation, love of notoriety, or extreme bad 
health. This being so, I find that diet looms as an 
insuperable obstacle with the young. Their experience 
being nil, their knowledge is weak ; the diet is often badly 
managed, the worry is great, and unless the improvement 
in health is rapid, as in several cases I have known it to 
be, they lose heart and prefer bad health under a doctor 
to trying to cure themselves against the approval of rela- 
tions and friends. No one but an actual invalid, for 
instance, can stand having to change the hours of meals 
instituted by our modern civilisation. Unless we are 
actually ill enough to give in, we must live according to 
the divisions of the day which suit the occupations of 
the various members of our family. These change with 
passing fashions, and, for aught we know, our grand- 
children may dine at Queen Anne's hour, which was 
5 P.M. 

To a bachelor athlete like Mr. Miles, or a curate in the 
wilds of the country, it seems no hardship, and there is 
no pulling of the heartstrings in living on Plasmon and 
fruit ; but think of the young wife whose tired husband 
comes home at 7 P.M. after making, or trying to make, 
money for her, and finds that she has had her meal of dry 
bread and nuts and fruit at 6 P.M., and, however affection- 
ately disposed, can only sit and watch him drink his hot 
soup and eat his daintily-cooked chicken, winding up with 
iced fruit and cream. The situation is really harrowing, 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 57 

and yet Dr. Haig says one of the best divisions of meals 
for dyspeptics is 11 and 6. These used to be the French 
hours for everybody, but that custom is now so entirely 
changed that when we come across it in hotels our home 
habits cause us to think the division tiresome and in- 
convenient. Many husbands might submit to this in their 
own homes ; but a still greater difficulty and irritation 
arises when the couple go from Saturday to Monday to 
friends in the country, where the tables groan with 
luxuries of every kind, and the wife finds it difficult to eat 
anything, for she has not the courage to ask for milk and 
cheese, and, the bread being uneatable from newness and 
baking-powder, she has to wait till the end of dinner for 
fruit, and suddenly realises, when she is at last eating her 
grapes, that the mistress of the house is dying to leave 
the table. I remember well years ago a vegetarian of 
some distinction who used to dine at our house, and 
invariably emptied the dessert-dish that happened to be in 
front of him, whatever it contained. It used, then, to 
cause me considerable suppressed irritation, but we change 
so that he has now all my sympathy, and I often long to 
do it myself. Even with the help of summer vegetables, 
such as peas and beans, which are dangerous food to those 
with weak digestions, the young wife has been absolutely 
starved, and feels it all the more as, being an amateur 
vegetarian, she will probably, in nine cases out of ten, be 
underfed and have no reserves to fall back upon in emer- 
gency. Even if she has read Dr. Haig's leaflets, or Mr. 
Miles' lists of food values, she will most likely have done 
so without the real comprehension which would enable 
her to apply the facts to her individual case. She 
might be able to get more bulk of food at an ordinary 
table, but is perhaps prevented from taking it by the 
haunting fear of getting fat, which I find among nearly all 
young people of the present day. Obesity is, of course, 



58 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

disease, and I believe is more easily cured by the diet than 
in any other way, for when I began it I lost two stone 
in six months ; but plumpness, especially for women, is 
natural and healthy, and the vanity of wishing to be thin, 
which has been so encouraged by the Pre-Eaphaelite 
School of Art with its unhealthy ideal of beauty, still 
holds its sway and accounts for much nervous disease 
among women. It is undeniable that the serpentine 
clothes of the present day look best on a thin peg, but on 
the whole there is no doubt in my mind that health comes 
before everything, and for a girl or woman whom Nature 
means to be fat, to diet herself thin, no matter by what 
means, is an exceedingly dangerous process which may 
cause many sufferings and complications, and even end in 
disease, and is quite as foolish as the efforts of the frog to 
swell itself to the size of an ox. At the same time, when 
I am told as I often am ' I should so like to take to 
your delightful diet of vegetables, only it would make me 
grow so fat,' by people who take butter and cream two or 
three times a day, in addition to a rich ordinary diet, I 
cannot help being amused, knowing how easily Dr. Haig's 
diet can be regulated for fat people. 

The old mediaeval theory of disregard of the body is 
still so strongly ingrained in some of the noblest natures 
that they would far rather be ill now and then than have 
to think out habitually what is good for them and act up 
to it, or to believe when they are ill that it is their own 
fault rather than a visitation of Providence which they 
are to bear with resignation. They send for a doctor, 
pay him cheerfully, and hope for better days. This attitude 
of mind will change when people are trained from child- 
hood to understand that all sickness not caught from a germ 
is preventible, and that doing without food for a day, or 
even two, does far less harm to the healthy than eating 
wrong food. To be able to miss a meal without feeling 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 59 

the worse, is one of the surest tests of being in good 
health. There was a time in my life when I nearly cried 
with misery if I did not get my tea at 5 o'clock, and 
felt quite ill all the evening. We must have patience and 
some courage. Eevolutions are never effected in the 
bosom of peace and perfect concordance. 

When I was young I remember saying to a friend, 
' I wonder what the new religion will be when it comes ? ' 
She answered, ' Something set to Wagner's music.' This 
did not seem to me to strike the true note. She had been 
long in Germany and was devoted to Wagner and his 
genius. I was not musical, and did not at that time know 
much of Wagner, but from the little I did know I felt he 
did not strike the key-note of self-denial which in some 
form or other is the basis of all religion. It will be 
curious if the religion of the future should avoid the 
dangerous asceticism of the Middle Ages which denied 
the body, by going back to the earlier Greek idea which 
recognised it as deserving of all respect, and treated it as 
a precious instrument to be kept in the highest degree of 
efficiency and perfection : practising abstinence for the 
sake of health rather than as a direct means to moral 
excellence. 

In advocating the diet, one of the hardest things to 
combat, after the opposition of friends and inconvenience 
to social life, is a certain fondness of food and drink among 
those who consider that the one legitimate indulgence of 
life is to eat, if not drink, what one likes. I know several 
people who never deny that they are much the better for 
dieting, but who nearly burst with indignation when sitting 
at a table and seeing others eating all round them, because 
they cannot do the same. This naive and childlike side 
of the question was rather a revelation to me, as all my 
life I had avoided the tilings I thought not good for me, 
however tempting they were. I can't understand eating 



60 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that which you know does you harm. Modern vege- 
tarianism has enormously grown out of sentiment, but 
I think it is exceedingly advisable that people who take 
to the simpler foods for health's sake rather than for 
sentimental reasons, should at least adopt an attitude of 
mind which will give the system a fair trial unprejudiced 
by likes and dislikes, mental irritation being bad for 
digestion. 

A terrible idea has got about amongst my friends, and 
I might almost say patients, that if they take to the diet 
more or less strictly, they are not only to be quickly made 
quite well, but to remain so perpetually. Over-fatigue, 
change of weather, indigestion, &c., are supposed to have 
no effect at all on the non-meat-eater. Now I want 
everybody who undertakes the diet in consequence of 
ill health to understand that it cannot suddenly repair 
a debilitated state of the digestive organs. Most of our 
modern ailments are acknowledged to come from indi- 
gestion and non-assimilation. This goes on in many 
cases long after the excess of uric acid has ceased, and 
then the patients turn round on me and say, ' Why, after 
years of this self-denial and all the trouble that this 
peculiar feeding brings, am I to have this and that ail- 
ment? ' The probability is that they have frequently 
not digested their simpler food any better than they did 
their mixed foods ; they also do not get the enforced rest 
which attacks of illness, often lasting a week or more, 
imposed upon them. One can only assure them and 
this sounds a feeble comfort that they would have been 
much worse on the old diet, for I have never met a case 
which did not admit that any attacks of illness under the 
diet were very much milder than they formerly were. 

It is obviously unfair to judge of a diet which is the 
best for man in health by its effects on invalids. People 
with weak digestions have a difficult hill to get over in 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 61 

leaving off meat, as doubtless it is lighter of digestion 
than any other food containing the same amount of 
nourishment. But people seldom realise that what may 
be a gain to the digestion may be an injury to the blood, 
and will bring round in time the very troubles from 
which they temporarily escape. For those who are digest- 
ing so badly that they are underfed, which can easily be 
told by colour of gums, loss of weight, excitable nerves, 
&c., it is most important that they should test themselves 
by weighing from time to time say every three months. 
The nightmare of growing fat, alluded to before, makes 
many women believe they cannot take either milk or 
cheese. In these cases there must be a diet within the 
diet and a careful study of the proteid foods, which give 
nourishment without bulk. 

In cases of severe dyspepsia, Mellin's Food is invalu- 
able. Most people at the first difficulty say, ' The diet is 
not agreeing with me,' and go back to meat and cham- 
pagne, which does them immense good for a short time 
till the increased uric acid in their system brings back 
their original troubles. All the relations are delighted, 
the doctor in attendance is jubilant, and the vicious circle 
again begins. Their winter or spring illness is attributed 
to cold and east wind. 

I, from my experience, am quite convinced that in all 
cases of dyspepsia, rheumatism, gout, it is impossible to 
live up to anything like the full physiological allowance 
of proteid, especially in the case of women who do not 
work off the evil effect of non-assimilation by violent 
exercise as most men occasionally do. And here comes 
the great difficulty, viz. that each person has to find out 
for himself what amount of proteid he can assimilate, and 
in what form. Nobody else can know whether Nature 
is properly performing her functions, and digesting the 
food taken. Any necessity for a return to drugs, or 



62 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

violently irritating foods like cracked wheat, is a sign that 
even the simpler foods are not being properly digested. 

I have never come across anyone who has given the 
simpler foods a fair trial of several years, who found any 
permanent benefit in returning to a meat diet. Doctors, 
who judge by the immediate results, would not agree with 
this. Most doctors naturally take a pride and pleasure 
in seeing their patients return to them after a tentative 
course of the diet, and it is an equal humiliation when 
good health results and enables them to keep away. 
Perhaps the health of the community would be improved 
if we adopted the Chinese and pauper system of only 
paying the doctors during health and not illness. There 
is a considerable difficulty in the law of the land being 
entirely on the side of the doctors. The conversation at 
my breakfast table this morning would have made a more 
nervous woman's hair stand on end. Having an invalid 
patient of Dr. Haig's in the house under a strict diet of 
bread, almonds, and fruit, a member of the family said, 
' It is quite clear we shall have an inquest very shortly in 
this house. I see the coroner saying with great emphasis, 
" Are you sure that Mrs. Earle is in her right mind? " 
This arose from a discussion as to whether the patient 
was being starved to death, or poisoned by prussic acid, 
the real point in my mind being whether she was taking 
more proteid food than she was able to digest, although 
within her physiological allowance, or whether she was 
less well from being out too much in the damp. Damp 
certainly has a bad effect on a great many people's 
digestion. Driving and walking are to my mind much 
less harmful than the sitting about out of doors which is 
the invalid rule. 

The following statement of his own case was written 
out for me by a man-patient of Dr. Haig's : ' Present 
age 42. Occupation sedentary. Lives in London for ten 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 63 

months of the year. Medical history bad, both on pater- 
nal and maternal side. Paternal : gout for generations. 
Father suffered from it on and off all his life, and acutely 
during ten years in the eyes, necessitating surgical treat- 
ment by operation. Maternal: chronic dyspepsia and 
liver complaint. Mother's father died of latter at 34. 
The man himself up to the age of 34 lived very well and 
thought much about eating and drinking, but did not 
indulge in either excessively. Was a heavy cigarette 
smoker. Suffered during every epidemic of influenza. 
In 1894 had an attack of influenza, followed by acute 
intercostal neuralgia, which continued for one month, and 
ended in an attack of phlebitis in the left leg, which 
lasted seven months (of which six were passed in a com- 
pletely recumbent position, the patient being forbidden 
to move without professional assistance), involved the 
two soffena veins and the femoral vein, and culminated 
in thrombosis, which left the femoral vein blocked perma- 
nently for the length of five inches close to the groin. 
Attack very severe, the leg remaining considerably larger 
than normal size with much varicosity. This attack 
was followed at intervals during six years by four other 
attacks of intercostal neuralgia (so severe that the dread 
of recurrence completely shook naturally strong nerves), 
the treatment of which, by means of salicylate of soda 
(in 20 gr. powders often taken every hour for eight hours 
at a stretch), reduced the patient to a condition of abject 
weakness, requiring weeks of the strongest tonics before 
strength at all was recovered. Two of these four attacks 
were followed by phlebitis in the leg originally attacked, 
which, though less severe than on the first occasion, neces- 
sitated spells of months' duration in bed or on a sofa. In 
September 1899 the patient underwent treatment at Bag- 
noles de 1'Orne, in France, for the after effects of phlebitis. 
In November 1899 occurred an unusually severe attack of 



64 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

shingles on the right jaw and side of the neck and upon 
the back of the head under the hair. In January 1900 
phlebitis attacked the right leg, and the patient was 
warned by the leading French specialist on the subject, 
who is one of the doctors at Bagnoles, and came from 
Paris to see him, that he was in danger of constantly 
recurring attacks, which might well result in a chronic 
condition, and that elastic stockings must be worn on both 
legs from the toes to the knees, and never taken off except 
in bed. He pointed out that the treatment at Bagnoles 
was in many ways wonderfully efficacious in restoring 
elasticity to the tissue of veins, thickened and hardened 
through phlebitis, but procured no immunity from fresh 
attacks of that disease. Such immunity could only be 
obtained (if at all) by improving the condition of the 
blood, for which purpose he recommended a yearly visit 
to Carlsbad for the next twelve or fifteen years. The 
patient adopted Dr. Haig's system of diet on April 21, 
1900, and has continued it ever since. He has never had 
another attack of phlebitis or intercostal neuralgia, and 
was, in August 1901, authorised by the specialist in ques- 
tion to discontinue the use of elastic stockings altogether, 
even when taking strong exercise, such as walking or 
bicycling for long distances.' 

The following letter may appeal to those who have 
to practise the diet under the difficulties of travelling. 
I myself have not taken voyages in steamers of late 
years, but in travelling on the Continent I find that if you 
conciliate the hotel-keeper and make it clear to him that 
economy is not your object, by paying cheerfully for all 
you don't eat and nearly double for what you do, you will 
find him most accommodating. Italian food adapts itself 
much more easily to the taste of the vegetarian than the 
modern French, at any rate in the expensive Paris re- 
staurants ; but there is no doubt that the long table-d'hotes 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 65 

where you don't eat are even more trying than the long 
tables-d'hote where you do eat, and this must be just 
accepted as a trial which can only be avoided by taking 
lodgings. 

' July 28, 1902. 

1 As we have just come back from travelling, you may 
care to hear how we got on as to diet. We had foolishly 
taken only a small amount of concentrated food with us, 
and this very soon ran out. However, we were thus able 
to experiment on how far it is possible to live on the 
gleanings from 'board-ship table-d'hote. Practically every- 
thing is artificial adulterated milk and butter, frozen 
meat, frozen vegetables, frozen fruit. Formerly a goat or 
a cow used to travel on the ship, and I believe that is still 
the case on some of the very small obscure Continental 
lines. The bread is extremely poor, little white rolls that 
taste very acid, and are probably made of gypsum, boron, 
soda, in fact anything except wheat. The artificial milk 
is exceedingly nasty and unwholesome and could only 
possibly be taken in very small quantities with tea or 
coffee. The only drink that commends itself is hot water. 
The unboiled water is never supposed to be safe in the 
Mediterranean and mineral waters certainly have a very 
bad effect on people unaccustomed to them. It seems to 
me, however, that those who have a peculiar diet ought 
to expect all these drawbacks, and starvation is not very 
terrible for a short space of time. The thoroughly ob- 
jectionable thing is the immense length of the meals, 
they nearly always consist of nine or ten courses and 
take nearly two hours. Imagine munching dry bad bread 
for nearly two hours while carrying on a sort of pretence 
at eating some of the meat courses, all for the sake of a 
little fruit and cheese at the end, these last being the 
only courses that are hurried. The only time I got on 
well, as regards food, was when the weather was bad. 



66 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Then the waiter brought me the few items of the menu 
that I could eat at once and without " reasoning why." 
I wish that providing necessaries and not " luxuries " 
was the ideal of 'board- ship caterers, as the effort to pro- 
vide "luxuries" only produces a lot of highly sauced 
dishes one more uneatable and unwholesome than the 
other. There is yet another unpleasantness ; on some 
steamers the stores of food are all kept on ice, and when 
they are removed from the ice, decomposition sets in very 
rapidly, the result being that the dining saloon, besides 
its normal, fragrant smells, has a peculiar, drain-like at- 
mosphere. The Continental train services with restaurant 
cars have the same principles ; they never have fresh 
food, even though they may be travelling through the 
richest countries in the world, and constantly stopping. 
No doubt the reason for this kind of food being supplied 
is, that there is a demand for it. The class that lives 
most artificially is the class that travels most, and there- 
fore it becomes a matter of business necessity to supply 
the kind of food which is most constantly asked for. If 
we may be bold enough to give advice to other people 
who have the same diet as ourselves, it is that they should 
not travel at all, or that they should have a private 
yacht, or, if they have to travel in the ordinary way, that 
they should take a large supply of nourishing biscuits and 
a pouch like Jack the Giant-killer, into which they may 
slip everything, and thus keep up the appearance of 
having the eating capacity of the average traveller, and 
avoid the accusation made by hotel-keepers of undue 
economising.' 

The following case has been written out for me by 
the patient a young woman whom I have known for 
many years, and who has most bravely fought against long 
chronic bad health : 

1 Five years ago, in the winter of 1897, I began a diet 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 67 

of cereals, milk, cheese, nuts, fruits and vegetables, to 
the total exclusion of flesh foods, eggs, pulses, tea, coffee 
and cocoa. I was at that time suffering from anaemia, 
indigestion, neuralgia, and general weakness. My work 
was sedentary, and lasted from 9 A.M. till 7 P.M. For 
eleven months I stuck to the diet, appetite gradually 
getting so bad that, for the last few months, I used to live 
on the less solid foods, as milk, savoury vegetables, and 
the more tempting kinds of fruit, with very little bread, 
cheese, or nuts. At the end of the time I was so much 
worse that I went to Dr. Haig. He looked at the diary 
I had kept of my food and shook his head. He then 
examined me generally, and said I was " starved." After 
a few questions about the food I liked, he said, " Go out 
and get a mutton chop and a glass of Burgundy. Then 
go into the country for a rest, be out of doors all you can, 
take this tonic, and eat as much fish and meat as you 
like. The first thing to do is to get a healthy appetite 
then we will consider the diet. But eat anything rather 
than be underfed." I carried out these instructions and 
went back to him much improved a few weeks later. He 
then advised me to change very gradually, substituting 
cheese for meat at one meal only and after keeping to 
that for some weeks, to change another meal, and so by 
degrees to get on to the diet. This I tried, but failed 
again, and then gave up altogether for about a year. 
Then I began again, and for two years had a series 
of hopeful beginnings and dismal endings. My friends 
used to say, " But why change at all when the ordinary 
diet suits you ? " It certainly did seem to suit me for 
the first three or four weeks when I went back to it 
from a non-meat diet, but I had always to be taking 
medicines, and sooner orlater came the dyspepsia, with 
the consequent exhaustion that made life a burden. 
As I woke each morning I used to feel "Here's 

p2 



68 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

another day to drag myself through " and as I lay 
down at night I used to be so dead beat that I felt 
it would be a relief to sleep for good. The change to 
Haig's diet always brought, at first, a delightful sense 
of lightness and well-being a difference as between a 
well-oiled machine and one clogged with grit and dust 
but after a few weeks I used to get too weak to go on with 
my work, and had to give it up. At last, after rather a bad 
collapse, the friend with whom I worked bound me over 
to a meat-fish-wine, &c., diet for twelve consecutive 
months. When they were over, I started once more very 
cautiously on the uric -acid -free diet, making a careful 
study, meanwhile, of food values, mixtures and quantities, 
and for six months I succeeded beyond my hopes. Every- 
one noticed how much better I was in every way, and I 
found for the first time since childhood, that I could dis- 
pense with all kinds of medicine. Suddenly I caught a 
bad chill after weeks of excessive overwork, which re- 
sulted in mucus colitis with total collapse, and for two 
months I was in bed in charge of a nurse. The treatment 
was injections of carbolic alternately with boracic acid, 
and this played such havoc with an already enfeebled 
digestion, that I could take no sort of invalid food, except 
minute quantities of dissolved Plasmon, without hours 
of distress. At the end of three months' most careful 
nursing, my strength had so far improved that I was able 
to go into the country with a nurse, but the colitis being 
none the better for the treatment I had undergone, and 
the doctor who had attended me telling me that it might 
go on for three years, as it was a most difficult thing to 
cure, there being no drug that would touch it, I wrote 
to Dr. Haig and asked him to prescribe. He instantly 
stopped all injections and put me on salicylate of soda, 
and in three days the mucus had diminished. At the end 
of ten days it had entirely ceased, and I then went to 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 69 

stay with a friend of his who asked him to come down 
from London to see me. This he most kindly did, and 
the result of the interview was that he stopped the 
salicylate, which had done its work, and for the dyspepsia, 
which was still very bad, he prescribed a perfectly dry 
diet, of bread, pounded almonds, fruit, vegetable and 
cheese, telling me to replace the two latter by more fruit 
(fresh and dried) and almonds, as I found I could take 
them. This answered so well that digestion rapidly 
improved and, with it, strength. At the end of a month 
I could walk up steep hills on hot days, with pleasure, a 
thing I had never, at my best, been able to do before. The 
almonds, even when ground in a nut-mill and pounded 
by a careful cook, were, I found, liable to aggravate the 
intestinal inflammation, and as I did not digest cheese 
well enough to nourish satisfactorily upon it, I experi- 
mented upon the almonds till I got a substance as smooth 
as Devonshire cream, and of this I could soon take 
4 oz. a day with comfort. So many people find almonds 
a difficulty that it may be as well to say how this almond 
cream is prepared, for almonds are equal to their own 
weight of meat in nourishment, and for those who dislike 
cheese, they are far too valuable an item in the list of 
uric-acid-free foods to be cast aside. 

' Almond Cream. Blanch the almonds in boiling water 
and grind in a nut-mill. Put about a tablespoonful at a 
time into a mortar with a teaspoonful of cold water, and 
work with the pestle till as smooth as butter, no particle the 
size of a pin's head being left. Mix in a little more cold 
water till of the consistency of clotted cream, and scrape 
out on to a dish. It is better to have only a small quantity 
at once in the mortar, or the smoothness is not so uniform. 
The nut-mill should be taken to pieces (one easy screw 
undoes the whole) every day and well scalded, for 
almonds turn as sour as milk, especially after they have 



70 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

been wet. For this reason, the almond cream should be 
freshly made every day. For travellers who prefer 
almonds to cheese, but cannot venture to eat them whole, 
this form of cream is excellent for sandwiches. Children 
and invalids, too, can digest them in this way. When I 
had been three months on this diet, I caught another bad 
chill, which brought on a severe relapse of the gastro- 
intestinal inflammation, and again for two weeks I had to 
have a nurse and be kept in bed. For four days various 
invalid foods barley water, beaten white of egg, cham- 
pagne and soda-water, weak solution of Plasmon, &c. 
were tried in teaspoonfuls at the time, and all with 
equally distressing results. Finally a nutrient sup- 
pository was tried, which also proved a failure, and still 
further reduced my strength. Then, having convinced 
my nurse that the very things administered with the time- 
honoured idea of "keeping up my strength" not only 
failed to do this, but actually drained the little I had by 
causing sickness and pain, I insisted on a fast of twenty- 
four clear hours, to give the stomach a chance of righting 
itself. The thirst, which was intense, I relieved partly by 
holding a piece of ice in a bit of linen on the lips, and 
rinsing the mouth from time to time with bicarbonate of 
soda. Even a spoonful of hot or cold water instantly 
produced sickness, and there was nothing to be done but 
leave things alone and wait. At the end of twenty-four 
hours I took 20 grains bicarb, soda in half-a-pint of 
hot- water a teaspoonful every two minutes. After thirty 
hours I took, with comfort, 2 oz. Mellin's Food of the 
strength given to infants of four months, and this I 
repeated three times a day for two or three days, after 
which the quantity, though not the quality, was gradually 
increased the bicarb, being taken an hour before each 
meal of Mellin's Food. Dr. Haig again most kindly came 
down from London, and said the starvation treatment was 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 71 

the only one for the case there being no risk whatever 
in fasting for five days, so long as I had 10 Ibs. of flesh 
on my bones. His advice for future diet was to drop 
almonds entirely till all sign of weakness had disappeared 
in stomach and bowels, and to " feel my way " slowly on 
to a diet of bread, potatoes, milk, fresh curd cheese, fruit, 
with oil, cream, and butter ad lib. The bread to be stale, 
home-made, white (i.e. the wholemeal minus the bran), 
the potatoes to be steamed or baked in the skins to pre- 
serve the alkaline salts so valuable in all forms of gout 
and rheumatism (colitis being a kind of intestinal gout) ; 
the fruit to be ripe and uncooked, and always eaten with 
potatoes to prevent acid dyspepsia, and plenty of oil or 
butter to aid digestion. After being on this diet for -a 
month, I dropped everything but bread and fruit, and 
recovery became so much more rapid that I have kept to 
this permanently with Dr. Haig's full approval, and have 
already built up a reserve of strength such as at one time 
seemed impossible to all the doctors I consulted.' 

A young man I know has had eczema from his birth 
and, with every chance of consulting many physicians, 
no one had been able to cure it, eczema being one of the 
illnesses which, like leprosy, seem, on their own confes- 
sion, to baffle doctors, though many remedies make it 
apparently better for a time. After two and a half years of 
a form of the simpler foods which suited him, he seems, for 
the first time in his life, to be quite free from it. Having 
just heard of this cure, the following story in the papers 
(July 1902), of the tragedy in the home of an artisan 
(a marble-polisher) seemed to me peculiarly distressing. 
The mother had been very despondent because her two 
little boys were severely afflicted with eczema. She had 
taken them to several hospitals in vain, and at last, in 
despair, drowned them in a tub. ' It was God's curse ! ' 
she said to the police ; ' the neighbours used to call 



72 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

their children away from playing with them, and it 
broke my heart. I put them into a tub of water and put 
them into the bed. I did not know what I was doing.' A 
verdict of ' wilful murder ' was brought in against her. 
This probably means a lifetime in Broadmoor. I quote 
this humble tragedy because I feel that, of all disorders, 
skin disease is most obviously cured by diet. 

After writing these long, and perhaps boresome, 
chapters on the subject of health, it was with no small 
comfort that I found in Mr. Maeterlinck's latest book of 
essays, ' The Buried Temple,' in a chapter headed ' The 
Kingdom of Matter,' the following passage, which brought 
me that best of all consolations on a road that is unpopular 
and strange, namely, to feel ' Verily, I am not travelling 
alone ' : 

' We have said that man, in his relation to matter, is 
still in the experimental, groping, stage of his earliest 
days. He lacks even definite knowledge as to the kind of 
food best adapted for him, or the quantity of nourishment 
he requires ; he is still uncertain as to whether he be 
carnivorous or frugivorous. His intellect misleads his 
instinct. It was only yesterday that he learned that he 
had probably erred hitherto in the choice of his nourish- 
ment ; that he must reduce by two-thirds the quantity of 
nitrogen he absorbs, and largely increase the volume of 
hydrocarbons ; that a little fruit, or milk, a few vegetables, 
farinaceous substances now the mere accessory of the 
too plentiful repasts which he works so hard to provide, 
which are his chief object in life, the goal of his efforts, of 
his strenuous, incessant labour are amply sufficient to 
maintain the ardour of the finest and mightiest life. It is 
not my purpose here to discuss the question of vegetarian- 
ism, or to meet the objections that may be urged against 
it ; though it must be admitted that, of these objections, 
not one can withstand a loyal and scrupulous inquiry. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 73 

I, for my part, can affirm that those whom I have known 
to submit themselves to this regimen have found its result 
to be improved or restored health, marked addition of 
strength, and the acquisition by the mind of a clearness, 
brightness, well-being, such as might follow the release 
from some secular, loathsome, detestable dungeon. But 
we must not conclude these pages with an essay on 
alimentation, reasonable as such a proceeding might be. 
For, in truth, all our justice, morality, all our thoughts 
and feelings, derive from three or four primordial necessi- 
ties, whereof the principal one is food. The least modifica- 
tion of one of these necessities would entail a marked 
change in our moral existence. Were the belief one day 
to become general that man could dispense with animal 
food, there would ensue not only a great economic revolu- 
tion for a bullock, to produce one pound of meat, con- 
sumes more than a hundred of provender but a moral 
improvement as well. . . . For we find that the man who 
abandons the regimen of meat abandons alcohol also ; 
and to do this is to renounce most of the coarser and more 
degraded pleasures of life. And it is in the passionate 
craving for these pleasures, in their glamour, and the 
prejudice they create, that the most formidable obstacle is 
found to the harmonious development of the race. De- 
tachment therefrom creates noble leisure, a new order of 
desires, a wish for enjoyment that must of necessity be 
loftier than the gross satisfactions which have their origin 
in alcohol. But are days such as these in store for us 
these happier, purer hours ? The crime of alcohol is not 
alone that it destroys its faithful and poisons one-half of 
the race, but also that it exercises a profound, though 
indirect, influence upon those who recoil from it in dread. 
The idea of pleasure which it maintains in the crowd forces 
its way, by means of the crowd's irresistible action, into 
the life even of the elect, and lessens and perverts all 



74 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that concerns man's peace and repose, his expansiveness, 
gladness, and joy ; retarding, too, it may safely be said, 
the birth of the truer, profounder, ideal of happiness ; 
one that shall be simpler, more peaceful and grave, more 
spiritual and human. This ideal is evidently still very 
imaginary, and may seem of but little importance ; and 
infinite time must elapse, as in all other cases, before the 
certitude of those who are convinced that the race, so far, 
has erred in the choice of its aliment (assuming the truth 
of this statement to be borne out by experience), shall 
reach the confused masses, and bring them enlightenment 
and comfort. But may this not be the expedient Nature 
holds in reserve for the time when the struggle for life 
shall have become too hopelessly unbearable the struggle 
for life that to-day means the fight for meat and for 
alcohol, double source of injustice and waste whence all 
the others are fed, double symbol of a happiness and 
necessity whereof neither is human ? ' 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 75 

I owe most of my scientific instruction in the non- 
meat diet to Dr. Haig, but I was favoured by a leading 
vegetarian with the following list of medical men in 
different parts of England who agree with him, to the extent, 
at any rate, of recommending a non-flesh diet. I thought 
the list might be of some service to those of my readers 
interested in the health question : 

Dr. E. Edmund Deane, Wilmslow, Manchester. 

Dr. Pullar, 111 Denmark Hill, London, S.E. 

Dr. A. B. Mercer, Kinclune, Carlisle Koad, Eastbourne. 

Dr. Charles Eeinholdt, 16 Blagrave Street, Eeading. 

Dr. Charles White, Studley, Upper Parkstone, Dorset. 

Dr. W. H. Ackland (J.P.), Fairhaven, Compton Gifford, 
Plymouth. 

Dr. Mitchell, 21 Park Lane, Little Horton, Bradford, Yorks. 

Dr. D. Geo. Carmichael, 68 Kenmure Street, Pollockshields, 
Glasgow. 

Dr. Blacker, The Boltons, Farnborough, Hants. 

Dr. J. Shaw Lyttle, Dundela, Cilfynydd, Pontypridd. 

Dr. Thos. Mowat, Barns Place, Clydebank, Glasgow. 

Dr. Benham, Earl's Court Square, London, S.W. 

Dr. E. Howard, Curfew Cottage, Datchet. 

Dr. W. J. Fernie, 4 Pembroke Villas, The Green, Eich- 
mond, S.W. (Author of * Herbal Simples,' ' Kitchen Physic,' 
&c., fec.) 

Dr. Flint, Scarborough. 

Dr. Oldfield, Cam Brae, London Eoad, Bromley. 

Mrs. Fleetwood Taylor, M.D., c/o H. Phillips, Esq., 
16 Farringdon Street, E.G. 

Dr. George Black, Greta Bank, Chelston, Torquay. 

Dr. Hadwen, Brunswick Square, Gloucester. 

Dr. Helen Wilson, 381 Glossop Eoad, Sheffield. 

Dr. Arnold, Moss Lane East, Manchester. 

Dr. Genny, Lincoln. 

Dr. Walters, Stonehouse, Glos. 

Dr. Johnston, Ambleside. 

Dr. Crespi, Wimborne. 

Dr. Haig, 7 Brook Street, Hanover Square, London, W 



76 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



SUPPLEMENT 

Home started in Buckinghamshire, under Dr. Haig, for instruction 
and practice in uric-acid-free foods A second home in Hamp- 
shire for fleshless diet, recommended by Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A. 
Critical paper, by a patient of Dr. Haig Dr. Haig's answer to 



A FEW fresh facts having come to my knowledge since the 
former chapters were written, I am adding them here as 
a postscript because I think they will be useful to those 
who have read what I have said before. 

The news has just reached me that a grateful patient 
of Dr. Haig's has started a self-supporting home where 
invalids, and those interested in Dr. Haig's theories of 
diet, may reside under his personal supervision and teach- 
ing. Miss Florence Jessop, the secretary of the home 
Apsley House, Slough will give all the necessary informa- 
tion to those who write for it. The pamphlet, describing 
the objects of the home, opens with this sentence ; ' Life is 
not mere existence, but health and happiness. The object 
here is life in its fullest sense.' With Dr. Haig's 
characteristic eagerness to share his knowledge and experi- 
ence with all who care to learn, he has provided that 
doctors shall be taken in, free of charge, for Saturday to 
Monday visits, that they may get to understand about the 
place. This is only one more instance of what I have 
noticed ever since I have known him, viz. that he tries to 
teach everyone all he knows in the belief that, if only they 
understand his theory, they will be able to keep their own 



SUPPLEMENT 77 

health in order and greatly control the chances of disease. 
The terms of the home are from three to five guineas per 
week, which include all comforts, and Dr. Haig's attend- 
ance on his bi-weekly visits. Poor patients can place 
themselves in his care at the Metropolitan Hospital, or 
the Eoyal Hospital for Children and Women, at both of 
which he is a visiting physician. 

I was told that, after the publication of my second 
book, some people said, ' I wonder what Dr. Haig pays 
Mrs. Earle for puffing him in her books ? ' This deliciously 
characteristic question of the age amused me immensely. 
I wonder what these same people will say now? It 
seems a pity that there should be anyone who does not 
understand the difference between personal interest of 
any sort, and the impersonal interest in scientific work 
which promises to benefit the whole world, if those who 
believe in it help to make it known. 

Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A., is thoroughly recommending 
another home called Broadlands, at Medstead, Hants, 
and says that he may be used as a reference, as it is just 
the kind of establishment to which he alluded in a recent 
letter to the ' Daily Mail.' Particulars can be obtained 
from Miss Houston, the secretary. The terms are two 
guineas a-week, which at first sight appears cheaper than 
Apsley House, but as this charge does not include 
medical attendance and instruction, there is no great 
difference. 

It being my fixed idea that the food question rests 
with the intelligent public and not with the doctors, I 
asked a friend who for over two years has taken immense 
interest in the question both for himself and others, to be 
kind enough to put on paper his present attitude with 
regard to diet. My friend sent his critical paper to Dr. 
Haig, who has most kindly taken the trouble to write for 
me his explanation of the difficulties raised. 



78 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' 23rd October, 1902. You ask me to give you a resume 
of my present views on diet. I am still as firm a believer 
as ever in Dr. Haig's conclusions as to the part played 
by uric acid in causing disease, and in that authority's 
contention that it must, from any point of view, be de- 
sirable to avoid as far as possible all food which in itself 
contains uric acid, or one of the other acids producing 
analogous effects. On some points, however, I am in a 
critical frame of mind towards Dr. Haig's opinions, or 
rather what I believe to be his opinions, which conceivably 
may not be quite the same thing, seeing that I am only a 
humbls amateur follower of the expert to whom I owe so 
much. And, firstly, as to cheese and milk. Whether by 
reason of the casein or of the lactic acid, which both 
contain, it seems to me to be clear that a large number 
of people cannot digest these substances, at any rate not 
in the large quantities originally recommended by Dr. 
Haig ; and many of the cases treated by Dr. Cantani, the 
Neapolitan specialist, seem to prove that milk and cheese 
are the direct cause of gout in some constitutions. It 
may well be that these substances must, for such people, 
be placed in the same category as eggs, which, on Dr. 
Haig's own showing, contain no uric acid, and yet, 
according to him, produce the same effects as if they did. 
I am told that Dr. Haig has ceased ordering milk and 
cheese so freely as at one time he did ; if that be the fact, 
I am glad to hear it, for I incline strongly to the opinion 
that their habitual use by many people has been re- 
sponsible for many mishaps. Then, as to the amount of 
food which each person should cat in the twenty-four 
hours. I doubt the reliability of Dr. Haig's method of 
computation I mean, the method of multiplying the 
weight in pounds by nine, and treating the product as the 
number of grains of proteid which should be eaten per 
diem. Prima facie, I should have expected that people 



SUPPLEMENT 79 

would differ from each other in digestive idiosyncrasies 
quite as much as in other respects, and my experience up 
to the present time seems to me to show that the as- 
sumption is well founded. If this be true, a rule whereby 
the amount of food is ascertained for each person in an 
identical manner cannot be sound, because it takes no 
account of his or her individual peculiarities. Again, 
the circumstances and conditions of life frequently vary 
very much in the course of a few years ; at one time a 
man may work more physically than mentally, at another 
the reverse may be the case ; at one time he may be living 
in a hot climate or in a stuffy town, at another he may be 
living in a cold climate or in the country ; at one time he 
may be leading a life of constant worry and strain, at 
another he may be enjoying a tranquil existence. I do 
not believe that these changes are represented by sufficient, 
if by any, changes in the weight, so as to make it the 
proper, or even a possible, criterion ; while I do believe 
that these changes materially affect the digestive capacity. 
At any rate, in my own case and in that of my wife, we 
were not in a satisfactory state, when eating at the rate 
prescribed by Dr. Haig's method, during the first two 
years, whereas we began to improve from the moment 
that we began to eat considerably less. My proper 
amount, according to Dr. Haig, is about 1,500 grains of 
proteid, whereas I am eating at this moment, and for the 
last two months have been eating, under 1,200 grains. It 
may be that two months do not afford a sufficiently long 
test; but against that objection I set the fact that the 
experience of everyone whom I know (including your- 
self) tallies with mine of the last two months. The 
matter is all important if the true rule is that every 
particle of proteid taken during the twenty-four hours, 
which is in excess of what is actually required just to 
make up the loss occasioned by the energy, mental or 



8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

physical, expended during the twenty-four hours, or which, 
for any reason, the individual is unable to metabolise, 
acts as a direct poison. This is the rule laid down by 
Dr. Cantani, as I understand the matter, and I am con- 
vinced that it is the true rule, and that the disregard of 
it explains many of the failures of the diet, and still more 
the quasi-failures. A friend of yours and mine suggested 
to me on Sunday last a way of maintaining the reliability 
of the method of calculation laid down by Dr. Haig, and 
yet of admitting that it often gives unsatisfactory results 
in individual cases. This was to regard Dr. Haig's 
amounts as the proper ones for the normal person, but to 
hold that very few people who take to the diet are in a 
normal condition at the start, and take a longer or shorter 
time, and generally longer time, to become so, and that 
beginners should regard Dr. Haig's amounts as the goal 
towards which they should work, but should not expect 
to be able at first to eat in accordance with them. My 
reply is that the assumption that people are not in a 
normal condition at the beginning is almost certainly true, 
and that the suggestion may be as sound as it is ingenious, 
but that it does not represent Dr. Haig's view, as I 
understand it, and that, further, a method of calculating 
the proper amount of proteid which is not a reliable 
guide at the precise time when people most want such a 
guide namely, at the beginning, when they have no 
data of their own to go on can hardly be considered 
satisfactory. 

' I would further point out that the weight, to which Dr. 
Haig's method has to be applied, is the normal or proper 
weight, not the weight at any given moment, as indeed 
must be the case, for otherwise the fatter a person got the 
more he would be bound to eat, irrespective of all other 
consideration, and vice versa. Now everyone does not 
know his normal or proper weight, seeing that we have 



SUPPLEMENT 81 

not all been in the habit, from early youth, of being 
weighed at frequent intervals, and of taking a careful note 
of the result : we are therefore not in a position to strike 
an average, and so ascertain the normal weight. In such 
circumstances the only thing to be done is to take the 
weight according to the height, but Dr. Haig himself 
regards that method as by no means satisfactory. Again, 
all methods of computation necessarily depend for their 
success on the accuracy of the tables of analyses, which 
purport to show the proportions of proteid and other 
things contained in the different foods. Now it is obvious 
to anyone who has looked into the question at all that 
hardly any of these tables agree, and sometimes they 
differ materially; and even when they do agree, there 
remains the question whether the person consulting them 
can extract the whole of the proteid shown by the tables 
to exist in a particular food ; in other words, whether he 
can fully digest it. 

' In short, from whatever point of view you consider 
the matter, nothing can take the place of personal ex- 
perience ; and therefore, while it is desirable, and in truth 
unavoidable, to accept Dr. Haig's method of calculation, 
and to assume the accuracy of some of the food tables to 
begin with, as one must have some basis to start on, it 
must be clearly understood that, if the result is not what 
it should be, the blame is not to be attached to the simple 
foods, or to the principles inculcating their adoption, but 
to the manner in which the patient is applying them in 
his or her case. 

' One of the surest signs in my opinion that the in- 
dividual application is wrong, is constipation, whether the 
patient has previously been a sufferer from that scourge 
or not. Of course, if the patient, on mixed foods, has 
never been troubled with it, and it began only with the 
adoption of the simple foods, the proof of mistake in in- 

G 



82 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

dividual application is the more emphatic, but in any case, 
as I maintain, it is only a question of degree. The usual 
experience is, I fancy, that the adoption of the simple 
foods is followed at once by a marked improvement in the 
behaviour of the bowels, which causes the heart of the 
neophyte to rejoice, and makes him think that the problem 
is solved for good and all. Such may indeed be the happy 
fate of some of us, but more usually, I think, the initial 
improvement gradually slackens, and finally dies away 
altogether, and the status quo ante the change of diet 
returns more or less. To all persons in that position I 
say that they should not be discouraged, that they should 
not think that the diet is in principle at fault, but that 
they should think that their individual method of appli- 
cation is wrong, and should never rest until, by experi- 
ment, they have discovered exactly what is the cause of 
the trouble. I do not think that Dr. Haig looks at this 
complaint, as it ought to be looked at, namely, as one of 
the most immediate and natural proofs that the diet is not 
being properly applied, except, of course, in cases where 
there is reason to diagnose structural or other organic 
defect in the bowels themselves. The result of not doing 
so is that a person, who adopts the simple foods, is very 
liable to bring over from his former condition and training 
the orthodox attitude, both among doctors and laymen, that 
constipation is one of the mysteries of Nature, which must 
be tolerated with resignation and fortitude, or treated 
with violence. Yet it seems to me much more likely 
that it is merely due to the fact that the food is pre- 
sented to the bowels in a condition not suitable to their 
task, and that, either because something, which ought to 
have been removed by the process of mastication and 
stomachic digestion, has been left in, or vice versa, and is 
a kindly warning of Nature, which is meant to show us 
either that we are taking the wrong foods, or that we are 



SUPPLEMENT 83 

taking them in the wrong quantities, or that we are com- 
bining them wrongly. 

'I expect you will say that, if the whole matter is 
really a question of individual effort and experiment, there 
is very little chance of right principles of diet ever spread- 
ing generally, seeing that most people expect their doctors 
to do all the thinking for them on the subject of health, 
and would decline even to entertain a proposition to 
change their diet, unless at least one could assure them 
that they had only got to follow a cut-and-dried pro- 
gramme. I quite agree ; but then I do not think, and never 
have thought, that most people are at all likely to be con- 
vinced in any circumstances at the present stage. What 
I hope will happen is that the experience of the teetotallers 
will be repeated, and that a sufficient number of people 
will become convinced of the evils of the mixed foods, to 
bring the necessary pressure of public opinion to bear 
upon the medical profession to force them to review their 
pronouncements in the light of the new data, which are 
slowly accumulating. When this has been done, and the 
majority of doctors advocate a non-flesh diet, at first for 
invalids and then generally, the lay public will follow 
their lead, as a matter of course, in time. Considering 
that the profession is now contemplating the establish- 
ment of sanatoria for the treatment of consumption at 
the North Pole, and remembering what they would have 
thought of such a proposition, say, to be quite safe, forty 
years ago, we need not despair. Meanwhile we should 
none of us lose an opportunity of drawing the attention 
of our medical friends to their monstrous impertinence in 
claiming our respect and implicit belief professionally, so 
long as they, as a class, are at least as unhealthy as the 
rest of us. What should we say to a seaman who ob- 
viously could not sail his own boat, if he wanted to come 
and take charge of ours ? 



84 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' P.S. By the way, the Cantani I have referred to above 
was a doctor of that name who practised at Naples and 
died in 1898. He was immensely thought of by the Italian 
medical world, and devoted himself specially to gout, 
rheumatism and kindred disorders, in the treatment of 
which he obtained some remarkable successes, principally, 
as it seems to me, by his skill in applying the rule which 
I have quoted in this letter. He admitted meat in small 
quantities into his dietary, and absolutely excluded milk 
and cheese ; but as I have not yet been able to get hold of 
any of his books, which have not, I believe, been trans- 
lated, and have only seen an English work, which pur- 
ports to give a rimmi of his theories and practice, I do 
not feel myself in a position to speak more definitely on 
the subject.' 

Dr. Haig answers these criticisms as follows : 

' In making a few comments upon your friend's letter, 
I should like first to mention some points which cannot 
be lost sight of without getting into hopeless confusion. 

' (1) Certain diseases are due to excess of uric acid in 
the body and blood. 

1 (2) I propose to get free from those diseases by as far 
as possible ceasing to swallow uric acid. 

' (3) As a practical result of this a daily excretion of 
uric acid amounting on meat and tea diet to, say, 20 
grains, can in eighteen months to two years be reduced 
to 10 or 11 grains a day ; and with this reduction the 
diseases due to uric acid gradually diminish and cease to 
trouble. 

' (4) This result has nothing whatever to do with in- 
dividual constitution, age, digestion, or metabolism ; it is 
simply a matter of swallowing or not swallowing some 8, 
10, or 12 grains of uric acid each day. 

' (5) Quantity of food on a diet on which one has lived 



SUPPLEMENT 85 

from childhood is a matter of habit : one unconsciously 
learns as a habit to eat enough ; but even here one may 
learn to eat too much. On a new diet one must have 
some rule to prevent any serious mistakes ; but no rule is 
absolute, it is a rough guide to be adjusted by each in- 
dividual. The rule of 9 or 10 grains of albumen per 
pound of body weight per day is the one that was taught 
in all text-books of physiology when I was a student 
twenty-five years ago. These twenty-five years of use 
have not enabled me to convict it of serious error ; on the 
contrary, I believe that for a rough guide it is very close 
to the truth, and that investigation would show that when 
the weight to be nourished has been properly calculated 
(and this, of course, requires skill and experience), there 
are not many people who do good work in the world and 
maintain their weight, strength, activity and blood colour 
at the normal standard, on less than 9 grains of albumen 
per pound of body weight per day. 

' (6) No one has, I believe, found any xanthin or uric 
acid in milk or cheese, and the taking of one and a half 
pint of milk and one ounce of cheese every day does not 
interfere with the reduction of uric acid from 21 grains 
down to 10 per day (see No. 3). Some German chemists, 
on the other hand, have found xanthin in the yolk of eggs, 
and the taking of eggs does at once raise the uric acid above 
10 grains per day in proportion to the quantity of egg 
taken. Milk and cheese are therefore uric-acid-free foods : 
yolk of egg is not. Thus far we have nothing to do with 
individuals, all are absolutely alike ; those who swallow 
uric acid suffer from its effects, those who do not swallow 
it do not suffer. 

1 (7) But when we come to deal with the available uric- 
acid-free foods, it is quite a different matter : here every 
individuality in health, disease, deformity, age, and condi- 
tion has to be considered in deciding which foods offer 



86 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

special advantages for each individual case; and here 
there is scope for endless experience and discussion, which 
I shall not attempt even to outline in a letter. 

1 1 can now, however, indicate shortly what I should 
say in reply to your friend's remarks. As to milk and 
cheese, I know some who do best on large quantities of 
milk, and I know others who do best on none ; such fluid 
diet is very bad for some diseases, very good for others ; 
there can be no rule for all. The harm that Cantani saw 
in gout and rheumatism from taking milk and cheese was 
possibly due to taking them in excessive quantity, or to 
the acids and salts in cheese, or to the dyspepsia which is 
in some people produced by milk ; but gout and rheuma- 
tism are but a small part of the diseases produced by uric 
acid ; and the harm that milk and cheese did in these was 
not due to introduction of uric acid. I have known cheese 
cause a relapse of rheumatism ; but this was because it 
contained much salt. I often purposely put patients on 
too large an allowance of albumens at first as in some 
diseases it is safer to be overfed rather than underfed ; 
and later, when the patient has got over the change of diet, 
the quantity can be reduced. 

' As I say in " Diet and Food," but few people want more 
than 1,400 grains per day ; but it is easy to over-estimate 
the exercise taken, and also to over-estimate the correct 
weight, or proper quantities of tissues to be nourished, as 
distinguished from fat which does not want extra nourish- 
ment. No doubt I often make mistakes in these matters 
in spite of my best endeavours. No rale is or can be 
absolute which has to take such data into account. If 
strength and blood-colour keep normal, I am content no 
matter how little food is being taken ; but for those who 
maintain strength and colour over years my figures will 
not often be found to be very far out. 

' I do not know anything about Cantani' s metabolism. 



SUPPLEMENT 87 

I do know that, if I do not swallow uric acid or take too 
much food i.e. above the 9 grains limit (an error which 
may be committed on all diets) I do not suffer. I quite 
agree that each person is to some extent a law to himself, 
especially as regards digestion ; and to a lesser extent as 
to quantity ; but the great physiological law of quantity 
is much less often broken than might be imagined. As 
to kinds of food each must try for himself, only general 
rules can be stated, and your friend is quite right in saying 
that the mistakes of individuals in details do not affect 
the great principle of the exclusion of uric acid. I am 
also inclined to agree with him that constipation is often 
a question of finding the particular uric-acid-free foods 
that suit the individual in question. Still even here it is 
a rule that milk and cheese are constipating (and this may 
account for part of their evil influence in gout and rheu- 
matism as noticed by Cantani), while some breadstuffs 
and most vegetables and fruits have the opposite effect. 
Constipation may precipitate an attack of gout or rheu- 
matism, but it does not cause it ; and it can only preci- 
pitate it when an excess of uric acid is present in the 
blood ; and Cantani's patients would often have some 
excess of uric acid in the blood as they took some meat, 
so that milk and cheese might precipitate gout in them, 
but not in one of my patients ; and the case mentioned 
above was a beginner who had not got free from uric acid. 
Many meat-eaters suffer from constipation, but not all, 
and one must, of course, give a different diet to those who 
suffer and to those who do not. Those who can take 
breadstuffs freely generally do well to live on them ; but 
many, myself among the number, cannot take enough 
bread, and must add milk and cheese to a small extent or 
starve. In my case this is due to an error in education, 
for if I had been brought up on breadstuffs I could easily 
have lived on them now. No one ever swallows uric acid 



88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

with impunity ; but each, as he learns this and comes to 
change his diet, must decide which foods suit his disease 
his stomach, his teeth, his age, and his habits, which last 
have grown to be a part of him. 

(Signed) ' A. HAIG.' 

I read this autumn, according to my custom, the 
epitome in the ' Times,' of the speeches which a number 
of our greatest doctors addressed to their pupils on the 
reopening of the schools, and it is a remarkable thing 
that in those speeches there was not one word of instruc- 
tion, or, indeed, the smallest allusion to the fact that it 
was either desirable or possible to keep people from being 
ill at all. 

Just as I reached the end of my notes comes the thrill- 
ing account of the Berlin conference on Tuberculosis. 
It is a disappointment to me to find that there has not 
been sufficient investigation made during the last eighteen 
months to confirm or refute Dr. Koch's theory that the 
bovine tubercle is not transmissible to man. It is, how- 
ever, cheering to find that Dr. Koch is himself as firm as 
ever in his belief that overcrowding, damp, want of fresh 
air and sunlight are the predisposing causes to consump- 
tion, and that we must abolish these unhealthy conditions 
if we would successfully fight the monster which preys on 
so large a proportion of our population. He also refers 
to a point I have often been surprised to see so much 
neglected, viz. that while people will take care not to 
drink unboiled cow's milk, they cheerfully eat butter and 
cheese without any sterilising precautions. 



GOATS 

Goats at Naples Possible solution for milk difficulty in rural dis- 
tricts A toothless generation Ignorance as to nourishing value of 
separated milk Mr. Hook on goat-keeping Personal experiment 
Eoast kid and agneau-de-lait Reasons for prejudice against 
goats Suggestions for the philanthropic Immunity of goats 
from tubercular disease Day at Guildford Almonds The 
Astolat Press Mr. Gates' herd of Toggenburg goats Feeding of 
goats Chemistry of food to be taught in elementary schools. 

WHEN walking in April in the streets of Naples, I came 
across a large herd of goats being milked from door to 
door, and it suddenly flashed upon me with great force 
that, if the English people could be persuaded greatly to 
increase the keeping of goats, especially in rural districts, it 
might be possible to arrive at some solution of the problem 
which faces everyone who gives thought to matters of 
health, viz. the serious deterioration in the physique of 
the people of this kingdom. There is no more convincing 
sign of this than the fact, universally acknowledged I 
believe, that a whole generation is growing up which have 
hardly any teeth left by the early age of twenty. I am 
told that not by any means the least of the sufferings of 
the soldiers in South Africa was toothache, and I remem- 
ber it was suggested in some newspaper that the War 
Office should provide false teeth for the recruits ! This 
state of health is by no means surprising when it is 
remembered how many children and young people are 
now brought up on baker's bread and stewed tea without 
any milk at all ; and, strange as it may seem, I believe a 



90 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

child might have a better chance of health if it were 
brought up on moderate quantities of pure beer, instead 
of what the village mothers of to-day give their children. 
Milk is looked upon in our country districts as an extrava- 
gant luxury sometimes ordered by the doctor instead of 
cod-liver oil, and even when milk is ordered, there is 
great difficulty in getting it, for it is an easily verifiable 
fact that farmers prefer to keep their skim milk for young 
stock to selling it to the poor and the new milk is all 
sent to the towns, or sold to well-to-do customers. Of 
course, skim milk would in no sense take the place 
of cod-liver oil, neither does skim milk do for babies 
unless enriched by some fattening food ; but most people 
are hopelessly ignorant of the value of separated milk ; 
they think the nourishment of milk is removed with the 
cream, whereas all the proteid is in the casein of the 
separated milk, there being none whatever in the cream 
or butter. For this reason it is obviously useless to 
depend for nourishment on cheeses made from cream, 
such as Camembert. I know one village in Suffolk 
where the proprietress offered the poor the separated milk 
of her dairy as a gift. This they refused, as they thought 
it quite worthless, and only ' pig's food,' a very different 
thing in their minds from food that was good for pigs. 

In a village not far from here a friend told me that 
she had been helping a man seriously ill of consumption. 
After he was removed to a home, the clergyman said the 
wife and five young children were very badly off. She, 
not sending food from her own house except in cases of 
grave illness, offered to give the mother two quarts of new 
milk a day for the children. After a few days the mother 
came up, and said she did not want the milk at all, as she 
had no use for it. It is almost inconceivable that a 
mother could so ignorantly refuse what was good for her 
children ; it only helped to confirm me in my opinion 



GOATS 91 

that the use of milk and the knowledge of its value are 
absolutely dying out in English villages. 

On my return home after my visit to Italy, I made 
inquiries as to the most recent book that had been pub- 
lished in England on goat-keeping. This brought to my 
hand the excellent little book by Mr. Bryan Hook, son 
of the artist whose beautiful sea-scapes delighted the 
eyes of my generation on their visits to the Academy. 
The book is called 'Milch Goats and their Management,' 
and is published by Vinton & Co., 9 New Bridge Street, 
E.G., 1896. For anyone interested in the subject of 
goats, and especially for those meaning to keep them, 
there could hardly be a better guide than this book, 
prompted as it was (see preface) by ' a firm conviction of 
the advantage that might be derived from a wider cul- 
tivation of the milch goat in this country, and an affection 
for the most intelligent, engaging, and picturesque of our 
domestic cattle.' Mr. Bryan Hook has had so many 
years' experience in goat-keeping, that his testimony is 
exceptionally valuable, and intending goat-keepers will do 
wisely to follow his advice as to choice of breed, feeding, 
housing, and general management, the only point in 
which I would beg to differ from him being in the con- 
struction of the goat -house. Mr. Hook recommends a 
raised path down the middle of this, and a gutter on each 
side for drainage, which is to flow into a pail or tank 
sunk outside the buildings, and be used for garden manur- 
ing. Mr. Gates, the well-known owner of the pure 
Toggenburg herd of goats near Guildford, suggests that a 
better way, as an economy of labour and an improvement 
in hygiene (see results of experiments by Dr. Poore in dry 
treatment versus water-borne sewage, in his invaluable 
book 'Bural Hygiene'), is that the raised paths and 
gutters be omitted, and the floor simply strewn with 
sawdust or dry garden earth. This absorbs all liquids, 



92 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

prevents smells, and is easily swept up each morning 
when the house is brushed out, and if buried superficially 
is one of the finest fertilisers. This system has been 
followed by Mr. Gates, and he recommends it in preference 
to the water-swilled gutters. Certainly nothing could 
have been sweeter than his goat-house, which I visited 
one summer afternoon when it held ten goats. The 
sparred floor of the stalls is better raised eighteen inches 
from the floor, and the spars should be placed half an inch 
apart instead of one inch, as young kids are apt to get their 
very slender hoofs in between the wood when it begins to 
soften, and a broken leg may be the result of spars too 
wide apart, these young creatures being astonishingly 
nimble even from birth. 

Mr. Hook says : ' Goats are probably more subject to 
rheumatism than most other animals, and I have known 
them to be so acutely affected when heavy in kid that 
they were unable to rise, and almost unable to walk when 
on their legs.' I quote this sentence because it strikes 
me that goat-keepers may find that this tendency to 
rheumatism is caused by too high feeding, especially with 
oats, peas, and beans. Horses in the confinement of the 
stable often suffer in the same way, and are unable to 
stand the damp when turned out into the fields, not 
because that gives them the rheumatism any more than 
bad weather gives it to us. They have it in them from 
wrong feeding : the damp merely develops it. 

In consequence of this book I bought one goat, a 
hornless black and white crossbred, so that I and my 
gardener might gain a little personal experience I always 
dispute that 'a little knowledge is a dangerous thing,' a 
little to my mind being better than none and find out 
how much trouble and benefit there is in keeping goats 
on a very small scale. 

My first experiment after the birth of the two kids the 



GOATS 



93 



next spring a boy and a girl was to give to the children 
about the place a goafs-milk tea. They all, with one 
exception, said they liked it very much. The exception 
was the youngest, almost a baby, who was probably not 
hungry. After this the goat's milk was divided between 
the children of the gardener and coachman, and such 
honoured guests who were fond of milk and yet totally 
disbelieved that goat's milk was without taste or smell. 
Without a single exception every one of these pronounced 
it excellent, and some preferred it to cow's milk as a 
constant drink. This may be due to the fact that, as 
Mr. Hook says, the fat globules in goat's milk are so 
much more minute than in cow's milk that it is lighter 
on the palate and easier of digestion. Servants who in 
my experience are the most conservative-minded of all 
classes have now found out the good qualities of goat's 
milk so markedly that they are glad not to allow it to go 
out of the house. 

I can see the cautious reader probably a male 
saying, ' I wonder why she didn't take it herself ? ' It was 
because I did not wish to mix goat's with cow's milk in the 
separator, and I always drink separated milk ; for though 
not a large milk consumer, I prefer it without its cream, 
taking that portion of the milk by preference in the form 
of butter. Those who drink coffee or tea will find that 
goat's milk gives both these a much better colour in the 
cup than even the best cow's milk. 

My little kids I did not want to keep. I tried to sell 
them both in the neighbourhood, but no one would give me 
anything for them, dead or alive, so I had the Billy killed 
and served for a Saturday to Monday party which I knew 
had no interest in the simpler foods. Having seen them 
immensely enjoy it, I called to their notice the menu, on 
which was plainly written 'roast kid,' whereupon a 
young man at my side told me the following anecdote. 



94 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

He had lately dined at a very expensive restaurant where 
the menu contained for the roast, agneau-de-lait. He, 
having a frugal mind, and thinking of his own lambs in 
the country which sold for very little, asked to interview 
the chef after the feast. He said, ' Well, sir, I have no 
objection to telling you that agneau-de-lait is not to be 
procured in England, or at any rate is enormously ex- 
pensive. This dish of which you have been eating is 
only a kid.' 

I could not bear to kill the useful Nannie, so I gave 
her away to the man who had had charge of her mother. 
He used her as a pet for his children to drag a tiny cart, 
and is now so delighted with the milk our goat gives that 
he is going to keep his own for the same purpose. This 
year the same mother only had one kid, a very pretty 
little female, which I am rearing and keeping. The one 
kid instead of the usual two may be due to the mother 
having been principally fed on grass. She does not give 
nearly as much milk as the better-bred goats, but this may 
be partly because she is not so highly fed. She is pastured 
in a fresh spot every day and is given leaves, &c. In 
winter I find chopped mangold is a favourite food. 

Several cases have come to my knowledge of poor 
people refusing to keep a goat even when it had been 
given them, because they say it is so troublesome .and 
destructive a creature. My interpretation of this would 
be that it is no good giving a goat to poor people, unless 
you give with it a strong collar, chain, and tethering pin, 
for unless this is done it is always breaking loose and 
doing damage. These things are expensive for poor 
people to buy the collar and chain costing 7s. 6d. they 
try to manage with bits of rope, or any other makeshift, 
and the result is unsatisfactory. 

Mr. Hook says in his book which supplements the 
larger work on goats by Mr. Pegler, that this prejudice 



GOATS 



95 



against goats is largely due to the fact that English 
cottage people get their small experience of goats from 
buying them out of the Irish herds which are brought 
over now and then. ' Unfortunately, it is from such 
inferior animals that an estimate of the whole species is 
generally formed, the over-sanguine goat-owner becoming 
disappointed by the wild nature, mischievous habits and 
scanty produce of the animal that he has purchased on 
the assurance that it will give two quarts of milk a day, 
and live anywhere and anyhow.' 

I was walking one evening on a Surrey common, and 
saw a little boy just taking a goat into a cottage. My 
interest being very keen, I began asking him why he kept 
it. He said, ' For milk.' My next question was, ' What 
do you do with the kids ? ' He answered with a grin, 
' Our goat don't 'ave no kids : she ain't 'ad none fur 
seven years.' This surprising answer so floored me that 
I meekly said, ' I suppose she doesn't give much milk ? ' 
He said, ' No, not much.' I afteiwards heard that the 
little cottage contained a family of fifteen children and 
mother and father. 

There is no doubt a difficulty in the poor keeping a 
goat for each family, unless they are near a good common 
with grazing rights, which exceptional circumstance is 
practically not worth reckoning. My idea is that as 
philanthropic people abound everywhere, some of these 
might be the goat-keepers of the district, and either send 
the goats, in charge of a boy, round to the cottage doors 
to be milked there in a small measure, to be charged for 
at a remunerative price, or have the goats milked at 
home at an early hour in the morning and evening, so 
that the children might fetch the milk before and after 
school-hours. The charitable, on the other hand, who do 
not fear to give such as the clergyman, the nurse, the 
district visitor, &c. might keep goats for their own use 



96 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and give away milk for sick children and other urgent 
cases. 

Only time and patience will get rid of the prejudice 
against goats which exists in all classes, and may be 
partly due to experiences at Gibraltar, Malta, Corsica, 
and parts of Switzerland where the goat's milk is almost 
undrinkable. This unpleasant smell and flavour is 
caused by wrong feeding, by dirty hands in milking, and 
by letting the milk stand too long. The delicious bruccio, 
of Corsica, is a fresh curd made from goat's milk. Julius 
Caesar openly avowed he preferred the plebeian goat's 
cheese to the greatest delicacies of the table, and the 
newspapers say President Loubet does the same. 

In the dim distance it does not seem to me impossible 
that useful foods may be made from sheep's milk, 
especially while lambs are still killed for meat. 

One of the chief recommendations of goat's milk in 
these days of nervousness about the danger of cow's milk, 
is that goats are among the few animals entirely exempt 
from tubercular disease. Sir William Broadbent, writ- 
ing on the prevention of consumption, says, ' It is in- 
teresting to note that asses and goats do not suffer from 
tuberculosis.' It is a continual surprise to me that goats 
are not kept to supply the consumptive sanatoriums, and 
I hope this most important measure may be adopted at 
the King's new Hospital, for the prejudice of the patients 
might be met in the same way as the French chef met the 
demand for agneau-de-lait as stated before. 

The other day a friend came to see me who had last 
year been interested in my goat-talk. She told me she 
had bought a goat for her baby and was going to buy 
another, as both she and her children liked it so much. 
She said with pride, on my showing her my comparatively 
ugly black and white hornless mongrel, that her goats 
were beautiful fawn and white Toggenburgs. I felt 



GOATS 



97 



humbled, and she said, ' Don't you know the goat-farm 
at Guildford, kept by Mr. Gates, the head of the West 
Surrey Dairy Co. ? ' A few days afterwards I and a 
friend, who was herself anxious to keep goats, started for 
Guildford. Arrived at the station I suddenly remembered 
that I wanted to order a book, and trying the penny in 
the slot post-card box, found to my disgust that the 
cards were unstamped. I think the sale of these post- 
cards would greatly increase if, instead of two com- 
paratively useless cards at a penny, one, stamped ready 
for use, were sold at the same price. The diminution of 
profit would probably be covered by the additional sale. 
We walked up to the dairy and felt a little flat when told 
that Mr. Gates was not there and lived three miles away. 
The clerk suggested that we might talk to his nephew. 
This we accordingly did, and heard that Mr. Gates was 
going to sell the whole herd, as it had been a hobby and 
he no longer had time to devote to it. It being part of 
the vegetarian creed to be cheerful under disappointment, 
we resolved to spend our two hours before the return 
train in loafing about the picturesque old town. 

Our first excitement was finding the Market Place 
filled with a detachment of Engineers, whose carts looked 
rather like Chinese junks and whose Boer hats and rough 
costume, to our imagination, conveyed the impression 
that they were just back from the front with all the 
South African dust and sunburn still thick upon them. 
On inquiry we found they had only returned a short 
time ago, but they had been on manoeuvres in the 
neighbourhood, and the junks turned out to be pontoons, 
the dust being good Surrey sand. 

Passing beautiful fruit shops, so rare in the villages 
near me, we bought two very cheap market baskets and 
proceeded to load them with fruits of all kinds which had 
suddenly flooded the market from the lateness of the 

H 



98 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

season, and were plentiful and cheap. Our next search 
was for almonds, but walking up the High Street I 
was suddenly glued to the window of a curiosity shop 
by the sight of a gorgeous blue and green fish, different 
from any I had in the china aquarium of fish which swim 
over my ugly hall stove on the whitewashed wall at 
home. Finding the price moderate, I yielded to the 
temptation to make the fish share the basket with my fruit. 
We then went to the best looking grocer's shop we could 
find, and my friend, who is an almond-fancier, asked if 
they had any Jordans. Fortunately for us they had 
bought in an extra large supply in the season, and had 
plenty of this kind at 2s. per lb., a great improvement upon 
the Valencias at Is. Qd. The disappointment sometimes 
caused to housekeepers by receiving bitter almonds, with 
the possible result that the nourishing item of a guest's 
meal has to be left out, may be guarded against by 
ordering ' second quality Jordan almonds,' which are 
Is. IQd. per lb. at the Stores. The twopence extra is well 
worth while to those who have once appreciated the 
difference between them and Valencias, which are the 
same in shape and size as the bitter almonds, so that it is 
impossible for a cook to know she is preparing uneatable 
food if she gets the latter by mistake. It is extravagant 
to buy the best Jordans at 3s. per lb., when the second 
quality are as good except for size. The shape, a very 
long oval, is the same, quite unlike the squat oval of the 
Valencia almond. 

It is curious to notice that when the derisive enemy 
accuses one of living on ' nuts and apples/ he is generally 
ignorant that almonds are nuts, and far the most nourish- 
ing of the whole nut family. Even when people do 
realise this, they are filled with dread at being ordered to 
consume a vast amount of prussic acid, having vaguely 
heard that this poison is extracted from almonds. It 



GOATS 99 

may be worth while here to go back once more to our 
friend ' Chambers's Encyclopaedia,' and quote a few facts 
on the subject : 

1 Bitter almonds contain the same substances (as 
sweet), and, in addition, a substance called amygdalin, 
from which is obtained a peculiar volatile oil. For the 
preparation of Fixed Oil of Almonds either bitter or 
sweet may be employed. The cake which is left after 
the expression of the fixed oil from bitter almonds, con- 
tains among other matters a portion of two substances, 
called respectively amygdalin and emulsin or synaptase. 
When the cake is bruised and made into a paste with 
water, the synaptase acts as a ferment upon the amygdalin, 
and one atom of the latter resolves itself into two atoms 
of volatile oil of bitter almond, one atom hydrocyanic 
acid (prussic), one atom grape sugar, two atoms formic 
acid, seven atoms water.' 

The volatile oil is not originally present in the bitter 
almond. The nut does not contain a trace of the oil 
ready formed, so that the oil is purely the product of the 
fermentation of amygdalin. 

It may be suggested that this change might be brought 
about by fermentation inside us ; but in an interesting 
paper in the ' Herald of Health ' for April 1902, by Dr. 
E. P. Miller, there is an account of the two so-called 
ferments, the digestive or inorganic fermentation versus 
organic fermentation, and he says : ' The term ferment is 
not one that should be applied to the enzymes spoken of 
as the unorganised ferments that are elaborated within 
the cells of the glands producing them, for they are not 
in reality ferments, but simply digestive agents provided 
to prepare the nutritive constituents of food for absorption 
and assimilation.' Mrs. Wallace's excellent monthly 
magazine the ' Herald of Health ' is full of information 
of all kinds on health topics. The last page gives a set 



TOO A THIRD POT-POURRI 

of useful general rules ' for the physical regeneration of 
man,' with which I am in great sympathy, a sympathy 
which I cordially extend to the motto of the paper : 
'Life is not mere existence, but the enjoyment of 
health/ 

To go back to my account of the day in Guildford. 
In the shop where we bought our almonds was a stall 
presided over by an American girl with a chafing-dish 
and several varieties of American cereal foods and speci- 
men dishes prepared from them. What attracted me, as I 
had a vegetarian coming who always asked for farinaceous 
bulk which I avoid when alone, was a bundle marked 
Id., and called ' Nouilles lacte"es Suisse,' or Swiss milk 
vermicelli, which shows its Swiss intelligence by instruct- 
ing the public as to the percentages of its component 
parts in an analysis signed by Dr. Bertschinger of Geneva. 
It is not otherwise than a noticeable sign of the times 
that in Germany and Switzerland prepared foods have to 
be analysed and certified by first-rate chemists. I have 
never come across this with either French or English 
foods. In the case of England, at any rate, where 
adulteration is so common, I think all patent medi- 
cines and foods should be certified by a Government 
inspector. 

Having filled our market baskets, we found them so 
heavy that we left them with this young lady till our 
return, and, with all the joyful feeling of touring in a 
picturesque foreign town, we walked on to find the shop 
of the well-known Mr. A. C. Curtis, author of ' A New 
Trafalgar,' and founder of the Astolat Press. It was a 
slight shock to our aesthetic sensibilities to find the shop 
in a chaotic bustle of ' sale,' which we forgave when we 
learnt that it ensured our finding Mr. Curtis himself on 
the premises ; and as my friend too was a writer and a 
bookseller, he welcomed us with all the friendliness of a 



GOATS 101 

fellow-craftsman, and fetched out from the back of the 
shop a case of his dainty little editions. Amongst these 
was his ' In Memoriam ' on vellum published at 10s. Qd. 
net, of which he himself lately bought back the few re- 
maining copies he could find among the booksellers at 
an increased price, as the book is now out of print and 
scarce. 

The present fashion for these miniature libraries as 
seen in the success of the ' Temple Classics/ the ' Bibelots,' 
and the new ' Unit Library,' which brings the great classics 
of all nations within the reach of English peasants 
is very indicative of the stress of the times, which means 
pocket volumes for the busy workers who would perhaps 
never read at all but for the snatched intervals between 
work. 

The name 'Astolat Press' suggested to us on our 
return to write and ask Mr. Curtis the origin of the 
assertion that Astolat the home of Elaine was the old 
name of Guildford. This was his reply : ' In the " Morte 
D'Arthur," book xviii. chap, ix., Sir Thomas Malory says 
of Sir Lancelot, "And then he rode so much until he 
came to Astolat, that is Guildford, and there it happed 
him in the eventide he came to an old baron's place that 
hight Sir Bernard of Astolat." There is no doubt that 
Tennyson identified Astolat with Guildford, and used the 
present ruined keep in his mental pictures. And he might 
well fancy Elaine watching the ford by St. Catharine's 
for the flash of the knight's armour as he rode from 
Winchester up the track we call " The Pilgrim's Way," 
but which is one of the earliest roadways in England, and 
existed long before St. Thomas of Canterbury's day. The 
Astolat Press is quite a small affair and inhabits, in what 
was once Archbishop Abbott's stable, an Elizabethan 
red-brick building, with solid walls, oak beams, and 
square-paned leaded casements. The loft makes a capital 



io2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

compositors' room, and the solid ground floor a good 
foundation for engines, machines, and hand press.' 

After the first day at Guildford we felt rather crest- 
fallen at having learnt so little that was new about goats. 
I wrote to Mr. Gates, and he quickly answered that we 
might come over at once and see his herd. We were 
received with the greatest kindness and hospitality, and 
every question was most cordially answered. His goat- 
house was a picturesque thatched building, the floor 
strewn with sawdust, the animals being tethered in little 
stalls on a raised platform of battens half an inch apart, 
and about two inches wide. Apart from the obvious gain 
in cleanliness, this raised structure is a great convenience 
in milking and saves a special milking bench. 

The goats were nearly all pure Toggenburgs beautiful 
deer-like creatures with fine fawn-and-white coats and 
when I asked why they were being sold all together, 
thinking in my ignorance that it would be better to 
spread them about, Mr. Gates told me that he was 
anxious to sell them to someone who would keep the 
breed pure, as the Swiss Government had now forbidden 
their exportation. They have been purchased by Mr. 
E. Sugden, Longden, near Eugeley, Staffs. Mr. Sugden 
intends to keep the breed pure. 

The average yield of these goats in full milk is two to 
two and a half quarts each daily, the actual quantity given 
by Mr. Gates' herd of five in one season having been 
714 Imperial gallons, or forty-two full-sized railway 
churns. In addition to his household supply of milk and 
butter, Mr. Gates has sent out more than 1,000 bottles of 
milk, sterilised for travelling, besides selling the fresh 
milk for infants at Guildford. The price he charged viz., 
eightpence a quart is an interesting contrast to the price 
at the London dairies. 

Further details may be gathered from an illustrated 



GOATS 103 

article entitled ' A Dairy Farm in Miniature,' by Mr. 
Bryan Hook, in ' Country Life ' of April 8,1899. The 
goats were photographed, but the pictures do not do them 
justice. 

The impression made on one by these goats is that, 
compared with other breeds, they are as racehorses to cart- 
horses. Probably with increased knowledge and interest 
in the subject, the English goat will be improved it 
being a most useful creature for all who cannot afford the 
special breed. Mr. Gates' little goat farm had the ad- 
vantage that it was adjoining a common where the goats 
could be turned out in charge of a boy. We also noticed 
that those in a field were allowed to run loose, a great 
improvement on the tethering system, as these creatures 
love change. Mr. Gates told us that this was quite safe 
when once they had grown used to a place, for they are 
so intelligent and friendly that they attach themselves to 
people and places like dogs. It was interesting to us to 
notice that, although there were eight milch goats and 
two or three kids in the house, the place was as sweet as 
a well-kept stable the he-goats, the only offenders in this 
matter, being kept apart in a field. 

On the subject of feeding Mr. Gates told us that he 
grew lucerne on purpose for them, as they were fond of it 
for a change, and it was a most useful fodder, as he cut it 
three times over in the summer, and it grows almost as 
fast as it is cut. 

I have found that other useful foods are comfrey, sun- 
flowers, summer prunings of apple and pear trees, hedge- 
row cuttings, sweet chestnut leaves, and the leaves of 
the globe artichoke. In Italy cows are fed on artichoke 
leaves, but I cannot persuade my pampered Jerseys to 
eat them. 

According to many people, for the last two years I 
have had goats on the brain, which is only a variety of 



104 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the more usual accusation that for many years, alas ! for 
them, I have had diet on the brain. These accusations 
at first really distressed me, as no one feels cheerful under 
the implied supposition that senile decay is coming upon 
one with rapid strides. The fact is that goat-keeping is 
merely a variation of my interest in diet and the im- 
provement I hope it is to bring about in the health of the 
modern world. It has been an immense gratification to 
me to see that there has been such a very general growth 
of interest in this subject during the last few years. We 
see it affecting all classes from the highest to the lowest 
our statesmen, our clergy, our men of science, almost the 
entire Press, and last, but not least, the King himself. 
The cloud of ignorance about food shows signs of break- 
ing up and dispersing. How complete it can be, even 
among intelligent well-educated people, was illustrated to 
me the other day when talking about food values over a 
tea-table with a trained village nurse and a friend much 
interested in the subject. Neither of them seemed to 
understand what I meant, and one of them suggested, 
' Surely the most nourishing food is that which digests 
most easily.' I answered, ' You may easily digest fruit 
and vegetables, but the actual food value of what 
you have digested is very small indeed.' In fact, they 
were entirely unaware that there was such a thing as 
chemical analysis of food, and a scientific knowledge of 
the subject which they might have mastered with half the 
labour and time spent over complicated crochet stitches 
and lovely drawn-thread needlework. A friend of mine 
who has lately had a serious illness, told me that neither 
of the first-rate trained nurses who attended her had ever 
heard of such a thing as being able to calculate the 
number of grains of proteid necessary for the day's 
nourishment, or to decide at a glance, at a well-spread 
table, what food on it is the best to choose. 



GOATS 105 

Nothing has encouraged me more than finding this 
summer that the matter has been taken up in the highest 
quarters, and has been introduced into the Eevised In- 
structions for the Public Elementary Schools (1902). As 
few people take the trouble to get Blue-books, I venture 
to quote the following paragraphs from Appendix V. on 
Cookery : 

6 V. The dietary value of the food and cost of 
the materials should be taught at each lesson, if only one 
course of Cookery lessons is being given. When the 
arrangement is that the girls attend Cookery classes for two 
or more successive years, the dietary value of food should 
not be taught till the second year. 

* Second year. Instructions should be given on the 
various food stuffs, i.e. cereals, pulse, fruits, vegetables, 
meats, and fish ; beverages. The dietary value of food. 
Digestion of albumen, starch, fat. More advanced dishes 
should be demonstrated and practised at each lesson, 
illustrating over again the Primary Methods taught in the 
First Year course. 

'Third year. Complete dinners should be cooked by 
groups of children attending the class. The price of the 
dinner and the number of persons for whom it is in- 
tended should be written on the blackboard. Instruc- 
tions should be given on : 

(a) Expenditure of wages on food. 

(b) The making of preserves. 

(c) Use and abuse of tin foods. 

(d) Vegetarian diet. 

(e) Preparation of food suitable for infants. 

'The scholars should have practice in drawing up 
menus of dinners suitable for an artisan family, stating 
the price and season of the year.' 

This will instruct in the Elementary Schools, but I 



io6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

hope the time is not distant when no educated child will 
sit down to any table whereon food is displayed without 
a perfect knowledge of the simple rules as to the nourish- 
ing values and right combination of food, and when a 
young mother will no more dream of asking her nurse 
whether she shall give her rather delicate offspring fruit 
or no fruit, than whether it shall go naked or clothed. 



WHOLESOME FOOD ON THREE SHILLINGS 
A WEEK 

' Cornhill ' budgets Food reformers and lentils Taste for savoury 
foods Nervous appetites Cabinet Minister and charwoman 
The healthy foods Maeterlinck's appeal against meat and 
alcohol Food values To feed a family of four on 12s. a 
week Nut milk A week's menus, and cost Ditto, with once- 
a-week cooking Advantage of living in country Goat's milk 
at a London dairy Cheapest and healthiest diet at 2s. 4d. a 
week To wean servants from the beef -beer-tea faith Possible 
purpose of meat-eating phase in evolution A philanthropist's 
experiment Amateur farmers A pair of Bushey Art Students 
Receipts. 

IN 1901 the Editor of the 'Cornhill Magazine' pub- 
lished a series of five articles called ' Family Budgets,' 
beginning in April with that of the workman at 30s. a 
week, by Mr. Arthur Morrison, and ending in August with 
10,0002. a year, by Lady Agnew. Between these came, in 
May, a lower middle-class budget of 150?. to 200Z. a 
year, in June an income of 800Z. a year, and in July my 
own, which I now republish, on 1,800Z. a year. The 
reviewers found great amusement in the idea that there 
could be the smallest difficulty in living on such an 
income, but the proper adjustment of medium or large 
incomes is often a more complicated matter than the 
management of one which provides only for the necessi- 
ties of life. A friend of mine whose inheritance of 2,OOOZ. 
a year was stated in the newspapers, received a letter 
asking for a considerable sum out of it, on the plea that 



io8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the loss of it could not be felt out of her ' boundless 
wealth.' 

The ' Workman's Budget ' is, I think, the most interest- 
ing one of the series, as it deals with the hardships of 
town life on an income which is ten shillings a week 
higher than the usual bare subsistence of a pound a 
week. 

My friend, Miss Curtis, has kindly sent me the follow- 
ing suggestions on wholesome food for the poor and the 
depopulation of rural districts huge difficulties, which 
have been dealt with in a most thoughtful and stimulat- 
ing way in a book of collected essays by various writers, 
and published by Fisher Unwin in 1901, under the title 
of ' The Heart of the Empire.' 

' The question of wholesome food for the poor is not in 
itself a difficult one : the real obstacle lies in the pre- 
judice against a non-meat diet, which is often to be traced 
to the want of knowledge and sympathetic understanding 
of the tastes of the poor, in those who champion the 
economic way of living. Social reformers urge lentils 
as the article of food which gives the maximum of 
nourishment at the minimum of cost ; but, apart from the 
little-known fact that the xanthins of lentils and all 
pulse foods are now suspected by experts to be as un- 
wholesome as those of flesh foods, and therefore to be 
ruled out from the dietary of all who wish to control as 
far as possible the causes of disease, we have to face the 
fact of the people's dislike to all porridgy foods. This 
dislike cannot be lightly dismissed as a fad: the plain 
truth is that the appetites of the people are indicative of 
their constitutions, and these have changed during the 
last century of meat and tea diet. 

1 Imagine the under-nourished, over- worked mother of 
a family, after a hot day's washing or charing, sitting down 



WHOLESOME FOOD 109 

with appetite to a mess of lentils. One might as well 
expect a delicate, hard-worked Cabinet Minister to enjoy 
a summer luncheon of boiled bacon and beans. The 
Cabinet Minister chooses lobster salad and a whisky-and- 
soda : the charwoman chooses tinned salmon and tea 
if she can get it. 

' The poor like fried food a bit of fish ready cooked 
from the shop, a rasher of bacon, a pig's fry, anything 
crisp and savoury and failing this, they like the tinned 
stuffs which give an excuse for just the piquant dash of 
vinegar or pickles which their jaded appetites require. 

' Perverted tastes ! says the reformer. Yes, but why 
are they perverted ? Surely the whole conditions of life 
in our big towns are perverted from the way of health, 
and it is unreasonable to expect unhealthy men and 
women to have healthy appetites. 

1 The charwoman's husband, if he has the luck to earn 
his living by outdoor labour, may have a lentil-hunger ; 
but how can she be ready for stodgy food after a day, or 
rather a lifetime, spent in wrestling with dirt in a stuffy 
house set in acres of stuffy streets ? 

1 Before we can expect people to eat lentils and beans 
we must see that they live under conditions which pro- 
duce a healthy hunger, and towards this the Garden City 
Association, 77 Chancery Lane, W.C., is working in a way 
that deserves the support of all who wish to improve the 
present state of our towns and cities. 

' I have lately been asked to advise the best dietary for 
a family of four, consisting of father, mother, and two 
young children, in circumstances that allow of only 3s. 
per head a week for food, and since this is a case which 
may easily come into the experience of any who work 
amongst the poor, I include it here on the chance of being 
able to offer some useful hint. By " best " I understand 
" healthiest," so I exclude all such articles of food as are 



no A THIRD POT-POURRI 

shown by Dr. Haig's researches either to produce uric- 
acid diseases, or to aggravate a previously existing 
tendency towards them. This cuts off all flesh foods, 
together with eggs, the pulses (peas, beans, lentils), tea, 
coffee, cocoa, and alcohol : and leaves milk, cheese, nuts, 
cereals, vegetables, and fruit, to which may be added 
Plasmon, which is milk in a dry, concentrated form, 
requiring discretion in its use, for if taken indiscrimi- 
nately it may, like all highly nitrogenous (albuminous) 
foods, cause indigestion. A propos of the many objections 
from intelligent people to its being an " artificial food," it 
may be stated that Plasmon is no more artificial than the 
strong stock which a cook prepares by allowing the water 
to evaporate. All cooking is artificial to primitive man, 
and Plasmon is milk so cooked that the water evaporates 
and the condensed nutriment remains. Being made from 
skim milk, which explains its extreme cheapness, it is 
deficient in the fat and sugar present in new milk, and for 
this reason Plasmon should not be substituted for new 
milk in feeding children. All young animals require fat 
and sugar, and a calf brought up on skim milk may be big 
and bony, but is never so well-favoured and thriving in 
condition as one which has been even partly fed on whole 
milk. Moreover, fat, so necessary to good digestion, is 
very evenly distributed in new milk, and for this reason 
alone it is, as a rule, unwise to upset nature's balance 
when feeding children. To adults, invalids, travellers, and 
athletes, Plasmon is an immense boon, and it should also 
do much to solve the problem of right feeding for the 
many whose incomes are insufficient for their needs. 

1 Here, for a moment, I would beg leave to refer to 
Maeterlinck's recent splendid appeal against meat and 
alcohol. In it he says, " A little fruit, or milk, a few 
vegetables, farinaceous substances .... are amply suffi- 
cient to maintain the ardour of the finest and mightiestlife." 



WHOLESOME FOOD m 

' If anyone ignorant of food values should try to reform 
his diet by this statement, it is probable that he would 
come to grief, although a student of dietetics would avoid 
disaster by substituting and for or in the sentence above, 
and by taking all four kinds of food to make up his 
dietary. Fruit can hardly be made an alternative to 
milk, the respective albumen values being too dispro- 
portionate. One pint of milk = 262 grains albumen or 
proteid ; but it would take over 2 Ibs. of fruit to get this 
amount of nourishment, and so great a bulk of watery 
food would be likely to upset digestion somewhat 
seriously. If dried fruits such as figs, dates, raisins, and 
French plums were used, a much smaller quantity 
^ Ib. would give the necessary albumens ; but most 
people, when told to eat fruit, think of the fresh kinds, 
which are more tempting to sight, touch, taste, and smell. 
Only if " fruit " were read in its widest sense to include 
nuts, could it be fairly substituted for milk, and very few 
general readers would be likely to remember this. Milk 
itself is rather too bulky a food to depend on for the day's 
proteids, and should be supplemented by a dry form such 
as cheese or Plasmon, or by nuts the following list 
showing roughly the order in which the simpler foods 
take rank as compared with meat, and with each 
other : 

1J oz. meat = 1 oz. cheese = 1^ oz. almonds == 2f ozs. 

oatmeal. 
= 4 ozs. bread = 4 ozs. dried fruit = pint 

milk. 
= 17 ozs. vegetables or fresh fruit = 140 grs. 

proteid. 

' To return to our family of four. If it is obliged to 
live in London, milk at 4d. a quart is too costly an item 
to allow of the parents drinking it, and even if an effort 



ii2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were made to give the children \ pint each every day, our 
12s. would be seriously diminished. 

' A cheaper drink, and one which Professor Konig says 
contains 268 units per Ib. more nourishment than fresh 
milk, is the Nut Butter, sold in 1 Ib. tins at Qd. by the 
International Health Association of Manchester, which 
supplies all the nut and cereal foods invented by the 
Battle Creek Sanatorium group of American food re- 
formers, headed by Dr. Kellogg. This nut butter is to be 
had from any vegetarian stores, and can be mixed with 
water to the consistency of cream or milk as desired. It 
is not at all greasy, and can be used as a substitute for 
milk in soups, puddings, &c. Children would prefer it 
sweetened. It has a roasted pea-nut colour and flavour, 
and next to Plasmon and Protene is the most highly 
nourishing drink I know, containing a greater proteid 
percentage than milk or raisin tea. Containing as it does 
a good proportion of nut fat in the finest possible emul- 
sion, this nut milk would obviously be far more economical 
as a food-drink than cow's milk, and for half the cost 
viz., Sd. a week the children could be given twice the 
amount, or 1 pint each a day instead of \ pint. 

' For breakfast, then, oatmeal or barley porridge eaten 
with bread and marmalade or treacle, the children being 
trained to drink their nut milk in sips between the dry 
food, instead of washing it down half chewed, which is 
the usual result of the common habit of pouring milk ovef 
porridge a bad plan which effectually prevents the 
cereal from being mixed with the saliva necessary to its 
digestion. If the adults cannot at first manage the 
porridge, fried bread and potatoes, or rice rissoles with a 
little Plasmon powder mixed in them, will make a savoury 
and sustaining meal, and if well masticated with bread 
there would be no craving for drink till an hour or two 
later, when water, hot or cold, is all that is necessary for 



WHOLESOME FOOD 113 

health ; but as beginners often sadly miss the pick-me-up 
of the hot tea at breakfast, the following week's menus 
allow for Plasmon, hot bran tea, barley water, or any 
similar drink. To those who can afford it, Mellin's Food 
is an excellent substitute for tea, coffee, and cocoa, if 
made with a good deal of water, and not much milk. It 
is a malted food, and a great help to weak digestions. 

' For dinner, cheese eaten plain with bread, vegetable, 
and salad, or grated and mixed with some cereal like 
macaroni, rice, hominy, or ground maize. 

' For supper, bread with dried and fresh fruits, either 
plain or cooked into one of the many forms of pudding. 

' If the fruit supper be not liked, as is possible enough 
in the early stage of the diet (except by children who, if 
healthy, always enjoy it), some variety of vegetable with 
cheese or Plasmon may take its place. The week's 
menus here given have been found successful, and the 
cost is not above 12s. a week for quantities enough for 
two adults and two children, the albumen values being 
calculated at 1,400 grains a day for the man at hard work 
ratio, 1,300 grains a day for each child at growing ratio, 
and 1,200 grains a day for the woman, supposing her to 
be thirty-five years old. 

' The receipts for these and other dishes will be found 
at the end for convenient reference in cooking. They 
admit of endless modification and enrichment with cream, 
butter, &c., but are given in a cheap form as the most 
useful. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried polenta. Bread. Jam. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Baked potatoes. Sage and onions. 
Apple sauce. Bread. Date pudding. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Bread. Lettuce salad. 

i 



n 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried bread. Oatcake. Treacle. 
Plasmon drink or barley water. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Savoury polenta and grated cheese. 
Cabbage. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Barley and raisin pudding. Grated 
nuts. Bread. Bananas. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Oatmeal porridge. Milk. Bread. 
Jam. Plasmon drink or bran tea. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Eice croquettes. Bread. Potatoes. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Bread. Kadishes. Apple 
dumplings. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried hominy. Milk. Bread. 
Treacle. Plasmon drink. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Vegetable stew with barley. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Oatcake. Celery. Dates. 
Bread. 

THURSDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Oatmeal porridge. Bread. Jam. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Macaroni a la tripe. Cheese. Stewed 
tomatoes. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Grated nuts. Bananas. Bread. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Fried potatoes and onions. Milk. 
Bread. Treacle. Oatmeal drink. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Savoury nut cutlets (or stewed chest- 
nuts). Bread. Potatoes. Celery. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Cheese. Beetroot. Bread. Baked 
apple pudding (or jam roll). 



WHOLESOME FOOD n 5 

SATURDAY. 

Breakfast, 8 A.M. Barley porridge. Bread. Oatcake. 
Jam. Milk. Plasmon drink. 

Dinner, 1 P.M. Macaroni and cheese patties. Braised 
onions. Potatoes or carrots. Bread. 

Supper, 6 P.M. Grated nuts. Dates. Bread. Currant 
dumplings. 



Cereals . 1 Ib. daily per head, lid. a week. 
Dried fruit 2 ozs. 3d. 

Cheese . 2 ozs. d. 

Nuts . 2 ozs. 4:d. 

Vegetables and fruit Qd. 

Jam or treacle 2d. 



2s. Qd. 
4 



^-packet Plasmon 

Nut milk and nut butter 




12s. Od. 



' The prices given are not such as the West-end house- 
keeper is accustomed to, but happily, as stated in 
Mr. Morrison's article in the " Cornhill " for April 1901, 
the truth of which can be proved by a walk through any 
of the Saturday night slum-markets, the poor have 
facilities for buying cheaper than is dreamed of by those 
of comfortable income, and where the housewife who 
prides herself on catering for her family at 10s. a head, 
pays l^d. each for bananas, the slum-sister gets them at 
three and sometimes even six a penny. 

' For the town-dweller in winter, chestnuts are not 
dear if bought by the stone or half stone at Co-operative 

i2 



n6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Stores, for although by the pound they are a somewhat 
expensive food, the good ones rarely being under d. and 
often Qd. per lb., in quantities of 14 Ibs., the finest dark- 
skinned Italian chestnuts are sold at the rate of %d. a lb., 
and there is no more delicious and nourishing dish 
than stewed chestnuts. Children like it as kittens like 
cream. 

' The amount of cooking may be urged as a drawback 
to such a diet, for it presupposes a wife at home all day, 
and anxious enough to make the meals attractive not to 
mind the extra work, though this might be reduced by 
making two meals a day instead of three ; for instance, at 
7 A.M. and 2 P.M., or at 8 and 3, 9 and 4, 10 and 5, 11 and 
6, or 12 and 7, according as is most convenient. This 
scheme is being tried by all classes in America with singular 
success. But there are many women who have to be 
out all day, and cannot therefore attend to cooking. For 
such, another dietary of wholesome and nourishing food 
is given for the same cost, and which will only involve a 
once-a-week cooking i.e., of bread-stuffs, including cakes, 
biscuits, and tarts to make a pleasant variety. Potatoes, 
too, might be boiled or baked in skins and used for salads 
as required, if kept in a cool place outside on a window- 
sill, for instance, provided it did not overhang a drain ! 

1 Home-made bread a week old is such sweet eating 
that those who have to study their digestion take care to 
have no other. The success of the diet at this cost depends 
upon the house-mother making the bread, for it is half 
the cost and four times the nourishment of baker's bread, 
and the cheaper the flour she buys the better it is, the 
expensive " pastry whites " and " Vienna " flours contain- 
ing more starch and less proteid than the yellowish house- 
hold " seconds." For frying purposes the cotton-seed oil 
used by fried fish shops is the cheapest, and a quart once 
bought will last for months, being used over and over 



WHOLESOME FOOD 1,7 

again. This has not been estimated for in the list, ' 
because its cost being spread over so long a time is 
fractional per week, and the original outlay may be 
regarded by the housewife as part of her cooking " plant," 
like frying-pan or kettle. The nut butter in the week's 
expenses refers to cocoanut butter, which is a pure and 
excellent substitute for butter, lard, or dripping for pastry, 
biscuits, cakes, &c. The nut butter from which the nut 
milk is made will not do for these purposes or for frying, 
it being pulse -like rather than fatty. 

'The Eippingille oil stoves are admirable for bread- 
making, as for all other cooking operations, and are 
cheaper than coal. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Barley flour biscuits. Jam. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Celery. Ginger cakes. 
Supper. Bread. Dates. Grated nuts. Oranges. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Oatcake. Treacle. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Watercress. Jam tarts. 
Supper. Bread. Bananas. Nuts. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Maize biscuits. Marmalade. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Lettuce. Parkyn. 
Supper. Bread. Apples. Nuts. Figs. 



WEDNESDAY. 
Breakfast. Bread, Wheatcake. Jam. Plasmon drink. 



Milk. 



n8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Potato salad or watercress. 
Currant short cakes. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Oranges. Dates. 

THUKSDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Barley wafers. Treacle. Plasmou 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Onions. Marmalade tarts. 
Supper. Bread. Nuts. Figs. Apples. 

FRIDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Oatcake. Marmalade. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Eadishes or beetroot. 
Ginger biscuits. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Bananas. Baisins. 

SATUKDAY. 

Breakfast. Bread. Maize biscuits. Jam. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Potato salad. Currant 
loaf. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Dates. Apples. 

1 The following is an excellent diet for dyspeptics who 
wish to reduce cooking. 

Breakfast, 10 A.M. 4 ozs. bread. 

8 ozs. potato. 

4 ozs. curd cheese with green salad. 

^-pint milk. 
Dinner, 5 P.M. 4 ozs. bread. 

8 ozs. potato. 

16 ozs. fresh fruit. 

^-pint of milk. 

Oil, butter, cream, ad lib. 



WHOLESOME FOOD 119 

'This gives a total of 1,208 grains proteid, which is the 
physiological allowance for a man or woman of 9 stone 
9 Ibs. leading an active working life. 

' The details are as follows : 

4 ozs. curd cheese = 400 grains proteid or albumen. 

8 ozs. bread or cereals = 272 

16 ozs. potatoes . . =137 

16 ozs. fruit . . . = 137 

1 pint of milk . . = 262 

1,208 

'jThe cost of this diet to anyone living in the country 
with a couple of goats, a patch of vegetable garden, some 
fruit trees, and an acre of arable land, would be literally 
nothing but the labour of working the land and caring for 
the goats. Honey, too, could be added, and with due 
exercise of forethought in bottling, drying and storing 
surplus fruits and vegetables, the supply during the 
winter months could be secured. 

' To those fortunate enough to be able to get it, goat's 
milk is highly to be recommended, for the minuteness of 
the fat globules makes it easy of digestion, and being 
thinner to the palate, it is appreciated by those who 
dislike the fulness of unseparated cow's milk. If the 
demand in London were at all in proportion to the worth 
of the article, the present ridiculous price charged for it 
would fall to something within reason. Last summer I 
went into one of the principal branch offices of a well- 
known London dairy and asked the price of goat's milk. 
I was told it was 4s. a quart, and in reply to my in- 
voluntary exclamation at such an exorbitant charge, the 
amiable young woman in charge said, " But think how 
many lives it has saved, Madam ! " It did not seem to 
occur to her, or to her employers, that this was the very 



i2o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

reason why it should be within the reach of all who 
need it. 

' Cheapest and healthiest of all the forms of diet I have 
experimented upon is that of bread and fruit. With 
bread, dates, and apples, it is easy to live on &d. a day, 
and get the full proteid ration for active working life for 
a body weight of 9 stone 4 Ibs. A big man might have 
to spend &d. Life on this diet is easier and happier than 
on the regime of meat, fish, game, wine, tea, &c., which 
costs eight times as much, for there are no digestive 
troubles on bread and fruit, unless one makes the mistake 
of taking them in a wrong proportion, or of eating stupid 
kinds of bread and unripe or overripe fruit ; and when 
one thinks how digestion controls such things as de- 
pression, headache, irritability, nervousness, exhaustion, 
and other minor ills which go to make some lives almost 
unbearable, one cannot help wishing that all suffering 
people could be persuaded to give fair trial to a diet of 
the simplest foods. 

1 Unhappily, for the physical well-being of the next 
generation, the countryman who now possesses a large 
well-stocked garden, and, as in many of the villages in 
the West and South of England, often an orchard and bit 
of pasture as well, has so little knowledge of how to make 
the best use of his belongings that he sells his produce in 
order to buy unwholesome food such as tea, bacon, beer, 
butcher's meat, and tinned abominations like lobster, 
salmon, sardines, and potted meats. There is little 
reason to suppose that the parents of to-day will change 
their habits of diet, but much may be hoped for in the 
way of a more intelligent and less wasteful order of things 
in the next generation, now that the beginnings of the 
chemistry and economics of food have been introduced 
into the School Board curriculum. And if, meanwhile, 
the educated and leisured classes would take the trouble 



WHOLESOME FOOD 121 

to look carefully into these matters, and begin to practise 
a more enlightened system of dietetics, such as can be 
begun without any household upset of drastic change, the 
servant class would at least see that masters and mis- 
tresses no longer believe that life depends on eating meat 
three times a day. 

1 A great opportunity in this direction might be seized 
with advantage by the wives of country clergy. The 
wife of the present Bishop of Japan, when living at 
Andover, used to have a group of young village women to 
" high tea," or early supper at the Vicarage every Sunday 
evening, the household servants being given a holiday, 
and the meal being prepared and shared by the family 
and guests. 

1 A similar plan could be made the occasion for intro- 
ducing the simpler foods in many an attractive guise, and if 
the supper were given on a week day, it could be arranged 
to follow an informal cookery demonstration. Servants, 
like children, are very imitative, and will take to a new 
idea much more quickly if it is not forced upon them. 
One mother of a young family lately lit upon a happy 
plan in this connection. Her husband took to the simpler 
diet for health's sake, and she tried it from curiosity. The 
children soon began to beg for the food they saw their 
parents eating, and at last, as a great treat, they were 
allowed a non-meat dinner twice a week, with the result 
that before long they chose no meat at all. 

1 This surely is a good way to treat the subject with 
regard to servants. Let them see that you are well and 
able to work without meat and stimulants, and they will 
gradually lose their faith in beef, beer, and tea a faith 
for which the example of the upper classes is entirely 
responsible, and which the bulk of the medical profession 
still supports. 

' It has taken hundreds of years of bitter experience of 



122 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

disease to awaken even a small percentage of the race to 
seek more wholesome food, and it will take centuries yet 
to convince the majority. Meanwhile there are interest- 
ing signs that the course of evolution for humanity leads 
through a meat-eating stage, and although one may 
gladly endeavour to save suffering to those who are ready 
for the change, one can possess one's soul in patience 
with regard to the world at large. Our very blunders 
towards the truth have their place and purpose in fitting 
us to appreciate the truth when we find it. The age of 
excessive meat-eating is helping to produce a highly 
nervous race, which is apparently the material required 
for the next stage of evolution the stage in which the 
psychic force is to dominate the physical. 

'Only by the apparent perishing of one order can 
another and higher order be born. Perhaps when 
physical suffering and disease have reached their limit, 
we shall be ready to receive and to obey the laws 
of a saner and loftier way of life. When a man like 
Virchow says, " The future is with the vegetarians," one 
realises that with all their errors, and they are legion, 
they are the pioneers whose blundering efforts may be 
compared to the old shoes, and empty tins, and broken 
shards which go to make the foundation of the new road 
along which the whole race will some day travel. 

' To try forcibly to evade the intermediate phases, 
heart-rending as some of these must be, is as foolish as 
any other premature interference with the natural laws of 
social growth. For instance, I heard lately of a bene- 
volent landowner who, distressed by the overcrowded 
condition of the slums, and the dearth of people in the 
country, built a model village with delightful cottages 
and gardens, recreation hall and library, church, club- 
room, inn, baths, and everything else that could be 
desired for health and happiness. He then transplanted 



WHOLESOME FOOD 123 

slum-dwellers who were known to be 1 in actual desti- 
tution literally starving and provided them with 
varieties . of wage-earning occupation under the most 
healthy and liberal regulations. At the end of a year his 
village was deserted ; all the starving slummers had gone 
back, of their deliberate choice, to the misery whence he 
had taken them. Such facts would at first sight appear 
to be baffling. They do but illustrate the old adage, 
" You may take a horse to the water, but you can't make 
him drink." Those slum-people had not yet had their 
fill of slum experience, and were by no means thirsty for 
the refreshing life of the country. Wretched as they 
were, they had not reached the limit of their capacity for 
enduring squalor and getting some mysterious good out 
of it. Their turning-point had not yet come. Their 
evolution had been forcibly interrupted, and their blind 
instinct in returning to take it up where it had been 
broken off was a sound one, strange as it may look on 
the surface. 

' A friend, who for years had had slum-dwellers driven 
down in brake-loads of fifty for summer days in her fields 
and gardens, told me once that her heart had never ached 
for them with quite such intolerable bitterness since she 
had heard from their spiritual pastor, that as they drew 
up one evening at the entrance to their alley after one of 
these outings, one of them had said, as if voicing the 
general sentiment, " The country's fine for a 'oliday, mates, 
but, arter all, this smells like 'ome I " 

' There are many athirst for a country life, but they are 
not necessarily dwellers in the slums, though they may 
be found there, as in any other quarter of our crowded 
towns. Perhaps we should waste less time in futile 
regret over the depopulation of our villages if we could 
look upon our cities as the great mills of evolution into 
which the slow, massive, yokel strength has inevitably to 



124 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

be drawn and ground " exceeding small," even to the dust 
of physical wreckage, that the nervous matter of the brain 
may be developed and exercised at all costs. It is those 
who have gone through the mill who are ready for the 
country : whose nervous systems have been developed to 
the point of exhaustion by the strain and grind of city 
life for, it may be, two or three generations, and whose 
brains are as restless and alert as the ploughboy's are 
dull and apathetic, whose nerves need repose as much 
as his need tension. The weary governess, the neurotic 
dressmaker, the dyspeptic bank-clerk, the anaemic 
student, the worn-out mother, these are they who crave 
for the country as prisoners crave for air and light, and 
these are the types which, in my experience, are to some 
extent counterbalancing the current that sets from village 
to town, for these are among the applicants for ' small 
holdings,' in the hope sometimes forlorn enough of 
making a livelihood out of market gardening, chicken, 
bee, flower, and fruit farming. Many are the mistakes, 
and grievous the disappointments and even failures which 
they must suffer ; for as a rule they have little capital, less 
health, and no experience, and yet, in spite of all, so 
intense and deep-seated is their instinct for country 
life that they often manage to struggle through the 
first few years of hardship and make the modest living 
they desire. 

' To those whose experience has brought them into 
more or less intimate touch with widely different classes 
of the community, there are not a few indications that the 
farming industries of England are being recruited from 
social levels entirely unlike those of old days. 

' It used to be almost a joke among the Bushey art- 
students that if anyone married before his profession could 
support him he turned cottar-farmer ; and certainly some 
of them succeeded as such in the face of overwhelming 



WHOLESOME FOOD 125 

difficulties, by the very simple and sensible device of 
throwing conventional ideas of fitness to the winds, and 
doing in England, without false shame, the work they 
would have done as a matter of course if they had gone 
" out West," or to the Colonies, to " take up land." These 
men and women, in most cases of delicate constitution 
and highly nervous temperament, have pitted themselves 
against conditions which to the labouring and artisan 
class would have seemed hopeless, and by sheer force of 
the cultivated intelligence that comes of good birth and 
breeding have won against long odds. One couple who 
started with 100Z. capital and no income, on a tumble- 
down little farm of twenty acres, of which ten were so 
" foul " that no farmer in his senses would have taken the 
place the docks and thistles having to be scythed down 
before the horse could be coaxed to pull the plough 
through them ! have done so well that they have now 
moved on to a sixty-acre farm in the next county which 
has been under intensive culture for many years. 

' The full story of their experiences some of them as 
comic as others were tragic I hope to tell elsewhere 
another day.' 



RECEIPTS 

' Polenta Cutlets. Stir one pound Indian maize 
meal into slightly salted boiling water, adding two Spanish 
onions chopped very fine, an ounce of butter or oil, three 
ounces grated cheese, a little pepper, and herbs, if liked. 
Mix well, and put into a double pan and cook for half an 
hour, when it should be stiff. Turn out into a dish and 
press it into convenient shape for cutting up when cold 
into fingers, which dip in milk and breadcrumbs, and fry 
brown. Can be served with sauce if desired. 



i 2 6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Unfermented Bread. To every pound of flour allow 
half -pint milk and water (quarter-pint each). Mix lightly 
as for pastry, no kneading being required. Form into 
small rolls or fingers and bake in moderate oven on a 
pastry tray. 

If wheatmeal (i.e., the flour of the entire wheat grain) 
is used, care should be taken to have it very finely ground, 
as bran flakes are irritant and relaxing and very unsafe in 
some forms of digestive trouble, though equally good and 
useful in others. The indiscriminate recommendation of 
cracked wheat porridge and whole-meal bread is hardly 
wise in these days of gastro-intestinal delicacy, as seen in 
the many cases of appendicitis in adults and colitis in 
children. House-mothers should know when to give the 
right food to those in their charge. 

It is a good plan to keep in the house several different 
grains, such as wheat, barley, maize, oats, rice, in two 
forms i.e., in the whole grain and as flour and to make 
bread or biscuits of both mixed. For instance, pearled 
wheat, or the grain stripped of its outer bran, should be 
cooked slowly for three or four hours in a double pan with 
water enough to swell it without breaking the grain into a 
mash ; this cooked wheat is then mixed with ordinary 
wheat flour to the consistency of bread or pastry, and is 
shortened if liked with cocoanut butter, or ground nuts, 
and left plain, or sweetened and flavoured with dried 
fruit, spices, &c., and rolled out and cut for baking into 
biscuits or finger rolls. The same method can be followed 
with all the other cereals except maize which in the 
whole grain is too hard in this country. Maize meal 
mixed with wheat flour is very good in biscuit form, but is 
best cooked first, as if for polenta without the savoury 
seasoning. All these whole and ground cereals can be 
got from Bax & Sons, millers, 35 Bishopsgate Street 
Without, E.G. The whole groats (the entire oat grain) 



WHOLESOME FOOD 127 

are particularly good for porridge, but should, like all 
grains, be cooked several hours in a Gourmet boiler, or 
duplex boilerette, or other form of double saucepan which 
prevents burning. The duplex boilerette is made by Mr. 
Wellbank, Duplex Boilerette Works, Banbury, Oxon. 

Date Pudding" (cheap). Wash dates quickly in hot 
water, dry, stone, and chop them, mix with double their 
weight of breadcrumbs, and a little sugar. Add skim 
milk or weak Plasmon solution till of pudding con- 
sistency. Steam two hours in buttered basin. Ground 
nuts and grated lemon peel may be added, if liked, or raw 
coarse oatmeal, and soaked tapioca, with a little flour, 
may be used instead of the breadcrumbs. 

Macaroni and Cheese Patties. --Take one ounce 
macaroni well boiled, cut very small, and add one large 
tablespoonful of grated cheese and the same of cream or 
nut butter. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard, if 
liked. Make some short paste, roll out thin and line 
patty pans. Fill with the mixture and cover with paste. 
Bake a light brown. Instead of patty pan, the paste can 
be doubled over the mixture and fried as fritters if pre- 
ferred. Butter and milk can be substituted for cream, and 
it is quite good without either, but in that case the maca- 
roni should be rather moist and the cheese fresh and soft. 

Macaroni a la Tripe. Boil some macaroni till soft. 
Drain and put aside. Cut in fine rings as many 
Spanish onions as will equal the macaroni in bulk. Fry 
in butter till quite tender, but not coloured. Remove from 
pan, and make a sauce by adding flour, milk, pepper, salt, 
a dash of nutmeg, and a torn bay-leaf. Eeplace onion 
rings in this, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; then 
remove the bay-leaf and add the macaroni, and heat 
through. Serve with grated Gruyere or other cheese. 
Chopped parsley may be substituted for the bay-leaf, 

Parkyn. One pound sifted oatmeal, one pound 



is8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

treacle, one pound coarse, brown sugar ; quarter-pound 
butter. Ground ginger to flavour. Mix, and bake in very 
slow oven in flat cakes the size of a saucer. 

Barley Water. Four ounces pearl barley, two quarts 
water. Thoroughly wash the barley, add the water and 
boil till reduced to one quart. Strain through hair-sieve 
(or muslin) previously scalded, and press through some of 
the barley to thicken. Time to reduce, three to four 
hours. Can be flavoured with lemon peel and juice, 
sugar or honey, apple peel and pips, or any fruit juice. 
Stewed rhubarb juice is good. 

Savoury Vegetable Stew with Barley. Chop up 

carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, celery, tomatoes, and 
fry in butter. Add pearl barley and plenty of cold water, 
with seasoning of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, mace, pepper, 
and salt. Stew in double saucepan till the barley is 
swelled and thoroughly tender. Serve with fried dice of 
bread. 

Fried Hominy. Cook hominy in the usual way 
(soaking overnight in cold water, and boiling like por- 
ridge till soft) and put aside to cool. Then cut in any 
shape preferred, fry brown in oil or cocoanut butter, dust 
with sugar or salt, and serve. 

Stewed Chestnuts. Slit the skins of the chestnuts, 
and put them into cold water. Bring to the boil, keeping 
lid tight, and cook about ten minutes. Lift out a few at 
a time and remove both outer and inner skins. When all 
are done, put them into a clean saucepan and cover with 
milk or milk and water. Stew slowly till the nuts break 
and are coated in a smooth creamy sauce. Time, one to 
two hours. An old saucepan used for nothing else should 
be kept for blanching them, as chestnut skins discolour it 
badly. 

Apple Dumplings Without Suet. Soaked tapioca 
and butter make a good substitute for suet in boiled 



WHOLESOME FOOD 129 

pudding crust. Pare and core a large apple for each 
dumpling required. Fill the centre with a clove, a little 
sugar and a bit of butter. Cover with paste, tie in a 
floured cloth, and boil thirty to forty minutes. For the 
crust use as much soaked tapioca and butter in equal 
parts as you would have used of suet. 

Stewed Tomatoes. Skin one pound tomatoes by 
blanching in boiling water for five minutes; then put 
them into a stewpan (earthenware for choice) with two 
lumps of sugar, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a 
little salt. No water. Stew them in their own juice gently 
for twenty minutes. 

Baked Apple Pudding 1 . Fill a pie- dish with 
alternate layers of sliced apples and bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with bits of butter, a little sugar, and 
a pinch of mixed cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Pour 
over the whole enough water and treacle mixed to 
moisten it, cover with crumbs, stand in a baking tin of 
hot water, and bake till apples are soft, three-quarters to 
one hour. 

Barley and Raisin Pudding. Take the barley left 
from making barley water, put it into a buttered pie-dish 
with a handful of washed raisins. Cover with milk or 
dissolved Plasmon, and bake slowly one hour, or till the 
barley has swelled to top of dish. 

Curd Cheese. Take two pints new milk, curdle it 
either by slow heat, or by rennet, lemon juice, fig juice, or 
bruised nettles. Turn the curd into a cheese cloth or 
butter muslin (coarse canvas will do), previously scalded, 
tie loosely and hang up to drain. After three or four 
hours tie again tighter. In twelve hours it is fit to eat, 
but if preferred it can be pressed and turned every day 
till as firm as ordinary cheese. 

Nut Cutlets. Boil two ounces of butter in rather less 
than half -pint of milk. Add three ounces of dried browned 



1 30 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

breadcrumbs (or brown breadcrumbs). Cook till it does 
not stick to the pan. When cool add two ounces of ground 
walnuts, almonds or Barcelona nuts, seasoning to taste, 
and a little chopped onion or chives. Mix thoroughly and 
shape into cutlets or balls. Eoll in flour, or in egg and 
breadcrumb, and fry in butter. Serve with tomato sauce, 
walnut gravy, or for children with bread sauce. 

If the same dish is prepared with white breadcrumbs, 
and a little good melted butter sauce used for mixing, it 
looks and tastes very like chicken croquettes. 

Souffle Potatoes With Nuts. Take out the inside 
of as many large baked potatoes as you require. For 
each potato add one ounce of ground nuts, a dessert spoon- 
ful of cream or a bit of butter the size of a small walnut, 
pepper, salt, and if liked a seasoning of onion juice and 
parsley. Beat thoroughly to a smooth creamy con- 
sistency, put the mixture back into the potato skins, 
bake till very hot, and serve. 

A very savoury flavour is given by frying some sliced 
onions in the butter and adding the butter alone to the 
potatoes, but the colour is a little darkened by doing 
this. 

Brazil Nut Soup. One pound of ground Brazil nuts 
stewed for twelve hours in two quarts of water ; flavour 
with celery and a few fried onions. Add one quart of 
boiling milk. Pass through a strainer, season, and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

A nourishing dish for a child or invalid is good bread 
sauce to which has been added two ounces of ground 
almonds, well pounded in a mortar. Serve with fried 
dice, or spinach. 

Baked almonds slightly salted, and ground, make 
excellent sandwiches. 

Rice Croquettes. Take cold boiled rice and mix it 
with fried chopped onion, a few breadcrumbs, pepper, 



WHOLESOME FOOD 131 

salt, chopped parsley, or mixed herbs flavouring, and 
enough melted cocoanut butter or nut milk to bind all 
together. When cold, shape into cakes, and fry in deep 
boiling fat. 

For this, as for all sorts of savouries like nut cutlets, 
fritters, &c., a frying basket and plenty of oil or fat are 
necessary for good cooking. It also needs experience, or 
a frying thermometer, to know when fat is at the right 
heat for deep frying. 

Braised Onions. Peel large or medium sized onions 
in warm water to prevent the volatile oil from affecting 
the eyes, place them in a baking dish with butter enough 
to baste them well, and bake three hours, when they will 
be brown and tender. Remove them on to a serving 
dish, pour hot water into the baking tin, and with a 
wooden spoon rub off all the dark brown caked juice, 
thickening if liked with a little flour, in which case the 
tin must be placed over heat enough to boil the gravy and 
cook the flour. Pour over the onions and serve. This is 
a delicious dish which puzzles meat-eaters, as they think 
they are eating a rich meat sauce. 

Raisin Tea. Take half a pound good raisins and wash 
well in cold water. Cut them up roughly to free the pulp in 
cooking, and put them into a stewing jar, or Gourmet 
boiler, with one quart cold water (distilled, for perfection). 
Cook three to four hours, when the liquid will be reduced to 
one pint. Press all but insoluble skins and stones through 
a fine, scalded sieve, and use either hot or cold. If too 
sweet, a little lemon juice may be added, but it is best 
without for invalids and children. This drink is of the 
same proteid value as milk, and is so much more easily 
digested that it is being used successfully in many cases 
of gastric disease where both milk and vegetable or meat 
soups are impossible. It is not recommended to meat- 
eaters, as the sweetness might cause bilious disturbance ; 



i 3 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but to scientific vegetarians and fruitarians it is in- 
valuable as a nutrient drink. For those who suffer from 
cold it is very warming. 

Nut Cutlets (another way). One cupful grated 
bread, one cupful each of grated almonds and walnuts or 
Brazils, one teaspoonful powdered mace, one tablespoonful 
grated onion juice, one teaspoonful powdered mixed herbs, 
salt and pepper if liked, enough good melted butter sauce 
to mix and bind together. Stir all thoroughly well, and 
allow to go cold. Shape into cutlets or balls, flour, or 
egg and breadcrumb, and fry in a basket in deep fat at 
350. A few seconds will turn them brown, and they are 
crisp and dry, not the least greasy. A very nourishing 
and savoury dish which should be eaten with vegetables 
in the same proportion as if the cutlets were of meat.' 



133 



EIGHTEEN HUNDEED A YEAR 

REPRINTED FROM THE ' CORNHILL MAGAZINE ' 

A YOUNG friend came to see me not long ago, and after a 
short period of a somewhat shy reserve he looked up 
with a beaming, happy face, and said, ' I'm going to be 
married.' It all sounds so simple, these few words, and 
yet what do they not mean in two young lives ! I re- 
sponded with a smile and the ordinary platitude of, ' I am 
very glad, and especially so for your mother's sake, for it 
will give her great pleasure.' As we talked on, I naturally 
came to the prosaic, elderly question, 'What have you 
got to live upon ? ' His answer came short and straight 
enough. ' With what my father left me and my salary, 
I shall make up 1,600Z. a year, and the lady I am about 
to marry, I am told, is to have 200Z. of her own/ 

' That will do well enough,' I said, ' even if you have 
to live in London. The most pessimistic objector to early 
marriage can hardly say that love need fly out of the 
window on such an income as that. But, all the same, 
wealth is comparative,' for everything depends on position 
and what there is to keep up. The young man, being of 
the cautious, prudent type, asked, ' And what do you think 
I ought to save yearly on such an income ? ' I answered, 
' From 200/. to 300Z. a year.' He, not differing, but yet 
interrogatively, replied, 'I wonder why? I shall have 
more later on. Why is it necessary to save at all, and 
not just fit my expenditure to my present income ? ' This 



134 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

opens so large a question that on my young friend's 
departure I asked myself why I think as I do about it. 

There seems to me a point of resemblance between 
saving and the very different occupation of gambling. 
Why is it that gambling has always, in all countries and 
at all times, been condemned by wise and prudent people, 
and saving (that is to say, not living up to your income, 
but leaving a margin more or less wide, which you intend 
to add to your capital) been approved ? It cannot be only 
that in ten years or so you should be 2,OOOZ. or 3,0001. 
richer. The approval of the saving and the condemnation 
of the gambling are directed, I think, to the mental 
attitude of the gambler or the careful man, rather than to 
any practical result to them personally of their conduct. 
The saving recommended is in no sense the spirit of the 
miser who piles up wealth for which he has no use, but 
a cautious guarding of expenditure which provides for 
future children, against a rainy day, or enables a man 
later in life to better his house or his furniture, or 
to increase the enjoyment of his holidays. To adjust 
income and expenditure exactly is extremely difficult, and 
anyone who does not pitch his estimate of expenditure 
below his income is almost sure in practice to exceed it. 
Of course, it is much less important to save on a more or 
less assured income (for no income is absolutely assured) 
than it is to save on an income which is almost entirely 
derived from salary, and dependent on a man's life or 
health or the success of the business in which he is 
engaged. To save ever so little is very much better than 
keeping elaborate accounts. If, at the end of the year, 
the savings are there, no doubt remains that the expendi- 
ture has been, as regards essentials, well regulated 
though getting as much as can be got out of the money 
spent is quite a different matter from making both ends 
meet. It is, all the same, interesting and good to re- 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 135 

member what can be done at a pinch, and how the upper 
working classes live in comfort on an income where 
thousands of impoverished gentry would simply starve on 
double the sum. The fundamental principle which governs 
the lives of the working classes is to ignore to-morrow 
to live from hand to mouth and day to day. And it is 
on this point that gentility with a very small income is 
often perverted by not recognising the merits of the 
principle when circumstances make it a necessity. This 
seems to me worth considering, although I recommend 
the opposite principle as the one generally most admirable 
to practise with a larger income. The working man does 
his best for the moment, assumes that his children when 
reared will do likewise, and the rest he leaves to Provi- 
dence, or chance, or whatever the unknown quantity may 
be called. The ' gentle ' reared man, I say, cannot be 
happy unless he has a security against fate, not only for 
himself but for his family. It is a fine idea in many ways, 
but it can perhaps grow into an exaggeration. The 
serious handicap to the ' gentle ' man is the education of 
his children. He must pay through the nose for it, or 
his children are apt to sink into a class to which they do 
not rightly belong and for which they are quite unfitted. 
The working man starts his children as he started him- 
self, with nothing more than the education provided by 
the nation, and their own power to work. 

The expenditure of an income of 1,800Z. a year will 
vary a great deal in detail according to whether it is spent 
in London or the country. I shall therefore consider the 
two separately, taking London first. Of course, the most 
important item is house-rent, and requirements and taste 
differ so widely that it seriously affects the whole income. 

The old idea was that house -rent should absorb only 
a tenth of the income ; but this in London is practically 
impossible an eighth is nearer the*;[average nowadays. 



136 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Even this will vary very much with circumstances the 
requirements and wishes of both parties. The wife con- 
stantly holds to living within easy reach of her family 
and friends, and the husband's wishes will be much 
affected by his kind of work. Saving of time in getting 
to work may be of great importance, necessitating the use 
of cabs. The house rent, which, on an income of 1,800Z., 
in most cases had better not exceed 200Z., including rates 
and taxes, may very easily mount up to 350Z. When 
this is the case it is well to commit the extravagance 
boldly, and so secure a house in a locality which is 
practically a certain let, if circumstances make this de- 
sirable, or if the expenditure of any one year has exceeded 
the average. There seems to be a very general impression 
that living in a better locality and a more central part of 
the West End is an actual economy ; this may be the case 
if cabs are much used, but if the Underground or 'buses 
be the usual mode of locomotion, very little is saved 
except time, which in the case of the woman does not 
generally affect the income. At one period of my life, 
influenced no doubt by the growing so-called artistic 
fashion, I had a great dislike to the old two-roomed back 
and front house ; but I am now inclined to think that on 
the whole, especially in small houses, it is the best plan 
of house building for London. It gives more room, more 
convenience, and more air than any of the modern houses, 
arranged on what is considered a superior system viz., 
blocking up the middle of the house with staircase and 
landings, all more or less dark, and which divide all the 
rooms from one another. Corner houses are, in my 
opinion, to be avoided, as they are always stuffy, a draught 
through being not easily obtained. Flats are not suited 
to young married couples. 

The boudoir or morning room so vaunted by agents 
seems to me very superfluous for young married people. 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 137 

In early married days and in winter, for reasons of 
economy, the husband being out all day, there seems no 
reason why the wife should not share the man's sitting- 
room. But if the drawing-room is used, she must live in 
it, or it will have an unbearably stiff appearance. The 
great advantage of the two-roomed house, with the 
absence of a dividing landing on the bedroom floors, is in 
case of illness. No one who has had to experience any 
kind of nursing fails to appreciate the great importance 
of rooms that communicate, and much suffering is often 
spared to the nervous child who feels the presence of its 
nurse in the adjoining room, and sees the gleam of the 
nursery light through the half-closed door. Besides, in 
the busy modern London life, those who have lately 
become one will feel it an advantage, by no means to be 
despised, that they can talk at all sorts of odd times 
through the open door, and discuss life's little difficulties, 
which are often created by a non-understanding of the 
circumstances. When man and woman are joint masters 
in the small details of everyday life and the just ruling of 
servants and children, there should be the comprehension 
of what Mr. Morley calls 'government by discussion, 
which is now counted the secret of liberty.' George Eliot 
says somewhere that 'a man with an affectionate dis- 
position who finds a wife to concur with his fundamental 
idea of life easily comes to persuade himself that no other 
woman would have suited him so well, and does a little 
daily snapping and quarrelling without any sense of 
alienation.' How true this is; but also, how infinitely 
better is it that this should be done upstairs than in the 
drawing-room or dining-room, possibly before servants 
and guests. 

Having now given my opinion on the preferable style 
of house, for the sake of argument I will say that the 
young couple decide on the more fashionable locality, and 



138 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

weight their income with a disproportionately high rent. 

Under these circumstances I think the disposition of their 

income and general expenditure would work out into 

something like the following table : 

s. d. 

I. Kent, rates, and taxes 360 

II. Housekeeping, including living, washing, lighting 550 

III. Repairs, insurance, cleaning, painting, &c. . . 100 

IV. Coal 60 

V. Dress (man and woman) 200 

VI. Wages, including beer, for four servants . . 130 

VII. Wine 60 

VIII. Stamps, newspapers, stationery, &c. . . 30 

IX. Doctors, dentists, accidents, journeys . . . 100 

X. New house linen 20 

XI. Charities 40 

1,650 

Cabs, amusements, and presents will have to be saved 
out of clothes or journeys ; with so heavy a rent, putting 
by money some years will be very difficult. Here I must 
add a grave word of caution against a practice, only too 
common I fear, of running into debt over the process of 
furnishing. A wise man ought to have money in hand 
before he decides to marry. If he has no savings, it is 
better to take some portion of his capital and pay his bills, 
returning it by degrees out of his yearly income. In this 
way he begins fair on strictly ready-money principles, by 
which I mean paying everything weekly, an impossibility 
if stray bills keep coming in. Any bill that cannot be 
paid weekly should be paid quarterly. One bill I fear 
often postponed is that of the doctor. I think it would 
be immensely to the advantage of both doctor and patient 
if it were a more received custom that the general prac- 
titioner should be given his half-guinea, like the M.D. his 
guinea, at the close of each visit. Few people have any 
idea of how unjustly doctors are treated as regards their 
bills, hardly liking to complain when they are neglected 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 139 

or even forgotten altogether. At the time of the illness 
no fee is ever grudged, but doctors' visits carelessly in- 
dulged in are apt to run up a very heavy bill, which causes 
considerable and unjust irritation at Christmas. Eeceiv- 
ing bills, paying bills, and running up new bills poison 
the first weeks of the new year to a great many. 

I enter into no details with regard to servants' wages, 
as on this subject also opinions vary widely as to which 
department is to have the experienced and expensive ser- 
vant. Speaking in a general way, every maid represents 
an additional sixty or seventy pounds a year, and every 
man another seventy or eighty. These sums cover all 
expenses connected with a servant, including wages. It 
is generally worth while to increase wages to keep a good 
servant, and few things are more extravagant than chang- 
ing servants ; but no one gets what he wants by offering 
wages above the average. If for an exceptional case 
wages are raised, always go back on changing the servant 
to the sum you originally gave. In the eighth volume of 
Mr. Charles Booth's wonderful book, ' The Life and 
Labour of the People in London,' there is a chapter on 
domestic indoor servants which gives considerable in- 
formation, and which, I think, all young householders 
would do well to read. It is with no small surprise one 
realises how very limited in number, as compared with 
population, are the people who can afford to keep any 
servants at all. Mr. Booth says, ' With three servants 
a cook, parlourmaid, and housemaid a household is com- 
plete in all its functions ; all else is only a development 
of this theme.' Most of my young women friends will 
be surprised to hear that he gives the lady's-maid no place 
at all, and of course she is the easiest servant to suppress 
without altering the style of living or inconveniencing 
the husband in any way. A large class of people who 
keep three servants, even if they increase them to four, 



i 4 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

add a kitchenmaid, or an up-and-down girl, rather than a 
lady's-maid. I am inclined to think that in early years 
of married life a lady's-maid, besides being a great com- 
fort, partly pays for herself by the saving of dressmakers' 
bills, and turning old things into new. It is fancy things 
made at home that really pay, not petticoats and under- 
linen. The lady's-maid, too, must undertake the mending 
of house linen, an important duty, as very few housemaids 
are to be trusted to do any fine needlework at all ; though 
if one afternoon a week is set apart under the lady's- 
maid's superintendence the housemaid would probably 
be quite capable of sewing on buttons and doing necessary 
repairs both to house linen and the husband's under- 
clothes. A woman who is obliged to have all her things 
made out will find the allowance of 100Z. a year insuffi- 
cient, if she is to be well dressed. It would mean buying 
ready-made shop clothes or going to inferior dressmakers. 
The beauty of dress is not so much what it costs, as the 
individual representation of the wearer's mind and taste. 
No one, putting aside the very best dressmakers, can carry 
this out so well as an intelligent maid at home. This 
also applies to the dressing of children. There is perhaps 
no time in a woman's life when she can be so well dressed 
on what is now called ' a small allowance ' as in the early 
years of her married life. She has her trousseau to work 
from, and if she is sensible even in London she will go 
little into society beyond dining out : it should be her 
object to reduce the number of entertainments for which 
different dresses are required, it being much more difficult 
and expensive to dress suitably than smartly. London 
clothes, luckily, do quite well for Saturdays and Sundays 
in the country ; though they are most inappropriate for 
real country life. 

In a small establishment the only servant who is likely 
to be hard-worked, and therefore deserving of special 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 141 

consideration, is the single-handed cook. I am all in 
favour of beginning life with a young cook who has been 
kitchen-maid in a good kitchen, and who is willing to let 
even her inexperienced mistress be housekeeper, regulat- 
ing expenditure and diminishing dining-room luxuries, as 
what can perfectly be done without is what swells the 
weekly books. There is no economy in stinting the daily 
food, either for the dining-room or the servants. Servants 
who come to a certain class of master and mistress look 
upon good feeding as their due just as much as sheets to 
sleep in or the wages which are handed to them quarterly. 
A lower class of modern servant clings to having her 
wages paid monthly. This request should be yielded to 
as little as possible, as it tends to make saving more diffi- 
cult, and saving is specially desirable for domestic ser- 
vants, who, with unaccustomed luxury, have much in 
their daily life which undermines their moral sense. One 
of the best ways of easing the cook in her work is the 
foreign method of servants having their meals after they 
come out of the dining-room. Servants' breakfast must 
either be before or at the same time as the dining-room. 
Luncheon at 1.30, and sent out as quickly as possible, 
gives the servants their dinner. If the master's dinner is 
after 8 o'clock it comes very hard on the servants, as it 
makes their supper so late. Eeducing the number of 
courses (by which I mean having the food brought up at 
the same time, more in the style, though mercifully re- 
duced in quantity, of the suppers of our great-grand- 
fathers) is conducive to health, an actual economy, and 
gives the cook less to dish up and wash up. A foreign 
fashion introduced of late, and becoming almost universal 
in England, is the serving coffee after luncheon, which 
servants now copy by having tea after their dinner. 
Both really injure digestion, but tea is far the most un- 
wholesome, and chemically turns meat into lumps of iron, 



i 4 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the justification, though they don't realise why, of the 
male hatred of ' high tea ' ; consequently, this habit of tea 
after dinner will only increase the almost universal 
dyspepsia. The teetotalling propaganda has much to 
answer for, so difficult is it in life not to fall from Scylla 
into Charybdis, and now tea is adding its poison to the 
alcohol which has so fatally undermined the health of our 
towns and villages. A friend of mine told me the other 
day that the doctor said that half his patients on her large 
estate in the North of England were due to excessive tea 
drinking. This is owing, as in Ireland where the mad- 
houses are half filled by tea-drinkers, to the stewing of 
the tea leaves. Low diet makes the poison much more 
active : this obliges non-meat eaters, to the great surprise 
even of themselves, to renounce tea-drinking altogether, 
even when the leaves are quickly infused. Keeping ser- 
vants up at night makes early rising an impossibility. 
The young couple must decide which they prefer. The 
lady must study books, go to stores to learn quality of 
goods and their prices, and not be ashamed to ask the 
advice of her contemporaries, which is generally more 
valuable from those that are poorer, than from those that 
are richer, than herself. 

A short experience will teach us that, broadly speak- 
ing, our friends are divided into two classes those who 
complain much of their poverty and the expense of every- 
thing, and those who apparently live in the lap of luxury, 
stinting neither themselves nor their servants, and who 
yet maintain that their books are lower than seems 
possible from any reasonable calculation. This may be 
the result of some different method of keeping accounts, 
or that the house is run by some very experienced house- 
keeper, cook or man-servant, or governess, who gets 
the uttermost farthing out of every bargain. And the 
economy is further magnified by the lady herself, who, 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 143 

in giving a sketch of her ordinary expenditure, fre- 
quently omits some important item. Such friends are 
apt to send us home in a very depressed state of mind, 
which is not without use, for it rouses us out of our own 
carelessness. In the case of a cook without a kitchen- 
maid an ordinary dinner cannot be well served, even for 
a small party, without some outside assistance, and I think 
it would be better in London to try to find a girl who 
lives at home, and who would be glad to make money and 
be willing to come in on certain occasions, than the usual 
old and experienced charwoman, who takes her own line, 
instead of submitting to the training of the young cook. 
Many young girls on leaving the Board schools might be 
quite willing to do some work which does not oblige them 
to leave their homes. All assistance of this kind is a 
growing difficulty ; the bridging of a gap between what 
are called the respectable poor, and the class just below 
them, still remains a curiously unsolved problem. We 
are always hearing of people so poor that they must be 
supported by charity, whose children are now educated 
in the national schools in a way that should fit them to 
become under-servants and supply an ever-increasing 
demand throughout the country, and yet it is more 
difficult to get under-servants than ever. The expense of 
occasional outside assistance in the kitchen will be very 
inconsiderable, and if the young couple frequently dine 
out the cook will have many evenings to herself. The 
cook and the man-servant should not both be out at the 
same time. In the kind of household I am attempting to 
describe it is certainly in the food department that with 
care the greatest saving can be made without discomfort 
or parsimony. The young housekeeper must feel that 
this depends on herself, and need not feel ashamed to 
take to heart the words of Socrates : ' I am distinguished 
from others and superior to others by this character only, 



144 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that I am conscious of my own ignorance,' and so 
naturally to be aware of our own lack of knowledge is the 
first step towards a better state of things. A constant 
acquiring of knowledge is the one thing that redeems 
housekeeping from being intolerably uninteresting ; with- 
out this its daily monotony is very trying to many 
characters. I heard the other day of a lady who said she 
was getting rid of her cook for no fault, but merely 
because she was so tired of seeing the same face every 
day. I do not believe that sort of feeling would come 
over anyone who tried daily to teach her cook some- 
thing. 

Let every young housekeeper do her best to simplify 
life. It will only add to her powers of hospitality, which 
should always be without competition nothing should be 
done with the idea of surpassing others. The great use 
of stores and wholesale shops is the knowledge they give 
of the market price of goods, and, as a matter of fact, 
often when things are cheapest they are best, as they are 
then plentiful and in their prime. Never buy anything 
out of season, is one of the best rules, and on the whole I 
think it makes the best living. Season in London does 
not apply to what grows in our gardens. There is, of 
course, a season for imported goods, such as cranberries, 
oranges, or the beans from Madeira, and these things 
vary considerably in price from week to week. Never 
forget one of my favourite precepts, that if luxuries are 
bought they should be of the very best, and come from 
the very best shops. This applies especially to wine, 
which can only be got good through the thought and 
knowledge of the host, not forgetting that bad wine is by 
no means always cheap wine. Mowers have become a 
somewhat wasteful luxury in London. I see no reason 
why a table should not be made to look quite as pretty 
with plate and china, without any flowers at all, or say 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 145 

one Japanese arrangement, which means trouble and 
taste, not expense. I remember, some years ago, think- 
ing how beautiful a flower decoration was on a dinner- 
table, and on expressing my admiration to my young 
hostess, she said, ' I am so glad you like them. They 
were so cheap. I do not think the whole lot cost more 
than 51. ! ' 

To return to the household. By far the easiest 
servant to secure is a housemaid. This by no means 
implies that she knows her work. Even trained house- 
maids are sometimes wrongly trained, and the mistress 
of the house is often very incapable of teaching even the 
simplest rules of how to keep a house well aired and yet 
clean ; the London housemaid's idea is to keep it clean 
by shutting the windows. The right way is to keep 
windows open day and night, and dust certain pieces of 
furniture several times a day. It is both economical and 
clean to make an arrangement with the laundress to do 
the maids' washing at so much a week a head, instead 
of giving 'washing money' to the servants themselves. 
I also think it of great importance that the beer money, 
instead of being paid weekly, should be added to the 
wages and paid quarterly. If masters and mistresses 
only realised the number of young servants who have 
been taught to drink by being tempted to help themselves 
to the brandy and whisky on the cold grey mornings when 
they come to their work, masters and mistresses would 
be more careful to lock away these things before they go 
to bed ; as, alas ! even those who believe that taking 
spirits before going to bed is very injurious to health, are 
forced by the laws of hospitality to produce the decanters 
before the departure of their guests. 

Nothing oils the machinery of the household such as 
I have been describing so much as the introduction of a 
very young footman or boy, and in case of the man- 

L 



146 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

servant being a soldier servant it becomes almost a neces- 
sity, for he has his master's uniforms to attend to, and is 
often called away by various duties into the country. 
The boy cleans knives and boots, carries coal, which is 
injurious heavy work for women ; sleeps in the pantry if 
the man-servant is married, which often means a better 
class of servant. The boy's help also enables the house- 
maid to keep entirely to her own work all day, very 
desirable in London, instead of being called down con- 
stantly to answer the door. Once more referring to the 
list of expenditure for 1,800Z. a year, the items marked 
No. III. will be thought by many to be over-estimated at 
100Z. a year, but this is certainly not too much, taking 
one year with another, if the house, which is so con- 
stantly the case in London, has to be painted outside 
every three years. Others may think 60Z. a year too 
heavy a charge for coal, but this must include wood for 
lighting fires, no inconsiderable item in a London house. 
20Z. a year for keeping up the stock of linen is rather 
under than over what I should deem necessary, unless 
the young menage is very much better set up than is 
usually the case in England. My estimate for living in 
London leaves us with the very narrow margin of 150Z. a 
year, but my calculations were upset by finding on 
inquiry that the rent of even small houses in good locali- 
ties south of the Park are so much higher than I expected. 
Some years ago excellent houses were to be had on the 
north side for 125Z. a year. After all, everything I have 
said resolves itself into what applies to every income i.e., 
to pretend to yourself that you have less than you have 
got, and then live at that rate, and you will always be 
rich. This is the honest and comfortable way of living, 
but it does not perhaps always appear worldly wise, as 
experience shows us that feckless and extravagant people 
generally get paid for, somehow, and very often at the 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 147 

expense of those who are careful. It will always be so 
more or less, and is only the old story of the Prodigal and 
the son who stays at home. 

Living in the country on an income of 1,800Z. a year 
changes the expenditure in many ways ; in some more 
expensive, and in others cheaper. Shall we not throw 
into the balance all the unbuyable luxuries the country 
gives us ? Sun and light, air and cleanliness inside and 
outside the house, winter hoar-frosts and summer's 
radiant colours, flowers growing at their own sweet will, 
the song of birds and the ceaseless interest of insect life. 
' Life is sweet, brother, there's day and night, brother, 
both sweet things ; sun, moon and stars, all sweet things ; 
there's likewise a wind on the heath ' so says old George 
Borrow in ' Lavengro,' and few men's writings can take 
us into the country as his do. The ' wind on the heath,' 
what is it not worth ? Keats, too, speaks of it in his own 
gentle way : 

To one who has been long in city pent, 

'Tis very sweet to look into the fair 

And open face of heaven, to breathe a prayer 
Full in the smile of the blue firmament. 
Who is more happy, when, with heart's content, 

Fatigued he sinks into some pleasant lair 

Of wavy grass, and reads a debonair 
And gentle tale of love and languishment, 
Returning home at evening, with an ear 

Catching the notes of Philomel an eye 
Watching the sailing cloudlet's bright career, 

He mourns that day so soon has glided by ; 
E'en like the passage of an angel's tear 

That falls through the clear ether silently. 

For the young, the energetic, and the ambitious, towns 
are best at first, and they can gravitate towards the 
country as they grow older. This surely is one of the 
greatest inducements for saving, and in no sense is it a 
mean or lowering object. We will begin now with our 

L2 



148 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

changed table of expenditure for life in the country. The 
most important reduction will be in the house-rent. 

TABLE COUNTRY 

s. d. 

I. Bent, rates and taxes .... 180 

II. Housekeeping (living, washing, lighting) 450 

III. Repairs, insurance, cleaning, painting . 100 

IV. Coal 80 

V. Dress (man and woman) . . . 180 

VI. Wages, including beer (four servants) . 130 

VII. Wine 50 

VIII. Stamps, newspapers, stationery . 30 

IX. Doctor, dentist, accidents, journeys . 100 

X. New house linen 20 

XI. Charities . 40 



1,360 

This table shows considerable reduction, and, if saving 
is not very necessary, a pony, carriage, and groom can be 
added, besides the obligatory garden, which, well done, 
including wages and all expenses, must be counted at 

150Z. a year : so the table now stands : 

s. d. 

Carried forward , 1,360 

Garden 150 

Pony, carriage, groom 130 

1,640 

This does not include the initial cost of buying the 
pony and carriage and setting up the stable. 

With these luxuries the margin is as narrow as the 
London one. Any careful housekeeper will find it easier 
to make reductions in the country, though it will probably 
be at the expense of having friends to stay, which is one 
of the pleasures of living in the country, minimised by the 
fact that it often interferes with your pursuits, care of 
poultry, garden, &c., as very naturally the friend who 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 149 

takes the trouble to come and see you exacts your un- 
divided attention. One of the expenses of country 
hospitality is not only the laundry bill, but the wear and 
tear caused to good linen from always being in the wash- 
tub. I confess to often feeling considerable sympathy 
with the landlady of olden times who felt it such a pity 
to send sheets to the wash, and gave orders to damp them 
a little and iron them out. 

Furnishing in the country can be done even more 
simply and sensibly than in London. If washing house 
linen is more, cleaning of curtains and chintzes, &c., is 
infinitely less ; three months of London making things 
much dirtier than a year in the country. The great 
secret of sensible and yet pretty furnishing is observation 
and keeping your eyes open. People as a rule notice 
nothing, and come into a house and garden almost as if they 
were blind, and it is curious to observe how the awaken- 
ing comes when they are going to furnish for themselves. 
This selfish impetus should not be necessary. The want 
of training of sight, scent, and hearing are among the great 
deficiencies of civilised education, and I fancy this defect 
has been keenly felt in South Africa. The newspapers 
have commented upon this subject from time to time, and 
I noted from one the other day that 'as a matter of 
scientific fact there is little difference in the powers of 
vision of different races. The difference lies in the 
faculty of detection, and this is a matter of training and 
constant practice. Two men have equally good sight, 
but one, by reason of the necessity of his daily life, will be 
able to detect an unusual object, whilst the other will be 
entirely unable to recognise anything abnormal. This 
being so, it is all the more necessary that the training of 
the eye should form a very important part of a soldier's 
education in the art of war. Scouting and judging of 
distances will have to be reckoned with in any practical 



1 50 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

scheme of army reform.' This is no doubt perfectly true, 
but the training of the eye and the quickening of the 
powers of observation should begin with both sexes from 
the very earliest age. And I am convinced that no one can 
manage a house and garden well unless these faculties 
are highly developed. 

Poultry keeping in the country is a pleasure and an 
interest, but it hardly pays unless eggs are sold in the 
winter and chickens in the early spring. If the garden is 
carefully and knowingly stocked to supply the wants of 
every month in the year, the saving in the weekly books 
is considerable, as nothing ought to be bought except 
potatoes, and the plentiful supply of vegetables for 
many months in the year considerably reduces the 
butcher's book. Everyone who has space in the country 
should keep pigs ; nothing so prevents waste or actually 
pays better. Buying two young ones twice a year once in 
January, selling them in May, and buying again two more 
in May, giving them nothing till well on in October but 
green vegetable garden refuse and the wash-tub. This 
tub must be kept carefully clean that is to say, no meat 
or tea-leaves or coffee-grouts. It is quite a common 
cook's trick to throw into the pig-tub the heads and 
insides of game or poultry ; this is quite wrong, and will 
easily produce diseased pigs. In October acorns and 
chestnuts are good for them, but they make the meat hard 
unless the pigs are fed on barley-meal for quite three 
weeks before they are killed ; part must be sold and part 
preserved for home consumption. Curing hams from a 
good receipt, with a careful cook, not only thoroughly 
pays, but produces far better hams than those usually 
bought. 

A garden makes a very great saving in the weekly 
books and enables a family to live well with much less 
meat, A leg of mutton is a much more economical joint 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 151 

than a shoulder or a neck; but for a small family it 
generally means so much cold meat. The following 
method of dealing with a leg of mutton, out of one of my 
old books, may be suggestive to some : 

First day. Cut off the knuckle, boil it slowly, cover 
it with caper sauce ; serve with mashed turnips and 
carrots. 

Second day. Cut a steak off the large end and broil 
it ; serve with maltre-d'hotel butter and fried potatoes 
or onions. 

Third day. Cut some cutlets off the side near the 
knuckle, breadcrumb, and fry ; serve with brown sauce. 
Pur6e of greens or pure'e of chestnuts. Beetroot hot or 
cold. 

Fourth day. Bone and stuff the fillet, which is to be 
roasted (put the bone into the liquor that boiled the 
knuckle) ; serve with the roast-meat, jelly, jam or apple 
sauce, mashed potatoes, white beans and salad. 

Fifth day. Hash part of the remainder in a good 
brown sauce made with the reduced liquor from bone, 
thicken with burnt flour, and add minced olives, gherkins, 
or mushrooms ; mashed potatoes. 

Sixth day. The remainder minced in shells or small 
pots, breadcrumb, and brown in the oven ; serve with 
cold potatoes fried up, macaroni and sultanas, or rice. 



152 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



FEBRUARY 

NOTES FROM NINE MONTHS OP A SCRAPPY JOURNAL 
1901-1902 

Forcing cut branches Amygdalus Davidiana Early spring flowers 
under glass Bulbous irises Epimediums in pots Lotter to 
Westminster on railway carriages and tuberculosis Congress on 
tuberculosis in 1901. 

February 2Qth. I left home some days ago. A few 
snowdrops and a few green blades of daffodils were 
coming through the ground : that was all. Spring 
seemed very far away, but it was not really so. For a 
short time one must help nature, and have faith. During 
the last three years I have considerably developed the 
practice of forcing cut blossoming branches in water, in 
the little hothouse. Even in December if the weather is 
wet and bad, the Jasminum nudiflorum is far more 
effective and flowers more in a mass, if treated in this way, 
than left on the plant. I saw a year or two ago at one of 
the Drill Hall shows the Amygdalus Davidiana, which is 
a Chinese early-flowering shrub and exceedingly lovely. 
I bought one which has grown satisfactorily. It can be 
cut in January, and the bright brown stems, covered with 
buds, flower from one end to the other, after cutting and 
putting into water in the stove. It is a plant I thoroughly 
recommend to anybody living in the country in winter or 
having flowers sent up to London. Prunus Pissardii, 
which here the birds strip of buds, the common pink 



FEBRUARY 153 

almond, Forsythia suspensa, all do excellently cut 
and brought on in this way, by which I mean, they do 
very much better than if left to flower out of doors. All 
stalks must be peeled. The blackthorn, Prunus spinosa, 
and its double variety also answer if picked in the same 
way a little later on in the year. The Drill Hall ex- 
hibitions, interesting as they are all the year round, 
always attract me most in the spring, as the plants are 
better adapted at that season than any other to the kind 
of miniature pot-cultivation required for shows. Here 
everybody is able to see what these plants ought to be 
when grown in perfection, not in heat, but under glass 
which saves them from wind and weather. All those 
who try to grow fine Christmas roses in light soils know 
well how difficult it is, whereas the imaginative writer 
who speaks of gardens from the poetical point of view 
rather than the practical, alludes to them in a lordly kind 
of way as ' flourishing ' of their own accord in mixed 
borders or evan in woods and shrubberies. As a matter of 
fact, though they hate being disturbed, I have found 
strong nourishment when their leaves are growing and 
protection from the weather in any but very exceptional 
winters, absolutely necessary for producing even a moderate 
success. I have never seen them growing in their natural 
state on Alpine slopes, as M. Correvon so charmingly 
describes them in his poems ' Fleurs et Montagues ' : 

LA ROSE DE NOEL. 

Sur les flancs escarpSs du riant Salvatore 

Et sous 1'apre frimas 
De 1'hiver, j'ai trouve la neigeuse Hellebore 

S'6talant sous mes pas. 

Sa fleur cherchait abri sous le sombre feuillage 

Bronze par les autans, 
Et dans son pale 6clat on pressentait le gage 

Des beaux jours du printemps. 



i S 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Oh ! rose de Noel qui fleuris sous la glace 

Pendant les jours mauvais, 
Dis-moi comment tu fais pour demeurer vivace 

Sous les brouillards epais. 

Dis-moi d'ou tu re<?us la douce quietude 

Que je lis sur ton front, 
Dis-moi qui t'a donne la ferine certitude 

Que les beaux jours viendront. 

Je voudrais comme toi garder Tame sereine 

Dans les jours de malheur, 
Et quand survient le deuil et la lutte et la peine 

Tou jours croire au bonheur. 

Pale soleil d'hiver qui fleuris 1'Hellebore 

Au matin de Noel, 
Viens chasser mes brouillards et puisse ton aurore 

Tou jours luire en mon ciel. 

The loveliest things at the February and March 
Drill Hall shows, are the small early bulbous irises. 
They are most interesting plants, more so than orchids I 
think, but I must own they do not last nearly so long, 
either cut or on the plant. It is the great merit of 
orchids, even those kinds that are easy to grow, that on 
the plant and off it their flower branches last so long. 
An excellent way to support the flower in the pot is a 
small cane, split open at the top, holding the branch, and 
stuck in the earth of the pot. I am now going to try 
growing some of the small bulbous irises. They should 
be planted in pots or pans in loamy soil, no manure, and 
treated exactly like hyacinths or narcissi, covered with 
cocoanut-fibre in a cold frame, matted at night to keep 
out the frost, and then brought into the greenhouse early 
in February and carefully watered, to be induced to 
flower. I. reticulata and I. persica Heldreichii are the 
best, I am told, but there are several varieties, and all are 
pretty. Almost the greatest winter excitement of our 
gardens is the beautiful I. stylosa. People who manage 



FEBRUARY 155 

them well seem very successful with them from December 
to April, but, like most irises, they seem to do better if 
close to some other plant, which means, I suppose, dry- 
ness through the summer. They will grow well on the 
sunny side of a yew hedge, but never flower well till the 
second or third year. The foliage is thick and untidy, and 
one has to look for the flowers or one may miss them, 
and for the house they are best picked in the bud. I am 
going to try the little Snake's-head of Italy, I. tuberosa, 
in pans. It seems too dry for it here out of doors. 

In these days of horticultural crocuses I do not 
think the original type plants are cultivated nearly 
enough in our gardens. Early in March this year, and 
it was a late bad spring, they were most beautiful at Kew. 
C. etruscus, C. biflorus, C. chrysanthus were the names 
on the labels. I see C. Imperati and C. calvigatus, for a 
cold frame, are recommended in ' English Flower Garden.' 

Epimedium rubriim and E. macranthum make charm- 
ing greenhouse plants in early spring, potted up in 
September (I imagine) and kept in a frame. The little 
dwarf Narcissus Bulbocodium and N. cyclamineus look 
charming in pots and pans. All these species seem 
much more interesting than a large number of ordinary 
hyacinths, double or single. 

Mr. James Ehoades sent me this little poem the other 
day, saying that he should have dedicated it to me had 
he known me sooner. It appeared in the ' Westminster 
Gazette,' June 1899 : 

Are flowers the very thoughts of God 

Made visible to bless ? 
If so it be, happy ye 

Who such a faith confess, 
As, led by April, blossom-crowned, 

Ye roam o'er vale and hill, 
With every here a cowslip found, 

And there a daffodil ! 



156 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Are the birds' songs but jets of joy 

From the Eternal Bliss ? 
If it be true, happy few 

With such a faith as this, 
As, thrilled by many a feathered throat, 

Ye roam o'er hills and vales, 
With every now the cuckoo's note, 

And then the nightingale's 1 

Travelling to London the other day by rail, third 
class, the extreme dirt of the carriage recalled to my mind 
a paragraph I had seen in the ' Westminster Gazette/ and 
made me write the following letter to the Editor. I 
republish it here because it seems to me that the subject 
cannot too often be brought before the public, who are 
still alarmingly ignorant of and careless as to the in- 
fectiousness of tuberculosis. 

'SiR, I noticed in your issue of December 23 a 
short paragraph bringing to our notice how much room 
there still was for improvement in the methods that could 
be adopted for the prevention of the spread of the 
tubercles which cause consumption. The ignorance of 
the general public on the subject, even the educated 
public, is the only excuse that can be offered for the 
constant neglect of the most ordinary sanitary pre- 
cautions. I live in what might be called a distant 
suburb, and often travel backwards and forwards to 
London in a third-class carriage ; so do a number of 
young people of both sexes, and so do rough workmen 
who know no better and who expectorate freely on the 
floor of the carriage. Many of these may be gravely ill 
from tubercles without being the least aware of it, or of 
tjie danger to which their spitting may expose their 
fellow-travellers in all sorts of accidental ways. Both old 
and young generally insist on all the windows being closed 
in winter. Spitting can only gradually be put a stop to, 



FEBRUARY 157 

as it is done by a class who do not even understand how 
dirty it is, and who consider they have a right to do it if 
they like. 

' The proper cleansing of third-class carriages depends 
on the railway companies, and as it is done now it would 
be considered quite insufficient for a cattle-truck. A dirty 
broom is inserted and the surface dirt partly swept into a 
dust-pan. This enables what is left to dry the quicker, 
increasing the real danger, for the infection only spreads 
when the expectoration becomes dust. We have heard 
much abuse of the fashionable long skirts in the streets 
of London, but seated in a carriage no woman's dress, be 
it ever so short, can help touching the floor. A poor 
woman will probably dry her skirt at the kitchen fire and 
brush it either there or in her bedroom ; the maid of a 
rich woman is likely to do exactly the same ; and in this 
way thousands of grains of poison may be spread in the 
house, and the boy or girl just leaving childhood behind, is 
the accidental victim of the mother's journey. Surely it is 
an imperative duty to clean and disinfect carriages, and 
it seems to me directors should have felt guilty of a very 
heavy responsibility, which they did not thoroughly 
understand, when they refused to allow the National 
Association for the Prevention of Consumption to put up, 
free of expense to the companies, an intelligent notice in 
the railway carriages about the dangers of expectoration. 
A better way of educating the public I cannot imagine, 
while giving offence to none, though certainly necessi- 
tating a more intelligent way of keeping the carriages 
clean. A notice put up in the booking office is absolutely 
useless, as no one has time to read it there. Much the 
same may be said of the long-delayed notice in our post- 
offices, where it is generally hung in an out-of-the-way 
corner with postal directions about mail days to all the 
ends of the earth. I trust greater knowledge may do 



158 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

away with this conservative prejudice which dislikes 
nothing so much on most health subjects as truth and 
light.' 

It is rather curiously typical of the national attitude 
towards important legislation on health subjects, that, 
although the King has taken such lively interest in the 
Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, and done all 
that a Sovereign could do to bring the subject to public 
notice, assisted by the most influential people in the land, 
yet that railway directors, heads of firms, and that hope- 
lessly immovable body, the general public, should take so 
little alarm and pay so little attention to all that has been 
put before them. Last July (1901) the press for many 
days teemed with accounts of that very remarkable 
meeting of medical and scientific men, the Congress on 
Tuberculosis. I attended one or two of the meetings, and 
it was my privilege to be there the day Professor Koch 
made his famous statement on the difference between the 
tubercle in man and the tubercle in cattle, and stated 
his belief that the two things were not interchange- 
able. How the scientific world will decide about this 
in the future we do not yet know. The great interest 
to me, and one of a peculiarly dramatic kind, was 
to be overlooking a large hall crowded with people 
well versed in the subject, who were quietly told 
in very broken English a fact which they had not 
expected to hear. The greatest oratory would, perhaps, 
hardly have called forth so evident a thrill through the 
whole audience, though courtesy necessitated the sup- 
pression of either surprise or opposition. Apparently, 
from all statistics, England though, perhaps, the most 
afflicted with this terrible scourge, is yet the most back- 
ward in sanitary precautions. M. Brouardel gave some 
interesting statistics as to what is being done in France 



FEBRUARY 



159 



He delivered his lecture in his own language with all the 
charm and crispness of his nationality. All the lectures 
delivered at this Congress are, I believe, still to be got 
from the Secretary of the Society in Hanover Square. 

As with so many other improvements in general 
health, the future rests not so much with the medical 
profession as with the general public, but they must 
understand before they can act. How few people believe 
that common colds without inflammation ought to be 
treated like consumption with an open-air cure, not only 
for the good of the patient but also for the benefit of 
other people, as fresh air is the great destroyer of in- 
fection. In the case of having to lie up for an accident 
or an operation, the same thing applies; if the patient 
lies day and night by an open window the difference to 
general health on recovery is hardly believable compared 
with having been shut up in the ordinary sick-room with 
the windows only opened once a day for ten minutes. 



160 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



MARCH 

Valescure Tree heath and briar-wood pipes Fragrant herbs and 
thyme carpet Aloes and agaves Cork trees Fre jus Bums of 
the Tuileries : De 1'Orme and Bullant Meissonier's picture of 
the burnt Tuileries Cannes Eucalyptus trees La Mortola 
Arrival at Florence Turban ranunculus Mino da Fiesole 
Letter about Florence. 

HAVING the chance last year of letting my house to a 
friend for March and April, I was tempted to do that 
which I had always declared I would never do viz., go 
to the South of France at the time when everybody else 
goes there. On March 1 we started, a party of four 
ladies, for the Grand Hotel, Valescure, arriving at 
the St.-Baphael station after the usual day and night 
journey. We had left great cold behind us, and found 
the weather grey and mild. But we were told it had 
been very cold, and it certainly was soon bitterly cold 
again. Snow was on all the hills, the almond-blossoms 
were brown, and the shrub we call mimosa, really yellow- 
acacia, looked pinched and unable to bloom. Our hotel 
being situated on the side of a hill with a beautiful open 
view of plain, mountain, and sea, surrounded by delightful 
pine woods, had a great charm of its own, and for those 
who have no objection to hotel-life I cannot imagine a 
more satisfactory resting place in fine spring weather. 
But I dislike hotels of all kinds, and it was singularly 
unlucky, as I hoped to live outside all day, that the 
mistral blew hard during the whole ten days I was at 



MARCH 161 

Valescure, and the weather was colourless, though dry. 
On the other side of St.-Baphael, down by the sea, there 
is another hotel, the Grand Hotel Boulouris, built on a 
perfect site for those who like being near the sea, and 
even more completely solitary than the one at Valescure. 
I gathered that it was not so well heated as the Valescure 
hotel. This I think an advantage, for though I like fires 
in the rooms, I hate hot passages, as they always make 
people afraid to open the windows. 

All down to the shore and up in the woods by Bou- 
louris were magnificent tall plants of what I thought was 
Mediterranean heath : the flowers were only half open 
and injured by frost. I suppose most people know that 
from the roots of this tree heath are made the favourite 
wooden pipes known as briar-wood pipes. The name 
briar is a corruption of the French word bruyere, meaning 
heath. The collecting of these roots seems to be a trade 
wherever the plant grows, and the ' Encyclopaedia Britan- 
nica ' says that ' in Italy they are taken to Leghorn where 
the roots are shaped into blocks, each suitable for a pipe, 
the cutting of the wood so as to avoid waste requiring 
considerable skill. These blocks are simmered in a vat 
for twelve hours, which gives them the much-appreciated 
yellowish-brown hue of a good briar-root. So prepared, 
the blocks are exported for boring and finishing to 
St.-Claude (Jura), in France, and to Nuremberg, the two 
rival centres of the wooden-pipe trade.' In Moggridge's 
1 Flora of Mentone,' he refers to this and other European 
heaths as follows : ' Erica multiflora abounds near 
Toulon and Hyeres, but from the Esterelles mountains 
to Genoa I only know of three small patches of this 
pretty plant, all of which are near Nice, one round the 
tower of St.-Hospice, and the others at Bellet in the 
valley of Magnan. . . . Erica mediterranea is never 
found on the shores of the Mediterranean, but grows in 

If 



i6z A THIRD POT-POURRI 

South- Western France, Western Spain and Ireland. . . . 
The English often call Erica arborea (Linn.) the 
"Mediterranean Heath." This is a mistake. ... It 
abounds along the coast from Marseilles to Genoa, and 
though usually cut down, it is occasionally allowed to 
take its natural course when it becomes a small tree 
8 to 10 feet high. At Cannes, the wood is used for 
turning, and of it are made the briar-wood pipes which 
are imported into England. Erica arborea and Erica 
scoparia are to be found growing together, but the former 
flowers in February or March, and is quite out of blow 
before E. scoparia first expands its greenish flowers in 
the end of April. Even when out of blossom, the tree 
heath may always be distinguished by its hairy branches. 
... It is also found in the Canary Islands, Madeira, 
Portugal, and the Pyrenees. E. scoparia endures a 
varied temperature, but is more confined in its distribu- 
tion, being found only in Northern and Southern France, 
Spain, Italy, Corsica, Sardinia, and Dalmatia.' 

How curious it is this distribution of plants, especially 
when the spreading and flourishing seem to depend not 
entirely on temperature ! Temperature being the ordi- 
nary cause of the stopping of vegetation towards the 
north, the nature of the soil must, I suppose, be the 
reason in this case for such fantastic skipping of whole 
districts. 

At Valescure, the woods and open spaces are covered 
with heaths that have been cut down, and many low- 
growing sweet-smelling herbs. The dryness, however, 
combined with the bitter cold winds we were having, held 
back the scents, and one walked on thyme and sage and 
other sweet-smelling herbs without even perceiving it, 
and brushed through myrtle and bay without their giving 
one anything of their fragrance. In a resigned tone we 
said to each other, ' March is March everywhere, even 



MARCH 163 

on the Mediterranean shores,' and I secretly wondered 
why I had left my own little greenhouse full of sweetness 
and spring flowers for the euphemistically called ' Sunny 
South.' I know a place in England where nature's 
sweet- smelling carpet is imitated by planting a wood path 
with garden thyme instead of turfing it. It is kept low 
and somewhat even by perpetual clipping, and it is a 
pretty idea that the scent is given forth in summer by the 
present fashion of women's trailing skirts. This seems 
to be a rare exception to the well-known evils of the 
present long dresses. It is well for all sensible women 
never to forget the story of the German professor who 
sent his wife and daughter out for a walk through the 
town, and on their return let them see through his 
microscope the vitality of the microbes they had brought 
back with the dust. Dry sunshine is necessary for the 
sweet smelling of thyme, and many other herbs, whereas 
flowers generally smell sweeter for dampness in the air. 

In my youth what I called aloes I now know to be 
agaves. Agaves come from South America, and die 
when they have flowered, whereas the aloes come from 
South Africa and do not die after flowering. These 
agaves used to grow wild and uncultivated on the tops of 
walls, thickly crowded together mothers, children, and 
grandchildren. The offsets were of all sizes, and the 
largest plants only occasionally flowered as the last 
supreme effort, probably when the nourishment from 
some well-cultivated neighbouring field drained down on 
to the wall top. Now these agaves are, in a way, culti- 
vated. That is to say, they are taken up and divided and 
planted along the roads as we do with our Saxifraga 
pyramidalis when we want to make them flower better 
on our rockeries. This causes the much more frequent 
blooming of the larger plants by the side of the roads, 
and does away with the tradition that they only bloomed 

M2 



164 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

once in a hundred years. But the death of the plant is 
much more pathetic and apparent than it used to be. 
Alone it throws up its enormous flower stem, unsupported 
by all the young growth which, when left to nature, 
would be around it. It prematurely falls over and is cut 
off with its seeds scarcely ripened and the spot is empty, 
no young plants being there to hold it up and to flourish 
round the decaying stem. Anybody wishing to grow 
agaves in pots for ornamental use had better take off the 
young growths every year as this immensely increases 
the rapid development of the principal plant. 

There are fine old specimens about Valescure of the 
cork-tree, Quercus suber. They have a quaint picturesque- 
ness all their own from the removing of the bark once in 
about six years for the making of cork, which is one of the 
old industries of the country. This treatment, that would 
kill all other trees, does these no harm. ' Chambers's 
Encyclopaedia ' gives the following details about cork- 
trees : ' Spain and Portugal chiefly supply the world 
with cork, and in these countries the tree is often planted 
for the sake of the cork. . . . The acorns are eatable, 
and resemble chestnuts in taste. The bark in trees or 
branches from three to five years old acquires a fungous 
appearance, new layers of cellular tissue being formed, 
and the outer parts cracking from distension, until they 
are finally thrown off in large flakes, when a new forma- 
tion of the same kind takes place. Cork intended for the 
market is generally stripped off a year or two before it 
would naturally come away, and the process is repeated 
at intervals of six or eight years. The bark of the young 
trees and branches is either useless or of very inferior 
quality ; it is only after the third peeling that good cork 
is produced. The removal of the cork, being not the 
removal of the whole bark, but only of external layers of 
spongy cellular tissue, all or greater part of which has 



MARCH 165 

ceased to have any true vitality, and has become an 
incumbrance to the tree, is so far from being injurious, 
that when done with proper care, it rather promotes the 
health of the tree, which continues to yield crops of cork 
for almost 150 years. . . . Besides the use of cork for 
stopping bottles, casks, &c., it is much used, on account of 
its lightness, for floats of nets, swimming-belts, &c. ; and 
on account of its impermeability to water, and its being a 
slow conductor of heat, inner soles of shoes are made of 
it. All these uses are mentioned by Pliny; but the 
general employment of corks for glass bottles appears to 
date only from the fifteenth century.' The process of trees 
casting their bark can be seen every autumn in London 
from the plane-trees on the Embankment or the Parks. 
This is the reason why plane-trees flourish in cities where 
other forest trees die. In these days cork carpet is most 
useful and made from the refuse cork for protection 
against cold and damp from stone or brick floors. I 
think, as with ordinary oil-cloth, it would probably pro- 
duce dry rot on wooden floors. 

My friends knew Valescure well, and were always 
taking me to spots where, in ordinary years, the wild 
flowers grew iris, anemones, and many others. I had 
to console myself by looking at books, and when I came 
home I bought Moggridge's ' Contributions to the Flora 
of Mentone ; the Winter Flora of the Eiviera from Mar- 
seilles to Genoa.' The 'winter' I had had, but the 
' flora ' was denied me. The book is a charming one for 
anyone spending some time along that coast. The illus- 
trations, though not up to the level of those in old books 
(it was published in 1871), are far superior to many 
botanical coloured illustrations of a later date. I know 
two novels which treat of this part of the world : ' The 
Individualist ' by Mallock, and one of the stories in 
Bourget's ' Homme d' Affaires.' 



166 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Frejus can be seen from the hotel windows. The 
Eoman remains give a great interest to the countryside, 
and had I remained longer I should certainly have bought 
a book called 'The Eomans on the Eiviera,' by W. H. 
Bullock Hall (Macmillan, 1898). Koman ruins are always 
very attractive to me. Those about Frejus are of a late 
date, and not unlike the specimens found in England, 
having evidently been built for utility, and because Frejus 
was a seaport in those days. Now the sea has receded 
for several miles. 

One garden I did see which had an interest all its own, 
not for its flowers, which were not out, but for the fact that 
Miolan Carvalho, manager of the Paris Opera- Comique 
during the Second Empire, had built this villa, and 
brought to the garden many fragments from the ruins of 
the Tuileries after the burning in the time of the Commune. 
They were dotted about the garden without very much 
purpose, and the tall, white, beautifully-carved stones 
looked rather sad, I thought. So classical are they that 
many people who know no better mistake the garden for a 
villa of the Lower Roman Empire, so pagan are the ruins 
and so picturesque. I particularly liked the Avenue where 
a lion by Cai'n looked disdainfully down upon the tourists. 
These remains seemed out of place in this garden, and 
accentuated to me the everlasting regret I have always 
felt that the great and rich French Republic did not 
have the courage, in spite of their depressed condition 
after their reverses, to rebuild the beautiful fire-scarred 
ruin of Catherine de Medicis' palace and use it for the 
chief of their State, with all its historical recollections 
behind it, including among these the wild despair of the 
destructive Communards. I believe many people have 
thought that the Tuileries gardens looked much better 
without the tall palace. That may be ; but the Elysee, 
which is now the official residence of the President, is 



MARCH r6; 

certainly not a sufficiently large and handsome palace for 
the head of the State in a country like France. The 
fragments of ruin in this Eiviera garden were full of 
carving and ornamentation, and one wondered to whose 
hand they belonged of the two builders of the Tuileries, 
De rOrme or Bullant. Mrs. Mark Pattison, in her 
' Renaissance of Art in France,' says that, at the death of 
De 1'Orme, Bullant was called upon by Catherine de 
Medicis to carry on the construction of the Tuileries 
(1570). ' But it must be remembered that when De 1'Orme 
died he had nearly completed the centre pavilion with 
its crowning dome, as well as the two wings to right and 
left. It is difficult to say precisely what was contributed 
by Bullant, but most probably the whole or a part of the 
pavilion, which originally terminated these two wings on 
the north and south. In their erection he followed, we 
must suppose, the plans left by De 1'Orme, for in the 
main the two pavilions were of a piece with the rest of 
the building. The Ionic order, the "ordre fe"minin," 
specially affected by De 1'Orme, ranged below ; and above, 
along the first floor, ran the Corinthian. The proportions 
and character of the general features he left unaltered, 
but in the decoration and adjustment of parts, Bullant 
took a certain license. ... To his eyes the polite elegance 
of De 1'Orme's work, the refined inspiration of Lescot's 
design as expressed in the neighbouring courts of the 
Louvre, seemed wanting in fervour and meagre in enrich- 
ment. De 1'Orme had panelled his surfaces with delicate 
pilasters ; Bullant detached along the front innumerable 
columns, and niched between them royal coats-of-arms. 
De rOrme had pointed blank spaces here and there by 
the application of a highly-outlined frame, a touch of 
ornament, a scutcheon faintly profiled. Bullant cut 
bravely and unsparingly broad sweeps of decorative line 
in high relief. The ornament which encircled every 



168 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

blazoned niche was burdened to the utmost with elaborate 
details. Wreaths garlanded the sides of the windows : 
crowns filled the spaces above them ; crowns, surmounted 
with points of fleur-de-lis, were again repeated at the 
summit of intermediate shields, uplifted by the out- 
stretched arms of accompanying figures. 

1 Yet this luxurious superabundance of ornament never 
degenerated into vulgar profusion. Exquisite delicacy of 
sight and touch gave truth of accord to all the parts, and 
traces of brilliant execution not long ago revealed the 
same rare quality of light and happy touch which still 
enlivens the gracious courts of Ecouen. Until the hour 
of the Commune brought fire upon their walls, these two 
pavilions stood in grace scarcely impaired by time or 
restoration. The alterations which took place during the 
reign of Louis XIV. resulted in a complete refashioning 
at the hands of Le Veau and Dorbay of the centre portion, 
and the two wings completed by De TOrme. But the two 
pavilions raised by Bullant suffered only the loss of the 
mansard roof, which was replaced by a more convenient 
attic, and the addition of some ill-calculated ornaments 
carved upon the shafts of columns originally plain. A 
sun- and moon-dial, one such as those described in the 
treatise " De 1'Horlogiographie," which has been affixed to 
a blank side-wall facing south, necessarily disappeared in 
contact with the extensions of the Louvre executed by 
Henry IV., but the rest remained even as Bullant had 
left it, the effect of the graceful Ionic order prevented 
somewhat, indeed, but not destroyed by the neighbouring 
presence of the towering columns of Du Cerceau's addi- 
tions. Now there remain only such rare fragments of 
columns and pilasters as might be gathered by the hand.' 
The fragments now exist only in this Valescure garden. 

I happened to be in Paris soon after Meissonier's 
death, and had the privilege of visiting his studio. His 



MARCH 169 

method of working from small clay models rather than 
from nature or memory explains much that is remarkable 
in the style of his pictures. But what makes me recall 
this visit now is that I saw there an exceedingly interest- 
ing sketch of the ruined Tuileries. It was an unusually 
large water-colour representing the Salle des Mar6chaux 
after the fire as seen from the Tuileries gardens, with 
Napoleon's battles still engraven on the cornice, bright 
blue sky above, and the car and horses on the top of the 
Arc du Carrousel appearing above a heap of ruins. Madame 
Meissonier has since given this valuable historical record 
to the Luxembourg. 

At the end of about ten days I left my kind friends at 
Valescure and moved on to Cannes, where I had not been 
for many years. The whole place was changed beyond 
recognition; the old olives are being cut down as not 
profitable, and new buildings rise in all directions. The 
yellow-flowering acacia (Acacia dealbata) has sown itself 
everywhere. It began by being the pride of Cannes 
gardens, and is now much encouraged by the peasants 
for the exportation of its flowering branches for sale in 
northern cities. To me it is a beautiful thing in the hand, 
but singularly unbecoming to the colour of the landscape. 
Of all the new plant introductions since my childhood 
along the Mediterranean coast, the one that seems to me 
to have taken good hold, and to be most suitable both in 
growth and colouring, is the Australian eucalyptus. This 
in a kind of way may take the place of the disappearing 
olives. It is bluer in colour, and the growth is even more 
weirdly picturesque. I often wondered how several trees 
of it would look grouped together ; for the present one 
only sees single standards, some of them very tall. The 
Eucalyptus Gunnii in my garden, which I mentioned in a 
former book, has continued to stand our winter climate, 
and flourishes only slightly protected by other shrubs. 



1 7 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

I did not mention that I grew it originally from seed ; 
many things adapt themselves better to a strange soil if 
grown from seed on the spot. 

The orange gardens at Cannes have ceased to exist as 
they were in my day, when, being highly cultivated and 
manured, there grew beneath the trees carpets of Neapolitan 
violets, ' Violettes de Parme,' as they are called. Now 
everything is sacrificed to the imitation of English lawns, 
and in these are planted, very inappropriately, palms and 
bamboos, aloes and agaves, all dotted about, and producing 
a most unfortunate and ugly effect. From a gardener's 
point of view this is absolutely incorrect, for the grass 
requires much watering, whereas the poor aloes and agaves 
need a dry, stony soil in order to flourish and gain their 
beautiful blue bloom. 

On the whole, the gardens that I saw at Cannes dis- 
appointed me dreadfully ; but then I must confess it was 
a very backward year. Even the favourite of our English 
gardeners, the ' Old Glory,' or, as some put it, ' the Glory 
to die John/ was hardly in leaf. 

As a happy instance of what the unlettered can make 
of a botanical name I have been told by a friend, who 
actually heard it, that as two old women were parting by 
a cottage-gate one said to the other, admiring her large 
laurustinus in full bloom, ' What a fine plant you have 
there ! ' ' Yes,' said the other, ' and such a beautiful name 
as it's got ! ' The first one, looking a little astonished and 
ashamed of her ignorance, said, ' And what is it ? ' ' Oh, 
don't you know ? It's called " The Lord sustine (sustain) 
us"!' 

In gardens where tiny streams ran through them, 
quantities of the lovely Iris stylosa were in flower. But 
beyond this there was little to attract attention. Not 
nearly enough care is given in England to this beautiful 
winter flower. Very large clumps are required, and with 



MARCH 171 

room to spread, all buds come out well in water. The 
only violet I saw in cultivation was the large single kind 
with long stalks and little smell. 

On March 18 a German friend came all the way from 
Frankfort to go with me to see Mr. Hanbury's garden at 
La Mortola. The morning dawned with heavy, driving 
clouds, and by eight o'clock it was raining in torrents. 
She sent to ask what I intended to do. My answer was 
the irritatingly priggish one (which I should never have 
dared send to a man) that I never allowed weather to 
interfere with my plans. So we started for Mentone by 
rail, and then, after driving for over an hour in ceaseless 
rain, we arrived late for luncheon. Our longed-for treat 
of seeing this wonderful garden had to be enjoyed under 
umbrellas and holding up dripping petticoats as we 
climbed up and down the steps, the whole garden being 
on the slope of a steep hill. In spite of these unfavour- 
able conditions, it far outstripped in interest any I had 
seen, and gave wonderful life to the charming and in- 
structive book I mentioned before, ' Riviera Notes,' which 
is dedicated to ' Commendatore Thomas Hanbury, of La 
Mortola, Italy.' I do not know if this book has been re- 
printed, but I sincerely hope so for the benefit of all who 
can avail themselves of the privilege, so kindly granted, 
of seeing Mr. Hanbury's rare botanical collection. Every- 
thing in it is arranged in the manner best suited to the 
growth of the individual plants, coming as they do from 
all parts of the world and willing to flourish on his sunny 
rockeries. The garden is full of beautiful memories of the 
old, uncultivated Italian podere, and at the base, between 
the garden and the sea, runs the original, narrow, paved 
road made by the Eomans, it is said, in the year 13 B.C., 
and called Via Augusta. The ordinary Cannes visitor is 
apt to be disappointed, I am told, not to find this garden 
the usual effect of turf and spring -bedding. The field of 



1 72 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

anemones that was in bloom the day I was there is far more 
beautiful than any bed of flowers that one can imagine. 
Of course, they had originally been planted, but their 
growth and general effect of colour in the field grass gave 
the appearance of wildness. There is still in the centre 
of the garden a most stately avenue of Cupressus semper- 
virens, the pyramidal cypress. It forms a beautiful fea- 
ture in the landscape, and the people of the place say it 
recalls a long-forgotten cemetery, as the name ' La Mor- 
tola ' is supposed to mean ' a place of burial.' The 
cypress-trees are sharing the fate of the olives and are 
disappearing from the fields and gardens along this coast. 
They are claimed by the church as being trees of mourn- 
ing, and the peasants believe them to be unlucky round 
their dwellings and appropriate only to burial-grounds. 
I am very sorry for this, as they are a feature associated 
with all that seemed most paintable in one's youth, with 
their tall dark spikes against sunset skies. We are always 
trying to grow them in England, where they don't flourish, 
or to imitate them with shrubs of much less beautiful 
growth, such as Cupressus macrocarpa and Irish yews. 

My friend and I moved on to join the rest of our party 
at Florence, where we arrived many hours after our time. 
The railway officials may have feared some danger from 
flooded torrents, as the train went very slowly. The 
weather was extremely bad and very cold, and the idea of 
going to live up on any of the hills outside Florence 
did not smile upon my party at all, but I confess that, to 
me, much of the charm of Florence disappears when I 
am boxed up in the centre of the town. It ended in our 
establishing ourselves in one of the hotels on the Lung 
Arno, and during the three weeks I remained here, we 
hardly had a fine day and only one that was really warm. 

Among the first things I noticed were pots full of 
beautiful turban ranunculus. They never seem to be 



MARCH 173 

grown in pots at home, which is a pity, as their colours 
are so good. We had a happy time and did lots of sight- 
seeing, but I said enough about Florence in my last book. 
Towards the end of our stay, my son joined our party. 
He had never been in Florence before, and one of his first 
questions was : ' Where is the statue of David, begun by 
Mino da Fiesole and finished by Michael Angelo ? ' I 
was immensely surprised, as I had no idea that he knew 
anything at all about Mino da Fiesole. He then quoted 
from memory the following poem by Owen Meredith : 

LOVE'S LABOUR LOST 

In the old Piazza at Florence a statue of David stands, 
'Tis the masterful work of Michael Angelo's marvellous art, 
Yet a failure nevertheless ; for it came to his master's hands, 
Not a virgin block intact, but already rough-hewn in part. 

And what Mino da Fiesole did to it, Angelo could not undo. 

So the work was but half his own. It is finish'd, yet incomplete. 

As that statue to Michael Angelo hundreds of years ago, 

So are you at this moment to me : an achievement, and yet a defeat ! 

'Tis that others have been before us, of whose touch you retain the 

trace. 

You are half my work, half theirs, thro' your spirit and flesh disperst 
Is the mark of a love not mine, that my own love cannot efface, 
or you were not virgin marble when you came to my hands at first. 

It is one of the many changes which annoy those 
who knew Florence in its old days, that the David has been 
removed from the place which Michael Angelo chose for 
it. But, once it was found necessary to have a hideous 
wooden shed over this statue to protect it from the weather, 
it really was much better to put it indoors, and the David 
gives immense dignity to the noble hall in the Belle Arti, 
where it now stands in a splendid light. 

About the modern alterations in Florence, a friend of 
mine, who had not been there for years, writes : ' I go to 



174 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the galleries and churches and find changes everywhere. 
Like all old folk, I am disposed to say, " Changes for the 
worse " ; but this would be unreasonable some are for the 
better. The great, and to me distressing, change is in the 
aspect of the city, the loss of its tall mediaeval walls and the 
" improvement " (?) of its chief streets, which now have 
horrid shop-fronts. The place is no longer in sympathy 
with the great edifices which stand as if they had come to 
call ! As to the galleries, I suppose I must admit im- 
provement, though the character of the Medici collections 
is gone, except in the Tribuna, which has been mercifully 
spared in spite of its very bad light. I had some difficulty 
in finding the Madonna del Calamajo, and that famous 
one of Lippi with the naughty boy angel. But when I 
did find them I confessed that I had for the first time 
seen them in a good light, and in a bad light it is not 
seeing at all. ... I am angry with the Italian Govern- 
ment for transporting statues, &c., and thus taking their 
unique character from the streets of Florence. Every- 
thing is sacrificed to the idea of a " Museo " with cata- 
logues and numbers and staring foreigners ! The object 
of these works is lost and ignored when thus removed, 
and modern horrors of poor Garibaldi who was picturesque, 
and V. Emmanuel, and above all that stout, podgy Manin, 
are everywhere. If artistic merit meant other merit, old 
Cosimo would beat all these moderns as he sits on his 
bronze horse, mercifully not yet inside a Museo. But two 
things are great gain. One is the superb portraits of the 
Portinari family in Hugo Van der Goes' great " Adoration." 
Sina Folco got it done ; it has been in the Spedale and 
hardly two years in the gallery. The other gain is the fine 
Botticelli of " Spring" which I never saw properly long 
ago. It was dirty, hung high and in an impossible light.' 



175 



APRIL 

Arrival at Naples Museum English Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals at Naples Slaughter-houses in England 
Art objects from Pompeii sometimes echoes of modern Japan 
Baise Coleridge and Harrison on Gibbon South of Italy 
less affected by barbaric invasions than other parts Aquarium 
Goats Dr. Munthe on the housing of the poor Mrs. 
Jameson's picnic Pompeii: srnallness of the houses Mr. 
Eolfe on Pompeiian pins and matches Cenotaphs and war 
memorials Pompeiian gardens as models for London Sorrento 
and Amalfi Garibaldi on cremation 'Aurora Leigh.' 

ABOUT the middle of April my son and I went on to 
Naples, and the rest of the party went home. We did 
shopping and sight-seeing all the morning of the day we 
left Florence, saw our friends off in the afternoon, came 
back and packed, left by rail at six o'clock in the evening, 
changed into a sleeping-car at Rome at midnight, and 
reached Naples at seven the next morning. We took 
a carriage and drove three miles to an hotel high on the 
hill to the north-west of the town, where we had great 
difficulty in getting a front room. The back rooms were 
close against the rocky sides of the hill, the consolation 
being that the rock was magnificently clothed by a very 
fine old wistaria in full flower. The view from the front 
rooms in the early morning light was certainly most 
glorious. Our first day was almost our only fine one. 
Though well on in April, the weather was very cold, and 
after the first day the view was so veiled that we were 
only able to see Vesuvius twice. One of these times, as the 



i 7 6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

clouds rolled by, it was snow-capped and lighted from foot 
to summit by the setting sun bright crimson-red at the 
top, graduating down to hazy purple, all the base bathed 
in mist, the town standing out, yellow and red, in front 
of it, and the smoke of the mountain rising up pale grey 
against a coal-black storm-cloud. This was the one really 
beautiful colour effect that I saw during my eight days at 
Naples. The blue bay and purple Ischia never existed 
for us. When we saw the island at all its volcanic peaks 
were only silhouetted in a deeper tone against the grey 
sky. On the whole I was disappointed with Naples ; but 
this is frequently the case on first visiting for a short 
time a place that one has heard of all one's life and 
thought one knew from pictures and descriptions. I was 
disappointed in the one-sidedness of its bay, which curves 
boldly to the east, but is cut off, to the exclusion of all 
coast view, by the rocky feet of the high hills to the west. 
These hide the sunsets, and prevent any distant effect on 
that side of the town. In all other directions the suburbs 
are huge, and getting out of modern Naples is almost like 
getting out of London. 

To return to our first day. In spite of our night 
journey, we got a carriage and made at once for that 
marvellous museum which I had longed all my life to 
see. It is rich with every kind of beautiful object, in 
which the traveller suddenly finds himself face to face 
with the lost life of ancient Greece. The Greek invasion 
of Southern Italy seems to have been some time later 
than the building of Psestum, of which the date has been 
fixed with comparative certainty at about 650 B.C. I had 
never been told of one small instance of conservatism 
which I noticed in Naples. It is probably to be found all 
over Southern Italy ; anyhow, the same thing is to be 
seen at Brindisi, so that it is known to many people who 
travel for business and not for pleasure, and who may 



APRIL 177 

never have visited any other Italian town but that one. 
The horses are quite differently harnessed from any- 
where else. They have no bit in their mouths, and are 
guided by a tight bandage with, I believe, nails in it 
over their noses. This and many other cruelties to 
animals are very apparent in Southern Italy ; and I was 
amused to see, by the prominent advertising of the 
English Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 
that, with the usual characteristic of an English settle- 
ment in a foreign town, they were keenly alive to the 
faults of the people who surround them, while we at 
home allow the continuance of the most frightful abuses, 
content to be kind to our dogs and horses. I cannot 
understand how this Society rests on its oars while the 
laws at home respecting slaughter-houses remain in- 
adequate, and even these are evaded, not only in our huge 
London, but in every village and town in the land. The 
animals in these slaughter-houses are allowed to get into 
a state of frenzied terror before being killed, as they are 
not protected against the appalling sights, smells, and 
sounds which result from the slaughtering of their com- 
panions. This state of fear produced in them before being 
killed has a most injurious effect on the quality of the 
meat. The curious thing is that the only agitation against 
these abuses comes from the despised vegetarian, for 
sentimental reasons, his own health being unaffected by 
them, whereas to the meat-eater there are materially 
harmful results in the fact that animals are slain while in 
a state of absolute panic. There is, moreover, no proper 
inspection at any rate, in country districts to ensure 
against animals being sold for meat in spite of their being* 
actually diseased. Very little improvement can be ex- 
pected while the butcher has to bear the whole loss of a 
diseased carcase. I heard the other day, first-hand from 
one of my friends, a tale which gives one cause to ponder. 

N 



I 7 8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

In a consumptive sanatorium the patients who were 
forced by the doctor to eat kidney pudding were all taken 
more or less ill, as was also the doctor. The cook was 
questioned about the kidneys. She promptly answered, as 
if it was nothing very unusual, that several of them had 
stones in them, ' But I cut 'em out before cooking them ' ! 
My friend, having a natural dislike to ' innards,' had 
absolutely refused to eat the pudding, and her immunity 
from sickness led to the inquiry. 

Much as I had looked forward to the Naples Museum, 
it far surpassed all my expectations. It was Garibaldi, 
when dictator in 1860, who proclaimed the museum and 
the territory devoted to the excavations to be the property 
of the nation. Our time in Naples was so short that, as 
we had just come from Florence, we resolved to avoid the 
picture gallery altogether, with its wealth of mediaeval 
paintings, and give our whole time to the Greek and 
Boman art treasures to be found in the other parts of the 
museum. Good statues one has seen elsewhere, but the 
bronze objects used in daily life in Pompeii and Hercu- 
laneum, such as lamps, braziers, pots, vases, jugs, beds, 
&c., were an absolute revelation to me. One's astonish- 
ment is heightened when one realises that Pompeii was 
merely a seaside summer resort, about the size of, let us 
say, Worthing. The bronze braziers, beautiful as they 
are, must have afforded little heat to the inhabitants in 
the cold spring months, as most of them are so tall some 
nearly six feet high. I suppose it is not known what 
was burnt in these braziers ; they may have had some 
artificial fuel, as is used in Japan to this day. The 
lamps are of endless variety of design, sometimes 
grotesque, sometimes quite plain, but all beautiful in 
proportion and balance. Placed on low tripod stands, 
they reminded me in form and general appearance of 
some of the best Japanese stands and vases for flowers. 



APRIL 179 

Did the Greeks get it from the East, this wonderful 
feeling of balance, or did Japan gain from India a reflec- 
tion of Greek civilisation ? Balance plays so great a part 
and gives so great a charm to many things. This is well 
illustrated by a tiny bronze statuette of Victory in onk 
of the glass cases. The extended wings support her, and 
though one arm is gone, the sense of security is perfect, 
and there is no fear that she will slip from the globe 
beneath her foot. We spent two hours the first morning 
and two hours another morning in this paradise of trea- 
sures, but that was only sufficient to whet the appetite. 
All modern travelling is spoilt by hurry and want of 
time. One travels further and sees less, thanks to the 
rapid modes of locomotion. We returned to our little 
carriage with the bitless ponies, and, having lunched in 
the town, we resolved, with modern energy and want 
of faith that the weather would remain as fine as it was 
then, to drive at once to Baiae. The delighted coach- 
man never let out that the distance was fifteen miles. 
I think if we had known this we should have postponed 
the expedition to another day. But I was very glad we 
went then, for I believe we should never have done it 
otherwise, as the weather did get worse, and we should 
have had no time. 

To go to Baise you drive through a tunnel which pierces 
the western range of hills, and emerge on to a beautiful 
open sunset space. The road is everywhere studded with 
Eoman ruins. We visited, by order of the coachman, sul- 
phur springs and eruptive holes along the road, and spent a 
delightful hour and a half at Baiae itself trying to discrimi- 
nate what were temples, villas, or amphitheatres. I found 
that my ignorance was complete with regard to all classic 
history or the development of its civilisation as shown in 
architecture. When in my youth I read Gibbon's ' History 
of the Decline and Fall of the Eoman Empire ' it had 

K2 



i8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

dawned even upon my inexperienced mind that the in- 
struction he conveyed was of an unsatisfactory kind, and 
in no way enlightened the reader as to the various 
influences of race, religion, or art, nor as to the evolution 
of one era out of another. It was, therefore, no small 
consolation to me to find in a little volume of Coleridge's 
' Table Talk ' which I happened to have in my travelling- 
bag, his opinion as to the uninstructive superficiality of 
that immortal work. It may comfort others who have, 
and still more those who have not, read that history, so 
I copy it here : 

1 The difference between the composition of a history in 
modern and ancient times is very great ; still there are 
certain principles upon which a history of a modern 
period may be written, neither sacrificing all truth and 
reality, like Gibbon, nor descending into mere biography 
and anecdote. 

' Gibbon's style is detestable, but his style is not the 
worst thing about him. His history has proved an 
effectual bar to all real familiarity with the temper and 
habits of Imperial Kome. Few persons read the original 
authorities, even those which are classical ; and certainly 
no distinct knowledge of the actual state of the empire 
can be obtained from Gibbon's rhetorical sketches. He 
takes notice of nothing but what may produce an effect ; 
he skips on from eminence to eminence, without ever 
taking you through the valleys between ; in fact, his work 
is little else but a disguised collection of all the splendid 
anecdotes which he could find in any book concerning 
any persons or nations from the Antonines to the capture 
of Constantinople. When I read a chapter in Gibbon, I 
seem to be looking through a luminous haze or fog : 
figures come and go, I know not how or why, all larger 
than life, or distorted or discoloured ; nothing is real, 
vivid, true ; all is acenical, and, as it were, exhibited by 



APRIL 181 

candlelight. And then to call it a " History of the Decline 
and Fall of the Eoman Empire " ! Was there ever a 
greater misnomer ? I protest I do not remember a single 
philosophical attempt made throughout the work to 
fathom the ultimate causes of the decline or fall of that 
empire. How miserably deficient is the narrative of the 
important reign of Justinian ! And that poor scepticism, 
which Gibbon mistook for Socratic philosophy, had led 
him to misstate and mistake the character and influence 
of Christianity in a way which even an avowed infidel or 
atheist would not and could not have done. Gibbon was 
a man of immense reading ; but he had no philosophy ; 
and he never fully understood the principle upon which 
the best of the old historians wrote. He attempted to 
imitate their artificial construction of the whole work their 
dramatic ordonnance of the parts without seeing that their 
histories were intended more as documents illustrative of 
the truths of political philosophy than as mere chronicles 
of events. The true key to the declension of the Eoman 
Empire which is not to be found in all Gibbon's immense 
work may be stated in two words the imperial 
character overlaying, and finally destroying, the national 
character. Rome under Trajan was an empire without a 
nation.' 

This last sentence may be not without wise application 
to the England of to-day. On my return home I referred 
to that excellent book of lectures by Mr. Frederic 
Harrison on ' The Meaning of History ' (Macmillan, 
1894), to read what he said about the ' Decline and Fall,' 
and it is so supremely interesting and encouraging to see 
what different views great men take that I must quote 
what he says from the chapter called ' Some Great Books 
of History ' : 

'It is no personal paradox, but the judgment of all 
competent men, that the " Decline and Fall " of Gibbon is 



182 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the most perfect historical composition that exists in 
any language ; at once scrupulously faithful in its facts ; 
consummate in its literary art ; and comprehensive in 
analysis of the forces affecting society over a very long 
and crowded epoch. In eight moderate volumes, of 
which every sentence is compacted of learning and 
brimful of thought, and yet every page is as fascinating 
as romance, this great historian has condensed the history 
of the civilised world over the vast period of fourteen 
centuries linking the ancient world to the modern, the 
Eastern world to the Western, and marshalling in one 
magnificent panorama the contrasts, the relations, and the 
analogies of all. If Gibbon has not the monumental 
simplicity of Thucydides, or the profound insight of 
Tacitus, he has performed a feat which neither has 
attempted. "Survey mankind," says our poet, "from 
China to Peru ! " And our historian surveys mankind 
from Britain to Tartary, from the Sahara to Siberia, and 
weaves for one-third of all recorded time the epic of the 
human race. 

1 Half the hours we waste over desultory memoirs of 
very minor personages and long-drawn biographies of 
mere mutes on the mighty stage of our world, would 
enable us all to know our " Decline and Fall," the most 
masterly survey of an immense epoch ever elaborated by 
the brain of man. There is an old saying that over the 
portal of Plato's Academy it was written, " Let no one 
enter here till he is master of geometry." So we might 
imagine the ideal School of History to have graven on its 
gates, " Let none enter here till he has mastered Gibbon." 
Those who find his eight crowded volumes beyond their 
compass might at least know his famous first three 
chapters, the survey of the Roman Empire down to the 
age of the Antonines; his seventeenth chapter on Con- 
stantine and the establishment of Christianity ; the reign 



APRIL 183 

of Theodosius (chaps. 32-34) ; the Conversion of the 
Barbarians (chap. 37) ; the Kingdom of Theodoric 
(chap. 39) ; the reign of Justinian (chaps. 40, 41, 42) ; 
with the two famous chapters on Roman Law (chaps. 43, 
44). If we add others, we may take the career of 
Charlemagne (chap. 49) ; of Mahomet (chaps. 50, 51) ; the 
Crusades (chaps. 58, 59), which are not equal to the first- 
mentioned ; the rise of the Turks (chaps. 64, 65) ; the 
last Siege of Constantinople (chap. 68) ; and the last 
chapters on the City of Eome (69, 70, 71).' 

It seems ridiculous, but to me there was more life and 
realism in the pages of Sienkiewicz's novel, ' Quo Vadis ' 
than in any chapter of Gibbon. Nowadays, it is the 
fashion to defend the character of the worst Eoman 
emperors, making out, what is probably quite true, that 
they were not as black as they were painted. But Sien- 
kiewicz's object is not to exonerate Nero; on the con- 
trary, his line is a prejudiced one against the old world 
in favour of the new, and offends many people with its 
dogmatic tone. 

As is usual with me when I get home, I find out all 
sorts of books that would have been a great help had I 
taken them with me. It is so different reading books in 
the atmosphere of the locality to which they refer, com- 
pared with merely seeking for general information. There 
are many books of this kind in Bohn's Classical Library, 
and the * Lives of the Twelve Caesars/ by C. Suetonius 
Tranquillus, translated by Alexander Thompson, M.D., is 
a classic which would vivify the old world to a great 
many. This account of these emperors by a con- 
temporary Suetonius was the son of a Roman knight 
who commanded a legion seems to bring the old world 
as near to us as do Pliny's Letters, many of which were 
addressed to this same Suetonius, with whom he lived in 
the closest friendship. Lately, Macmillan has republished 



1 84 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

in the ' Golden Treasury Series ' Cicero's two famous 
essays on Old Age and Friendship. It is a new English 
translation, by E. S. Shuckburgh. In the introduction he 
kindly tells us that these essays were written while Cicero 
in his old age (63) was travelling about with his secre- 
taries. He says, ' With the palace of fame so laboriously 
raised tumbling about his ears, Cicero found consolation 
in two things literature and philosophy. While moving 
from villa to villa on that enchanting coast ' (which was 
the coast about Naples) ' he was incessantly reading and 
writing ; keeping his staff of literary slaves, or freedmen, 
so hard at work that they longed for the holiday to be over, 
and to return to the less fatiguing duties of city life.' 

Our return journey from Baiae was in the cool twilight, 
when our little ponies took us back to our hotel at 
Naples. I had had a pretty hard thirty-six hours, and 
reserved to myself the right of having milk and bread in 
my room instead of going to the table-d'hote. I woke 
the next morning as fresh as usual. 

Walking about Naples is full of interest ; for though 
the principal streets are like those of many other con- 
tinental towns, this only shows up the remarkable contrast 
of the side streets and alleys, so narrow, so small, so pic- 
turesque, with their strip of blue sky above, the shops 
windowless only large black holes in the wall. The 
goods displayed are half of them inside and half tumbling 
out on to the old cobbled roadway with the gutter running 
down the middle of it. So much in the Naples of to-day 
seems like Pompeii brought to life again. The very 
method of driving suggests a chariot behind the coach- 
man instead of a fly. Everything seems to make one 
realise that the dark ages of barbaric destruction left 
Southern Italy comparatively untouched. Perhaps as a 
natural consequence of this, art, having lingered and 
clung in every direction to the traditions of the past, 



APRIL 185 

the Eenaissance was here without life or originality, and 
the pictorial art which grew up in Naples in the middle 
ages permeated gradually from the North. This is 
interestingly shown by the couple of pages in Kugler's 
' Handbook of Painting ' which he finds sufficient to 
describe ' the school of Naples.' The chief interest of 
this ' school,' as he calls it, is that many of the pictures 
are original works by Flemish painters which served as 
models to the Neapolitan artists. Later they were 
affected by the Spanish school. 

Oh ! we had so little time for everything. What is a 
week in Naples for seeing all one wants to see, even in 
the most superficial way ? The aquarium is, I believe, 
one of the best in Europe, not only for superiority of 
arrangement and lighting, but for the scientific interest of 
the exhibits. With a little friendliness to the custodian, 
he shows off for one's benefit some of the peculiarities of 
the inhabitants of the sea by feeding them. For me 
aquariums have a great fascination, though I have to 
harden myself against a feeling of extreme depression 
aroused by the cruelties of nature as there displayed. 

Walking home in the evening, we met one of the 
flocks of goats that are driven about the better parts of the 
town to be milked at the house doors. Seeing goats in 
the streets of Naples first gave me the idea, which I work 
out earlier in the book, of what an immense benefit the 
keeping of goats might be in England. 

I tried to find out where Lady Hamilton and Sir 
William lived in the Nelson time. Her letters in that 
most curious book by J. C. Jeaffreson, ' Lady Hamilton and 
Lord Nelson,' were generally written from what Mr. 
Jeaffreson calls ' her villa in Caserta.' The few people 
I was able to ask seemed never to have heard of the 
Hamiltons, or even of Nelson. But I saw no educated 
Italians. They would doubtless know all about it, for I 



186 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

fear hate lives longer than anything, and they will per- 
haps never forgive the terrible story which is recalled 
with great historical precision in the introduction to 
' The Autobiography of Giuseppe Garibaldi/ finished by his 
friend Jesse White Mario. This book ranks to-day as 
almost an old one, having been published in 1899. It 
gives the Italian version of what I suppose is now 
universally recognised as Nelson's great crime, in helping 
the King and Queen of Naples to forsake their country, 
and despoiling it of its treasure and jewels, at the time of 
the French invasion in 1799. No anecdote in history 
sticks so much to its locality as that of the murder of the 
noble Admiral Caracciolo, who, when condemned on board 
the British flag-ship for not obeying the orders of his dis- 
loyal King, was hanged at his own yard-arm, having been 
refused the only favour he asked after his trial, which 
was to be shot. No one can look at the Bay of Naples 
without remembering how the Italian admiral's body, 
in spite of its heavily shotted shroud, rose to the 
surface and floated under the windows of the King's 
cabin on board the English admiral's flag-ship. Not 
content with this, we must never forget that the English 
banner waved over Naples in those terrible times when 
the early martyrs of Italian liberty and thirty thousand 
prisoners suffered inhuman cruelties, which Mario says 
' defy description and surpass belief.' 

The day we went to Pompeii was perversely unfavour- 
able grey, thick, and very warm. We thought we should 
be superior and do things in old-fashioned style by driving 
there instead of going by rail. This almost anyone could 
have told us was a great mistake. The rail is infinitely 
the better, though in fine weather I should think it would 
be possible to go by water for those who like it. We 
drove through miles and miles of continuous slums, broken 
here and there by a handsome old villa. All picturesque- 



APRIL 187 

ness of costume has disappeared no lazzaronis, no red 
caps, no eating of macaroni in the streets. The street 
often runs close to the sea, but the double row of houses 
hides everything. Murray says the drive is interesting if 
you have time to visit the towns at the foot of Vesuvius ; 
but we had not, and we slightly resented his not having 
warned us against the badness of the road and the dreari- 
ness of the drive, though he does say that those who are 
pressed for time had better go by rail. In this I entirely 
agree. All along the drive I kept thinking of Dr. Axel 
Munthe's wonderful ' Letters from a Mourning City,' 
written at the time of the cholera epidemic in 1884. I 
have often heard Naples described as the hot-bed of every 
vice. But in making that no doubt true accusation, how 
few remember the sanitary condition of the place, which 
is worse and more crowded than in any other city of 
Europe ! Munthe gives the following description of the 
hygiene of Naples in 1885, and it is a great consolation 
to be told, as I was, that with the sacrifice of much of 
the picturesque, there is also a great improvement now in 
the sanitary housing of the poor. Munthe says : ' The 
laws of hygiene teach us how close a connection exists 
between the sanitary conditions of a locality and the 
density of its population. The history of the Neapolitan 
epidemic furnishes us with an example of this law con- 
cerning density of population. Upon a surface of eight 
square kilometres (amount of surface that has been built 
over), there dwell no less than 461,962 human beings. 
And according to the official statistics no less than 
128,804 of these people inhabit underground dwellings 
and cellars. But there is something worse than these 
bassi and sotto terrani ; another step down the shelving 
ladder of society and we come to a still more wretched 
form of habitation to the fondaci. You have often 
heard me speak of these places as the scenes of the most 



i88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

appalling misery out here. There are eighty-six fondaci 
in Naples at the present moment ; formerly they were 
still more numerous, but more modern constructions have 
done away with a good many. ... A third sort of dwell- 
ing place consists of the so-called locande, where lodgers 
are received for the night at two and three soldi a head. 
I have even seen locandi where they are received for one 
soldi a head, but there the people sit and lean their arms 
and heads against a rope that is stretched across the 
room from one wall to another, not a bad idea for accom- 
modating a crowd.' Dr. Munthe refers in such kindly 
words to the superstition which means so much to 
Italians and is often only an irritation to northern minds, 
that I must make one other quotation : 

' . . . And those who sneered at their superstitions" 
and forbad their processions, what had they to offer them 
in exchange for their obscure but rock-like faith? Ah 
yes, sanitary rules, veritable sarcasms on their poverty, 
printed advertisements, which most of them were unable 
to read and none of them were able to understand, recom- 
mending them to live in airy rooms, to avoid vegetables, 
and take to meat, to disinfect constantly, either with 
carbolic acid or with "corrosive sublimate," the most 
effective microbe antidote according to Dr. Koch. . . . 
And what has the obtuse brain of a lazzarone to do with 
Koch and microbes? he whose thoughts have never 
crossed the bay beyond which the whole of the remain- 
ing world is " Barbaria " to him ; he who knows a host 
of Saints' days, a few prayers that he has been taught as 
a child, the names of a dozen fish he has seen jumping 
in the nets at Mergellina ; he who can play at morra and 
sing Santa Lucia, and that is about all ! How is he to 
manage to "air the room" he who lives with ten or 
twelve others in one of those fondaci, into which the 
light of day has never been known to penetrate, where 



APRIL 189 

one of us is unable to remain for more than a moment 
without going out to take a breath of fresh air ? And he 
is, forsooth, to choose his food ; he whose expenses at the 
best of times never exceed one or two soldi a day ; he 
who never in his life has had the chance of tasting meat, 
and whom you may perhaps see standing in front of the 
baker's shop, watching with the expression of a hungry 
animal in his eyes the piece of bread which you have just 
given your dog, and then fighting over the remaining 
crumbs with a crowd of others such as himself. 

' And as to disinfection ! What does he know about 
that, he who, alas ! shows so little inclination to master 
the first great rule of disinfection, the popular antiseptic 
which consists in sometimes dipping one's hands and 
face in water. . . . Just give a thought to all this, and 
then it will no longer strike you as so wonderful that 
these poor people should believe more in the censer's 
clouds than in the sulphur's fumes, and more in holy 
water than in a ten per cent, solution of carbolic acid.' 

I felt thrilled on arriving at Pompeii, which all my 
life I had so longed to see ; but the dust, the dirt, the 
crowd of tourists at the little hotel where we had to 
breakfast were most destructive of all the higher emotions. 
The old world faded away, and the degradedness of what 
is called civilisation was terribly to the fore. But in this 
motley crowd my son and I were really alone a fact 
which contrasted favourably with my recollection of Mrs. 
Jameson's description in her ' Diary of an Ennuiee ' of a 
fashionable society picnic. How much happier and how 
much more real is the enjoyment of anything we see with 
one chosen companion than with a host of even intimate 
acquaintances ? Writing on March 30, 1824, Mrs. Jame- 
son says : ' Yesterday we dined al fresco in the Boboli 
Gardens ; and though our party was rather too large, 
it was well assorted, and the day went off admirably 



190 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The queen of our feast was in high good humour, and 
irresistible in charms. . . . Everybody played their part 
well, each by a tacit convention sacrificing to the amour 
propre of the rest. Every individual really occupied with 
his own particular role, but all apparently happy and 
mutually pleased. Vanity and selfishness, indifference 
and ennui, were veiled under a general mask of good 
humour and good breeding, and the flowery bonds of 
politeness and gallantry held together those who knew 
no common tie of thought or interest ; and when parted 
(as they soon will be, north, south, east, and west) will 
probably never meet again in this world; and whether 
they do or not, who thinks or cares ? ' 

We finished our very indifferent breakfast as quickly 
as possible, engaged a guide which is absolutely essential 
if one only has time for a single visit and got a chaise- 
d-porteur and two strong porters to carry me about. The 
entrance to the town is now arranged with a turnstile, 
and everything you pass is known and explained to you 
by the guides, who seem to exercise their monotonous 
duties with great civility. Although it is absolutely right 
of the Italian Government to preserve their treasures 
against the modern inroad of tourists from all over the 
world, I think there must have been immensely greater 
charm in visiting Pompeii in the old free days when 
everybody could poke about and wonder and muse as 
he liked. Shelley certainly could not have said to-day 
as he did in 1820 in the ' Ode to Naples ' 

I stood within the city disinterr'd ; 
And heard the autumnal leaves like light footfalls 
Of spirits passing through the streets ; and heard 
The mountain's slumbrous voice at intervals 
Thrill through those roofless halls. 

In those happy days before the Italian Government 
undertook the guardianship of the treasures at Pompeii, 



APRIL 191 

it almost seems that anybody could dig, buy, or rob at 
his own discretion. Even so late as Mrs. Jameson's 
day (1824), she tells how a little imp of a lazzarone 
clawed away the dust and dirt to show her a most 
beautiful aerial figure with floating drapery, representing 
either Fame or Victory. He quickly covered it up again 
that the other workmen might not see, and grinningly 
appealed for a few pence as his reward. Bulwer is, some 
say, little read now by the young ; but I expect as long 
as the English language is spoken his ' Last Days of 
Pompeii ' will remain to tourists at Naples what George 
Eliot's ' Romola ' is to visitors at Florence. I wonder if 
it is more true to the spirit of those classic days than 
1 Komolo ' is to the middle ages, though George Eliot 
is none the less interesting from being modern not 
mediaeval in feeling. 

The general characteristic of the Pompeiian buildings 
is their extreme smallness, and the houses must have been 
what we should think very cramped and uncomfortable, 
even in a seaside lodging, to-day. A wish for shade and 
dread of sunshine seem to have been the first considera- 
tions rather than warmth or ease. A cortile, or cloister, 
generally surrounded the little garden or yard in the 
middle of the houses. It was here that the Pompeiians 
evidently spent their days. In one of these I saw fixed 
tables placed in two or three different directions so as to 
be suitable for use at various hours of the day. One often 
wonders whether the climate of Italy is colder now, or if 
the people are much more chilly than they used to be 
from want of health. It is only in my lifetime that 
warming houses in Italy has been considered at all neces- 
sary, and certainly 150 years ago the clothes that women 
wore even in England were strangely insufficient compared 
with the furs and wraps which people hardly ever put 
away now. 



192 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There has been such immense improvement of late in 
the art of excavation, that now it can be done without in- 
juring even the most delicate wall-decorations. So good 
have some of these proved that the houses are being roofed 
over in order to preserve them. This will make the future 
excavations much more interesting, as the treasures can 
now be left on the spot instead of carrying them off to the 
museum. The mural decorations were evidently not the 
work of great painters, like the frescoes of mediaeval Italy. 
They are without much variety, they have no gradation, 
and are painted in a conventionally fantastic style rather 
than in the realistic or poetical. In fact, they rank as the 
upholsterer's purely decorative art. But, given this fact, 
the wonder is that so high an artistic level was attained, 
and they prove that the ordinary ' decorator ' of the day 
was essentially an artist in his own particular line. The 
patterns on the walls, even when only stencilled, are well 
drawn and in excellent taste. In spite, however, of their 
charm of a miniature kind in these little empty rooms, I 
do not think the decorations displayed on the black or red 
walls of Pompeii would bear imitation in our northern 
houses. The rooms evidently must have been compara- 
tively devoid of furniture, which made the wall-painting 
their chief ornament ; as in Japan to this day, one hang- 
ing picture and one flower arrangement are thought suffi- 
cient decoration. 

I only record one or two of my personal impressions, 
as Pompeii must appeal to everyone in his own especial 
way. I think people going to Pompeii would do well to 
get and read before they go there a book by our Consul at 
Naples, Mr. Eustace Neville Bolfe, called ' Pompeii, Popu- 
lar and Practical : an easy book on a difficult subject.' 
This it essentially is. I did not see it till after I got back. 
As a specimen of the kind of interesting information he 
gives, I quote this one paragraph : ' It is unsafe to argue 



APRIL 193 

that the Pompeiians did not have things, because we have 
only recently invented them. The safety-pin, which is 
quite a modern invention, was in common use in Pompeii. 
Wire rope, which we look upon as a new discovery, was 
known in those days, and a very fine specimen of it may 
be seen in the Naples Museum. Martial speaks of sulphur 
matches, which in our English kitchens replaced the old- 
fashioned tinder-box scarcely fifty years ago, and the sur- 
gical instruments found in Pompeii were lost to science 
for centuries and reinvented in our day almost in their 
original form.' In various other directions besides these 
Mr. Eolfe alludes to, it is clear that our civilisation has 
not yet reached the level of the Greek long before the 
existence of Pompeii. In a chapter on the ' Street of the 
Tombs,' he has what was to me a very suggestive passage. 
In commenting upon these tombs, he says : ' We must 
not pass over the Cenotaph of Calventius Quietus, because 
Cenotaphs represent an interesting phase of the post- 
humous honours paid to the deceased by the Eomans. 
The word signifies " an empty tomb," and such buildings 
were habitually erected to people who had passed away 
without having burial rites. Thus if a man were drowned 
at sea or killed in battle, a tomb was erected for him at 
home in the belief that this would give his spirit rest, and 
a safe transit across the Styx. The idea is pathetic, and 
is frequently made use of by the poets, sometimes by 
making the unburied corpse reappear, sometimes, as in 
Horace's well-known ode, by making the spirit beg the 
passing stranger to cast a handful of sand upon the un- 
buried corpse, in token that rites of some kind had been 
performed upon it, so that the wandering soul might have 
rest.' This idea may seem heathenish to some, but surely 
there is a dignity in the principle of honouring at home 
those who die in the service of their country, no matter 
where or from what cause. I think the soldier's grave 

o 



194 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

should be left to nature, as the sailor is buried at sea, and 
it has seemed to me lately, with my mind constantly 
dwelling on the sadnesses of the South African War, a great 
mistake, though a very natural one, to try to make the 
perishable imperishable by societies for the preservation of 
soldiers' graves on the veldt. Even in ordinary church- 
yards are we not too often reminded of a fact which Sir 
Henry Taylor puts into his ' Philip Van Artevelde ' ? 

Pain and grief are transitory things no less than joy, 
And though they leave us not the man we were, 
Yet they do leave us. 

The ideal way, I think, of honouring the dead and keep- 
ing their memory alive would be to have, let us say, in 
each postal district of the place from which they came, a 
stone raised on which would be written the names and 
dates of those, from a general to the youngest private, 
who have been killed or died in any war. The feeling is 
almost a bitter one that those who die in what are more 
or less ' fashionable ' wars, such as the Crimean, or the 
recent great Boer war, should be more honoured and their 
resting-places more cared for than those who have laid 
down their life in the swamps of West Africa or the China 
rice-fields. 

At Pompeii there is an attempt, in one or two instances, 
to restore the gardens. It seems to me the old gardens, 
tiny as they were, are very good models of what town 
gardens should be with the aid of pavements, brick paths, 
tesselated pavements or mosaics, and constant renewal of 
the actual plants, never trying to imitate the large spaces 
of the country where things can be left to grow on from 
year to year and where growth and size become a pride 
and delight. I think in small gardens everything should 
be kept very decorative, but very miniature. The difficulty 
of flowering plants in London is the height of the houses, 



APRIL 195 

which, in some circumstances, excludes nearly all sun- 
shine. Nothing can stand this but ferns and ivy, but a 
very charming, dainty little garden might be made with 
various coloured ivies, euonymus, holly, privet, &c., provided 
they were much pruned or even continually renewed. In 
fact, like many other things, London gardens depend on 
elbow grease that is to say, a great deal of work, atten- 
tion, washing, &c. There is much opening for individual 
development in this direction. In a suggestive article 
which has much interested me, by Mr. Whitmore, in the 
' National Eeview ' for July, 1902, he condemns me for 
my objection to evergreens in London, and I quite see his 
point of view as regards their use. But it must be in an 
entirely different way from what has been generally done 
in London suburbs, where the evergreens are left untended 
from year to year till everything is black, except the new 
shoot for a short time in the spring. I immensely like his 
recommendation that no fair-sized London garden need be 
without its blossoming fruit-trees. He praises mulberries 
a little more than I think they deserve for towns, except in 
cases of people having to live in London through the 
autumn, as their leaf comes out so very late in the spring, 
and they have no blossom to speak of. In these gardens 
of miniature evergreens which I am picturing to myself, 
colour might be introduced by buying the flowering plants 
in pots as they come into season. In fact, the whole treat- 
ment of the garden should be as nearly as possible that 
of an ornamented terrace, tubs, vases, pots, anything that 
there is room for, and the instant removal of anything un- 
healthy or which reminds one in any way of the injury to 
plant life of London smoke and climate. A clean well- 
paved yard with one healthy plant gives me more pleasure 
than a broad border with badly grown, unhealthy shrubs or 
unsatisfactory herbaceous plants. People who are inclined 
not to spend much money on their little yard or garden 

o2 



i 9 6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

should confine their expenditure to the original paving 
and a good hose. Then two or three plants, when they 
can afford to purchase them, will always look satisfactory. 
The visitor ought to be able to say, ' How pretty your 
little yard is ! ' instead of the rather bashful owner's 
apology, ' It's not bad for London.' We must never forget 
that in London all cleanliness is artificial and is only 
attained by giving the matter a great deal of attention. 

On leaving Pompeii, we were tempted to send our 
carriage back empty and return to Naples by rail, but we 
decided to go home as we came, slums and all, and 
naturally found it less tedious, as we knew what to 
expect. 

One more delightful day to record, which alas ! did not 
include the much-wished-for visit to Paestum. We went 
by train to Castelamare, then drove again along the eastern 
side of the Bay, to Sorrento, and part of this way was 
actually in the country. Had it not drizzled it would have 
been an enjoyable as well as a beautiful drive. The great 
hotel at Sorrento where we spent the night looked gloomy 
and damp, the rooms being well shaded and adapted in 
every way to keep off the brilliant afternoon sunshine. 
Capri was invisible, and I had to fall back again on my 
recollections of Robert Lytton's little poem to imagine 
how Sorrento could look on a fine spring afternoon. He 
sent me this poem in a letter from Sorrento ; it was after- 
wards published in the volume called 'After Paradise; 
or, Legends of Exile.' 

SORRENTO REVISITED 
(1885) 

On the lizarded wall and the gold-orb'd tree 

Spring's splendour again is shining ; 
But the glow of its gladness awakes in me 

Only a vast repining* 



APRIL 197 

To Sorrento, asleep on the soft blue breast 
Of the sea that she loves, and dreaming, 

Lone Capri uplifts an ethereal crest 
In the luminous azure gleaming. 

And the Sirens are singing again from the shore. 

'Tis the song that they sang to Ulysses ; 
But the sound of a song that is sung no more 

My soul in their music misses. 

We went to bed early, with gloomy forebodings about 
the weather for the following day. We woke the next 
morning to find that, without being all we could desire, it 
was very much better than the day before. Our little 
carriage came early to the door, and the quiet solitude of 
the long and beautiful drive lately made along the rock- 
bound coast was as great an enjoyment as any day spent 
this spring in Italy. Here I first noticed the extreme 
beauty of flowering kales. They flower in England 
when left to do so in somewhat untidy cottage gardens, 
but this happens so much later than in Italy that they get 
swamped amongst more showy spring flowers. I instantly 
sent my gardener a postcard to preserve, so that they 
might bloom, some of the winter kales in my garden. 
Since then they have always been allowed to flower, and 
make most beautiful pale yellow starry bunches to put 
in water or send to London. They remain in perfection 
in the garden for over a fortnight. 

As we drove on, away from fields and gardens for 
about two miles, the whole of the foot of a sloping hill 
was covered with extra tall white asphodels (Asphodelus 
ramosus). I never before saw them so tall or so fine. I 
longed to get out and pick some, but my companion said : 
* Oh, there'll be plenty more.' Once the two miles were 
over, we never saw another during the whole day. The 
slope of the hill, with its gentle moisture, protected from 
east wind, probably exactly suited the plant, which, to my 



198 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

mind, is not grown nearly enough in England in large 
open places, by sheltered streams, or by the sides of woods. 
I have had a plant or two in my garden for many years, 
but I have no space for the fine effects of massing plants 
of one kind together which are so striking in well-managed 
wild gardening, or what is called ' wild gardening.' To. 
get a considerable quantity these asphodels must be grown 
from seed. 

If anything could teach one the real value of pro- 
tecting plants and vegetables, so little done in England, it 
would be travelling in Italy in the spring. The extra- 
ordinary industry displayed by these poor peasant owners 
over the lemon crops alone is a lesson never to be for- 
gotten. Miles and miles of terraces, most difficult to 
reach, are covered over with rough protection made with 
poles, branches, and rough grass, woven together in the 
place of straw. Under this hangs the beautiful yellow 
fruit, only protected on the sides where cold winds from 
the sea might injure it. 

Soon after twelve we arrived at Amalfi, where we spent 
two or three hours. We lunched at the old Capucine 
Convent, now an hotel ; it is too well known to travellers 
in Italy to need praise from me. Amongst all its many 
beauties and interests nothing seems more worthy of 
notice to the gardener than the world-famed, vine-clad 
Pergola, which is illustrated in the second edition of Mr. 
Robinson's ' English Flower Garden.' It is an inadequate 
representation, and this no doubt is the reason that Mr. 
Robinson has omitted it from later editions. But how 
different is the sight of the real thing from any illustra- 
tration or any description. The Pergola is in two parts, 
the old and the new. The old, as is so often the case, is 
infinitely the more beautiful, the more practical, and, 
needless to say, the more lasting. It is built cornice - 
like along the side of the I hill. As you stand at the hotel 



APRIL 199 

door and look down its long gallery of round columns, 
snowy white, built of I don't know what, and plastered 
over, you see a strong wall about four and a half feet 
high on the left or hill side. This is wedged between the 
columns, looking as if it were threaded through them, 
to prevent the falling stones or slight landslips from 
the hill above injuring the broad Pergola path, along 
which the monks used to enjoy their daily winter walk in 
the sun. On the top of this wall, where the gentle 
summer moistures are caught as they drip from the hill, 
is a bed of cultivated soil containing all kinds of flowers. 
On the right or precipice side of the path, the artificial 
construction is for the reverse object and supports the 
long walk itself. The wall stretches for some way down 
the surface of the rock, but rises only about three feet 
above the level of the path, for the safety of those who 
wander by moonlight, and to prevent any weakening or 
slipping away of the level footway. On this side, a broad 
flower bed, nearly three feet wide, is placed within the 
wall and consists of a border of earth raised terrace-like 
about a foot above the path. Here there is shelter from 
the winds, and Madonna lilies and irises bask in the sun. 
The roofing is of sapling trees stems gnarled and rough- 
hewn. These are placed, beam like, across the pillar-tops, 
securely wedged by a deep rut in the plaster, and extend- 
ing boldly for several feet beyond the column. The 
length-way beams are tied haphazard, now under, now 
over, these cross-bars, and overlap at the joins to give 
strength. They are laid over and tied to the cross-bars 
only on the inner side of the columns, leaving these un- 
connected (except with the opposite side), like an avenue 
of stone trees. The vines are planted in the beds within 
the walls. Now that I am trying to describe it, I regret 
very much that I took no measurements, as this was the 
most beautifully proportioned Pergola I have ever seen. 



200 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Photographs of it, however, are easily obtainable, and it is 
a model which would help anybody to understand how 
beautiful Pergolas can be. In the newer part, though the 
walls are solidly built as the situation renders necessary, 
the supports are only made of rough saplings, round 
which the vines are twisted and tied. This part is more 
helpful than the older one for the arrangement of beds 
and the general planting of a Pergola on flat ground. 
The cliff is much less precipitous, so that the walls are 
lower and the flowers hang over the path from beds out- 
side, where the vines are also planted. 

All over the cliff was growing in great beauty the 
spiraea called by tourists ' Italian may ' (Spircea japonica, 
known as S. callosa). Four or five hours' more driving 
brought us to La Cava station, and we returned to Naples 
by rail. 

I had time to see only one garden at Naples. It lay 
under the shade of the western hills, and was a very 
beautifully wooded, tangled dell, more a shrubbery run 
wild than a garden, and it sadly wanted pruning. I was 
told that Garibaldi had lived and died at the villa belong- 
ing to this garden, down close by the sea. But this can 
only have been partially true. He may have lived there, 
but he died on June 2, 1882, in the Island of Caprera. 
It was his earnestly expressed wish to be cremated, but 
this neither his widow nor anyone about him had the 
courage to carry out. It is stated in his biography that, 
after being told by Captain Eoberts of the burning of 
Shelley and Williams, Garibaldi said : ' It is the right 
thing, and it is beautiful and a healthy thing also ; you 
defy worms and corruption, you do not contaminate the 
air of the living. Only the priests oppose it ; it would 
hurt their trade.' I think this puts the matter well, 
though of course the sentimental reason against crema- 
tion is not alluded to, neither is there any acknowledg- 



APRIL 201 

ment of the rather trivial objection that cremation renders 
the exhuming of bodies impossible in cases of supposed 
murder. This seems to me a very small evil compared with 
the daily contamination of earth, air, and water for the living. 
Moreover, from the sentimental point of view, there is an 
almost unthinkable horribleness in the crowded ceme- 
teries near towns, so different from the quiet resting-place 
under an old yew-tree in the pure country air, where in 
youth we most of us think we should like our bones to be 
at peace when our end comes. Sir Henry Thompson, the 
well-known surgeon, who has been the great promoter of 
cremation in England, was telling me only the other day 
how very, very slow is the progress it makes in our own 
or any other country. To its advocates this is incredible 
it seems so obviously the most sensible form of burial. 
Every year Sir Henry Thompson publishes the statistics 
of cremation in the ' Lancet.' This year his article 
appeared in the issue of July 5 (1902), and is very in- 
teresting reading to those who care for the subject. 

April 23rd. Our return journey from Naples was by 
the German Lloyd steamer, and our finest two days were 
the day we went on board and the day we got off at 
Genoa. In old times, if one went from Leghorn to 
Genoa by sea, it was by an Italian steamer. To-day the 
fine ships along that coast are German. You get out of 
the little boat that takes you from the Italian shore to the 
steamer, and you feel almost as if you were in a great 
hotel in Germany. I have travelled so little by sea that 
I immensely enjoyed the sight of the Bay of Naples and 
all the little scenes surrounding a big steamer, boys 
diving for coppers, &c. Buildings, or the work of man 
like Stonehenge, or the Mont St. Michel, are exceedingly 
like their pictures, photographs, drawings, or paintings; 
but Nature in this instance Vesuvius was far more 
beautiful than any portrait of it ever conveyed to my 



202 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

mind. Steaming along the coast was enchanting, and I 
enjoyed it to the full, with the sea so calm that the large 
vessel was absolutely steady. All the fine afternoon till 
it grew dark we sat on deck and enjoyed the beauties of 
the shores and islands. My mind flew back to Marion's 
description in ' Aurora Leigh ' : 

.... I could hear my own soul speak, 

And had my friend, for Nature comes sometimes 

And says, ' I am ambassador for God.' 

I felt the wind soft from the land of Souls ; 

The old miraculous mountains heaved in sight, 

One straining past another along the shore, 

The way of grand dull Odyssean ghosts, 

Athirst to drink the cool blue wine of seas 

And stare on voyagers. 

Very few young people nowadays seem to read ' Aurora 
Leigh.' This is not surprising, as the cause of women as 
preached by Mrs. Browning has been more than accepted 
for some years. But I was interested to see, in a syllabus 
sent to me the other day by a suburban club for women's 
lectures to women, that one lecture was entitled : ' What 
do the women of to-day owe to " Aurora Leigh " ? ' 

Genoa was bathed in golden, bright, twinkling sun- 
shine, and oh ! the regret of toiling up to the hot station 
to take the train for the north. 



203 



MAY 

Apology for more gardening notes Journey to Ireland New English 
Art Club A modern landscape recalling Claude at his best- 
Spring in the West of Ireland Glorification of flat garden by old 
yuccas Persian ranunculus Want of thinning out and pruning a 
universal fault An East Coast garden Cultivation of Hydrangea 
paniculata * The Wild Geese 'Gardening letter from German 
friend Two good spring plants A sundial- Floating bouquets 
The May horticultural show. 

THE number of excellent gardening books that have been 
written of late almost makes one ashamed to write any 
further on the subject. But perhaps the personal experi- 
ence of any one individual has always a certain interest 
for amateurs who are really fond of gardening. Not long 
ago, when listening to a discussion about these gardening 
books and their superabundant number, I heard one man 
remark, with rather a sad voice, for he had great posses- 
sions : ' No one ever seems to write with a view to helping 
people who have large gardens and woods.' So it came 
into my mind that I might write a few notes about large 
places I have visited during the last two years, and that, 
perhaps, any information I had gleaned as to any indi- 
vidual plants which I particularly noticed as doing well 
either at home or abroad, might be of some service to 
those who had gardens of no matter what size. 

I have divided my notes into months, because garden- 
ing hints are so much simplified by taking the diary form , 
and in this way I can condense two years' experiences into 



204 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

one. I have omitted the three winter months of November, 
December and January ; for, though all months arc equally 
important at home, one gains but little knowledge in 
winter from seeing the gardens of others. One's own 
garden is never dull in the worst weather because one can 
always picture what will be, and one can always think 
over the errors of the past, as useful in gardening as in 
other things, so long as it is not merely regretting the 
past, but determining to do better. Maeterlinck says 
somewhere that ' we are so constituted that nothing takes 
us further or leads us higher than the leaps made by our 
own errors.' If this is true of life, it is doubly true of 
gardening, and winter is a time for planning and 
reflection. 

This late spring saw me journeying to Ireland instead 
of Italy, as I did last year. The day I left home I break- 
fasted, as usual, at eight ; I then gardened, wrote letters, 
finished up the usual home-leaving business, and gave 
orders. At twelve I dressed and caught the one o'clock 
train to London, ate my bread and fruit travelling-luncheon 
in the train, deposited my maid and luggage at my son's flat, 
went to see a friend, and then visited two picture galleries. 
On my return to the flat I wrote several notes, rested and 
read for an hour, and dined at eight, on cheese, bread, salad, 
and fruit. I travelled by night mail to Dublin with the 
usual interrupted sleep of that journey. At nine the next 
morning in the train I had some hot milk and bread and 
butter, though sorely tempted to fall to excellent slices 
of grilled fresh salmon, which everyone around me was 
enjoying. I arrived at my destination at 12.50, and after 
a cold bath and a change of clothes I felt as little tired as 
if I had been at home and spent the night in bed. I 
merely give these uninteresting details to prove that, after 
nine or ten years of diet, my health and strength are better, 
not worse, than those of most people of my age, or even 



MAY 205 

many much younger. This in no spirit of self-glorification, 
but for the sake of the cause which, I maintain, makes 
people stronger and more able to work, not less so. That 
is the whole point. 

Before I go on with my Irish visits I must say a few 
words about one of the galleries I mentioned above, as it 
was the first visit I had ever paid to an exhibition of the 
New English Art Club. It interested me much, as it 
seems to represent to the young artist of to-day the very 
same kind of rebound that the early pre-Eaphaelite brother- 
hood did to those interested in the new art in my youth, 
or, on broader lines, what the eighteenth century was to 
the seventeenth. So far as I could judge by this one 
exhibition, the school is a revolt against what is generally 
called colour, a determination to follow some special set 
of tones, and to arrive at a certain harmony and charm by 
pitching all bright pure colour, especially green, out of 
the paint-box. Is realism to be ignored in favour of a 
kind of cinquecento Titianesque harmony of tones ? Very 
decorative, very charming, as far as it goes, but only very 
exceptionally true to nature, because one so seldom sees 
those warm, blue-green and rich brown-yellow fore- 
grounds in nature, and then only for a short time after a 
damp sunset. Does it not lead to mannerism to follow 
one special set of tones to express all moods of Nature ? 
The critics say the tendency of this club is towards a 
' soberer tonality ' ; certainly this struck me most forcibly, 
for there seemed hardly a picture in the room with any of 
what I should call real colour in it. This school appa- 
rently seems to think that colour is tone, gradation, and 
values, and so it can be, but only every now and then. 
Perhaps the very reserve of these pictures would make 
them pleasanter to live with than what some of us would 
think better pictures in a gayer key. My chief interest in 
them is to try to discover the tendency of this school 



206 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and its meaning. Titian's landscapes were almost always 
conventional backgrounds to figures. If we aim at a 
continuity of tone in painting, are we not limiting far 
too much the endless diversity of nature ? Are we to go 
back to Claude and Poussin, or the Early English water- 
colourists? But the New English Art Club has ideas 
and objects that make one think, and I shall always now 
try to go and see their exhibitions. One picture, to my 
mind, illumined the whole collection ; the subject exactly 
suited the school. It was by Mr. Eoger Fry, and was 
called ' A Baroque Fa9ade ' a quaint Italian palace, with 
figures on the top, all grey, standing up, mysterious and 
dark, against a most beautifully toned and graduated 
evening sky, streaked in all directions with delicate grey 
after-sunset clouds. The landscape stretched away to 
blue grey distance on the left, and there were indications 
of walled gardens, and orange-trees, perhaps, on the right. 
The picture caught just that moment before darkness 
comes, when one says, while gazing at nature, 'How 
beautiful ! ' knowing that in a moment it will be gone. 
I had just this feeling about the picture, yet knowing it 
would not fade. It is a long time since I have enjoyed a 
painted landscape so much, and it is certainly no reproach 
that, in a mysterious way, though in no sense an imitation, 
it recalled the most beautiful Claude I ever saw. 

To return to my time in Ireland, which was very short, 
I paid a visit to a large, beautiful place not far from the 
West Coast. The weather was cold and wet and, even in 
the West, hardly a fortnight in advance of Surrey, but 
nothing could spoil the spring loveliness of the green 
grass, and the green woods, and the cowslips ! Sucli 
cowslips ! I had forgotten what cowslips could be till 
I saw them luxuriating in the moist Irish meadows 
with stalks a foot long. The garden was a large, 
fiat, wind-swept, formal one, designed, I suppose, in the 



MAY 207 

middle of the last century, with the ordinary spring 
bedding, wallflowers, anemones, tulips, and foiget-me- 
nots. But the formality was redeemed, almost glorified, 
even so early in the year as May, by the unusualness of a 
great number of old spreading yuccas. I never saw them 
grown in this way before, with huge stems and young 
ones increasing all around. They were not either Y. 
gloriosa or Y. filamcntosa, but Y. petidula or rccurva. It 
is a magnificent plant when old and established, and par- 
ticularly adapted for the middle of beds, for the growth is 
picturesque and yet symmetrical. The lower leaves sweep 
the ground and the central ones point upwards as straight 
as a needle, and they flower more frequently than the 
other kinds. In this particular garden, when this host of 
yuccas are in flower, it must be a rare and beautiful sight. 
The whole thing can hardly have been planned, but was 
evidently produced by one of those accidents of gardening 
where Dame Nature takes the matter boldly in hand. 
And how beautiful are these accidents in any old garden ! 
In this case it was leaving the yuccas alone to increase as 
they liked, yet feeding them well, that had produced the 
wonderful result. 

In a sheltered corner, by a wall, was a very fine plant 
of Erica mediterranea. This heath grows wild on the 
West Coast of Ireland, and is supposed to have been 
brought by the Spaniards, as it is a native of the South- 
West of Europe. My friends gave me a good plant of it, 
and I hope to induce it to grow in Surrey. Careful 
pruning after flowering, for all kinds of hardy heaths, 
seems the way to keep them healthy, especially in gardens 
where dryness prevents their growing freely. I am full 
of hope that there is going to be an increased cultivation 
in good gardens of the hardy ericas. There was a fair 
number of them exhibited at the Drill Hall. The * Garden ' 
of June 28, 1902, had an excellent article on the hardy 



208 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

heaths. In the later editions of Mr. Robinson's ' English 
Flower Garden,' he says, under ERICA (Heath) : 'Beautiful 
shrubs, of which the kinds that are wild in Europe are 
very precious for gardens. We should take more hints 
from our own wild plants, and bring the hardy heaths of 
Britain as an artistic element into the flower garden. 
Why we should have such things as the alternanthera 
grown with care and cost in hothouses, and then put out 
in summer to make our flower gardens ridiculous, while 
neglecting such lovely hardy things as our own heaths 
and their many pretty varieties, is a thing that would 
require some explaining. But very many people do not 
know how happy these heaths are as garden plants, and 
how delightfully they mark the seasons, and for the most 
part at a time when people leave town. A singularly 
pretty heath garden is that of Sir P. Currie at Hawley. 
In front of his house he has kept, instead of a lawn, a 
piece of the heath land of the district almost in a natural 
state, save for a little levelling of old pits. In such places 
the native heaths of Surrey and Hampshire sow them- 
selves, and nothing can be more beautiful. Where, as in 
many country places, these heaths abound, there is no 
occasion to cultivate them, although we cultivate nothing 
prettier ; but certain varieties of these heaths are charm- 
ing, and deserve a place in the garden or wild garden. 
In places large enough for bold heath gardens it would 
be charming to plant them, but a small place is often 
large enough for a few beds of hardy heaths. Once 
established they need very little attention. To some it 
may be necessary to state that most of our hardy heaths 
break into delightful forms, white and various coloured. 
The common heather has many charming varieties, also 
the Scotch heath. These forms are quite as free as the 
wild sorts, and give delightful variety in a heath garden, 
which need not by any means be a rocky or pretentious 



MAY 209 

affair, but quite simple ; for heaths are best on the nearly 
level ground. Though they grow best, perhaps, in peat 
bogs and waste places, it would be a mistake to suppose 
that only such soils can grow heaths well, because we see 
them in Sussex in soils quite unlike those on which they 
thrive in Hampshire, though certainly on heaths they 
seem to form their own soil by decay of the stems and 
leaves for many years. If rocky banks or large rock- 
gardens already exist, choice heaths form often their very 
best adornment, but such things are by no means neces- 
sary. Some of the best and most successful beds we 
have seen were on the level ground, as in the late Sir 
William Beaumont's garden in Surrey.' Then follows 
in Mr. Eobinson's book a long list of varieties of heaths. 
At any rate in Surrey, why should we not have all the 
hardy heaths in our gardens ? They are lovely plants, 
and, like many other things, not difficult to manage when 
one knows about them, and very easy to propagate if the 
little green tips are pinched off and put under a hand- 
glass in sandy soil and in shade in July or August. 
They are very much strengthened and improved by being 
clipped back after flowering, some in autumn, some in 
spring. I bought a good many a few years ago, but, 
through my own fault and the dry seasons, they nearly 
all died. What they really like is pure air and a moist 
bottom, but with care one gets over many difficulties ; 
besides, these conditions are quite natural to many 
gardens and woods. E. australis and E. mediterranea 
and the Irish variety, I used to think, were none of them 
quite hardy ; but E. mediterranea grows at Kew, which 
is damper and colder than many parts of Surrey. It 
flowers from March to May ; the typical plant is rosy-red, 
and there is also a white-flowered variety. Then there 
is E. mediterranea hybrida. It is the earliest of all the 
heaths to flower. The hardiest of the taller ericas is 



2io A THIRD POT-POURRI 

E. carnea. E. scoparia is not so pretty as some, but the 
species is quite hardy. At the Drill Hall I saw and took 
note of E. cinerea, which has many varieties. E. vulgaris 
flore-pleno is a double version of the heather of our 
moors, of which several varieties alba are very pretty. 
E. vagam grows wild in Europe. E. Tetralix is another 
wild variety. 

All these ought to be much encouraged in some kinds 
of gardens, and especially so in heathy districts. I be- 
lieve it is best to plant in spring. They are not easy 
to transplant, but they are worth any trouble. Mr. 
Barr told me he had lately made a good collection of the 
hardy heaths, and he sells them in pots. 

To return to the garden in Ireland, in the kitchen 
garden was a fine and most successful bed of Persian 
ranunculus, planted in six inches of very light leafy soil. 
I have never succeeded well with ranunculus, though I 
have often tried to, so I said to myself, ' Here is a chance,' 
and I had a long talk with the gardener about them. 
He happened to be a Surrey man, and was most friendly. 
He told me he found it better not to plant the little 
tubers of ranunculus before the end of February or 
beginning of March, either in pots in a frame or out of 
doors, and that it was essential to very carefully open 
out the little roots and spread them in the soft soil, to 
keep them in the full sun, and well water them with 
care. With this kind of planting they grow straight 
away, and receive no chill or check, as they may do if 
planted earlier. I shall certainly try this method. He 
thought the Persian ranunculus did the best. For table 
decoration, this gardener had a most successful quantity 
of Gladiolus elegantissima (Veitch). Prettier things of 
the kind cannot be seen. Instead of flowers all up one 
side they flower both sides of the green stem, and are 
white with a red-purple stain. He said, with care, grow- 



MAY 211 

ing on their leaves after flowering and then drying the 
bulb well in the sun, he kept them from year to year and 
increased them. They should be potted up in October. 
Diosma ericoides and D. capitata are lovely greenhouse 
plants, but in my experience difficult to grow in crowded 
greenhouses. 

In every large place I go to, I find the same fault 
want of pruning. I do not mean cutting back, that is 
done only too much, along walks especially ; but cutting 
away, sacrificing great whole shrubs rather than let one 
thing grow into the other, which makes hard green walls, 
instead of showing off the growth of individual healthy 
plants. The difficulty is that, in the case of evergreens, 
severe thinning and cutting out must be done in spring 
when owners are often away, and very few gardeners 
dare take the responsibility of doing this by themselves. 
All gardeners are also very busy in spring, and so the 
beautiful shrubberies go on choking each other from one 
year's end to another. A thin wood and a thin well- 
ordered shrubbery, turfed underneath, though only mown 
twice a year, is an undeniably beautiful thing. Probably 
it is so striking because it is so very rare. A straight 
line cut through a wood is lovely at all times, but doubly 
so if the edges are well cleared out and the strong pillars 
(stems) spring straight from rough grass or bare brown 
earth, as is the case with fir and beech. Few things will 
grow under these, but the ground is warm and dry from 
the fallen leaves or fir spines of scores of years. 

From the wild West Coast I went back eastward to a 
garden of another kind, beautiful to a degree from the 
highest cultivation of years and much money admirably 
spent for money alone never makes a perfect garden. 
Here, near the house, tall old yew hedges were glowing 
almost a red brown from the splendid strength of their 
spring shoot, and last year's clipping, but they would 

p2 



212 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

never grow and colour like that in dry Surrey. These 
yew-protected courts held all the usual glories of spring 
bedding, well sheltered from spring winds, and at the 
end of a long walk was an effect of blue as gorgeous as 
a purple Apennine a fine old plant of Ceanothus azureus, 
unpruned, and a mass of bloom from top to bottom and 
hanging forward on a tall garden wall a very beautiful 
effect, and one I have never seen here, as the early 
flowering kinds of Ceanothus are apt to get killed by 
spring drought if not pruned back hard early in April. 
C. rigidm is another beautiful early flowerer. C. Gloire 
de Versailles does here as a shrub, and should be treated 
exactly like the most beautiful August flowering plant 
there is when well cultivated, the Hydrangea paniculata. 
Both these do admirably on the borders of damp woods 
or shrubberies if not too much robbed or in too full sun. 
All they require is not to be choked at their growing 
time, and well pruned indeed, cut down to within a foot 
of the ground in April. The spring pruning and, in May, 
mulching round the roots with leaf mould and well- 
rotted manure are all they require. As time goes on, this 
gives them almost a mound to stand on, which their 
branches gloriously cover. The ceanothus will stand a 
dryer place and more sun than the hydrangea, which 
does not mind partial shade and a north aspect. 

In this same garden a magnificent effect had been 
gained by turning a large old walled kitchen garden into a 
flower garden, preserving the old picturesque apple and 
pear trees for the sake of their blossoms in spring and as 
supports for various creepers in summer. It had all the 
picturesqueness of a large, half wild Italian garden, and 
all the beauty of each plant being healthy in itself, which 
I have never seen anywhere so good as in the best of 
our United Kingdom gardens. The retaining of pic- 
turesqueness can never be a certainty except where the 



MAY 213 

gardener and the master or mistress work satisfactorily 
together, as is eminently the case in this garden. At 
this particular time of year, this wall garden is reached 
by a walk cut through a field of young grass, full of 
beautiful long-stalked single tulips. There had been broad 
sweeps of fine daffodils, but they were nearly over. In 
the garden were some very fine autumn-sown calendulas 
marigolds we used to call them a Veitch improvement 
appropriately called ' Orange King ' and ' Lemon Queen.' 
I am never tired of fine marigolds ; they flower in spring, 
as well as autumn, only when the circumstances are favour- 
able and the climate mild. 

Ireland, with its beautiful ruins, its churches, its 
high civilisation in the Middle Ages, its later decay and 
misery, its connection with Spain, its mixed population, 
its poverty, its apparent content, its seething discontent, 
its hopeless emigration, its unsolved problems all these 
things, when I am there, so rouse the keenest interest 
in me that I feel I shall never think of anything else 
again; but alas! new impressions stamp out the old. 
Oh, that statesmen and patriots would agree with Presi- 
dent Eoosevelt, who said the other day, ' Insistence on the 
impossible means delay in achieving the possible.' 

Immediately on my return I came across Miss Emily 
Lawless's lately published volume of poems, ' The Wild 
Geese.' That which is perhaps the most serious of all 
the phases of Irish difficulties, enduring even till to-day 
in the form of emigration, is so pathetically shown in the 
following poem, that I rejoice in being allowed to copy it 
here. The book cannot be fully understood and appre- 
ciated by English people without the careful reading of 
Mr. Stopford Brooke's admirable preface, not only because 
of its historical teaching and explanation of the title of 
the book and who, thinking of Ireland, can afford for 
one moment to forget its history? but because of his 



2i 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

most appreciative explanation of the various poems. Of 
1 Clare Coast ' and the one I have selected, Mr. Stopford 
Brooke writes : ' Then began, as I have said, the great 
exodus of the Irish, and " Clare Coast " is the voice of a 
handful of veterans who, sent over to collect money or 
recruits, are leaving Clare with new exiles for the coast 
of France. Those who speak are "war-battered dogs," 
and their cry reveals the temper and the soul of the Irish 
Brigade. It is close to the reality. " The Choice" has 
the same fruitful motive, but modified by the singer's 
love for a woman, and by the offer made to him of high 
place and prosperity by the Irish Government if he would 
give up his religion and his patriotism an offer made to 
the leaders of the Wild Geese, and rejected by them all. 
And the second part of the poem records the sick long- 
ing he has to see again his land, and his sweetheart, 
whom he has left for ever. It, too, is close to reality.' 
Mr. Stopford Brooke explains that the Wild Geese was the 
name given to those self-exiled Irish soldiers who fought 
as mercenaries for foreign nations. The Irish now fight 
our battles and fight well. I wonder how many of them 
still silently cry as they fall, ' Oh ! that this was for 
Ireland ! ' Apart from politics, I recommend this book 
to all those with a love of poetry and feelings for 
another's woe. 

THE CHOICE 

I 

I who speak to you abide, with my choice on either side, 

With my fortune all to win and all to wear. 
Shall I take this proffered gain ? Shall I keep the loss and pain, 
With my own to live and bear ? 

For the choice is open now, I must either stand or bow, 

Secure this beckoning sunshine or else accept the rain. 
Must be banished with my own, or my race and faith disown ? 
Share the loss or snatch the gain ? 



MAY 215 

Shall I pay the needed toll, just the purchase of a soul, 

Heart and lips, faith and promises to sever ? 
Six centuries of strain, six centuries of pain, 
Six centuries cry ' never.' 

Then let who will abide, for me the Fates decide, 

One road, and only one, for me they show. 
There is room enough out there, room to pray and room to dare, 
Boom out yonder and I go ! 



II 

Heart of my heart ; I sicken to be with you. 
Heart of my heart, my only love and care. 
Little I'd reck if ill or well you used me, 
Heart of my heart ; if I were only there. 

Heart of my heart ; I faint ; I pine to see you. 
Christ, how I hate this alien sea and shore ! 
Gaily this night I'd sell my soul to see you, 
Heart of my heart whom I shall see no more. 



I cannot resist the pleasure of quoting one more poem 
which gives the picture from the point of view of those 
who are left behind : 

AN EXILE'S MOTHER 

There's famine in the land, its grip is tightening still ; 
There's trouble, black and bitter, on every side I glance, 
There are dead upon the roadside, and dead upon the hill, 
But my Jamie's safe and well away in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

The sea sobs to the grey shore, the grey shore to the sea. 
Men meet and greet, and part again as in some evil trance, 
There's a bitter blight upon us, as plain as plain can be, 
But my Jamie's safe and well away in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 



2i6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Oh not for all the coined gold that ever I could name 

Would I bring you back, my Jamie, from your song, and feast, 

and dance, 

Would I bring you to the hunger, the weariness and shame, 
Would I bring you back to Clare out of France, 

Happy France, 
From the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

I'm no great sleeper now, for the nights are cruel cold, 
And if there be a bit or sup 'tis by some friendly chance, 
But I keep my old heart warm, and I keep my courage bold 
By thinking of my Jamie safe in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

On my return from Ireland, I found a somewhat dis- 
consolate letter from my German friend who is a great 
gardener. She seems to have forgotten while she was 
writing that in many parts of England, too, the soil is heavy 
and cold. As a rule, in the centre of Europe the spring 
comes late, as she says, but when it does come it stays ; 
while with us there are often glorious warm April days 
which bring everything on, and May frosts which cut off in 
a single night the azaleas in full bloom. All climates and 
all soils have their trials, and it is in fighting these whims of 
nature that the real interest of gardening consists How 
dull it would be if all seasons were alike, and still more so 
if all soils were the same and all climates temperate ! As 
it is, everything makes a difference : a little clay, a mound of 
earth, a piece of wall, a shelter, a little hole which collects 
the water and so doubles the rainfall, and so on endless 
lessons, as my friend says, to teach patience and one sort 
of philosophy namely, not the resignation which says, ' a 
visitation of Providence,' but the strength to begin again, 
and the wits to find out what has been done wrong and 
caused the failure. For those who dwell on soils in 
some respects unkindly, I insert the letter, as I think 



MAY 217 

we gain strength from the difficulties and experiences of 
others, which is only perhaps a more amiable way of say- 
ing, ' There is something in the misfortunes of our best 
friends that is not altogether disagreeable to us.' 

' Looking back upon, perhaps, the most barbarous 
and death-dealing spring-time in all my garden memories, 
along a very grey line of disappointments and failures, 
sowings of annuals repeatedly killed by cold and wet 
during this April and May, tender and half-hardy bedding 
things shrivelled and checked by frosts and torn by 
raging gales, there are very few bright lights to uplift the 
desponding amateur's heart and teach philosophy and 
patience. Years of apparent " love's labour lost " are 
suddenly crowned by a few of those haphazard successes 
by which nature seems to teach us the double lesson 
never to despair while we can strive, and never to forget 
that we are blind gropers in the dark. In my case, the 
object lesson is taught by a few humble little Alpines. 
You shall have the upshot of it at once, prefacing it by 
the fact, which must always be borne in mind, that, alas ! 
none of my experiences can be of use to you or any 
English friends, as everything that does well in your 
warm sand dies with me, and what will grow in my cold 
soil limeless and slaty as it is would probably suffer 
and die from dryness at the roots in yours. 

' My chief joy has been the growth and bloom of that 
little gem Campanula rupestris. Tiny wee plants of this 
were sent me by Mr. Leichtlin of Baden-Baden. At first 
they filled me with apprehension, for with their thick 
woolly leaves and prostrate growth, and their fragile 
branches, emerging from a woody root- stock not half an 
inch from the ground, they seemed to me doomed to die 
in my heavy, wet, impermeable soil. But I knew how to 
manage the new arrival, thanks to my experience with 
another child of many anxieties, the Campanula pulla, 



2i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

which I had tried in vain to grow for six years. This year 
it is full of growth, and has thrown up a dozen or more of 
its lovely, graceful, and delicate deep violet bells, as a result 
of planting it last year in a half shady nook of my little 
rock garden, in almost pure gravel mixed with a little leaf 
mould and sand. I planted it very firmly, and every bit 
of earth between its little crowns I entirely covered with 
small flat stones. The Campanula rupestris was given a 
little deeply-dug rock-pocket, in a rather more sunny 
and sloping place than the C. pulla. It had a little lime 
rubble mixed with the gravel, and I carefully avoided 
bringing the trailing woolly shoots into contact with the 
soil, laying a flat stone under each. The bloom was 
perfectly lovely, and I think by far the best and most 
interesting among the dwarf trailing species. The flowers 
are about an inch long, very constricted in the throat and 
deeply cut at the edges. The colour is a most delicate 
pale lilac with darker stripes going from the constricted 
part up the chalice. It seeds profusely, but the seed is 
not ripe yet, and I watch anxiously to see whether it will 
be tit to use, as it is the only way to propagate it. The 
little side-growths off the woody centre do strike in sandy 
soil in a cold frame, but they never make good strong 
plants. Another little success, after some trouble, has 
been the Adenophora Potanini, a crotchety thing at all 
times and horribly anxious not to be moved. It is 
perhaps not as good as the best platycodon, but desirable 
from the point of view of variety in the rockery's com- 
pound tribe. I have also had a fine batch of Liatris 
spicata, which I look upon with anxious eyes, as I lost all 
the Liatris scariosa last year, and fear my soil is too 
heavy, cold, and water-logged in winter for either of them. 
Bather a pretty group at the top of my rocks was formed 
by the Sidalcea Candida, a charming little stiff white 
mallow not over a foot in height, several tufts of 



MAY 219 

Geranium argenteum, and a lovely, loose-hanging, white 
variety, of which, alas ! I do not know the name. To 
complete the list of my little consolations in adversity, 
let me tell you that the Ramondia pyrenaica threw up 
such masses of their lovely flower stalks that the rosettes 
of leaves were well-nigh hidden. I have a new variety of 
this plant from Mr. Leichtlin with almost pure white 
flowers. I will go no further for fear of ending this with 
a wail, for the failures have far and away outnumbered 
the successes, and it has chiefly been to raise my flagging 
courage that I have apparently been praising what is my 
severest lesson in humility.' 

May 26. My home-coming was further welcomed by 
two new flowers in my garden which gave me great 
satisfaction, and which, if given the cultivation they 
require, do exceedingly well in our light sandy Surrey 
soil. One is a plant praised in gardening books and 
mentioned in catalogues, but which I have hardly ever 
seen growing in English gardens. I brought my first 
from Germany. There it grew in a rock garden in 
heavy, cold soil, facing north. This is conclusive evidence 
of its extreme hardiness. It is described in early and 
late editions of Mr. Eobinson's ' English Flower Garden,' 
and figured in the second edition under the name of 
Phlox divaricata. The Germans add to this name 
canadensis. But in all the editions the colour is in- 
correctly described, as far as my flower is concerned, as 
' lilac-purple,' which many amateur gardeners would 
decide with a shudder meant ' magenta.' In Nicholson's 
' Dictionary of Gardening,' a most useful book, the colour 
is given as ' pale lilac or blueish.' This, though nearer 
the truth, gives no idea of its beauty. The corymb of 
flowers stands up from a bed of dark leaves on a stalk 
about a foot high. Its colour is a beautiful, real pale 
china-blue, more like the blue of the half-hardy Cape 



220 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Plumbago capensis than of any other flower I know. 
When picked it has the great merit of lasting well in 
water. I attribute its rare appearance in gardens to two 
causes, one that it wants dividing gently pulling apart 
and planting out in half-shade every year after flowering 
and replanting in October in a sunny spot where it is 
to flower, and the second is that, if left alone, the leaves 
are eaten during the summer by some unfmdable insect, 
after which it dwindles and is worthless as a garden flower. 
So far as I can ascertain, slugs are its great enemy, and 
they seem very partial to its leaves. 

The other flower is also a favourite with me and a 
great horticultural success. We all agree that, as a rule, 
single flowers are prettier than double, but the Arabis 
alpina flore-pleno is a very pretty flower. In appearance 
it resembles a miniature white ten-weeks stock. It is 
easy of increase from cuttings in June, which should be 
replanted in the autumn in full sun. It flowers more or 
less all through the summer, and though it grows quicker 
and stronger, perhaps, in good soil, it flowers more freely 
in poor dry situations. 

After waiting for years to find a sundial to my taste 
and suitable for the centre of my green-paths (see ' Pot- 
Pourri from a Surrey Garden '), I happened to hear 
that a man in Kensington sold balusters from the old 
Kew Bridge, built in 1783 and demolished in 1889. 
I purchased one of these on the top of which was 
placed the face of a sundial, and I have felt it to be 
an immense improvement to the garden at all times 
of year. It is sunk into a small, square, stone base, 
and in spring a few yellow crocuses grow among the 
grass at its feet. It speaks for itself, and no motto sur- 
rounds it. 

Mr. George Alison published in the ' Westminster 
Gazette' this charming, and to me original, version 



MAY 221 

of the least morbid feeling about a sundial and dark 
days : 

Serene he stands among the flowers, 

And only marks life's sunny hours. 

For him dark days do not exist 

The brazen-faced old optimist ! 

I derive great pleasure at all times of year from a 
way of arranging flowers of my own invention which I 
call floating bouquets. I have the largest size of Green & 
Nephews' ' Munstead Glass ' bowl, the one without a 
stand. This is filled with clear water to the very brim, 
on which various flowers are floated throughout the year. 
If in winter flowers are scarce, a bit of greenhouse fern 
or autumn leaf may be added, but it is of great import- 
ance not to cover the water all over; a corner should 
be left which reflects light as in a pond. The flower- 
fancier may exercise endless inventiveness in this kind of 
arrangement. Most people, I find, like it ; others think 
it absolutely ugly; for many plants it is practically 
useful, as they live thus in water, whereas, if cut with 
long stalks, they droop their heads immediately. This 
is the case with Christmas roses, and still more so with 
the later hellebores, which are such a joy about Easter 
time; their soft greens and velvety plum colours look 
lovely so arranged and picked short, the buds being left 
on the plant to come out later. These flowers, if picked 
in the ordinary way, even when the stalk-ends are split, 
fade immediately in water. The forced Niphetos and 
Mare"chal Niel roses look most satisfactory so arranged ; 
indeed, all the tea roses and China roses on this dry soil 
are apt to hang their heads if the stalks only are in the 
water ; floating, they rejoice in the cool water and show 
all their full beauty looking straight up at you. Bunches 
of blue Plumbago capensis do better so than in any other 
way, also P. rosea, the pretty winter-flowering hot- 



222 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

house species ; it is the same with clematis, &c. Each 
flower- lover can find out endless new combinations, and 
which flowers flourish best on the bosom of the clear 
water. 

May 28th. I went as usual to see the Horticultural 
Show, which was more hopelessly crowded than ever. 
I suppose future generations will have large cool 
halls for these much-prized shows, instead of hot, 
crowded airless tents, which are as bad for flowers as 
for human beings. I did not notice much that was 
new. I think it such a misfortune that this great show 
is always at the same time of year. Some pure white 
plants of Verbascum ph&niceum were very lovely, a 
Rubus deliciosus and a Hydrangea stellata (Veitch). 
Hydrangeas are useful plants for people with small 
gardens and greenhouses, as they are nearly hardy and 
so easy to propagate. Tulipa persica was new to me ; 
it had several flowers borne on branching stems, inside 
brilliant yellow, outside golden bronze ; also T. pulchella, 
with small glowing crimson flowers. How I do like 
going back to the type plants ! they are so far more 
interesting, and lovelier too as a rule, than the others. 

What I enjoyed beyond all in that day in London at 
the end of May was that peace ' coming peace ' was 
in the air. Blessed peace ! Everyone seemed to believe 
in it. Will Mr. Laurence Housman, if he sees this book, 
forgive me for quoting his poem, which came out at 
about that time in some paper I think the ' Spectator,' 
but am not sure ? 

THE WINNERS 

We stand one with the men that died ; 
Whatever the goal, we have these beside. 
Living or dead, we are comrades all, 
Our battles are won by the men that fall ! 



MAY 223 

He who died quick with his face to the foe 
In the heart of a friend must needs die slow : 
Over his grave shall be heard the call, 
The battle is won by the men that fall ! 

For the dead man leaves you a work to do : 
Your heart's so full you fight like two ! 
And the dead man's aim is the best of all, 
The battle is won by the men that fall ! 

Oh ! lads, dear lads, you were loyal and true, 
The worst of the fight was borne by you ; 
So the word shall go to cottage and hall, 
Our battles are won by the men that fall 1 

When peace dawns over the country side, 
Our thanks shall be to the lads that died ; 
Oh ! quiet hearts, can they hear us tell 
How peace was won by the men that fell ? 



224 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



JUNE 

Cuttings of double gorse and ericas A gorse hedge Gerarde on 
Solomon's seal Preserving tulip bulbs after flowering Die- 
tamnus fraxinella in Wiltshire The globe artichoke as food for 
man and goats Peace Glasnevin Mr. Linden's garden at 
Brussels Old wistaria and bignonias grown as shrubs How to 
tell a good soil Mr. G. F. Wilson's wild garden How to grow 
Portugal laurels in boxes Tamarisks and sea-buckthorns grown 
inland The beauties of Polygonum compactum London and the 
24th of June The Bose Show at Holland House. 

June 1st. I forgot to say last month that the best 
time to strike double and single gorse, and some of the 
ericas, is at the end of May. The little young shoots 
should be pinched out and planted in sand under a bell 
glass in the shade. In six months, or the following 
spring, they can be moved. It answers better to buy 
double gorse than single, which can be grown from seed, 
because the double is sent out in pots, and in this way a 
year or two is gained. A double gorse hedge requires 
nothing but a little cutting back, and an occasional 
mulching if the summer is very dry. When well grown 
a double gorse hedge is one of the loveliest and most 
effective I know, and quite impassable to man or 
beast. There is one in this neighbourhood that is such 
a glory in May that even cyclists stop to look at it. I am 
afraid I cannot say the same of motorists. It is best to 
plant the young gorse in a groove on a raised mound of 
earth, first of all because it protects the growth of its tender 
years from being trodden on, and secondly, the nature of 



JUNE 225 

the plant with its weight of flower causes its branches 
to fall downwards, thus increasing the beauty of its 
wondrous glow. Even well-struck cuttings, if in an ex- 
posed position, where they do best ultimately, want a 
little care such as mulching, or covering with bracken 
or straw the first winter or two. Slightly nipping 
back in spring helps the growth of all young shrubs. In 
the case of laurustinus, large and small branches may 
be cut out with immense advantage. Of course, this 
does not mean cutting back in the gardener's hedge 
sense, as that would remove all the bloom for the coming 
year, while thinning out immensely improves the next 
year's flowering. This applies to all spring shrubs, 
lilacs, wistarias, spiraeas, &c. In a corner of my 
kitchen garden I keep a space for Solomon's seals, digging 
them up for forcing as they are required. Gerarde in his 
' Herbal ' has a delightful allusion to this plant ; he says 
that Solomon's seal is good for 'bruises gotten by 
women's wilfulness in falling against their husbands' 
fists.' 

June 2nd. I find it very difficult to preserve tulip 
bulbs when they are taken up out of beds in order to 
admit of planting for the summer. The best way is to 
take them up and put them, with their leaves still on them 
into a pail of water for half an hour, and then lay them 
in a shady open trench ; cover them up and water, mark 
the place, and when ripe and dry, dig them up and put 
them in boxes for autumn planting. To my mind the 
most attractive are the type, or species, tulips. They 
are beautiful both in form and colour, but they like warm 
sunny situations, a rich loamy soil and to be left un- 
disturbed for years. That is the great difficulty in small 
gardens, as it means a great dry patch all the summer, 
and no turning over of the earth for other plants I saw 
last year, at Wisley, T. Urn/olio,, a bright scarlet, and, as 

Q 



226 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the catalogues truly say, * magnificent ' ; but at present 
it seems to be scarce, for even in the cheaper Dutch 
catalogues it is marked 3s. a bulb, which I consider very 
expensive. 

One of the June plants which gives me the greatest 
pleasure, and which I strongly recommend for increase 
in both small and large gardens, is Dictamnus fraxinella. 
The white variety, D. f. alba, is much the most beautiful, 
I think. It is a slow grower, and at one time I despaired 
of making it do well. Now it is quite satisfactory. 
Last June, in a schoolmaster's house in Wiltshire, the 
whole of a large dinner-table was decorated with this 
handsome sweet-scented flower, and the blooms were the 
finest I had ever seen. As I sat down next my host I 
thought to myself, ' Now I am going to find out the real 
secret of cultivating the white dictamnus.' His answer 
to my inquiry was, ' I really don't know ; I think it was 
here when I came twenty years ago. We will ask the 
gardener to-morrow.' This I accordingly did, and he 
said it had never been moved. He increased it by sowing 
the seed directly it was ripe the seed must be watched 
or it quickly disappears, either by being eaten by birds, 
or through falling out, bursting open in the hot July sun ; 
but he said the quicker way of increasing it is by taking off 
pieces in the spring without disturbing the parent plant. 
Both of these methods I tried on my return home, and 
both answered. The moved pieces look healthy this 
year, though they have not flowered, and I have a fine 
crop of young seedlings. This is one of the many plants 
worth growing, but with which quick effects are not 
attained and patience is required. 

For years I failed in what I call the satisfactory- 
cultivation of a favourite vegetable the globe artichoke. 
Of course, I grew them, but they were few and hard. 
Many people said, ' Oh, they don't do in this light soil.' 



JUNE 227 

I never like that answer, as the merit of a light soil is 
that it can always be made. I have now mastered the 
cultivation through the kind assistance of a French neigh- 
bour. The seeds came from Vilmorin, in Paris, and if 
sown in heat in January, and planted out in May and 
well watered, they will produce some artichokes the first 
autumn. The good plants are then selected and marked, 
or the bad ones pulled out, for the seedlings vary con- 
siderably even with the best seed. They require slightly 
protecting in winter with straw or bracken, and in March 
pieces are taken off the best plants, leaving only about 
three shoots on the parent plant, without disturbing it. 
The holes must be filled in, and the plants mulched round 
with good manure. The pieces taken off are planted in a 
row in good soil, and these produce a succession crop of 
artichokes in the autumn, the main plants bearing their 
crop in June and July. In dry soils and hot weather 
copious watering is essential. Another great charm of the 
globe artichoke to me is that its leaves are so beautiful 
and goats are very fond of them. 

On Monday, the 4th of June, I came down and 
opened the papers in the ordinary casual way, and there 
in big letters was the long-expected and scarcely-to-be- 
believed-in news that peace was declared. It had been 
known in London on the Sunday, but no echo had 
reached us here. A large crowd went to cheer the King 
at Buckingham Palace ; but, on the whole, the great news 
seems to have been taken soberly and quietly, very different 
from the reception given to good news during the war, 
when the London populace seemed to rejoice with savage 
rage and almost the lust of conquest. What the news 
must have meant in many homes one can well imagine. 
Here it could only accentuate for a time one huge personal 
sorrow and regret, so then I tried to think what Peace 
with a big P meant to the country at large- the coming 

9* 



228 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

back to happy homes, both rich and poor, of those that 
were left and then to realise what it meant out there on 
the ruined and devastated veldt. However much one may 
blame the obstinacy and ignorance of the Boers in not 
understanding the temper of this country, and in not 
realising that the struggle for their freedom was useless 
and hopeless, one could not help pitying the contrast, and 
it was a relief at any rate to feel that now pity and 
sympathy were possible without the perpetual and silly 
reproach of being called a pro-Boer. It recalled to me 
the end of the Crimean war, and yet what a strange and 
different war this has been ! in a sense more like the 
conquest of Scotland and Ireland hundreds of years ago, 
and yet in another sense unique and modern. And, with 
all its failures, the effort certainly was towards making war 
more humane ; for I suppose never before in the world's 
history have wives and children been sent into an 
enemy's lines for protection from famine and death as 
they were sent into ours. Living as I do so much alone, 
I have been struck by the amount of barbaric and sen- 
timental superstition still afloat in the popular mind. 
The daily newspapers rang with the fact that a little 
pigeon had got into St. Paul's, and was noticed as 
an omen during the thanksgiving service for peace. 
A popular poet wrote of it : - 

When suddenly lifting my eyes 
To the glooms half discovered above, 

I marked with a start of surprise 
The white wings of a hovering dove. 

Blest messenger come to your home ! 

It is peace, blessed peace once again ! 
And thou, spirit ineffable, come ! 

As at Pentecost, come and remain ! 

How little we know what the future of this peace will 
be, and what the gain will be to England or South Africa ! 



JUNE 229 

The best hope, and perhaps the most beautiful of possi- 
bilities, was expressed anonymously in the following lines 
in the ' Spectator ' : 

THE SETTLERS 
(A FORECAST ON THE DECLARATION OF PEACE) 

How green the earth, how blue the sky, 

How quiet now the days that pass, 
Here, where the British settlers lie 

Beneath their cloaks of grass ! 

Here ancient Peace resumes her ground, 
And rich from toil stand hill and plain ; 

Men reap and store : but they sleep sound, 
The men who saved the grain. 

Hard to the plough their hands they put, 

And whereso'er the soil had need 
The furrow drove : and underfoot 

They sowed themselves for seed. 

Ah ! not like him whose hand made yield 

The brazen kine with fiery breath, 
And over all the Colchian field 

Strewed far the seeds of death. 

Till, as day sank, awoke to war 

The seedlings of the dragon's teeth ; 

And Death ran multiplied once more 
Across the hideous heath. 

But rich in flocks be all these farms, 

And fruitful all the fields that hide 
Brave eyes that loved the light, and arms 

That never clasped a bride. 

Oh, willing hearts turned quick to clay, 
Young lovers holding death in scorn, 

Out of the lives you cast away 
The coming race is born. 

June Wth. I think all garden lovers should visit, 
whenever they can, either at home or abroad, botanical 



230 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

gardens or the larger nurserymen's gardens. Glasnevin, 
near Dublin, is one of the most interesting botanical 
gardens I have ever seen, old and established, and planted 
in the truest botanical style viz., picturesquely, and with 
the earth in parts thrown up into the mounds so essential 
for giving different aspects to plants. I was told by 
friends who visited Bruges this year for, alas ! I did not 
go myself that when tired of the wonderful art exhibition 
there, they found the nursery gardens round the town 
full of attractions and interest. At Brussels, Linden's 
garden has a very good show of orchids and Congo plants. 
The most remarkable feature in the methods of foreign 
nurserymen is the extraordinarily clean and clever way 
in which things are grown. At Mr. Linden's, orchids are 
only watered once a week owing to his system of saucers, 
which enables the plants to get their moisture in the 
nearest possible approach to their natural circumstances. 
Each pot rests on a little porous stand rising from the 
centre of a saucer, the space round remaining full of 
water. There is, of course, no hole in the saucers, which 
helps to keep the houses clean and free from the drip 
which makes the wood and ground of ordinary hothouses 
so damp, and helps to harbour all the pests. The floors 
of these Belgian greenhouses were covered with finely- 
chipped grey limestone. This description, which was 
given me by a friend, makes me long for some practical 
invention that would save the great trouble of the dripping 
of our own greenhouses in winter. It is most destructive 
and extravagant. If ordinary saucers are used for such 
plants, say, as carnations and pelargoniums, or indeed 
anything but water-loving plants, the result is damping 
off and general ill-health. I think zinc trays of various 
lengths and widths filled with shingle, or in some cases 
cocoanut fibre, as for bulbs which want more moisture, 
might solve the drip difficulty and enable shelves to be 



JUNE 231 

placed one above the other without injury, which is 
now impossible. 

In my neighbourhood, Messrs. Waterer's garden near 
Woking has been established over 100 years, and, quite 
apart from their principal business, which is that of rhodo- 
dendrons and azaleas, there are at these nurseries an 
immense number of interesting specimen plants well 
grown in a peculiar way. For those who are young enough, 
and who have large places, it would be of great instruction 
and interest to observe what planting for posterity means, 
though few people care to do that now. At Messrs. 
Waterer's they have wistarias and Bignonia radicans 
(B. grandiflora is the handsomer plant, and does best 
on a house) grown as shrubs, first supported on poles, 
but gradually grown, carefully pruned and twisted about, 
till they form self-supporting and most picturesque groups. 
In any private garden wistarias need never be cut down, 
as the old branches can be laid along the ground, and 
flourish equally well quite a long way off. I know an 
old plant in this neighbourhood that was so saved, and 
which now covers luxuriantly a new pergola. The suckers 
of wistaria are also easily layered in the summer, then cut 
off, and potted up and forced in a cool house in spring. 
The early horticultural shows this year had lilac and 
white wistaria so grown, and also the common laburnum 
as a standard, and very pretty they look in large con- 
servatories. 

It is impossible to give advice about a garden till one 
has seen it, and thoroughly taken in its aspects, its soil, 
its surroundings, and its natural advantages. I should 
love to begin garden-making all again, and to my mind 
perfection would be a woody slope, with a south and west 
aspect, protected from the north and east, and with a 
really good soil. ' What does a good soil mean ? ' I am 
asked. This can easily be judged by the wild flora of 



232 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the neighbourhood. Woods where primroses and blue 
hyacinths grow well are not bad ; but think of the woods 
in Somersetshire or near Petersfield where the wild orchid 
flourishes, the butterfly and bee orchid and the white 
helleborine, not to mention the more ordinary lilac kinds ! 
The herb-paris tribe, with their quaint growth, Solomon's 
seal, wild garlic, forget-me-not, and violets, all of them 
grow in these districts, and later on they are choked and 
covered by stronger-growing things like campions, cen- 
taureas, and euphorbias, hiding the spring carpet of bloom. 
What a picture this is compared with the dry commons and 
miniature flora of Surrey. Unfortunately the soil where 
vegetation flourishes is one apparently less well adapted 
for the health of man, though if the air is bracing and 
people healthy, a rich soil will be considered not unwhole- 
some in the future. The combination of good soil and 
fair aspect is perhaps rare, but I know two gardens in 
Surrey with these advantages. One is partly terraced 
and arranged in the most interesting manner down the 
side of the hill, and more or less divided into the four 
quarters of the world, Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, 
by planting the shrubs, trees, and flowers of each division 
as far as possible together. I had heard of a garden of 
this kind in Scotland, but had never before seen one. 
When it is a little older, it will be as beautiful as it is 
now interesting and instructive. The other garden was 
planted by Messrs. Backhouse, of York, and is down a 
sunny slope with large rocks and very informal terracing, 
and nooks and corners made by throwing up mounds and 
hillocks. Many plants will not grow at all if exposed to 
the summer sun all day long, and the breaking up of 
even a flat piece of ground in small gardens in this way 
is an immense advantage and improvement. All down 
one side of this garden was an artificial streamlet made 
with rocks and pools for various moisture-loving plants. 



JUNE 233 

In making a new place, this very attractive feature would 
not be difficult if the house were built on the top of the 
hill, and the roof-water collected in a large tank. If the 
water were allowed first to flow down the hill of itself to 
show what its natural course would be, all stiffness would 
be avoided and blocking would be made easy ; and with 
the natural rainfall encouraged into the channel a very 
small dribble from the tank would maintain it. 

The garden which of all others I most value and 
admire, and from which I have learnt most of what I 
know, is that of Mr. G. F. Wilson at Wisley. Alas ! he 
died this spring, and one wonders what will become of it 
now that the directing spirit is gone. I believe it was 
twenty-five years ago that Mr. Wilson first began with 
about six acres to turn rough ground, part field, part wood, 
into what is generally called ' a wild garden.' Here I first 
learnt what could be done by thinning out a wood, 
digging ponds, and throwing up the soil into mounds. 
The drawback to this type of garden, which I watched 
with interest, was that it seemed to be a necessity to take 
in more and more fresh ground year by year, and now 
there must be fourteen or sixteen acres under cultivation. 
The plants and shrubs, as they spread and flourished, 
were left alone to grow at their wild will, and new spaces 
were planted with other specimens. It is partly wood, 
partly slopes facing north, and partly flat ground, mere 
ordinary fields, and it immediately strikes even a casual 
observer how much better many things do in the partial 
shade of the cleared-out oak-wood than in the open. 
This is in a great measure owing to the protection afforded 
in spring by the tall trees. Bamboos, for instance, planted 
in this wood flourish amazingly, as do auratum lilies, 
pernettias, all the tenderer heaths, andromedas, rhodo- 
dendrons, azaleas, Hydrangea paniculata, &c., all of 
which were finer specimens than I have seen anywhere 



234 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

else. Needless to say, there are no laurels or any of the 
commoner coarse-growing shrubs. No one must think 
this kind of gardening easy, for it depends on endless and 
intelligent hand-weeding. The plants must be kept clear, 
or they never flourish. When Mr. Wilson made a bed 
in his wood and filled it with the soil best adapted to the 
plants he was going to put in, the place was always 
marked by rough stones from the field. That meant it 
would be kept perfectly clean till the plant grew strong 
enough to need no further care. At no time of year can 
anyone visit this garden without finding flourishing 
specimens of plants he has probably never seen before. 

Experience teaches that a mound thrown up in windy 
exposed places, and planted with hedges or shrubs, is a 
far better breaker of the force of the wind than the highest 
and most expensive wall ; for in a gale the wind hits the 
top of the wall and dashes down on the other side, while 
the waving branches of shrubs break and soften its 
devastating progress a wind-swept garden being, perhaps, 
the most hopeless and disappointing to the gardener. In 
Italy the garden walls are delightfully varied high to the 
north, low to the south, broken in various places to suit 
different plants, tiled on the top here and there for pro- 
tection, ramped on the top if the ground falls in this way 
the picturesqueness of garden walls and their individuality 
as regards each place are immensely increased. 

In all wild gardening there is much difficulty in keeping 
down not only weeds and strong-growing plants, but 
destructive animals like rabbits, hares, rats, and mice, 
which are the most injurious, while pheasants sometimes 
manage to do a good deal of harm. Very useful little 
shelters are made at Wisley by surrounding the small bed, 
till the plants get hold, with a band, about a foot high, of 
perforated zinc. Some people will think this sounds very 
hideous, but, to a real gardener, the sense of protection to 



JUNE 235 

the young plant does away with the very slight disfigure- 
ment such a shelter makes in the wild growth of a wood. 

Wild gardening requires much more knowledge than 
any other kind, and is almost unknown professionally. I 
have never seen planting well done, from an artist's point 
of view, when left to even the best firms. At Wisley 
there are large quantities of the Japanese iris (/. K&mpferi). 
grown in artificially made ditches in the open field, or on 
the dry slopes of the ponds, not quite close to the water, 
as Kampferi does not like damp, especially in winter, 
though it is glad of lots of water at the flowering time in 
summer. The ideal situation for it would be a dry ditch 
in full sun that could be partially flooded in summer. 

The general impression seems to be that bamboos 
want a lot of sun ; they are, on the contrary, perfect wood 
plants, if a space is cleared for them. Mr. Wilson was 
making a big collection of many kinds in his wood, and 
they are flourishing luxuriantly. 

To come back to smaller plants, the Cape montbretias 
do excellently in woods, blooming, as they do, in the dull 
August time. There are eight or ten varieties of epi- 
mediums ; planted together in a bed in a wood, they look 
charming with their early spring growth, but, like every- 
thing else, they must be kept weeded. In autumn their 
leaves turn a good colour. 

Messrs. V. V. Gauntlet & Co. (Japanese Nurseries, 
Eedruth) send out on application, and for inspection only, 
the most charming books, illustrated by Japanese flower- 
painters, of various Japanese plants lilies, Japanese 
paeonies, irises, maples, magnolias, camellias, &c. The 
choice of Japanese Iris Kcempferi is particularly ample. 
All the prices are marked in plain figures. 

One of the gardening subjects I have oftenest thought 
out is what I should advise if anyone I cared very much 
about inherited a large house and a large, ready-made, 



236 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

formal garden, with empty beds in winter, and filled in 
summer with bright-coloured half-hardy plants. The 
formal garden, to my mind, is certainly adapted to the 
formal house, though it often shares its ugliness. In the 
case of very beautiful old places I think what looks best 
is either turf right up to the house, especially if the fine 
timber has been spared, such as yews, cedars, oaks, 
beeches, mulberries, &c., or if there is a garden round the 
house, it should be in small proportions, paved, and planted 
with roses, lavender, rosemary, carnations, &c., in large 
masses. The actual gardens for the picking of flowers 
should be near the house, and yet apart from it. Given 
space enough, my idea of perfection for those who live in 
their place all the year round would be to have various 
gardens, of which some would be at rest and others in full 
beauty ; say, a bulb garden, an iris garden, a garden for 
early and late annuals, perennial borders connecting some 
of these together, a double avenue of Michaelmas daisies, 
another of lavender and China roses, and a straight walk 
or terrace with a formal imitation of the way orange-trees 
are grown in Italy. The best I ever saw of this last kind 
of thing was in a large Hertfordshire place last year : the 
trees were Portugal laurels, apparently growing out of 
square boxes such as the orange-trees are grown in 
at Hampton Court. My surprise was great at finding 
the Portugal laurels had thick stems and were perfectly 
healthy. On examination, I found the boxes rested *>n 
the ground and the trees had been allowed to root 
through. The effect was excellent, and equally decorative 
in winter and summer. Laurels pine in boxes from dry- 
ness, and bays die in boxes from frost in winter if not 
housed. I have never before seen this effort at Italian 
gardening so successfully carried out in England. To 
put it in a few words, the only possible solution for decora- 
tive gardening near large houses is formal design with 



JUNE 237 

informal planting and growth. Everything else can only 
be decided by the accidents of the situation. 

As I said about Ireland, so I feel about almost every 
large place I have ever seen ; pruning, taking out of laurels, 
cutting out broad vistas in the woods, as they radiate from 
the house, wide spaces with shrubs and trees allowed to 
feather to the ground ; all this seems to me what the 
gardens of most big places really require. I have only 
known one place where the owner had the courage to 
root out every laurel, both common and Portugal, within 
half a mile of his house, replacing them with all sorts of 
unusual decorative shrubs. (See splendid list in ' Century 
Book of Gardening,' p. 423.) When actually growing in 
woods, the effect of laurels left entirely alone and un- 
pruned, except to take out dead wood, is, I think, exceed- 
ingly good, especially if they are kept in groups, and for 
the delectation of their owners in winter rather than 
summer. The slight protection of the trees saves them 
from the shabby appearance in spring so often caused by 
frost and wind in the open. Also I have seen one of the 
new kinds of large-leaved laurels, judiciously pruned, 
look almost as handsome as a magnolia nailed to the wall 
of a house or barn. In itself the laurel flower is very 
beautiful when seen close, but this is impossible when the 
shrubs are pruned, as they generally are, so as to flower 
only on the top. Bay-trees, which are hurt by frost even 
more than laurels, would do well in fairly moist woods. 

It is curious that the tamarisk is always considered a 
seaside plant. Certainly it does very well there, but it 
does equally well inland if properly pruned. It is a 
picturesque grower and an amusing plant to play with, as 
it can be treated in all kinds of ways as a hedge, in a 
group, cut down every year, or planted far apart from 
other things, and encouraged to grow old, when its effect 
is unique amongst shrubs. I only know one example of 



238 A THIRD^ POT-POURRI 

really old tamarisks, and these are supposed to have been 
brought from the East and planted by Lady Mary Wortley 
Montagu. The strong black stems and branches are very 
angular in growth, recalling Japanese plants, and their 
feathery tops wave delightfully against sky or distance. 
There is a kind not generally grown, which does well in 
my garden, and its cloud-like pink blossom appears in the 
autumn. Another kind which I first saw at Aix, T. parvi- 
flora, flowers in May, in tiny pink blossoms all along the 
branches before the leaves appear, This, too, I find well 
worth growing. 

Sea-buckthorn thrives to perfection in inland places. 
At Kew they plant it near the pond, where it fruits well 
and gives a golden glow to the whole group of shrubs in 
early spring. Mine does not fruit, thus proving to me 
that the plant needs moisture. 

The spiraeas are innumerable in kind, and make 
beautiful, easily-cultivated ornaments for open shrub- 
beries and borders of woods. I think the reason one so 
seldom sees these shrubs is that they look shabby and 
untidy unless the old wood is cut out once a year. They 
seem to me to require nothing else, and yet it is never 
done, and gardeners seem to prefer doing without them 
altogether or to put them in a border where they are 
unsuitable. If a little ground is cleared round them, they 
send up endless suckers, which should be taken off in 
spring if a fine specimen is desired. In this respect the 
treatment is exactly the same as with all the polygonums, 
though these are herbaceous plants, not shrubs. P. coin- 
pactum is one of the smaller varieties, but most desirable, 
for if planted on a bank in full sun and thinned out in 
spring, the wings of its seeds are more beautiful than its 
flowers a lovely rosy pink at the point of every branch. 
P. molle should never be forgotten, as its large white 
flowers in October are very valuable and effective 



JUNE 239 

June 19th. Not quite hardy bulbs are more mys- 
terious in their wilfulness than almost any other plants I 
grow. You seem to treat them exactly the same, but 
the least little thing must affect them, for you get unex- 
pectedly different results. This is perhaps the reason 
why so few gardeners grow them. The year before last 
I had a dozen or more of Ornithogalum arabicum, and 
they all flowered most beautifully. They were well 
worth growing, and have the usual merit of their tribe 
that every one flowers in water, and this kind has a 
distinct aromatic odour which is rare with ornithogalums. 
It is not quite hardy, and must be grown in a pot. It 
is a lovely plant with its pale cream petals and jet black 
eye. It is cheap to buy, and with a little care in the 
drying off ought to go on from year to year. This year I 
had a dozen new bulbs ; only two of them flowered, and 
those not very well. After a great deal of pumping, the 
gardener told me he thought the reason of this failure 
was that they came from Holland in a slightly growing 
state and were potted up later than usual. So it resolved 
itself into the fault being mine, as I had ordered the bulbs 
late. These plants are often seen now in London shops. 
They want a little protection, but no heat except the 
sun in spring. My 0. nutans continues to flourish most 
satisfactorily in the grass, and it is a pretty thing ! 

I think those who have big places and pieces of water 
ought not to neglect planting the taxodium or deciduous 
cypress. It is such a beautiful tree, and in favour- 
able circumstances must grow fairly quickly. Perhaps 
it does not live long in this country, for I think there 
used to be many more about in my youth than I see 
now. I suppose it was a fashion when it first came from 
America, where it grows best in the swamps of the 
Southern States. It must have been introduced before 
1640, as Parkinson mentions it and says : ' Its seed was 



240 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

brought by Master Tradescant from Virginia and sown 
here, and doe spring very bravely.' It is not a true 
cypress, of course, but a separate genus. 

I have been singularly unsuccessful with the Bomneya 
Coulteri, having lost it two or three times over. Humi- 
liating confession ! I am now trying it again, and it 
promises well. The finest I know in this light Surrey 
soil is growing under a west wall and is slightly shaded 
to the south by shrubs. It is a very fine specimen, throw- 
ing up suckers in all directions, as if it would say, ' See 
how easy I am to grow ! ' It requires a little protection 
in winter with bracken, straw, or dry leaves. I killed 
mine last year by stupidly ordering that ashes should 
be put round it. Besides its beauty and uncommonness 
for one does not often see it the buds come out in 
water a great merit. Gaura Lindheimeri is a perennial, 
but I have never succeeded in keeping it here over more 
than one winter. I think it is a plant well worth treat- 
ing as a half-hardy annual sown early in January every 
year, and planted out thickly in a sheltered place in full 
sun. It is very attractive, and is much grown in the 
gardens in Paris. 

Tuesday, Juno 24Jh. I was persuaded to go to London, 
like most of the world, with the idea of seeing the Corona- 
tion. The day was foggy, hot, and heavy, and the tired- 
looking crowds were already trapesing through the streets 
as I drove from Waterloo about mid-day. The tawdry 
decorations, the streets and thoroughfares blocked with 
stands, the side streets shut off by dangerous barriers 
such as I had never seen before, gave me an ominous 
feeling of wonder as to what was going to happen. 
I think London never looks so bad and so depressingly 
like a mean but gigantic village as on these festivo 
occasions. Grosvenor Square was a mass of workmen 
decorating handsomely and with feverish haste, and when 



JUNE 241 

the news of the King's illness burst on the town like an 
unexpected blast from some evil genius, the almost magic 
arrest of all movement produced an effect which, in its 
own peculiar way, was one of the most remarkable ex- 
periences I have ever had. The contrast was so striking 
between cause and effect. The sickness of one man is, 
as a rule, so small an event, but in this case multitudes 
were instantly stupefied by the fact. By the evening the 
whole world was sympathetically affected by the sorrow 
and disappointment that had fallen upon London, and 
the proposed coronation was only celebrated on a few 
ships at sea, and in the islands of the Hebrides. It was, 
to many of us, rather a revelation of the methods of 
conducting weekly papers, that though the news of the 
King's illness was known on Tuesday, several of the 
weekly newspapers published loyal paragraphs about the 
Coronation, including detailed descriptions of facts which 
had never taken place. 

I carried out my programme of the afternoon, which 
was to go with a friend to the great Eose Show at 
Holland House. As a show it was disappointing, for the 
season was a late one, and the roses were hardly out, and 
hung their heads in the intense heat. The crowd was 
gloomy and with bated breath spoke of but one topic. 
The beautiful building and gardens of Holland House 
remain a unique remnant of the many handsome houses 
and grounds that used to constitute the suburbs of 
London. Holland House, in spite of the black smoke- 
veil cast over it, is still one of the most splendid of the 
Jacobean dwellings. It was built by the well-known 
John Thorpe for Sir Walter Cope in 1607. Poor man ! 
He had no son, and it went to his daughter and heiress. 
She married a smart Cavalier who lost his head in 1649, 
and Fairfax's soldiers were quartered in his hall. The 
after history of the house, with all its Whig associations, 



242 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

in the time of the third Lord Holland, have been so much 
written about and are so well known that they need no 
repetition here. Even in my youth I can remember the 
huge ' breakfasts,' as they were called (really garden- 
parties), when many of the celebrities still haunted the 
place. In a delightful alcove behind the house there 
remains the inscription written by the late Lord Holland : 
1 Here Eogers sat, and here for ever dwell with me those 
pleasures that he sang so well.' I fear poor Eogers 
would hardly be much known now but for the lovely 
Turner and Stothard illustrations which adorn his books. 
The gardens have been much enlarged and improved 
by the present owners. I was anxious to see the several 
acres which used to be pasture and have been lately 
added to the grounds, and I must confess it was with a 
feeling of astonishment that I saw what can be done 
with care and cultivation in what is now virtually London 
itself. One had to look at the stems of the few remain- 
ing old trees to realise what was the amount of soot in 
the air, and what an atmosphere the gardener had to 
contend against. The roses looked as healthy as at Kew, 
and the Penzance briars and free-growing climbing roses 
ramped about as if they really believed they were in the 
country. The most interesting part of the new garden 
was an imitation of a Japanese garden. This is a 
very distinct feature which could easily be adopted 
where both money and water were plentiful and where 
the ground sloped gently. It was partly a small rock- 
garden, partly turf, and then a series of pools cleverly 
cemented and connected by an artificial rill which fed 
the various basins, some large and some small. In these 
were different varieties of aquatic plants, especially the 
new water-lilies (Nymphcea). It all looked very charm- 
ing, and on the whole this was the best arrangement I 
have ever seen for growing aquatic plants. In a small 



JUNE 243 

way it could be imitated with tubs hidden by little 
rockeries, and placed one below the other with connect- 
ing tubes, also hidden. The whole of Holland House 
garden is a most interesting lesson as to what can be 
done in poor old London. 

This week of the King's illness was the only really 
hot one we have had this summer, and during it the 
whole air was full of the most gloomy prognostications, 
the gloomiest emanating from the medical profession, and 
from certain headquarters of spiritualistic prophecy, all 
of which, as we know, happily came to nothing. 

A volume came out this summer called ' A Little 
Book of Life and Death,' selected and arranged by Eliza- 
beth Waterhouse, with a frontispiece from a painting by 
Mr. G. F. Watts. To those friends who liked so much 
the verses which were not mine in my other books I 
recommend this selection, for I think it so good as to be 
almost original. It is partly prose and partly verse, and 
from the former I take the following to give a taste of its 
general quality : ' We are evidently in the midst of a 
process, and the slowness of God's processes in the 
material world prepares us, or ought to prepare us, for 
something analogous in the moral world ; so that at least 
we may be allowed to trust that He who has taken un- 
told ages for the formation of a bit of old red sandstone 
may not be limited to threescore years and ten for the 
perfecting of a human spirit.' Thomas Erskine of Lin- 
lathen. 



244 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



JULY 

An account of lately bought gardening books A lost poem by Milton 
Vegetable gardens and rotation of crops How to easily cata- 
logue a garden More half-hardy plants suitable for large pots 
Carnations at Mr. Douglas' Spanish rush-broom. 

July 1st. As at the end of the eighteenth century, 
amidst wars and revolutions of all kinds, botanists and 
gardeners and flower-painters went quietly on their way, so 
it has been now, and since I published my ' Second Pot- 
Pourri ' a great number of excellent gardening books have 
come out, and, as time goes quickly and fashions alter, I 
think it may not be uninteresting that I should give a slight 
sketch of the books I have thought it worth my while to buy 
in the last three years. In 1900 Miss Gertrude Jekyll 
brought out her second book, * Home and Garden.' Her 
account of her home is most charming, and never did bird 
build a more appropriate nest, and, as the Italians say, ' Ad 
ogni uccello suo nido e caro.' Like her first volume this 
one is excellently illustrated from photographs taken by 
herself, which are very superior to the ordinary run of 
photographic illustration. I feel sure that all Miss Jekyll's 
books will be referred to again and again long after the 
mass of present garden literature is of no more value 
than autumn leaves. Next came out with indefatigable 
energy from her pen ' Wall and Water Garden ' ; here the 
illustrations from photographs begin to fall off and become 
commonplace. They are evidently not taken by herself, 
and have none of the individual charm so noticeable in 
the earlier books. The letterpress, on the contrary, is, I 



JULY 245 

think, more useful, original, and instructive than perhaps 
any of the others. Her advice about cutting up flat 
ground by low walls, uncemented and with earth in be- 
tween, is, I believe, entirely Miss Jekyll's own idea and 
is most useful and beautifying. In wet heavy soils where 
there are no stones, these walls could be made with clinkers, 
or spoilt bricks, as they absorb the moisture, whereas stones 
keep it in. I think anyone who casually looked at Miss 
Jekyll's books when they first came out, will be surprised 
on going back to them to find how much instruction there 
is in them for all sorts of gardens villa gardens, wood 
gardens, field gardens, terrace gardens, and water gardens. 
For those about to make a new garden, the ' Wall and 
Water Garden ' is most essential. I think tanks, both 
big and little, especially oblong and square, are the most 
beautiful additions to a garden. Unless carefully 
watched the builders always place the waste pipe too 
low down. What is really desirable is that the water 
should be level with the edge, whether it be stone or 
brick or merely grass, or, as in the case of dew-ponds on 
the top of a chalk hill, the ground should slope gently 
into the water. Last year came * Lilies for English 
Gardens, A Guide for Amateurs ' ; ' Country Life Library, 
1901.' Most of these lily notes appeared in the ' Garden,' 
Miss Jekyll being at that time co-editor of the paper. 
I myself have made no progress in lily-growing in the last 
three years. The lilies I buy flower and flourish for one 
year or two, but the summers of late have been hot and 
unfavourable. In spite of trying every kind of cultivation 
and receipt the Lilium candidum is generally more or less 
diseased with me, and the heads of bloom are not really 
fine. The Lilium croceum lasted two or three years, but 
now most of them have died off. I have one little white 
Martagon lily which comes up faithfully year after year. 
Lilium Hansoni was originally brought to me straight 



246 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

from Japan. It flourishes very well, and stands re-plant- 
ing and even dividing. That it has done well in this light 
soil through these last hot dry summers, flowering every 
year, should be noted as I have rarely seen it in other 
gardens. It blooms in June, and has bright green whorled 
leaves up its stalk and an orange flower slightly spotted 
with dark brown. Miss Jekyll says it is a lily that should 
be more known and grown. All the other lilies which 
were brought me from Japan at the same time some years 
ago have dwindled and finally disappeared. The late 
frosts this spring destroyed hundreds of auratums in Mr. 
Wilson's garden at Wisley. I think we may gather from 
Miss Jekyll's book that a lily garden means very frequent 
buying of bulbs. They are certainly more worth the 
money than many other plants, and in a woody dell near 
a house there is no more delicious effect than large clumps 
of well-grown lilies protected from cold winds and late 
frosts by refined and not too strong-growing shrubs and a 
certain number of overhanging trees. But half shade and 
moisture they must have, even if this is only procured by 
increasing the rainfall from planting them in a dell into 
which the sides drain. In this situation, and with the 
natural support of shrubs, I have seen Tropceolum specio- 
sum flowering luxuriantly. 

Last of all this year comes ' Eoses for English Gardens,' 
by Miss Jekyll and Mr. Edward Morley. I was much 
disappointed with the illustrations of this book. I do not 
think roses growing or cut lend themselves to photo- 
graphy, but ' Eoses coming over a Wall ' facing page 60 is 
a lovely exception. I had intended to make a fresh list 
of the roses which have done well here, but all Miss 
Jekyll's advice is so admirable that those who care for 
their rose gardens will be sure to have the book. 

1 Chemistry of the Garden : a Primer for Amateurs,' 
by Herbert Cousins. This is a first-rate little book 



JULY 247 

published by Macmillan in 1899, price 9d. Everyone 
should possess it. It is full of helpful, plain instruction 
as regards soils, manures, chemical requirements of plants 
and vegetables, and excellent directions for reducing 
blights and diseases that attack gardens. 

' Small Gardens, and How to Make the Most of Them,' 
by Violet Biddel, another little 9cZ. book, familiar and 
chatty in style, and modern in feeling, names many plants 
which would otherwise be forgotten, and hints at many 
methods for gaining beauty of form and colour in small 
spaces. Best of all it preaches originality ; for any 
garden, however small, which is the individual expression 
of its owner is of interest to every other gardener, who 
thereby sees variety. 

1 Flowers and Gardens,' by Mr. Forbes Watson. This 
book, which I waited for for years, was republished in 
1901, and prefaced very gracefully by Canon Ellacombe. 
It will always be loved and cherished by those who are 
fond of flowers. It curiously recalls some of Euskin's 
writing. Forbes Watson approached his subject from a 
somewhat unusual standpoint ; he was a great lover of 
flowers, a student of botany, and had the artistic tempera- 
ment combined with marked religious convictions. We 
can hardly believe from the portrait in the beginning that 
Mr. Watson was only twenty-nine when he died. He 
practically wrote it on his death-bed. We now know who 
was the friend to whom the notes were entrusted when 
the pen fell from the author's hand, and who so well ful- 
filled his trust. The book has great charm, a charm which 
is no doubt due to the way in which it reflects the soul of 
the author, who was one of the old-school doctors with 
strongly-developed taste for natural history. Mr. J. B. 
Paton in his preface says : ' The papers published in this 
little volume were written to solace the languor of the last 
months of life, when a malady, which had crept by slow 



248 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

approaches upon him, broke down his strength, and 
arrested a professional career which had begun but re- 
cently. They betoken a mind gifted with quick, clear, 
and delicate perception, independency of judgment, and 
unsparing truthfulness. These were my friend's charac- 
teristic gifts. They are dimly mirrored in these pages, 
but more clearly in the memory of those who knew him 
well. To them this little volume will be welcome because 
of him ; to others, perchance, it may be welcome for the 
worth it has, because it tells of the beauty there is in 
God's fairest, frailest handiwork in flowers, and bears 
some trace of the rarer amaranthine beauty of a soul which 
wore the white flower of a blameless life.' 

' Favourite Haunts and Eural Studies in the Vicinity 
of Windsor and Eton/ by Edward Jesse. I so much like 
Jesse's ' Gleanings from Natural History ' that I bought 
the above-named from a bookseller's catalogue, and did 
not regret it. So much of the old world in the neighbour- 
hood of London is disappearing that this book is of 
especial interest to the antiquary and the garden fancier. 
He mentions many old and exotic trees seldom now to be 
met with, such as tulip-trees, catalpas, Turkey oaks, 
deciduous cypresses, &c. all these are remains of the 
gardening craze at the end of the eighteenth century. 
The book is illustrated with little old-fashioned prints of 
cottages and churches, amongst them Upton Church, with 
its ' ivy-mantled tower ' of Gray. To those who like a 
chat about things as they were in the middle of the last 
century, I cordially recommend this book. Its out-of-date 
language reads almost like a verse from Genesis which 
gathers the whole firmament into those few words. ' He 
made the stars also.' Jesse reminds us that Gray omitted 
a beautiful stanza from his Elegy, thinking it made too 
long a parenthesis at the end of the poem before the 
epitaph ; but it is well worthy of insertion : 



JULY 249 

There scattered oft, the earliest of the year, 
By hands unseen are showers of violets found ; 
The redbreast loves to build and warble there, 
And little footsteps lightly print the ground. 

' Life of the Fields,' by Bichard Jefferies. This is a 
darling little book by a kind of modern Jesse, full of the 
love of nature and distinguished by that rare spirit of 
unworldliness which, clothed as it is in very different 
form, has made a popular favourite of another book, read 
and deeply cared for by a very different class of reader 
from the one that appreciates Richard Jefferies. It is the 
peasant and artisan who make a sort of text-book of 
Eobert Blatchford's ' Merrie England/ of which the motto 
is, ' Words ought not to be accepted because uttered by 
the lofty, nor rejected because uttered by the lowly.' Its 
teaching may be summed up in the following extract : 
' Love of truth, love of knowledge, love of art, love of 
fame are all stronger motives than love of gain, which is 
the only human motive recognized by a system of political 
economy supposed to be founded on human nature.' Let 
all young Englishmen who dread failure read this book. 

Mr. Peter Barr, who has lived for some time in South 
Africa, was kind enough to send me two lectures he deli- 
vered at Sea Point Horticultural Society, Capetown : one 
was on ' The Daffodil,' and the other on ' The Lilies of the 
World.' As very few people here can have seen these lec- 
tures, I give one interesting extract from the lily pamphlet, 
and, in passing, would also recommend the Lily Conference, 
reported in the ' Journal of Horticulture,' December 1901, 
which gives a most comprehensive account of all the 
varieties of lilies now grown. The more I read about 
them the more I feel sure that, like hyacinths, for 
ordinary people they represent a nurseryman's bill, as one 
has to buy afresh every year, But the subject is in- 
teresting enough for a real garden-lover to devote his 



250 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

whole attention to lilies and lilies alone. No doubt the 
climate of the Cape and Mr. Barr gives a long list with 
historical notes of those most likely to succeed there 
would prove much more favourable than England, 
especially for the Japanese varieties. 

Under ' American Lilies,' Mr. Barr writes as follows : 
' Sulphurewn (syn. Wallichianum superbum). When in 
Auckland, New Zealand, 1900, I saw in Mr. Ball's 
garden this really handsome lily, and a noble sight it 
was. Height, 5 to 6 feet, with a coronet of seven long 
white flowers surmounting a sturdy stem. I had a letter 
recently from Mr. Ball, informing me that the lily this 
year had fifteen flowers. At another garden in Auckland 
I saw the same lily behaving in a similar manner, and 
with a considerable progeny of all sizes. The owner 
expressed a desire to sell some of them, and I undertook 
to sound the lily's praises as I travelled this progressive 
and aggressive wonderful country, " the home of the brave 
and the free of the Southern Hemisphere." I had a letter 
of thanks recently from the owner referred to, informing 
me he had sold well on to 20Z. worth of the bulbs of 
Lilium sulphureum to the persons to whom I had re- 
commended it. Now, this man a few years previously had 
bought a bulb for 5s. Qd. So say no more about the gigantic 
profits of the Capetown Cold Storage Company. Here is 
a record-breaker for you in lilies, and he expects to reap 
an annual revenue from this original investment of 
5s. 6d. He let me into the secret of increasing the bulb, 
so pardon my not taking you into my confidence, as I 
promised not to spoil his market by letting others know 
how he worked his diamond mine.' 

The other lecture is even more interesting to the 
general public, as it is on the cultivation of the favourite 
daffodil. It is, of course, addressed to those who live in 
South Africa, but it is full of information of the most 



JULY 251 

fascinating kind for everybody. He says : ' Double 
daffodils, as far as I can make out, originated in a wild 
state, but when, and where, and how, are unsolved 
questions. No one in modern times has added a double 
daffodil to the existing ancient forms ; indeed, I am not 
quite sure that we know as many double daffodils as 
Parkinson cultivated in his garden in Holborn, London. 
Some names of double daffodils have been changed, it is 
true, but a change of name does not make a new flower.' 
Then he goes on to describe the wild double daffodils of 
the world. He gives an interesting account of the 
various people who worked on daffodils, and how he 
himself took up the study of the daffodil early in the 
sixties, working on the older forms known to Parkinson. 
Describing how they came into fashion, he says, ' I do 
not suppose that Oscar Wilde knew anything about 
daffodils, but there is no doubt in my mind that the great 
public are much indebted to him for the revolution in 
taste caused by his lectures on aesthetic colours. He 
broke down the prejudice to yellow. The artists followed 
him, and the public followed the artists/ Both lectures 
teem with interest, and I have no doubt they could be 
procured at Barr & Sons', King Street, Covent Garden ; 
for if the demand was sufficient, Mr. Barr would probably 
reprint them. 

I always think books devoted to one kind of plant 
very interesting. I bought last year ' The Clematis as a 
Garden Flower,' by Thomas Moore and George Jackson, 
of the Woking Nursery, 1872. At that time the clematis 
was very fashionable, now it is not grown enough or 
given the attention it deserves. In Messrs. Jackman's 
catalogue for 1902, they give an excellent description of 
how clematis should be cultivated. They also mention 
that the book I have just named has been republished, 
no doubt with newer information, for the price of 2s. 6d. 



252 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The suggestions as to the various uses to which the types 
of clematis may be applied would be very useful to the 
amateur. I. mention, elsewhere, a notable example I saw 
in Suffolk. I must say the illustrations in my old edition 
are in the worst form of mid-Victorian colour-printing 
and drawing. 

Whenever I see in any old book catalogue a work by 
one of those indefatigable gardeners, Mr. and Mrs. Loudon, 
I always buy it. The last one I got is by Mrs. Loudon, 
and is called the ' Lady's Country Companion, or how to 
enjoy a country life rationally.' It is choke-full of in- 
formation, also full of her bad taste in garden planting, 
has excellent teaching about bread and biscuit making, 
cream cheeses, &c. Her experience of goats seems to 
have been narrow, as was natural in the days before rail- 
ways had drained the milk-supply of the country for the 
big towns, and also before the breeds of goats had been 
improved by foreign blood. We find them gentle, 
affectionate, and highly intelligent animals. Her in- 
formation is so often picturesque as well as enlightening. 
For instance, she says of cabbages : ' The cabbage tribe 
is very much improved by cultivation, but the plants 
contained in it require a great deal of manure and 
frequent watering to make them succulent and good. It 
seems strange that such different plants as broccoli, 
cauliflowers, cabbages, Scotch greens, and savoys should 
all spring not only from one genus, but from one species, 
Brassica oleracea, which is, in fact, a British plant, and 
which, I have no doubt, you have seen growing on the 
cliffs of Dover, though you have no idea that a tall 
straggling plant with alternate leaves and very pretty 
flowers could be the wild cabbage.' 

' The Century Book of Gardening : a comprehensive 
work for every Lover of the Garden ' (George Newnes, 
Limited). This is a true title, and I think the book will 



JULY 253 

prove most useful, helpful, and suggestive to anyone 
wishing to learn quickly and easily about gardening. 
I bound my copy in two volumes, as its bulk and weight 
are an objection. The photographic pictures, as usual, 
exaggerate size and distance, but they give a good im- 
pression of many gardens and help people to know what 
they want. The two long lists (one of shrubs and trees 
at p. 387, the other of herbaceous plants at p. 69) alone 
make the book worth possessing, and for those too idle 
to make their own lists as I recommend, marking these 
lists would be a way of cataloguing their garden. 

After resisting the temptation for some years, I pur- 
chased the * Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening : a 
Practical and Scientific Encyclopaedia of Horticulture for 
Gardeners and Botanists,' edited by Geo. Nicholson, A.L.S. 
My copy is in eight volumes, which makes it easier to 
handle, but it is extraordinary how puzzling the alphabet 
can be when one wants to refer to a book of this kind. It 
is an endless joy to me, and no evening can be dull or 
lonely with one of these volumes to look at under one's 
lamp. 

'The Romance of Wild Flowers,' by Edward Step, 
1899, was strongly recommended to me, and I got it. 
The appropriateness of the title strikes me every time I 
look into its fascinating pages, which have indeed much of 
the romantic lure which makes a reader forget everything 
else even hunger while the mind is held by a favourite 
book. 

I have been reading lately, with profound interest, the 
little ' Memoire ' of Grant Allen, which came out in 1900, 
when I had not the courage to send for it, because I 
wished so terribly that I could have sent it to my son, who 
had always been fond of Grant Allen's writings. It is a 
very genuine, well-told account of a most interesting 
character. To all who know his work, even partially like 



254 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

myself, Grant Allen is a personality, and his biographer 
quotes, with regard to him, the story of Henry III. and 
Montaigne. ' I like your essays,' said the King. ' Then, 
Sire, you'll like me. I am my essays.' So might Grant 
Allen have replied. My son and I knew nothing whatever 
of the man, and of his fiction I still know nothing, but in 
his other writings he brought home to the ignorant in a 
wonderful and charming manner his own long and deep 
study of the natural sciences. A letter of his from 
Jamaica ought to be deeply interesting to all Englishmen 
who have to deal with the great difficulty of how natives 
can be justly ruled. I am always being told this is done 
better by Englishmen than men of any other nation. But 
have we not also made huge mistakes, and have we not 
much to learn in the matter of just application of laws 
which cannot be equal between white men and black ? 
He is interesting, too, about the much -vaunted flora of the 
tropics. 'The fruits of which one hears so much are 
stringy and insipid ; the flowers don't grow ; and the 
" tropical vegetation " is a pure myth.' This may be 
slightly exaggerated, but I have always suspected some- 
thing of the kind. He says, further, ' The tropics are the 
norma of nature the way things mostly are and always 
have been. They represent to us the common condition 
of the whole world during by far the greater part of its 
entire existence ; not only are they still, in the strictest 
sense, the biological headquarters, they are also the 
standard or central type by which we must explain all the 
rest of nature both in man and beast, in plant and animal.' 
All Allen's life seems to have been hampered by bad 
health and poverty, but the latter probably made him all 
he was. And when he was dying his last words to his 
son were : ' I want no memorial over my remains ; tell 
those who care for anything that I may have done to buy 
a copy of " Force and Energy." ' 



JULY 2SS 

The whole of this ' Me"moire ' to me is extraordinarily 
touching, interesting, and inspiring. To have so little 
time left in which to learn is the true sadness of old age. 
On the first page, in Grant Allen's lovely little miniature 
writing, is the following : ' I don't know that any phrase 
or quotation has ever been of much use to me in life, but 
the two passages most frequently on my lips are probably 
these : What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole 
world and lose his own soul ? and 

To live by law, 

Acting the law we live by without fear ; 
And, because right is right, to follow right, 
Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence. 

Tennyson.' 

I never saw Grant Allen, but Mr. Clodd's book makes 
me intensely wish I had known him, and I think the book 
is what such a book should be, ' a faithful portrait of a 
most fascinating personality.' 

July IQth. In that very charming work, by Mr. Bider 
Haggard, the ' Farmer's Year Book for 1898, with illustra- 
tions by G. Leon Little,' he gives an interesting anecdote 
which touches indirectly on my favourite subject of diet. 
Under date September 8th, when speaking of the obscure 
causes of sunstroke, he says, ' Here is a curious instance 
of the power of an English sun. In a Norfolk village with 
which I am acquainted, lived a man, a retired soldier, 
who, when serving in India, had married a native woman 
and brought her home to England. This woman, while 
working in the fields at harvest-time, was struck by the 
sun and died. Certainly it seems strange that she, who 
had passed her youth beneath its terrific rays, should have 
fallen a victim to them here in foggy Britain.' It is strange, 
but may not the cause have been the great change in the 
woman's food? To pass suddenly in mid-life to an 
English labourer's diet from the Indian peasant's food of 



256 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

rice and vegetables and fruit, would be likely to set up an 
unwholesome condition of the blood which would result 
in mischief. And are not our own people who take much 
alcohol much more affected by sun than other people ? 
I use the word charming, to describe Mr. Haggard's book, 
for two reasons ; first, because it is rare to have a book on 
such a subject from a cultured point of view, and secondly, 
because it is equally rare in these days to have a cheap 
book illustrated from an artist's sketches. In this in- 
stance the illustrations are often very good indeed truth- 
ful, well-drawn, with a human touch, especially in ' The 
Dead Foal,' but, personally, I wish they had been repro- 
duced in black and white instead of brown. They are 
all, to my mind, very superior to the usual machine-made 
reproductions which make the book illustrations of to-day 
so tedious, though I quite own that now and then, at 
long intervals, the photographer, by the happy selection 
of his subject, raises himself almost to the level of an 
artist. A most conspicuous example of this is to be seen 
in Sir Harry Johnstone's important new book about the 
Uganda Protectorate in East Africa. Early in the first 
volume there is a picture called ' An Andorobo drinking 
as primitive man drank/ which in its grace of limb, free- 
dom of action, and extraordinarily lovely balance is, to 
my mind, fit to shake hands with some of the best of the 
world's statues ! I wonder, by the by, if in nature the 
bow was held in the left hand, or whether it appears in 
reproduction reversed as on the lens? Anyhow, the 
picture is a marvellous representation of its subject. 

July Vlih In an old 'Pall Mall Gazette' I have 
found an account of a lost poem, by John Milton, which 
an Irish correspondent sent to the paper as a literary 
curiosity. As it is not included in any of the later editions 
of the poet's work, and as I am always impressed by the 
excellence of much in the daily papers which, from their 



JULY 257 

ephemeral nature, must needs be soon forgotten, I include 
it here on the chance of introducing it to a few more 

people : 

I am old and blind, 

Men point at me as smitten by God's frown, 
Afflicted and deserted of my mind, 

Yet am I not cast down. 

I am weak yet strong ! 

I murmur not that I no longer see. 
Poor, old, and helpless, I the more belong, 

Father supreme, to Thee ! 

Merciful One ! 

When men are furthest, then Thou art most near ; 
When friends pass by, my weakness shun, 
Thy chariot I hear. 

Thy glorious face 

Is leaning towards me, and its holy light 
Shines in upon my lonely dwelling-place ; 

And there is no more night. 

On my bended knee 

I recognise Thy purpose clearly shown. 
My vision Thou hast dimmed that I may see 

Thyself Thyself alone ! 

1 have naught to fear ; 

This darkness is the shadow of Thy wing. 
Beneath it I am almost sacred here 
Can come no evil thing. 

Oh ! I seem to stand 

Trembling, where foot of mortal ne'er hath been ; 
Wrapped in the radiance of Thy wondrous hand, 

Which eye hath never seen. 

Visions come and go ! 

Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng : 
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow 

Of soft and holy song. 

It is nothing now, 

When Heaven is opening on my sightless eyes, 
When airs from Paradise refresh my brow, 

That earth in darkness lies. 



258 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

In a purer clime, 

My being fills with rapture ; waves of thought 
Boll in upon my spirit : strains sublime 

Break over me, unsought. 

Give me now my lyre ! 

I feel the stirrings of a gift divine ; 
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire, 

Lit by no skill of mine. John Milton. 

The tone of sublime joyfulness in this poem reminds 
me of the well-known lines on ' The Celestial Surgeon,' by 
B. L. Stevenson : 

If I have faltered more or less 
In my great task of happiness ; 
If I have moved among my race 
And shown no glorious morning face ; 
If beams from happy human eyes 
Have moved me not ; if morning skies, 
Books, and my food, and summer rain 
Knocked at my sullen heart in vain : 
Lord, Thy most pointed pleasure take, 
And stab my spirit broad awake ; 
Or, Lord, if too obdurate I, 
Choose Thou, before that spirit die, 
A piercing pain, a killing sin, 
And to my dead heart run them in ! 

It is now nearly twenty years since Mr. Robinson 
wrote his preface to the English edition of Mons. Vil- 
morin's 'Vegetable Garden,' an invaluable book in every 
way, now out of print. I mentioned it before, but return 
to it here because, although I have been about a good 
deal, I have never seen a kitchen garden, old or new, 
planted and managed as Mr. Robinson recommends, and 
which seems to me admirable for anyone making a new 
vegetable garden. For the sake of those who have not 
the book, I quote the following : ' One point deserves 
the serious consideration of every owner of a garden, and 
that is the " muddle " method of planting the kitchen 



JULY 259 

garden with fruit trees and bushes, and so cutting up the 
surface with walks, edgings, &c., that the very aim of the 
garden is missed. It is quite a mistake to grow fruit- 
trees over the kitchen-garden surface. We cannot grow 
vegetables well under them, and in attempting to do so 
we destroy the roots of the trees. This induces canker 
and other troubles, and is the main cause of our poor 
garden-fruit culture. One-fourth of the space entirely 
given to vegetables, divested of walks, large hedges, old 
frame grounds, old walls, rubbish, and other impediments, 
would give a far better supply. Such a spot well culti- 
vated would be a pleasure to see. It is not merely the 
ugliness and the loss of the mixed garden which we have 
to deplore, but the troubles of the unfortunate gardener 
who has to look after such a garden in addition to other 
work. How is he to succeed with many things so hope- 
lessly mixed up? Put the fruit-trees in one part the 
higher ground, if any and the remaining part devoted to 
vegetables, cultivating the ground in the best way, and 
having it always a fertile green vegetable garden. The 
vegetables, too, would be more wholesome from continual 
good light and air, for shade from ragged and profitless 
trees and bushes and hedges is one of the evils of this 
hopeless kind of garden. The broken crops, too (for the 
most part sickly patches) are not such as one can be 
proud of. Separation of the two things, complete and 
final, is the true remedy. There should not be the root 
of a fruit-tree in the way of a vegetable-grower.' 

I agree with every word of this, but many of us have 
bought or inherited old gardens planted on the wrong 
system, and then it must be a compromise. The greatest 
difficulty is that under-gardeners will dig with a spade, 
and so cut the roots of the fruit-trees, which greatly 
injures them when they are young, and perhaps already 
making too little growth. I think fruit-trees, when once 

s 2 



260 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

established, for this reason do best with the ground under 
them turfed, so long as there is a bare circle round the 
tree so that it can be manured, and mulched, in dry hot 
weather. Years ago Mr. Robinson advised me to sow 
pips of apples and pears, and one of these seedling pear- 
trees has fruited well this year and looks stronger and 
healthier than any other tree in the garden. In size 
and flavour the fruit also surpasses all the rest. 

I have always found great difficulty in growing rasp- 
berries here. Every now and then, in a wet year, I get a 
certain number, but then they are more or less spoilt by 
the excess of rain. I am more and more convinced that, 
as with roses, they want better treatment than I have 
ever given them. In heavy soils, mulching with lawn- 
mowings is sufficient. Here, that is no use. I am sure 
they want heavily mulching with strong manure three 
times a year in the early winter, at flowering time, and 
at fruiting time; though, perhaps, at the fruiting time, 
liquid manure would be best. In spite of what Professor 
Owen used to say when asked why he did not protect his 
fruit, ' They are the salaries of my orchestra, the wages 
of my choir/ I have wire -netted in a portion of my 
kitchen garden for the protection of the small fruit. 

A kind neighbour and very clever gardener has written 
out for me a rotation of crops in the kitchen garden. 
Farmers pay great attention to this, but in smallish 
gardens it is often too much neglected. 

' Divide garden into five equal parts or sections. In 
No. 5 perennials should be grown, such as asparagus, 
globe artichokes, herbs, strawberries, &c. . . . and no 
rotation applied. 

' In the four remaining parts or sections the rotation 
of crops should be as follows the first year : 

' First Part, or Section A. Generally such plants 
whose produce is stalks, leaves, or flowers. But cabbages, 



JULY 



261 



endive, lettuce, cauliflower, spinach, and (exceptionally) 
early potatoes, celery, and celeriac. 

' This section requires very heavy manuring, applied as 
follows before or during winter : 

' The soil to be dug straight down, and the soil 
scattered on the manure, which must be laid on the inclined 
surface of what has been dug. (See diagram.) 




' The spade must be inserted as upright as possible, 
and be driven in entirely till the foot is level with the soil 
to be dug. The soil thus dug will show only soil on the 
surface, but below the surface each layer of manure will 
occupy an inclined surface, and these inclined layers will 
overlap so that any plant put in will surely reach the 
manure at a depth varying from one (A) to six (B) 
inches. 

' Second Part, or Section B. Such plants as are 
cultivated for their roots : Carrots, onions, turnips, sal- 
sify, scorzonera, chicory. The soil, having been prepared 
as above the previous year, will be found full of rich 
decomposed mould. It should then be trenched, taking 
care that the upper spit is not mixed with the lower spit. 
It will then require no additional manure, root crops being 
best without it. 

' Third Part, or Section C. Such plants as are culti- 
vated for their seeds : Peas and beans. For these any 



262 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

addition of artificial manure or ashes may be applied 
(mulching after the bloom has commenced is recom- 
mended, not before). 

'Fourth Part, or Section D. To receive odds and 
ends : Seed beds or hotbeds ; gourds or marrows grown 
on specially prepared places for their culture ; also the 
reserve of flowers for autumn bedding. As the fourth 
section will become first section and grow A in the 
following year, the heavy manuring and the planting of 
biennials (broccoli) should here be anticipated. 

' Each of the four parts of the garden will receive 
the proper culture for A, B, C, and D in regular rotation. 
Thus the first section, which grows A the first year, will 
grow B the second year, C the third year, D the fourth 
year, and A again the fifth year, and so on.' 

July 15th. An excellent way, which I regret not 
having followed, for keeping the lists of all you have in 
your garden a plan as useful as it is instructive is to 
get what are called visiting-books, with the alphabet 
marked on the pages down the side. It is better to have 
two of these books one for shrubs, which would include 
fruit-trees, the other for perennials and annuals of all 
kinds and greenhouse plants. The very earnest student 
might add a vegetable book, with remarks as regards 
success or failure of experiments. 

July 18th. I have continued to experiment with the 
cultivation of plants in large pots. The Pelargonium 
1 Pretty Polly ' is shown to full advantage grown in this 
way, and its name is appropriate, for it is very pretty. 
Any of the hardier zonal pelargoniums are satisfactory. 
One of my favourites is ' William Gladstone/ a beautiful 
rose-pink. A great improvement in the last few years 
has been made in these zonal pelargoniums. Mr. Cannell 
has a very fine collection, but in writing for them it is 
desirable to note that none should be sent with that 



JULY 263 

peculiar blue shade, verging on magenta, which kills all 
the other colours. None of the tenderer pelargoniums, 
though they live well out of doors in the summer, show 
to perfection, except under glass. Of these ' Enid ' is one 
of the best for flowering all the winter. Even out of doors, 
I think, the ivy-leaved ones do best against a wall if left in 
ordinary six-inch pots with only moderate watering and 
feeding. Inside, in this way, if the greenhouse is sunny 
they are smothered with blossoms and not too much 
leaved. They simply spend their life in flowering. ' Lord 
Derby,' which one can only describe as a salmon-scarlet 
with a large silver- splashed eye, is a very good one. This 
reminds me of the old, well-known catalogue description 
of a verbena ' " Lady B." a good bedder with straggling 
habits.' ' Lady Mary Fox ' is another of the old-fashioned 
pelargoniums that grows prettily in a large pot, and 
1 Lucrece ' is one of the best pink zonals. Of my recent 
discoveries in large plants for these pots I think Cassia 
corymbosa is one of the most effective. It is of shrubby 
growth, with handsome yellow flowers, which continue 
till the frost comes. The plants can be housed in any 
rough place where actual frost is excluded. Its fault is 
that it has that rather tiresome tendency to go to bed 
very early, and when your friends come to tea its leaves 
droop and the petals turn back, and it looks shabby; 
but the sun of next morning makes it triumphant and 
bold. I can quite recommend it. 

July 2Qth. I went to-day to pay a visit to Mr. 
Douglas, the well-known carnation-grower at Great 
Bookham. It is always so interesting to see a large 
number of plants of one kind grown to the greatest per- 
fection. His carnations were lovely, and many were his 
own seedlings. Once potted up, he never waters them 
with anything but plain water. I am sure success or the 
contrary must much depend on careful watering. He 



264 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

layers all his carnations in their own pots in the glass- 
houses, gives them quantities of air and sun, and never 
puts any out of doors at all. They root quickly, and by 
keeping his plants in his sunny, low greenhouses, their 
seeds ripen. 

This wet July has made Ligustrum sincnsc floribundum 
flower profusely, and when it does so I think it is the best 
of all the privets. It should face north, or be in partial 
shade. 

In one of my many happy visits to the East Coast in 
July, I came across, hi quite a small garden on a high 
bank facing south-west, against a bright blue sky, one of 
the most beautiful results of cultivation I ever saw in any 
garden. It was the Spanish sweet-smelling rush-broom 
(Spartium junceum), one sheet of golden bloom. It is one 
of the clearest and brightest of all the yellow flowers, and 
keeps for days in water, retaining all its colour at night. 
I instantly asked how it had been treated, and found the 
bank had been well planted with a few young plants far 
apart eight or nine years ago, and that the only cultiva- 
tion it had had was cutting back hard with shears every 
year late in the summer, after it had done flowering, not 
allowing the seeds to ripen. Certainly the result was 
most satisfactory and well worth any one trying, whether 
near the sea or away from it. Even individual plants do 
far better and are hardier if well cut back. I used to lose 
them in winter, now I do not. This rush-broom planted 
on the southern side of the double gorse hedge before 
mentioned would carry on the band of golden blossom 
later into the year. Genista tinctoria planted in a very 
dry place on a wall and cut back hard becomes almost a 
dwarf plant, but flowers in great profusion. I think 
nothing so amusing as success or failure in varying the 
cultivation of certain plants, particularly in small gardens. 

I think the cimicifugas much better worth growing 



JULY 265 

than seems to be the general opinion, for I seldom see 
them. I have both G. racemosa and C. japonica in the 
middle of a large herbaceous bed. They flower at quite 
different times, require no staking, and, being well fed, 
attract considerable attention in my garden. The tall 
thalictrums, T.flamm and T. aquilegifolium, I have placed 
near them, and the two together make a very pretty quiet 
background for brighter flowers. I have a specimen of 
sanguisorba which grows like a cimicifuga. Most people 
think them both spiraeas. Sanguisorbas do excellently by 
rivers or ponds, and have a charming growth. 

Bartonia asteroides is an autumn flowering plant that 
appears to ordinary people to be a Michaelmas daisy, but 
its leaf and its habit are quite different. It does best not 
divided, likes a dry sunny place, is more refined and 
graceful, and lasts longer in water than any of the asters 
I know. 

One of the handsomest of the shrubs as a single 
specimen, or in front of other shrubs, is the Chinese 
Guelder rose (Viburnum placatum). Pruning back after 
flowering, and an occasional mulching, is all it requires. 
Its flowers are most striking in spring, and its foliage 
tints beautifully in autumn. 



266 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



AUGUST 

Cultivation of various plants Outdoor fig culture Rhubarb in 
France Effects of Nicotiana sylvestris alba Potatoes in 
succession Colonial branch of Swanley Horticultural College 
for Women ' Animal life ' Letter about monkey's food 
Hampton Court garden and the old railing The motor and 
Bramshill Building a house Rose planting Cooking receipts 
Autumn work in a German country-house kitchen House- 
hold receipts. 

August 1st. I have this year thoroughly conquered the 
difficulty of growing and flowering the single Datura 
cornigera(BrugmansiaKnighti). It is beautifully figured 
in the sixth edition of the ' English Flower Garden.' 
This picture would convince anyone how well worth 
growing it is. In a windy and exposed situation it is no 
use trying to grow it. What I do with it is this : It is 
kept all the winter with other half-hardy plants in a pot ; 
in the spring all the lower suckers are taken off and the 
stem is bared. If you want to increase your plant, you 
leave two or three shoots at the bottom of the plant 
earthing them up, and in the autumn you take them off. 
When you have potted up in the spring it is well, if you 
have room, to leave the plant growing on in a cool green- 
house. It is planted out at the end of May. If the head 
is too thick, a little judicious pruning improves its 
shape. The hole must be well dug and well manured, 
the earth left as a cup round the plant, liquid manured 
later on as the flower-buds form, and copiously watered 



AUGUST 267 

in dry weather. By this method I believe anyone can 
have this plant growing and flowering during the whole 
summer in a way that any gardener would feel proud of. 
The sweet Italian double datura I use as a wall plant in 
a large pot, and have a plant so old that a large knob has 
formed just above the ground, which, I suppose, is 
Nature's way of retaining moisture in its unnatural 
condition of being left in a pot. I have another of these 
double daturas planted in a bed in my greenhouse, and 
cutting it hard back once or twice a year makes it also 
flower twice. In the cultivation of cannas, too, I have 
made great progress. The common kind have luxuriant 
foliage, but the flower is poor. Two years ago I bought 
twelve good ones from Mr. Cannell. Before the frost comes 
they are taken up and put under the shelter of some 
shrub with dry earth thrown over their roots. This 
makes them die down naturally. They are then put into 
a box with dry earth and wintered in the cellar. In 
January they begin to show signs of growth ; they are 
best then taken up and very much divided and put into 
separate small pots. Some should be kept and potted on 
for greenhouse use, the others planted out in rich soil at 
the beginning of June. The great object is that they 
should be good-sized plants ready to flower at the end of 
June. Some heat may be used short of making the 
plants weak. The better sort of cannas never show to 
advantage if they flower too late. A canna called 
' Alphonse Bouvier ' makes a most splendid pot plant on 
my wall. It stands plenty of liquid manure when in good 
growing condition. Most plants stand high feeding when 
they are at their strongest and making their flowers. 
Over-manuring constantly kills young plants. 

We keep our dahlias also in the cellar. They, too, 
form better plants for a good deal of dividing when 
planted out. The shoots should be thinned out as they 



268 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

grow, and all the lower leaves removed in June or July. 
This immensely increases their flowering capabilities. 

(Enothera taraxacifolia has been a most useful plant 
here this wet summer. We have to treat it as an annual, 
as it does not stand our winters. The vagaries of seasons 
have to be much taken into account. All my dry-soil, 
sun-loving plants, which generally do so well here, have 
utterly failed this peculiar season. Another Cape perennial 
which has done splendidly this year is Venidium col- 
endulaceum. It is of dwarf spreading growth and the 
most showy, orange, marigold-like blooms. Cuttings 
can be taken in August and kept in a greenhouse through 
the winter, but I think growing from seed in a hotbed in 
spring is the better way. 

Francoa ramosa, when grown for the greenhouse, 
should be potted on and not divided. Its wealth of 
bloom, if this point is observed, makes it a handsome 
plant for a greenhouse. 

Many people say to me, ' Do you get figs off your 
trees ? ' I answer, ' Yes, since I have known how to treat 
them.' There is no difficulty in growing good figs out 
of doors, provided first, you have a wall with south 
aspect. Second, select the right sort of fig, such as (in 
mild situations) 'BourjassotteGrise,' 'St. John,' 'Osborn's 
Prolific/ and 'Brown Turkey'. It is of no use to try 
'Castle Kennedy,' ' Negro Largo,' or many others. Third, 
if the shoots grow more than 18 inches long, the ground 
is too rich ; in this case, cut the roots freely and pinch the 
points of the roots. Fourth, no shoots must be shaded ; 
if they are, you may get figs, but you do not deserve them. 
The first frost will destroy the unripe figs. I always 
pick mine off. This information was given me by a man 
who is a most successful fig-grower. It is better to prune 
figs in the spring because some of the shoots may bo 
damaged by frost if done in autumn. 



AUGUST 269 

Two or three years ago, visiting in a French country 
house in August, to my surprise, the most excellent 
rhubarb tart was served hot for the English guests ! I 
immediately thought, ' Oh ! a new and refined kind which 
tastes just like plums ; how wonderful these French 
are ! ' On inquiry, I found the plants had come from 
England, and that, the family being away, the French 
gardener had been bored by their enormous growth and 
had cut them down in May. Their new green growth 
made this delicious autumn variety. I recommend it to 
all, as it comes in most usefully when the small fruit is 
over. The plants must not be forced or cut for eating 
till May. 

August 3rd. In a beautiful old garden close to the 
Thames, I saw a simple but really lovely effect of garden 
planting. In a small, inner, walled garden were some 
old yews, sombre and dark, and in front, instead of the 
ordinary mixed border or the eternal autumn yellows, 
was an enormous bed entirely planted and very well 
done, not too close together with Nicotiana sylvestris 
alba. Its beautiful long white flowers stood out against 
the dark background, and in the pale evening light the 
effect was magical. One great advantage of this plant 
over the old Nicotiana affinis, is that it does not close by 
day, but, in spite of this, affinis is the best for small 
gardens. The other must be massed and have such a lot 
of room to look really well. Gardeners are rather afraid 
of it, as some years it fails and only goes to leaf. I think 
this is greatly owing to treating it too well in the way of 
rich soil. 

Against autumn and deciduous trees and shrubs in 
the front of park-like scenery, nothing looks so handsome 
as very large clumps of yellow flowers shading up to 
orange, letting montbretias be the highest touch towards 
the red. The endless varieties of perennial sunflowers 



2 70 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

helianthus and harpaliums, rudbeckias, &c. make these 
easy and successful, and they can be varied and improved 
year by year, as they are all the better for replanting late 
in each autumn. Mr. Robinson gives such a splendid 
list of the varieties of these sunflowers that I nejsd not 
repeat. The great thing to note is the variety in their 
heights. Lately, a double rudbeckia, ' Golden Glow,' has 
been added to these yellow autumn flowers and is most 
effective and useful. In the latest of autumn sunshine 
these yellow flowers look beautiful against autumn 
leaves. 

For mixed borders, a low-growing white phlox ' La 
Eeine ' is a very good one, I find. If cut down, it flowers 
again in autumn. 

All the hardy statices (sea lavender) do well in this 
light soil and, had they more space than I can give them, 
would form a beautiful patch of blue-grey colour in this 
bad month for bloom. They are easily increased, as they 
are what is called root-plants. You dig them up in- 
tending to move them ; probably, the bit you left behind 
produces a finer spray of flower than the large root you 
take away. That means that every piece of root will 
grow if in a sunny, dry situation. 

For those who like unshowy plants with various 
charms of their own, the hardy euphorbias (spurges) are 
a fascinating family to cultivate. The well-known Cape 
spurge (E. Lathyris) is a plant with a distinct habit and 
considerable beauty of foliage and demeanour when well 
grown. It sows itself in this garden, and I merely pull 
up those that are not wanted. E. pilosa and E. amyg- 
daloides are very attractive in spring from their yellow 
flowers, which look like leaves when little else is in 
bloom. 

I have grown for years Veratrum nigrum merely for 
the pleasure of the growth of its handsome, green, crinkled 



AUGUST 271 

leaves in spring, and this wet summer brought me the 
surprise of seeing it throw up its unusual tall flower-spike 
with numberless blackish purple blossoms. There is a 
white variety which I shall now feel encouraged to get. 
They are handsome alpines, rarely seen, for they do not 
thrive in a dry rockery. Cineraria maritima, that distinc- 
tive perennial with grey leaves, I used to lose year after 
year, when I first lived here. Then it struck me to plant 
it on the southern side of a moisture-absorbing shrub, and 
ever since it has flourished year by year, and is one of the 
joys of late autumn. 

I think most gardeners plant their spring potatoes all 
at once ; I find it a great advantage to plant a few rows 
every month up to the beginning of August, as this 
continues much longer the delicacy so prized by many 
people of little waxy new potatoes. Seakale beet is a 
vegetable which does not seem to be generally known. 
I have grown it for some years, and, though it is not 
extraordinary in any way, it makes a pretty dish as 
described in receipts. 

One of the things that my readers never seem to have 
forgiven me was my condemnation of the Virginia 
creeper and the Ampelopsis Veitchii in my first books. 
They never seem to understand that it had nothing to do 
with dislike of the lovely plant, but with the way it was 
misused, and I am as convinced as ever that, like ivy, it 
does spoil beautiful brickwork. This year I have been 
haunted by someone quoting me as an authority as to 
when the Virginia creeper was first grown on London 
houses. When I put it as late as 1841, it was a great 
misstatement. J. C. Loudon, in his ' Arboretum et 
Fruticetum Britannicum,' published in 1838, says, 'The 
Virginia creepers grow freely in the smoke of cities 
and in London, and it was introduced into England in 
1629..' 



272 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

I have lately received papers with regard to establish- 
ing a Colonial branch of the Horticultural College at 
Swanley, Kent. This with a special view to the im- 
mediate demand for competent women in South Africa, 
in which country there is a present deficiency of 70,000 
Englishwomen. The proposal seems to me well worthy 
the consideration of those interested in emigration 
questions. The Horticultural College, in its women's 
branch, seems to have been suffering considerably from 
want of funds. 

Last month came out a new periodical called ' Animal 
Life/ I spent a delightful five minutes in front of it at a 
railway bookstall. It begins with a picture of Sir Harry 
Johnstone's new animal, the Okapi. I am sure many 
especially young people are pining to see this new 
creature : the stuffed specimen is at the Natural History 
Museum at South Kensington. The first article is by 
Professor Garner and called ' Monkey Land,' with such 
pictures of monkeys ! I said to myself, ' I must buy this 
new magazine. First numbers are always the best.' It 
was only Id. The next number had an article on the 
great apes, by Sir Harry Johnstone. That finished me, 
so now I take it in. I wrote to Sir Harry to ask for a few 
more details about the food of the apes in Africa. He very 
kindly answered as follows : ' About apes. They are to 
me a profoundly interesting subject. I look upon them 
as quite half human. Their food consists of the fruit of 
several species of Amomum (a plant allied to ginger and 
to the banana) ; of the core or heart of some palms or of 
other trees ; of mushrooms (most abundant and succulent 
in the great forest) ; of the plums of the parinarium-tree, 
and the fruits of many other forest trees ; of roots (in 
the case of the chimpanzees, of young birds, rats, beetle 
grubs, and other animal food) ; and, finally, of plunder 
from the forest negroes' plantations. The great apes are 



AUGUST 273 

mainly vegetable feeders, but certain chimpanzees readily 
devour flesh.' 

The amomum (from a, not, and momos, impurity; 
in reference to the quality of counteracting poison) re- 
ferred to here is described in the ' Dictionary of Garden- 
ing' as a stove herbaceous perennial, chiefly aromatic, 
and formerly used in embalming. I wonder whether the 
fact of the chimpanzees' taste for flesh points to a 
possibility of their evolving through a meat-eating phase 
into humanity ? Sir Harry Johnstone calls them the most 
human of all the apes. 

August 9th. I find in my note-book of last year that 
I went to Hampton Court and never saw its gardens in 
such great perfection. It was as beautiful as could be, 
bathed in soft golden sunlight, not foggy or misty, as, alas ! 
it so often is from smoke, but with clear pearly distances. 
The flowers were really gorgeous, and one saw in per- 
fection the modern kind of bedding. The last of the 
carpet beds have disappeared. In not one bed could the 
earth be seen, no pains and no expense having been 
spared. A lovely arrangement of red and white bouvardias 
scented the cool, moist air, and everything had as much 
water as it wanted. I have never seen a more successful 
public garden. I heard afterwards that all this meant a 
new gardener, and I note it now as an encouragement to 
those who are depressed by failure in their own gardens, 
for this year, the weather being unfavourable, the whole 
thing was utterly different. The herbaceous borders had 
gone to leaf and many of the beds had failed. The 
restoration of the old iron railing, near the river, at the 
end of William and Mary's garden, is a great public 
benefit. It appears that this railing had been carted 
about to various places, some reaching as far as Edin- 
burgh, to save the expense of buying handsome gates 
for public or Crown property. Its restoration to its old 

T 



274 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

foundation does much credit to Lord Esher's manage- 
ment during his term of office as First Commissioner of 
Works. 

This year, for a short time, we had a motor-oar, and I 
could not help thinking that my agonising fears on first 
driving in it must have been exactly what our grand- 
parents felt when they first used railways. When I meet 
these things along the road which, alas ! I do very often 
what with their dangerous pace, their horrible dust, not to 
mention the smell that poisons the country air, the only 
expression that comes to my lips is, ' Beastly things, how 
I hate them ! ' But when you are in one all is changed. 
There is a sense of power and independence, and almost 
an exultant feeling of rushing through the air and cover- 
ing long distances without effort. This is, I confess, an 
enjoyable experience. Besides, there is the great pleasure 
of enlarging one's area, and of seeing in comfort places 
and towns one could only reach before by two drives and 
a railway journey. The distant visit I enjoyed most was 
to Brams Hill, the famous Jacobean house in Hampshire. 
Such a lovely place and house, quite unspoilt by restoring 
and changing! It is close to Kingsley's old home at 
Eversley, and is so admirably described by Lucas Malet 
in her novel, ' Sir Eichard Calmady,' that I felt the thrill 
of a hiiman history when shown the hall where Sir 
Eichard' s father died, and the panelled bedroom where 
the agonised mother pressed the naked baby to her 
bosom after making her terrible discovery of its de- 
formity. Eocking herself to and fro in a paroxysm of 
rebellious grief, she cried, ' God is unjust ! He takes 
pleasure in fooling us. God is unjust.' From the 
white-panelled old bedroom on the first floor one 
walked straight into a large sitting-room, from the 
windows of which one could see the broad lawn, with the 
summer woods sloping away behind it, where Lady 



AUGUST 275 

Calmady's brother shot the horse. No one could have 
chosen a more perfect background for such a story. The 
house was, I believe, built by the same architect who 
built Holland House, and was intended for the residence 
of Henry, Prince of Wales, son of James I., who died 
young. Its position is my ideal one, and Kingsley says 
of it, ' It stands high, looking out far and wide over the 
rich lowland country from its eyrie of dark pines.' The 
guide-book says, ' The Scotch firs in this park are among 
the oldest and finest in England.' I suppose Scotch firs 
were the fashion when Scotland's king came to rule over 
England. We were pressed to return by the kind owners 
of Brams Hill, and I should much have liked to do so, for 
one never could tire of its beauties, of the old treasures 
it contains, and of the unprofaned air of antiquity which 
surrounds it. But, alas ! the motor departed with 
its owner, and I have had to go back to my ten-mile 
radius. 

On the homeward journey we passed a large open 
space planted with rows and rows of oak-trees, which was 
done by the Government at the time of the Napoleonic 
wars, in a panic that there would be no oak left in 
England wherewith to build ships. Though a hundred 
years old they are still quite small, and as the exact date 
of their planting is known, these straight alleys will be of 
interest to future generations. After driving through the 
glorious old nature-planted woods of Brams Hill, it was 
curious to note the contrast in this dry carrying-out of an 
officially ordered planting. Even to the future genera- 
tions who see these oaks in their old age, they will never 
recall a wood such as, in its wild beauty, suggested the 
French proverb which Miss Una Van Artevelt Taylor 
adopts in the following poem one of a charming series 
written by her for the ' Westminster Gazette ' : 

T2 



276 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

NOUS N'IRONS PLUS AU BOIS, LES LAURIERS 
SONT COUPES 

The path is there the hedge of high hornbeams, 

Grey-stemmed, brown-leaved, and then the gate, and then 
The little wood we called the Wood of Dreams : 
That wood our hearts will never find again. 
Nous n'irons plus au bois, for well we know 
Les lauriers sont coupes, long, long, long ago. 

In that green place the woodland sunlight streams 

On windflowers white, and every April day 
Paints bluer violets. But our fair-faced Dreams 
As shadows came, as ghosts have passed away. 
Nous n'irons plus au bois ; nor here nor there 
Our dreams abide, and all the wood is bare. 

The path is there the sudden silver gleams 

Of birch-boughs through the dusk. New eyes will see 
June foxgloves blossom ; to the Wood of Dreams 
New dreamers and new dreams will come but we 
Nous n'irons plus au bois, ah no, ah no ; 
Les lauriers sont coupes even, even so. 

I heard the other day of an American couple visiting 
one of the most beautiful and typical of our south-country 
places, with broad, soft, velvety green lawns. They 
were wild with astonishment and admiration. At last 
the wife exclaimed, ' Oh ! Jack, however do they get 
these lawns here ? I can't understand it. We can't do 
it.' Her husband replied, ' Well, my dear, I guess we 
can't have the two centuries of mowing which these 
places have had ; that may have something to do with it.' 
He was, in a sense, right : some of our old places have 
had over three centuries of mowing. But the climate, 
too, is answerable for a great deal. The cold winters, 
even of the centre of Europe, entirely prevent grass from 
growing as it does with us. We could get a better lawn 
in three years than they could ever have. There is no 
doubt that the British Isles have a quite wonderful 



AUGUST 



277 



climate for gardening, though it is little suited for sitting 
out, which many people seem to think is the chief use of 
a garden. 

As I am always planning and planting imaginary 
gardens, or thinking how I should alter the gardens of 
my friends, so I am always building imaginary houses. 
Nothing I see satisfies my ideas of what a modern 
' health house ' should be that is to say, a house which 
is not only a home, but a model-dwelling for acquiring 
the highest degree of physical health compatible with our 
modern life. In small houses and great houses, in 
villadom and in hall, the first thought seems to be that 
the outside of the house should be pretty, or ornamental, 
or picturesque. Now, no one admires beauty more than 
I do, but the first law I should lay down to myself would 
be that the inside of the house, both as regards comfort 
and health, should come before any structural external 
beauty. I do not deny that every house must be adapted 
to its owner, and, of new houses, the one that fulfils this 
best of any that I know is the one which Miss Jekyll lives 
in, which she describes in her first two books. My 
house would of course have to be quite different. The 
outside appearances would have to be very simple and 
very plain. White walls with a red-tiled roof for modest 
houses such as I am speaking of seem to me most suited 
to the English climate. My house should be low, only 
two storeys, but covering a good deal of ground. Beauti- 
ful brick chimneys, and many of them for the sake of 
having my fireplaces in the part of the room best suited 
to its requirements, would be the principal additional out- 
side expense. By beautiful chimneys, I mean such as 
stand out good in form against a clear sky, like those 
which were built to farmhouses three hundred years ago. 
The roof over the windows might have eaves, but there 
must be no eaves where creepers are to be grown. Eaves 



278 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were used before gutters were invented to carry the rain- 
water from the roof and away from the walls. In those 
days, the drip fell on the roots of the plants ; now there is 
no drip, so the plants must receive the rain as it falls if 
they are to be healthy. The absence of eaves being ugly, 
the difficulty might perhaps be solved by having a 
slightly perforated gutter which would allow enough water 
through for the needs of the plants below, but would 
carry off the bulk of the rain-water, but I fear this would 
make the walls damp. But could my little white house 
ever be pretty, whether it cost much or little, seeing that 
it would have to be nearly all windows enormous 
windows, tall and broad ? I hear most people saying 
' How frightful and how uncomfortable ! ' It is not only 
a matter of air, as that can be got more or less by small 
windows if intelligently placed and made to open easily, 
but to catch all the sun possible in our sunless climate. 
In the sitting-rooms the windows must be in part glass 
doors reaching to the ground ; for to live in the country 
and not be able to watch nature, the birds pecking, the 
flowers growing, &c., when sitting in a room, seems to 
me a great drawback. Not only must it be possible 

for me 

While safe beneath the roof, 

To hear with drowsy ear the plash of rain, 

but I must see it : I must also, without getting up from 
my employment, be able to see the great storm-clouds 
roll up from the horizon, and the sun rise and set all 
this with firm big windows that do not rattle in the wind 
and that a child or an invalid could open or shut easily. 
What have I ever seen that comes nearest to these ideas ? 
All old English cottages have small windows, and the 
tall windows of the beautiful old Jacobean houses are 
generally very narrow, and the leaded panes do not open 
enough. Perhaps some of the Georgian houses built 



AUGUST 279 

quite at the end of the eighteenth century, full of the 
recollection of their simple Dutch origin, are most like 
what I want, but even these have not enough window 
space for me. I think I should like my drawing-room 
something like the old Queen Anne orangeries, only not of 
course nearly so high or large, and the morning-room 
might have circular windows like some of the old Brighton 
houses. The woodwork would have to be strong, and 
there comes in either initial expense or endless painting. 
I am even Philistine enough now and then to like a large 
pane of plate glass over a fireplace let into the wall, like 
a window without a frame, provided the view is good. 
The flue is led up on each side. 

For ordinary windows, twelve by nine inch panes do 
very well for not too heavy a framework. For exposed 
situations, where windows opening to the ground are 
liable to catch the full force of the west wind, a plan by 
which the heavy plate-glass door slides back in a strong 
iron groove, top and bottom, with a handle inside and 
outside of the framework to move it easily, is far the 
most serviceable and convenient that I have ever seen. 
In bedrooms where the whole of one side of a wall is 
window, there may be a window-seat across, but then the 
glass should come down to within a foot of the seat ; but I 
think shelves under the seat with sliding doors are better 
and more useful than the customary lockers. Doors that 
are cut in half like old cottage and stable doors have 
been too little used of late. 

My dining-room should always face west, and I think 
it a great objection to have the fireplace in the middle 
or at the window-end of a dining-room. It should be at 
the far end, on one side, so that no one has to sit with 
back to the fire ; the table being as near as possible to 
the window. I should never allow hot-air pipes in any 
house of mine, though a stove or large fireplace in the 



2 8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

middle of the house is almost essential for keeping it dry. 
I do not like the usual central hall as a sitting-room, 
because I do not come into the country to sit within 
prison walls, and these halls are generally lighted from 
the top, or from some dark courtyard shut out by opaque 
glass, or the windows are so high up there is no seeing 
out of them. To come in on a fine afternoon, with the 
views perhaps at their very best, to have tea in a darkened 
room, seems to be a non-appreciation of the best the 
country has to give us. Here, again, I know most people 
will disagree with me. I have heard these halls more 
praised than anything else in modern architecture. 

I suppose it would be difficult to manage, but I think 
the best bedrooms ought to have small balconies to 
facilitate air-baths night and morning, or even for sleep- 
ing outside in fine weather. The modern fashion of 
roofed alcoves with open sides and glass to the north 
makes very delightful open-air rooms. Paved yards, too, 
are full of capabilities for sitting out, or for miniature 
pot-gardening. What I like best is sitting in my own 
room with all the windows and doors wide open. This is 
what most people dread as a full draught, but I have 
never found any harm from it. Perhaps a safer plan in 
bedrooms is to have two windows high up towards the 
ceiling, both of which are kept open, as a single window 
in a room, however wide open, does not properly venti- 
late it, because it creates no draught. 

I think the rich man has yet to arise who will build a 
house and furnish it well and in good taste according to 
the ideas, inventions, and manufactures of his own day, 
or perhaps twenty years before. A glimmer of the 
beautiful uses that might be made, for instance, of glass 
and iron was to be seen in the Petit Palais of the French 
Exhibition of 1900. Imitation of old things is in no sense 
true evolution. 



AUGUST 281 

In the building of houses I think the greatest care and 
thought are necessary in order to prevent the builders 
from throwing out the earth of the foundations in a way 
that produces a flat space in front of the house. Given 
that the house is on the slope of a hill, or even on the 
flat, I would rather throw up the earth into a large mound 
on the north or north-east and plant this with any kind 
of shrub liked by the owner, than in any way make a 
terrace in front of the house. Even in the case of making 
terraces, they should be laid out after the house is built, 
and are far prettier if they slope away from the house 
than if they give the appearance of the house being in a 
hole. Having decided where the foundation earth is to 
go, and how it is to be planted in a manner that will 
cause the greatest protection with the least exclusion of 
view, one must try to make up one's mind what one 
really wants most. I came here to a ready-made 
villa garden which I knew could never be really beauti- 
ful or ^picturesque ; therefore I decided that what I 
wanted was to grow the greatest number of plants and 
flowers for picking and giving away which could be grown 
healthily in a small space. This can only be done by 
growing an immense variety of plants, as constant suc- 
cession is the only method by which I could gain my 
object. One must always reckon that in certain years 
whole families of flowers fail altogether, so that, besides 
the seasons, one has to provide for wet and dry years. 

The beautiful combinations of flower effects which 
come in all gardens as if by chance, come to me also, 
though sometimes, I confess, by design ; but if I were to 
build my imaginary house it would be on an uncultivated 
piece of ground say, wood, common, or field and then 
I think my object would be to keep the character of the 
ground as it was. In some ways the flat field would 
be the most difficult to manage, and then an effect of 



282 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

wildness would have to be given by breaking up the 
ground and making miniature mountains and valleys. 
In a small space this would be impossible, so that a 
small cottage garden must be straight in design, a 
mixture of flowering shrubs and herbaceous plants. 
The kitchen garden and the orchard would be kept 
apart, as I said before. Endless small hedges would 
have a charming effect on flat ground spring beds 
divided by well-clipped hedges of Bibes sanguined ; the 
Japanese loniceras, which flower three times as well 
if grown on short railings of bamboo -sticks instead of 
against a house and pruned twice a year ; the Penzance 
sweet-briars in fact, the combinations for cutting up 
flat ground are innumerable and would occur to any 
good gardener. Long lavender-bordered walks would 
also look very well. I was told this year that the spike- 
nard of the Bible was made from oil of lavender. This 
may have been an adulteration of the ancients ! for Anne 
Pratt says it was made from the spikenard-grass, nardus. 
She adds : * When an army rides over the plains of 
Persia, covered with this tall grass, an almost overpower- 
ing sweetness, arising from its stems and roots, fills the 
surrounding air. The ointment which takes its name 
from this grass was used among the rich Jews at their 
baths and public feasts. ... Its value among the 
ancients may be inferred from the mention made by 
Horace, that the quantity contained in a small box of 
precious stone was regarded as equal in worth to a large 
vessel of wine.' 

I mentioned before the difficulties of wood-gardening. 
The heather and gorse ground which I mean when I say 
' common,' is so beautiful in itself and so easily enriched 
by plants that require little but what they find, that it 
would be undesirable in any way to spoil its nature, and 
all plants that would not grow without moisture would 



AUGUST 283 

have to be relegated to the kitchen garden. Even there 
it would be better to keep the varieties for each season 
apart, as no real gardener minds large bare places where 
plants are resting, any more than a mother minds her 
children being asleep. The toil and trouble of a garden 
close to the house is that its beauty is expected to be 
perennial and successive through every month in the 
year. This is of course impossible, but even striving for 
it entails immense care and labour if no month is to be 
without outdoor flowers. 

Everybody tries to grow roses, and in many soils they 
succeed without trouble ; but for the best I ever saw in the 
first year of planting, the bed was made in a way worth 
recording. The earth was dug out two feet deep and 
replaced by carefully prepared soils, but instead of mixing 
them all together, or laying the clay at the bottom as is 
usually done, the three soils were laid diagonally one on 
top of the other, clay, richly-manured loam, and the top 
spit. In this way the roots of the freshly planted roses 
found that which they required, at different levels. 

August 26th. My experience in cooking has been 
very different from what it used to be, for I seldom go 
out, and my own food at home is of the very simplest. 
Cookery books of all kinds have become so inexpensive 
that I shall content myself with naming just a few books 
which have come to my knowledge of late, and only give 
in addition such simple cooking hints as experience has 
recently taught me, and which concern health rather 
than gastronomy ; and some still cheaper receipts will 
be found in the chapter called ' Wholesome Food at 3s. 
a Week/ 

The opposition to simpler foods and the dislike to 
the simple receipts I now give are so widespread that my 
old sympathy with the other side of the question makes 
me give the following little newspaper story of an 



284 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

American Judge's opinion of vegetarianism : ' The Courts 
have granted a divorce to a wife in Cleveland, Ohio, 
whose husband was not only a vegetarian himself, but 
insisted on her following the same regime. She was not 
aware of his dietetic eccentricity until after marriage, 
but she soon found she would have to eat vegetarian 
dishes or go without eating altogether. At last she 
packed her trunks and went off. The Judge ruled that 
in denying his wife the food which to her was a neces- 
sity of life he was guilty of neglect.' 

' Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen, or How to Cook 
Vegetables,' by Janet Eoss. (Dent & Co., 1899.) There 
are now innumerable vegetarian cookery books, but I find 
this one most useful, perhaps because it is rather a 
nation's cooking of vegetables than a vegetarian cookery 
book. It is by the same Mrs. Ross of Poggio Gherardo, 
Florence, who sells such excellent olive oil made on her 
own estate. I used to think much change was very 
essential in housekeeping. I now think if people are 
well they like things best dressed most days alike, or 
nearly so, with only the change the seasons bring. 

' Hilda's Diary of a Cape Housekeeper ' is a book every- 
one going to the Cape should get, as it would be very 
useful. It gives many hints besides cooking receipts, 
and an account of the Cape climate every month in the 
year. 

Her former book, ' Hilda's Where Is It of Receipts,' 
was much appreciated. (Chapman & Hall.) 

A good little book for humble households is to be got 
for one penny, from the School of Cookery, Colquitt 
Street, Liverpool. It is cheap cooking, but not vege- 
tarian. 

An excellent Vegetable Soup. Take two carrots, 
two onions, two turnips, a little spinach, lettuce, endive, 
and sorrel. Tie up together a sprig of every sort of herb 



AUGUST 285 

you have in the garden. Boil all in water. When the 
hard vegetables are cooked, take out the sweet herbs, rub 
the whole through a fine sieve, make it not too thick by 
adding the water the vegetables were boiled in, add a 
little butter, pepper, and salt, and serve hot. 

Cheese Salad. For a small luncheon dish, cheese 
salad can be quickly made by putting thinly-sliced or 
grated cheese in the middle of the dish, surrounding it 
with lettuce, endive, or cress, and covering all with a 
good salad dressing. 

Globe Artichokes may be economically treated by 
boiling in the usual way, taking out the choke without 
disturbing the leaves, making a puree of the bottom with 
butter, pepper, and salt, and serving it hot on fried toast 
cut into rounds. The leaves are kept together and served 
cold the next day standing upright in the dish in a little 
mixed oil, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Watercress 
cooked exactly like spinach makes a useful early spring 
green vegetable. Landcress and chervil mixed, cooked 
in the same way, make an equally good autumn puree. 

To Keep a Cake Fresh put an apple with it in the 
storing tin. This keeps it soft for several days on the 
same principle as the well-known receipt for keeping 
tobacco moist by enclosing a few potato peelings in the 
jar with it. 

Chocolate Toast. Take some pieces of the very 
best French chocolate, melt it in a little hot water to the 
thickness of gooseberry-fool. Pour this hot on rounds of 
fried toast. 

A New Jam, and the very best I ever tasted, is made 
of morella cherries mixed with raspberries. 

Onions and Sauce. Peel little onions, and boil 
them tender. Make a sauce apart of butter and flour 
cooked a light brown coffee colour, and mixed with water. 
Stir the onions into this, and serve. Another way is to 



286 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

fry the small onions in butter till a nice brown, then 
braise till tender, and serve hot. 

ChOU Braise. Take a nice spring cabbage, split it, and 
wash in salt and water ; put it in a saucepan of boiling 
water for ten minutes. Take it .up, drain well on a sieve, 
put it in a casserole pot for one hour to braise with a 
little butter, and pepper and salt to taste, but no stock 
or water. 

ChOU a la Creme is made when cabbages have come 
to their full maturity, and are hard of heart and large of 
circumference. Boil till quite tender, chop roughly, and 
then pass through a hair sieve ; add thick cream fairly 
liberally, and serve ' piping hot ' and well seasoned, with 
golden-brown strips of fried bread leaning up against the 
cabbage all round. 

Pommes a la Caramel. Four large apples, \ lb. 
lump sugar, 2 oz. butter, half a cup cold water. Make a 
caramel of the sugar, water, and butter by boiling care- 
fully till it is like a thick brown cream ; flavour it by 
putting in the peelings and pips of the apples. Pass the 
syrup through a sieve, and put it into a saucepan with 
the apples whole or quartered. Stand on the stove to 
simmer for one hour, when the apples should be nice and 
soft, and look a golden brown floating in the syrup, which 
is nearly reduced to a jelly. 

Gnocchi. Bring \ pint milk to boiling point, and 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of semolina, 2 oz. grated cheese, 
1 oz. butter, a little onion. Boil for fifteen minutes in 
double pan, or constantly stirring, turn out, and when cold 
make up into cakes, which flour, and fry a golden brown. 

Puree Of Potatoes. Boil in salted water, drain well, 
put back on the fire in stewpan with butter and cream, 
and stir till there are no lumps, and it is about as thick 
as bread sauce. It must not boil. 

Green Sauee. Taking a handful of parsley and one 



AUGUST 287 

of chervil, and some leaves of tarragon, scald with hot 
water, put into a mortar ; do the same with a few leaves 
of spinach, add two gherkins and two spoonfuls of capers ; 
pound all together with a piece of fresh butter, then 
pass the whole through a fine sieve ; mix this into white 
bechamel (see ' Dainty Dishes ') sauce at the last moment. 
Stir and warm up must not boil. Pour this over the 
vegetable the moment before serving. Boiled fish, 
poached eggs, turnips, carrots, branches of seakale, beet, 
oxalis, Jerusalem artichokes, celeriac, waxy potatoes, are 
all good with this sauce. 

Macaroni and Portugal Onion. Soak some 
macaroni in a little milk : cut some very thin slices off a 
Spanish onion. Cook the onion a little first, then add 
the macaroni, and boil till tender. Drain off any milk 
left, and serve dry. 

Apple Meringue. Stew some apples as for apple 
sauce; when very hot stir in the yolks of one or two 
eggs. Whip the whites and throw over the apple ; brown 
in the oven or in front of the fire. 

French Way of Cooking Endive. Boil the leaves 
in lots of salt and water, just as you would spinach or 
cabbage. When tender, pour the whole thing into a 
large sieve, and when the hot water has run off put 
under a tap, and let the cold water run over it in quan- 
tities. This applies to all green vegetables boiled in 
salt water cabbage, sorrel, cos lettuce, cabbage lettuce, 
&c. Then put the endive on a chopping-board, or, if 
required very smooth, pass through a fine hair sieve; 
in both these cases return it to the fire after having 
first put a pat of butter to dissolve with one spoonful 
of Vienna flour. Do not put the vegetables in before 
the butter and flour are well amalgamated. When this 
is achieved, stir the vegetable well up with the butter 
and flour ; let it simmer another fifteen minutes, add a 



288 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

little cream or even milk quite at the last moment to 
make it soft and pretty. It must not be thicker than a 
thin puree. 

Waxy potatoes, if wanted plain, are best first boiled, 
and then put in the oven to roast on a tin without fat or 
butter. 

Cut raw well -bleached winter chicory leaves as thin 
as possible, and mix with hot beetroot for a winter 
salad. 

Seakale Beet (Cotes de blettes), large ribbed 

leaves. Cut the white ribs in lengths, like a finger and 
as thick as a little finger, boil in a little salt and water 
till tender, having left them in floured water while 
peeling, which keeps them white. Dress with a white 
bechamel. The green parts of the leaves are passed 
through a fine sieve and dressed exactly like spinach. 
For serving you put the white ribs with their sauce in the 
centre and the green all round. 

Potato Salad. Boil the potatoes in their skins at 
least two hours before dinner. Cut them in slices a 
quarter of an inch thick, put them in a china bowl with 
one or two soup ladles of hot broth or vegetable stock, 
and let them soak and remain tepid till dinner-time. 
They should so absorb the broth that they look dry. When 
served mix with a thin mayonnaise sauce, and surround 
with young lettuces previously dressed with oil and 
vinegar. They can be dressed with beetroot, cucumber, 
tomatoes, or herrings. 

Milk Soup. Cut one onion into small pieces, put 
them in a saucepan with some butter, let it fry until it is 
chestnut colour, then add the milk. Let it boil for some 
minutes, then pass it through a strainer and serve. Fry 
well in butter small pieces of bread and serve separately. 

To Bottle Fruit. Put clean cold water into the 
bottles, and sink them in hot water till the water boils in 



AUGUST 289 

the bottles ; cover up top and let it get cold. Put the 
fruit fresh picked into a hot oven for a few minutes, take 
out and cover up till cold. Then drop it into the water 
in bottles ; no sugar, nothing ; cork and seal down at 
once. 

Barley Water. 4 oz. pearl barley, 2 quarts water. 
Thoroughly wash the barley, add the water and boil till 
reduced to 1 quart. Strain through hair sieve (previously 
scalded) and press through some of the barley to thicken. 
Time to reduce three or four hours. 

Semolina Pudding". Boil some milk and sugar to 
taste (best rather sweet), sprinkle in some semolina to 
thicken it, flavour with vanilla if liked. Leave it to cook 
slowly by the fire till as dry as bread-sauce. Then butter 
a pie-dish well with fresh butter and pour in the mixture. 
Bake in an oven till thoroughly brown. 

Sauce Sevillane (enough for two or three people). 
The grated rinds of one orange and one lemon, the juice 
of both, two dessert- spoonfuls of red currant jelly, a little 
cayenne pepper or not. Mix together, and pass through a 
hair sieve. Serve cold in a sauceboat. Good with cold 
meat, or tomatoes cut in slices. Heated, with the addition 
of a tablespoonful of port wine, it is good with roast duck. 

Boiled Cheese. Take a piece of the best English 
cheddar, not Canadian, and melt it. Add a tablespoonful 
of white sauce made with 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour and ^ 
gill milk, all well cooked. Serve in dish with lamp under 
it. Eat with dry toast. 

Chestnuts as a Sweet. Peel and boil some large 
sweet chestnuts in water. Prepare a syrup apart, and 
drop in the chestnuts as it boils, and let them get cold 
together. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

Stewed Figs. Many children are fond of stewed 
figs, but I think they will be found better for everybody 
if, instead of being stewed, they are steeped overnight in 

u 



2 9 o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

enough cold soft water to cover them. A few drops of 
fresh lemon-juice is a grateful addition to grown-up palates 

How to Make a Dry Curry. These directions are 
for 1 Ib. meat, raw preferred, cold will do. Cut two 
onions and one apple in thin slices from top to bottom, fry 
them in a good lot of butter in a china-lined frypan till 
they are golden brown, drain them quite dry from the 
butter, and put them into a Nottingham jar (the round, 
flat shape with lid is the best). Put the butter back into 
the frypan, cut your meat into large dice (no fat or skin), 
fry the meat till it is brown, drain it from the butter, and 
put it into the jar with the apple and onions. 

Put the butter back into the frypan, mix one dessert- 
spoonful of Mrs. Atkinson's curry powder smoothly with 
it, and add two tablespoonfuls of stock ; boil it for 
half a minute, and then empty into the jar with the other 
things, and stir well with a wooden spoon kept on purpose. 
Stand it on the hob and let it simmer slowly for six hours, 
stirring occasionally. The great secret is the slow 
cooking. Should it get too dry, add a little more stock or 
milk. Taste the curry, as some meat absorbs more 
powder than others ; if not flavoured strongly enough, add 
a little more powder just before serving. A little fine- 
grated cocoa-nut added is a great improvement. Serve 
with rice and chutney. 

The above curry powder and chutney are to be got 
wholesale at 13 Church Street, Windsor, or retail at any 
of the London stores. I never eat these things myself 
now, but I am told this kind is exceedingly good, and I 
give the receipt for the many who like curried vegetables. 

Dal Bhfct (Indian breakfast dish). Get from the 
chemist \ Ib. ground turmeric, \ Ib. roasted and ground 
coriander seed. Mix and keep in a bottle. 

Soak a pint of lentils in cold water overnight. In the 
morning shred two or three onions, brown them in 



AUGUST 29T 

clarified butter, and add a tablespoonful of the mixed 
powder. Strain the water off the lentils, and put them in 
a saucepan with some stock or milk, and the browned 
onions, &c. Put on the lid and simmer gently till the 
lentils are quite soft. If they get at all dry, add a little 
more stock or milk. Serve with a separate dish of boiled 
rice as for curry. The cooked Dal can be kept in a 
basin, and warmed up when required. Pepper and salt 
may be added if liked. The Dal should be about the con- 
sistency of thinnish porridge. 

Partridge, Grouse, or Young- Chickens, 3i la 
Cr&me. Half roast a grouse or partridge in butter in a 
saute" pan, with an onion cut in quarters, then take the 
bird and put it in a little casserole. In the saute" pan, 
where the bird has been cooking, put a liqueur glass of 
vinegar and reduce to half, add \ pint of cream, and boil 
with salt and pepper and a little cayenne. Strain it 
over the bird in the casserole, cook slowly for ten minutes 
in the cream, and serve. 

Fig- Pudding-. 6 oz. of chopped suet, 6 oz. of figs 
cut in small squares, 6 oz. of breadcrumbs, 3 oz. of brown 
sugar, two eggs, little milk, pinch of salt ; mix all together, 
put into a buttered mould, and boil 2^ hours. Serve with 
any sweet sauce hot. 

Sabajone (a Venetian sweet dish). Make some 
sponge cake and toast it dry and crisp in a slow oven ; 
cut it into convenient pieces, allowing two for each 
person, and spread thickly with good quince marmalade 
or jelly. Take ten lumps of white sugar, and about two 
tablespoonfuls of water to dissolve them. Whisk eight 
yolks of eggs in a bain marie, and then add to them the 
boiling dissolved sugar syrup. Whisk all hard for ten 
minutes or longer in a bain marie in a pan of hot water. 
Have the hot cake pieces nicely arranged in a silver dish 
for choice, or a white china one, and pour over the frothy 

u2 



292 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

sauce just before serving. Sponge rusks will do instead 
of sponge cake, and a little liqueur or wine can be 
sprinkled over them before adding the sauce, and this 
improves the sweet ; but do not let them be too damp and 
soft they should be crisp under the froth. 

The best Gingerbread I know. 1 lb. flour, 1 ib. 
black treacle, one dessert-spoonful of ground ginger, one 
dessert-spoonful mixed spice, \ lb. brown sugar, ^ lb. 
fresh butter, \ pint milk, 7, tea spoonful carbonate soda, 
four eggs, a little finely-chopped citron peel. Mix all the 
dry ingredients together, warm the milk, and dissolve 
the butter in it ; beat up the eggs, then add the milk and 
treacle. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a square cake 
tin, not very deep, or flat saute 1 pan. The mixture should 
be quite a running consistency before baking ; add a little 
milk if necessary. This is a moist, black gingerbread. 

Cold Lemon Souffl6. An economical and excellent 
sweet. Take the yolks of three eggs, the juice of three 
lemons, and grated rind of two. Add \ lb. loaf sugar, 
about a tablespoon of gelatine dissolved in milk. Stir 
all together over the fire till it thickens. Whip \ pint of 
cream and beat the whites of the three eggs up stiff, and 
stir in gently to the custard mixture. Pour into the souffl6 
dish or deep china dish, and sprinkle with grated crumbs 
and sugar, or with chocolate powder, or, for choice, with 
some chopped pistachio nut, and serve. If in summer 
stand in ice. 

To Cure two Tongues at a Time. These are 
much better than bought ones. 2 Ibs. common salt, 1 \ lb. 
black treacle, 1 lb. bay salt, \ lb. saltpetre. The salts finely 
pounded and mixed with the treacle. Eub two large 
fresh ox -tongues with the mixture, and turn them every 
day for four weeks or three and a half weeks, letting them 
lie in the pickle. Send them to the nearest curer to be 
smoked for two days. This last is not indispensable, but 



AUGUST 293 

improves them. When cured boil with plenty of vege- 
tables, herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns ; garnish with 
home-made glaze and chopped aspic. 

Cats' Tongues. A good French ice or dessert 
biscuit. 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. pastry flour, mixed with 
cream to a soft paste, adding, perhaps, a little milk and 
flavouring with vanilla or lemon. Put in a forcing-bag 
and force out on to greased baking-sheets in rounds or 
oblongs. Bake in a quick oven, serve fresh. 




Orangeade as made in Paris. Cut the rind of 
two oranges and two lemons very thin, place in a jug, 
pour in 1 pint of boiling water, add very little ginger (to 
taste). Squeeze six lemons and six oranges, add the 
juice of these and a syphon of soda-water. Strain, ice, 
and serve. Blood oranges, when procurable, are best, 
and two or three drops of cochineal improves the colour. 

The best Orange Jelly I know. \ lb. loaf sugar, 
sixteen or eighteen oranges, two lemons, 1 oz. gelatine. 
Boil the sugar to a syrup, pour it, boiling hot, on the 
thinly-pared rind of two oranges, squeeze the juice of all 
the oranges and lemons, pass through a fine sieve. Add 
the dissolved gelatine and syrup and a few drops of 
cochineal ; ice, and serve. This may not be stiff enough 
to serve in a shape, but it is much nicer than when 
stiffened with more gelatine. 

Sand-Torte (a very good light foreign cake). Clarify 
1 lb. fresh butter; when cold beat it to a cream, add 
12 oz. white sugar, 1 lb. potato flour passed through a 
sieve, four whole eggs and the yolks of two more, the 



294 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

best of one lemon and a few drops of lemon or vanilla 
essence. Beat the whole for at least one hour, and until 
it makes bubbles. Bake in flat round or square, shallow 
mould, buttered and finely breadcrumbed, in a moderate 
oven. Dust over with fine white sugar icing sugar, for 
choice before serving. 

Cold Chocolate in Glasses, as in Paris. Quantity 
for about six custard glasses. Take 6 oz. of good choco- 
late, not less than 2s. per Ib. Dissolve it in hot water in 
a clean copper over the fire just enough water to melt it 
to a paste. Add a teacupful of milk, and let it boil up. 
Pour the mixture on to five yolks of eggs beaten up, and 
put it all on the fire again, stirring it till it just boils. 
Take off quickly and leave it to cool, or in summer stand 
it on ice. 

Bread. People are constantly saying to me, ' One of 
the chief difficulties of your diet is the good bread you 
recommend. The cooks say they have no time to make it, 
many members of the family won't eat it, the bakers won't 
change their methods, and the mill is either far off or the 
flour is all ground by the new method of china rollers, 
which is especially designed to make the flour very white.' 
My answer is that all these drawbacks are easily over- 
come by a little trouble and conciliation. When the cook 
finds that the bread-making is less trouble than cake- 
making (see Eeceipts), and that her mistress cares more 
about it than about made dishes, she soon falls in with 
her ideas. Millers I have found most obliging, and even 
interested in the matter. Our own old water-mills here 
at Cobham, by the Mole side, have been lately bought by 
Henry Moore & Son, of Leatherhead, and on being 
written to they would send to any part of the kingdom 
the various flours I use, and also the fresh bran (see 
receipt for Bran Tea), which is not easy to get in London. 
I asked them for a specimen of English wheat ground 



AUGUST 295 

through stones, and received a most civil answer, in which 
they say they also send a gallon of wholemeal with the bran 
taken out, adding : ' We hardly agree with this ourselves, 
as we think it much better with the bran left in.' This is 
not the first instance I have had that millers themselves 
appreciate the value of bran in wheat meal. Unfortu- 
nately, many modern digestions cannot stand whole meal 
with the bran left in, and for these it is better that they 
should have the bran sifted out either by the miller or at 
home, in which case they can get the phosphates of the 
bran by using it for bran tea. 

I have heard of another mill at Dorking, kept by 
Mr. Atlee, where the wheat is ground in the same way 
with the old-fashioned stones. 

My letter from Mr. Moore concludes : ' If we can do 
anything in the way of experimenting for you, we shall be 
very pleased to do so.' Thus proving that millers who 
have to grind to please the bakers, whose flour cannot be 
too white, are equally ready to please private customers 
when they have the chance. 

For those living in London it may be a convenience 
to know that at the Haymarket Stores they can get the 
finest wheat meal, ground by the well-known Great Barton 
Mills of Mr. Scott, of Ipswich; also at Bax & Sons, 
35 Bishopsgate Street Without, B.C. When the bread- 
making at home is an insuperable difficulty, a good deal 
can be done by a little love-making to the baker. He is, 
naturally, anxious to please his customers, and will soon 
make wholesomer bread if he finds the public really 
demands it. People who have once had pure wheaten 
bread from a baker will often get him to send it to them 
wherever they go. The poor in their own way are very 
particular about bread, often getting it from a more 
distant village, in the belief that the whiter and puffier it 
is, the better it is. 



296 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Directions for Preparing 1 Good Unleavened 
Graham Bread (according to Louis Kuhne). Take 
5J Ibs. of unbolted wheat meal (Graham flour), or the un- 
bolted flour of any other grain (in tropical regions maize 
meal with wheat meal or rice grits, &c.), in a pan, pour 
over it about 1^ quart (2 wine quarts) of cold water, and 
mix it thoroughly. I consider cold water preferable to 
warm, as experience shows that warm water sets the 
bread in fermentation more readily than cold, and this 
may render the bread somewhat lighter, but less nutritious 
and pleasant to the taste. Now divide the dough into 
three or four equal parts, mould a loaf of each, lay each 
upon a dry tile (not brick) sprinkled with Graham flour, 
wet the loaves well on the top with water, and place each 
with its tile upon an empty flower-pot in the quick stove 
oven or brick oven. No other articles or pots should 
stand in the oven at the same time. The heat in the 
oven must be kept up by a steady fire, and should not be 
immediately intense. In half an hour, during which the 
oven must not be opened, turn the front side of the loaves 
to the back. A quarter of an hour later see whether the 
upper crust is well and firmly baked, and then turn the 
loaves over, as they are usually still soft on the lower side. 
The loaves must now bake until they sound quite hollow 
when tapped in the middle with the finger ; this usually 
takes half an hour longer. One may then feel sure that 
the bread is well baked and the crust not too hard. 

Directions for Preparing* Graham Gruel. To 
obtain a plate of gruel stir up a heaping tablespoonful 
of Graham flour with a little cold water till a liquid pap 
is formed. Pour this into boiling water, and let it boil 
some minutes, stirring continually. Salt very sparingly, 
or not at all. This gruel tastes very good when sprinkled 
over with raisins. (From Louis Kuhne's ' New Science of 
Healing.') 



AUGUST 297 

A Perfect Baby Food. Cut thick slices of Graham, 
or whole meal, or white home-made bread, and bake them 
to hard rusks in a slow oven. Break up the rusks and 
put them into a jar, a Gourmet boiler, or an earthenware- 
lined milk- saucepan with cold distilled water enough to 
make into a thick jelly when cooked. Stew slowly for 
three to four hours, and strain through scalded muslin or 
very fine hair sieve. Mix with warm milk as required. 

The rusks may be made twice a week and stored in air- 
tight tins, but the jelly must be freshly made each morning. 

This food, by the long and thorough cooking of the 
cereal, contains all the elements necessary for the forma- 
tion of strong and healthy flesh and bone tissue, good 
blood, hair, nails, teeth, skin, &c. in short, everything 
required to keep an infant in the best possible condition. 
The Graham or unleavened bread is by far the best, as 
yeast or powder raised breads are likely to upset a child's 
digestion. Neither constipation nor diarrhoea need be 
feared on this food. It is valuable also for invalids and 
the old. 

On the very important subject of bread Mr. Albert 
Broadbent, F.B.H.S., read an admirable paper last 
autumn at the annual meeting of the Vegetarian Society, 
in which he referred to certain remarkable statements 
made by Mr. T. G. Eeed at the meetings of the British 
Dental Association to the effect that modern bread causes 
the destruction of tooth tissue, and that wherever roller 
mills are in operation carious teeth are found instead of 
sound ones. Mr. Broadbent did not think it was neces- 
sary to return to the old stone mills, if we take care not to 
disturb the natural balance of the wheat berry consti- 
tuents by separating out the starch and making our bread 
of that to the exclusion of other valuable parts. He went 
on to say, ' Wherever we find a race of men retaining 
primitive milling customs, or living on uncorrupted 



298 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

grain food, we find their teeth strong, and there is an 
absence of decay. Mr. Albert Carter, surgeon dentist, 
related, in " Natural Food " some few years ago, some 
investigations he had made in this connection. He 
found the natives of Punjab and North- West Provinces 
whether Hindoos, Sikhs, Punjabees, Afghans, or Goor- 
khas had splendid teeth. He went to the banks of the 
Ganges and examined the Brahmin skulls. He failed to 
find one showing general dental decay such as he was 
acquainted with at home. In Ceylon he found that, 
while the native Cingalese had good teeth, the children 
of European parents had dreadfully bad teeth. In 
Australia it was the same ; the aborigines had splendid 
teeth, while the Melbourne dentists were hard at work 
repairing disease in the Colonial-born portion of the 
population. Edwin Cox, Licentiate in Dental Surgery, 
E.C.S., in /'Degeneracy and Preservation of the Teeth," 
ascribes teeth degeneracy to the use of white bread. 
This is undoubtedly a serious and important subject, and 
must continue so while we consume more bread than any 
other one food. Bread should be of the very best kinds 
available, and when it is made from the best kinds of 
wheat it forms an almost perfect food. For many years 
I have observed the beneficial results that have followed 
the use of good whole meal bread; with it there is 
scarcely any toothache or neuralgia, and constipation is 
scarcely possible. The teeth are made stronger and less 
tender, owing to the proper supply of lime and phosphates 
contained in whole meal.' 

The following poem is by Mr. A. J. Munby, a con- 
temporary and well-known Surrey poet, and belonging to 
the days that are gone. I read with great pleasure one 
day this spring this spirited description of a class that has 
almost disappeared; brass cans and lively ponies rush 
now along our lanes : 



AUGUST 299 



THE MILKWOMAN 

She was tall and strong, and she walk'd along 

With a firm substantial tread, 
Like one who knows that wherever she goes 

She is earning her daily bread. 

Her frock was print, and there was not a hint 

In the whole of her simple dress 
Of that milliner's touch which adds so much 

To a lady's comeliness. 

Yet she is aware that her face is fair ; 

But she also understands 
That the best of her charms are her stout red arms 

And her strong hard-working hands. 

' It's them,' says she, ' as has work'd for me, 

Wherever my work has been ; 
And as for my face, why it's no disgrace, 

For I reckon it's always clean. 

1 Well, there's Jack, I know, he bothers me so- 
But what do I care for him ? 

I'll ha' nothing to say to a lad that's gay, 
So long as I've life and limb ! 

' Such chaps may do for a wench like you, 

As is fond of an easy life ; 
But if I get a man, I shall do what I can 

For to make him a working wife.' 

She smiled as she spoke, and she settled her yoke 

On the back of her shoulders broad, 
And she stoop'd to her pails by the area rails, 

And harness'd herself to her load. 

Then she went on her beat through bustling street 

With a step like a martial man's ; 
A step that suits her iron-shod boots, 

And the weight of her clanking cans. 

For her cans and she had the bulk of three, 

And deftly as she might steer, 
'Twas the silent might of her strength and her height 

That kept the pathway clear. 



300 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There were many who eyed her stately stride, 
As she moved through the yielding crowd, 

With her hands on her hips, and a smile on her lips, 
And a look both calm and proud. 

But none, or few, of the gazers knew 

The worth of her humble trade ; 
And beauty alone may never atone 

For the lot of a milkman's maid. 

They could not see what was clear to me 

That the loftiest lady there 
Might envy the part in Dame Nature's heart 

Which is owned by Kitty Clare. 

When first people begin strict diet they are very apt 
to think they will die without change. It has been a 
great humiliation to me to find how much more easily 
the young take to living on nothing but bread, fruit, 
potatoes, vegetables, and cheese than their elders do. 
A contemporary said to me in such a sad voice the other 
day, 'Is it not distressing to find out how one pines 
sometimes for some of the old foods, which at the time 
we ate them we hardly knew how much we enjoyed?' 
I earnestly caution people against not only bought 
breads, but also bought biscuits. I am sure that they 
are not the same help to health as things made at 
home, and biscuit-making, which by universal consent is 
now left entirely to manufacturers and bakers, takes even 
less time than boiling potatoes; for a skilful cook can 
make and bake a piling plate of biscuits or wafers in 
fifteen minutes. The exception to my mind is Lemanns? 
28 St. Swithin's Lane ; especially his thick captains. 

One's great wish when practising diet is not to make 
the cook feel she is no longer wanted, but that her skill 
can be adapted to all sorts of new requirements. In 
staying away at a friend's house lately the cook was quite 
miserable because she felt she had nothing to do for me. 



AUGUST 301 

In another house I was unfortunately half-poisoned by 
the home-made bread being ruined by much salt, and the 
vegetables tasted as if steeped in brine. 

From a German friend I received in late autumn last 
year a list of what the work had lately been in her 
kitchen. The winter climate is so severe in mid-Germany 
that nothing can be left in the ground and storing away 
from frost is very difficult. Everything is so easily 
brought to our shores all the year round now that we 
have almost forgotten the old days when preserving went 
on in our own country houses. Now most people say it 
is cheaper to buy ; so it may be, but it is not so good. 
My friend complains that she cannot get twice-ground 
whole-meal flour in Germany, and she adds that she can- 
not get bread-making done at home, as her cook has such 
heaps and heaps of preserving to do. My answer would 
be that her family and her household would be in far 
better health with good sound bread to eat and much less 
preserved fruit and vegetables. She asks : ' Would you 
like to hear all we do ? ' and then gives the following 
list : Thirty or thirty-five tins of strawberry compote, 
two dozen marmalade and jams in pots (this does not 
mean orange marmalade, which would be out of season) ; 
ditto clear fruit juice to drink with water, also thick juice 
to use for puddings, sauces ; cherry compotes in tins, ditto 
stoned in glass pots ; marmalades and jams, half-fermented 
juice to drink with water, fifty or more pounds of apri- 
cots dried in oven for winter, servants' compotes, mira- 
belles, the same as above. Cucumbers,, two barrels, 
filled and preserved in salt ; cucumbers, small green, 
pickled in vinegar ; mushrooms dried in oven and pressed 
in tins, ten quarts of tarragon vinegar for winter use, three 
dozen tins of flageolet beans, three dozen tins of shelled 
and preserved green beans, two barrels cut beans pre- 
served in salt; choucroute, one barrelful preserved in 



302 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

salt ; blue plums peeled and preserved in bottles, ditto not 
peeled, preserved in vinegar and sugar ; tomatoes pre- 
served whole in tins to use for 'garniture,' artichoke 
bottoms the same way, and many bottles of tomato 
puree. A good deal of this kind of luxury it seems to me 
desirable to reduce as much as possible, but of course 
everything depends on the size of the household. 

I must not fail to mention one of the most useful 
articles for domestic purposes that has come out to my 
knowledge in the last few years a powdered soap in 
tins, not expensive, to be bought at Harrod's Stores, or 
others, and called Sapon. Its especial use is for the 
washing of all nursery woollen things, Shetland shawls, 
under-clothing, blankets, &c. Everyone I have recom- 
mended it to has been delighted with it. 

Another very charming but expensive luxury has been 
imported from France by Messrs. Goode & Co., of the 
china shop in Audley Street, and if I were going to begin 
life again I should certainly have it copper stewpans of 
all sizes lined with silver beaten into the copper, in the 
old Sheffield-plate manner, before it is made up, and so 
thick that nothing will wear it off. This saves all the 
bother and expense of re-tinning, and the risk to health of 
copper pans being neglected, and not tinned soon enough. 
The price is not at all prohibitive, considering the goodness 
of the pans. 

For Drying" Flowers. Take cotton wool and tissue 
paper. Lay the wool on the flower and the fine paper 
over it, and put this between the pages of any old folios 
or books. Tie a string round the books to keep all in 
place, and put them under an impromptu press of a board 
with a stone or weight on it, in the sun if possible, or even 
near the fire. The cotton wool absorbs the moisture and 
the heat dries the flower quickly. The wool prevents the 
delicate petals from being crushed, and so the character 
of the flower is preserved. 



AUGUST 303 

Corns. So many people who refuse to 4 believe that 
one of the minor merits of the simpler foods as ordered 
by Dr. Haig is the cure of corns, still suffer from these 
inconveniences, that I think the following letter too good 
to lose : 

Sir, I trust it may not be beneath the dignity of the 
' Westminster Gazette ' to permit a humble country doctor 
to add his little seasonable mite to the gaiety of nations. 
The one fatal word which is the title of this letter repre- 
sents the most common, perhaps, of the small ills of life. 
Once upon a time ' an old wife ' in the village of Caris- 
brooke said this to me (and her endearment of address 
would have been above suspicion had my readers seen 
her), ' My dear, you may know a lot about Anna Tummy ' 
(I thought this, at first, some hideous gastric surname, 
but I realised almost at once that it was an orthoepic 
liberty only), ' but you dunno nothin' about " karns " I 
do.' Well, I happened to know that this good lady had 
a reputation in the country-side for the relief of the hard 
variety of these elementary drawbacks to easy labour. 
On her death-bed she told me her secret. Here are her 
ipsissima verba, and Heaven forbid that I should lessen 
the force of her teaching by any grammatical paraphrase. 
She said, ' You takes beeswax and you deeps it hot right 
on the karn and covers 'un ; then you puts on a bit o' 
swealed rag and lets 'un set for four days. Then you 
pulls 'un out after you've a-soaked your foot in water hot 
enough for you to bear. And when 'e's out you'll see a 
big hole where he was.' Now, I don't the least care if a 
' thousand and one gems ' of correspondence reach you 
saying the remedy is old. So is the Bible old, but very 
few people know much about it ! 

Your obedient Servant, 

GEORGE W. E. DABBS, M.D. 

Shanklin, I.W, : December 18. 



3 o 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Chilblains. Far the best cure for chilblains is a very 
simple one. Rub the feet twice a day, when well warmed 
by a fire, with some soft soap. Chilblains are half a gouty 
symptom, and no doubt the magic is the strong alkali in 
the soap. 

Personal. The following suggestion is worth know- 
ing for anybody who has a bilious headache and is obliged 
to make a speech, or any great effort. Put a whole tin of 
Colman's mustard into a large hot bath, stay in it ten or 
fifteen minutes, lie down after it for half an hour. The 
brain will then be far clearer and better than in ordinary- 
health. This is a remedy only to be used for an emer- 
gency. It is, of course, rather a severe trial for the 
circulation, but less likely to be injurious than the drugs 
which are so often taken for headaches. 



305 



SEPTEMBER 

Visit to Northamptonshire Peterboro', Fotheringhay, and Kirby Hall 
Iris in pans for spring flowering A last year's autumn letter 
from Germany Kew and the smoke curse Pruning back of 
shrubby plants to imitate sub-tropical gardening Japanese 
anemones in shade Sunflower seeds as a possible farming 
industry. 

September list. Last year I went to stay in Northamp- 
tonshire. On my way down, having an hour at Peterboro' 
station, I visited its magnificent old cathedral the largest 
and most important Norman building that I have ever 
seen. I know nothing really about architecture, but I 
suppose it must have been built just at the Transition 
period, for all the arches are round, except just across the 
nave, where they are slightly pointed, probably the better 
to carry the weight of the tower. The whole effect of the 
church is most remarkably simple and dignified. When 
I got home, I looked it up, and found that Peterboro' 
Cathedral took more than half a century to build from 
1118 to 1193. The eastern aisle, which is Perpendicular, 
was begun in 1438 and not finished till 1528. Katharine 
of Arragon was buried there, and her remains are there to 
this day. Peterboro' stands on the old North road, but 
though I remember that my mother, in speaking to us as 
children of her many journeys from London to Newcastle, 
often talked of York Cathedral, I do not remember her 
ever having mentioned Peterboro'. This perhaps means 
that, although an important place, they only changed 



306 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

horses there in the old posting days ; just as we now, in 
trains, pass the most interesting places, only staying three 
minutes at the railway station. During my visit to North- 
amptonshire, I stayed in a most beautiful old Jacobean 
house, not much spoilt and well maintained. My kind 
hostess drove me about to see the sights of her neigh- 
bourhood, and we went first to the village of Fotheringhay. 
The name remains, though the castle has ceased to exist 
where Mary Queen of Scots ended her days. The village 
has evidently shrunk in importance ; the church is very 
large, and alone retains a certain old-world magnificence. 
A farmhouse is pointed out as being one in which the 
soldiers were lodged during the time of the trial. We 
walked a short distance down narrow lanes, between 
farm-buildings, to see the site of the old castle. Even 
when we have read of a certain place in a novel, and 
afterwards visit it, the scene becomes alive with the 
imaginary characters of the book and the whole story is at 
once a reality, as I mentioned before when I visited Brams 
Hill. How much more is this the case when we stand 
on a spot where the prominent figures in history lived, 
and looked with their eyes on what we now see to-day ! 
The general effect of nature never changes ; a stream 
winds as it has always wound, and the long shadows of 
evening are cast by the sun in the same manner at the same 
time of year as they were cast three hundred years ago. 
I had this feeling at its highest pitch when visiting 
Fotheringhay last autumn. All trace of the castle is 
absolutely obliterated, except for a huge grass-grown 
mound, verily a grave. Standing on the mound, it is 
possible to trace the double moats which surrounded 
Mary's last prison, and one huge mass of conglomerate 
stone lies on the surface of the field below. The land- 
scape is very fair a lovely, winding river crossed by a 
stone bridge of a more recent date than the one erected 



SEPTEMBER 307 

by order of Elizabeth after her stay at Fotheringhay and 
which fell into ruin. The broad green meadows, the 
cattle grazing, everything is just as it might have been 
when Mary arrived, full of forebodings, in September 1586. 
As the meadows flooded, the fogs of autumn arose and 
surrounded her, her case became more hopeless, and, 
crippled with rheumatism, she began to lose heart, poor 
thing ! In February came the cruel end, just after her forty- 
fifth birthday. The story told in so many history books 
that her son James razed the castle to the ground seems 
to be a fiction ; for, although his filial affection caused him 
to move her body to Westminster Abbey from Peterboro' 
Cathedral, where she had first been buried, it did not 
extend to the destruction of the castle, as there are 
documents to show it was standing and in good repair 
after his death. Its owner, Sir Eobert Cotton, removed 
the woodwork of the hall, where Mary was executed, to 
Connington Hall, in Huntingdonshire, where it still exists. 
Froude gives many interesting details of Mary Queen of 
Scots' last days, but I think it is clear he never visited 
the place himself, as his description is not quite correct. 
He says that the village was nearer the river than the 
castle was ; this is not the case. He leaves out the 
second 'h' in Fotheringhay, and calls the river 'Nen' 
instead of ' Nene.' Froude, though so notoriously Pro- 
testant in his views, gives Mary a splendid testimony 
when he says : ' In point of form and grace, Mary 
Stuart had the advantage of her rival everywhere. 
Elizabeth, with a general desire to do right, could con- 
descend to poor and mean manoeuvres. Mary Stuart 
carried herself, in the midst of her crimes, with a 
majesty that would have become the noblest of sove- 
reigns.' Froude, in the twelfth volume of his history, 
gives a most interesting description of Mary's dress on 
the scaffold. It must have been prepared beforehand 



3 o8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and required much thought. True woman to the very 
end, she made the most of her last opportunity of creating 
an effect. Froude says : ' The lawn veil was lifted care- 
fully off not to disturb the hair, and was hung upon 
the rail. The black robe was next removed. Below it 
was a petticoat of crimson velvet. The black jacket 
followed, and under the jacket was a body of crimson 
satin. One of her ladies handed her a pair of crimson 
sleeves, with which she hastily covered her arms ; and 
thus she stood on the black scaffold with the black 
figures all around her, blood-red from head to foot.' 
Froude describes how, when she placed her crucifix on a 
chair, it was seized by one of the executioners. He was 
made at once to replace it, and everything she had worn 
was burnt at the huge hall fire before the spectators left 
the room, every precaution being taken to prevent the 
keeping of relics. This adds immense interest to the 
fact that, in the year (about) 1830, an old man digging in 
the castle grounds found Mary's ring bearing her initials 
and Darnley's tied with a true-lover's knot. This ring is 
now to be seen in the Waterton collection at the South Ken- 
sington Museum. The supposed explanation of the find- 
ing of this ring is that it dropped unperceived from Mary's 
finger at the time of her execution and was swept up and 
thrown into the moat with the bloody sawdust. The 
moats are dry now, but in winter the Nene still floods the 
lowlands. It is said that many medicinal plants are still 
found about the castle grounds, and a peculiar thistle is 
known locally as ' Queen Mary's Tears.' 

Another of the places in the neighbourhood which I 
went to see was the well-known Kirby Hall, the fairest 
and most Italian of Elizabethan houses. It has shared, 
in these latter days, the fate of Fotheringhay in the time 
of Charles I. The owners, I suppose, finding it expensive 
to keep in repair, removed all the valuables, including the 



SEPTEMBER 309 

panelling and chimneypieces, and allowed this beautiful 
Elizabethan gem to fall into decay. Oh, the pity of it ! 
In Jones's ' Views of the Seats, Mansions and Castles of 
England,' published in 1830, he gives two views of Kirby 
Hall, taken, in my opinion, from the least beautiful sides, 
and in no way doing the house justice. But these prints 
represent the house as well-roofed and showing no signs 
of ruin. No doubt fifty years ago a comparatively small 
sum would have kept it weather-tight and preserved 
it. Now thousands of pounds would hardly restore it. 
This magnificent pile of buildings was founded by one of 
Elizabeth's favourites, Sir Christopher Hatton. The 
guide-books attribute the early part of the building to that 
somewhat mythical genius, John Thorne, who gets the 
credit of having designed all the best houses in England 
for about a hundred years. However much he may have 
been consulted about the planning of this house, it is 
very different and far more remote and Italian in style 
than either Holland House or Bram's Hill. A later 
owner called in Inigo Jones to ' modernise and improve ' 
it. Sir Christopher Hatton died a bachelor before Eliza- 
beth, in 1591, and was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. 

I wonder in what the wealth of England consisted in 
Tudor times that enabled people to build such splendid 
residences. In Suffolk, I am told, there were rich 
clothiers and woollen merchants. Perhaps it was the 
same in Northamptonshire, where the pastures are very 
rich. Or shall we dare to think that the money was 
mostly ground out of the wretched peasantry of the 
country ? I noticed, driving about in Northamptonshire, 
several large old pigeon-houses like those that existed in 
France, and which were part cause of the Great Eevolu- 
tion. The pigeons fed on the grain sown by the peasants, 
and the peasants were paid in kind by gifts of these same 
pigeons. 



310 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

September Wth. I have in flower a Cape bulb called 
eucomis, which is seldom seen, but which I think very 
handsome and well worth growing. There are three or 
four kinds ; the one I have is, I believe, called E. undulata. 
I have had it unmoved for several years, so it is quite 
hardy. The flower spikes are about two feet long, and the 
upper half densely arranged in a cylindrical manner. The 
flowers are not showy, but theyilook exceedingly well picked 
and arranged in a vase alone or with some spikes of 
Lobelia cardinalis. 

I have flowered this year for the first time a most 
attractive little rockery plant, with quite a weak-looking 
body and a fine big showy campanula-like flower. It is 
called Cyananthus lobatus. It should be grown on a damp 
rockwork ; this I have not got, but as we have only had 
one fine dry week this year it did not matter, and the 
plant evidently thought it was in a damp spot. 

August, or early in September, is the time to plant in 
pans, just like hyacinths, the small bulbous irises. They 
thoroughly repay growing, and should be planted and put 
in a frame under cocoanut fibre all the winter, and only 
be brought into the greenhouse just before flowering. 
Iris reticulata is the best, as it is very pretty and very 
sweet. I. Bakeriana is another excellent one. 

September 17th. I copy here a letter lately received 
from my German friend. Our gardens are a constant 
interest to each of us, as what does easily and well with 
her does badly with me, and she is then quite jealous of 
the sun-dried little successes of my light soil. 

' We are nearly drowned, and to hear you talk of a 
dry garden sounds like distant myths of El Dorado. For 
a solid fortnight now we have had sheets of water, day 
and night, and everything is decaying and reduced to 
pulp ; one's very bones creep with the damp and feel 
mildewed. It is impossible to work the soil or to go 



SEPTEMBER 31 1 

on the grass without wearing indiarubber boots, like 
waders. You ought to see it once like this to convince 
you of the numerous difficulties of my gardening the 
parching, cutting east winds and droughts all this spring 
and summer, and then those indescribable masses of water 
that rot and spoil everything, so that when the frost does 
come everything is so saturated and water-logged it starts 
the roots and bulbs from the soil, the water turning to 
solid ice. What makes it a worse grievance than other 
years is the fact of its beginning a month or six weeks in 
advance of the usual time, and thus ruining the whole of 
my painfully -built-up scheme of a pretty September 
garden. The terrible havoc of last year's winter, and the 
heavy snows and frosts of the latter half of March, had 
so effectually ruined all prospects of a good spring garden 
that I set to in April and May, so as at least to ensure a 
good display for the summer and autumn. And, with all 
due humility, I believe I had succeeded ; but now it is 
all battered and beaten into jam, and one could almost 
long for snow to cover it up mercifully. These are the 
woes of strong heavy soils, where things grow luxuriantly 
and drought does but little harm, but where rains do 
untold damage, and a wet autumn means destruction to 
all tender things and disaster among the bulbs. Yet even 
so calamitous a month of September bears some lessons 
one of them not to delay the gathering of seeds of the 
best annuals, the other to push forward planting and 
transplanting of perennials, so as to get them well esta- 
blished in the first days of the month. This exceptional 
year proves that the usual rule of counting upon the 
whole of September for all the transplanting and re- 
planting is not a safe one. For the first time this year, 
driven by necessity and by the rows and rows of corpses 
which I discovered on coming out to Cronberg in April, I 
have really had a good show of annuals and half -hardies. 



3i2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The single branching larkspurs have been quite lovely, 
both in pots on the terrace and in big masses by themselves 
in the little paved flower-garden. There were lavender- 
coloured ones, and a batch of quite lovely bright pink 
coral ones, besides the usual tall white kind and the 
different shades of blue. I had never yet got them to 
thrive in my stiff soil, and I was determined to have them, 
so I deliberately took out eighteen inches of my soil in 
more than half the flower-garden, only leaving those beds 
that were to grow dahlias, asters, pyrethrums, and Michael- 
mas daisies, and replaced the soil by fine compost made of 
sand, road-scrapings, turfy loam, and a very little decayed 
manure. All the annuals sown in February and March 
in pans, or in the soil of a cold frame, were pricked out 
into this good light soil at the end of April, and some were 
sown in place as late as the first week in May. The 
latter were portulacas, a few patches of Nemesia strumosa, 
Convolvulus minor, Viscaria oculata, and the lovely sky- 
blue viscaria. A large square bed of Nigella damascena, 
sown in a mixture with Qmphalo&es Unifolia and well 
thinned (it makes a perfect mixture and is most satis- 
factory), two big beds of salpiglossis of the largest strain 
(Haage & Schmidt at Erfurt), and smaller patches of the 
dwarf orange-coloured eschscholtzia, as well as the pink 
and white, both very pretty. Large patches of Shirley 
poppies and tall French double ones severely thinned out, 
the giant Machet mignonette, and the pretty bright red 
Stuttgart variety, then the lovely but very ephemeral 
Phacelia campanularia and the beautiful Bartonia aurea, 
the charming Linaria bipartita and L. Cymbalaria, the 
delightful tribe of Chinese fringed pinks, the purple corn- 
flowers; all these did beautifully sown in place, and 
would have lasted until frost if they had not been 
battered and smashed by these terrible weeks of deluge. 
The frame-raised annuals were the single delphiniums, 



SEPTEMBER 313 

the rhodanthes and acrocliniums, the tall self-coloured 
antirrhinums; these last I can never grow except as 
annuals, nor can I the white, the bright yellow and bright 
red, and very dark red, nearly black the Chrysanthemum 
carinatum, the tall, beautiful Cosmos bipinnatus, Commelina 
cmlestis which began to flower six weeks after sowing, 
when it was only two inches high, and is now still in full 
lovely bloom and two feet high, and a gorgeous gentian 
blue the annual Lupinus Hartioegi and polyphyllus, the 
whole tribe of tall and dwarf orange and pale yellow 
autumn marigolds (tagetes), and the best strains of 
scabious, a large patch of very big-flowered pale lilac, 
exactly like S. caucasica, being excessively useful, besides 
the bright coral pink, the self -white, and the ruby-coloured 
ones. My paved flower-garden was all arranged on the 
principle of a market garden, each kind in a bed, or half a 
bed, by itself, with the exception of two mixed ones, one 
of which I kept nearly entirely blue with lupins, Phacelia 
viscida, Viscaria oculata ccerulea, the Swan-Eiver daisy, 
single -branching larkspur, Commelina calestis, cornflowers, 
nigellas, dark -blue salpiglossis, dark heliotrope, and 
on the edges tufts of dark violas, broken by patches of 
mignonette and the above-mentioned precious Omphalodes 
linifolia as the only exceptions to the general blueness. 
That bed was lovely ; it was about fifteen yards long by 
two and a half yards wide. I forgot to mention tufts of 
the dark-blue Salvia Horminum, and a tuft or two of 
lovely self-sown Veronica Hendersoni, with long blue 
spikes. The Swan-Eiver daisy above named is properly 
called Brachycome iberidifolia, and is lovely. The other 
bed, where I had several annuals mixed and not one kind 
planted alone, was a long narrow bed only five feet wide 
and about twenty long and here I planted all the shades 
of orange and terra-cotta zinnias, the white single larkspur 
of the tallest sort, the yellow antirrhinums, and the white 



314 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

feathery " Comet " aster, and then a large batch of brown, 
yellow, and orange Helichrysum macranthum (both these 
and the single zinnias have been very large and fine and 
satisfactory, and last so wonderfully in autumn and defy 
rain and drought and every fatality of weather) ; also a 
very pretty pink rudbeckia, about two feet high, with a 
lovely mahogany-coloured inside and broad zone all 
round. I found it in flower in a friend's garden in 
Hesse, and gathered some seed.' (It is not an annual, 
I think. Same as Echinacea purpurea. M. T. B.) ' I 
forgot to mention among the annuals I have used 
largely for fringing and filling up the edges of my beds 
of dark-red hybrid perpetual roses is a good strain of 
tiny pink petunias, and Phlox Drummondii in all the 
shades of red, from salmon-pink to nearly black, barring 
all magenta, yellowish, or white. They did beautifully 
and are so pretty and luxuriant now ; also the fringed 
Dianthus Heddewigi and the Viscaria oculata cardinalis. 
By keeping to tones of red or pink-red, I really got rather 
a nice harmony of colour low-growing in the bed among 
the hybrid perpetuals ; but, alas ! in spite of the book, 
" Chemistry in the Garden," I have again had mildew and 
rust, though the latter, perhaps, to a lesser degree than other 
years, owing to painting the plants with brimstone early 
in March and frequent syringings in the growing season 
with the mixture that book recommends. But the cutting, 
horrible east winds we have here, and the changes from 
very hot to almost freezing which are so common in spring 
and after August, will, I am afraid, always be a terrible evil 
to fight against amongst my roses. To fill the gaps created 
by the winter frost among my rose-beds (especially tea 
roses), I had quantities of self-raised little plants on their 
own roots (cuttings), but they are small and make no show 
yet, so I introduced patches of an early-flowering and 
quite lovely outdoor chrysanthemum, apricot coloured 



SEPTEMBER 315 

with a touch of pink; it is called " Gustave Grunewald," 
and flowers from August profusely. It has all the 
characteristics of a Japanese chrysanthemum, and not 
the ordinary quite hardy out-of-door flowering kinds. 
When the weather becomes too rough, and the lovely pink 
chrysanthemum flowers become spoilt, I take up all the 
plants and pot them, and they continue to flower well 
into October when the others come on.' (Any rose- 
grower would say, ' No wonder her roses don't do, if, for 
the sake of effect, she plants so many things among 
them.' M. T. E.) 

' Now to tell you about my half-hardies ; the number 
of them is of course very great, and the labour of potting 
and housing increased tenfold to what it is in England, 
from the extreme cold we have, which makes it impossible 
to leave out of doors any sort or kind of veronica, or 
Verbena citriodora, rosemary, cistus, hydrangea, Lobelia 
cardinalis, tritomas, Campanula pyramidalis, or the better 
sort of carnations. The few just named mean hundreds 
of little pots to be got through the winter, if I am to have 
anything like an adequate supply for next year. The 
pentstemons and best snapdragons, too, I keep in pots, 
then a few large plants of the glorious red salvia and the 
other salvia with large pink blooms, the white Paris 
daisy large and small leaved, the yellow marguerite, the 
calceolarias brown and yellow, the pretty blue Agathea 
carulea, the best kinds of bright pink verbenas to be kept 
to make cuttings from in the spring, and the best double 
fringed petunias, then all the Cape pelargoniums, the 
tuberous begonias, of which we raised a big batch from 
seed, and had some really splendid shades and sizes. 
I used these largely to produce patches of bright colour in 
the autumn garden and to fill up places from which the 
early flowering phloxes, tulips, English irises, hesperis, 
Aster alpinus, and Campanula persic&folia had been 



316 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

removed to the reserve garden after flowering. These 
gaps were filled by red salvias broken by scarlet tuberous 
begonias, by Paris marguerites with yellow and white 
begonias in between, or by the tall pink salvia which is so 
lovely with the Sednm spectabile as a groundwork. All 
in all this terrible winter, and the havoc among my roses 
and herbaceous perennials, have taught me a lot ; as usual 
necessity being the key to success. I had lost all my fox- 
gloves, tritomas, Anemone japonica, all the finer sorts of 
hypericums, nearly all English and Spanish irises, the 
Spanish squill, and numberless small and pretty alpines 
and other dwarf plants. And so, to save what could be, 
I had to put all my energy on to raising a sufficient stock 
and variety of annuals, and make much use of half-hardy 
and sub-tropical plants from seeds and cuttings; my 
cannas, castor-oil plants, red and green-leaved Indian 
hemp solanums, caladiums, and the three kinds of 
nicotiana, mixed with batches of gladiolus, montbretia, 
amaranthus, and choice cactus dahlias, made a huge 
tropical-looking bed of most decorative effect. All were 
put out the second half of May, some on a trampled 
foundation of manure to help rapid growth. The tall 
daturas made a lovely clump close by, sunk, and planted 
out in the grass, the base of the clump hid by polygonum 
and Desmodium penduliflorum. My sweet-peas, the 
earliest, were raised in the greenhouse, sown in February 
in pots and planted out in April ; the second batch in a 
cold frame in pots and planted out late in May ; the third 
batch sown in place and just a little thinned, watered and 
manured. They are still now in full beauty September 
20 but I never get them as tall or the blooms quite as 
large as the best English ones. Still they are good Eck- 
ford varieties, and I do not grumble, for, no doubt, I shall 
learn by and by. My greatest pleasure among all my 
annuals has been the thorough success of Nemesia strumosa, 



SEPTEMBER 317 

sown in three or four different little patches, in pots, in 
boxes, and out of doors; some pricked out into sandy 
soil and sunny places, some pricked off into boxes or 
large shallow pans, where they bloomed and seeded 
profusely. The biggest plants and profusest bloomers were 
those sown in place. They began to bloom the end of July, 
and are still lovely, and have yielded masses of cut blooms 
and good seed too, though it takes a lot of gathering. 

' A paling, topped by a little red-brick roof, has been 
prettily overgrown with a lovely new (to me) creeper 
called Solanum Wendlandi, tender, and to be treated like 
Plumbago capensis. It has large clusters of lovely 
lavender or inauvy-blue flowers, is a strong grower and 
covers a large space in one summer. It was very pretty 
growing alongside of a mass of good snow-white ever- 
lasting pea, with Plumbago capensis, and a mass of 
different shades of heliotrope at the foot of it scenting the 
air at a distance. And now we are on the verge of death 
and decay to all this quickly conjured -up loveliness, and 
the long lottery begins again which always brings sur- 
prises, and will perhaps force us next spring to have even 
more recourse to annuals. The long and short of all my 
efforts is to conclude that gardening in this climate is not 
really worth the trouble, as it means five months of life 
and seven months of death, and a yearly renewed effort 
to produce and reproduce plants that grow like weeds in 
the blessed climate of your British Isles.' 

My friend's sad grumble reminds me of two or three 
lines in one of Robert Lytton's letters : ' Friendship 
under the chill veil of absence is like a garden covered 
with snow. The roots, the germs, the bulbs all are 
there, but where are the flowers?' A garden is never 
without hope. What one thinks is dead springs up strong 
from the root, and what seems to have survived till the 
spring often proves to be dead. 



3 i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

September 19th. To-day we drove to Kew. A lovely 
day here, but on arriving there we were met by a dark 
smoke fog from London. It is very sad how black 
Eichmond and Kew have got lately, and the plants are 
suffering very much. One does not notice it in the early 
spring, but at this time of year the leaves are black and 
shrivelled, and the glories of autumn will not be for 
them. Oh, why cannot something be done to save us 
from this curse of smoke? The difference during the 
twenty years I have lived here is astonishing. 

I was disappointed with a great deal of the planting 
at Kew ; certainly large fat beds on green grass are very 
unsuggestive and commonplace. The spring garden was 
pretty in general effect, the autumn garden only interesting 
in detail. There were some plants pruned back to form 
interesting sub-tropical-looking foliage, which were far 
stronger and easier of cultivation than the real sub-tropical 
plants often used. They remain where they are planted 
and are merely fed, I suppose, and cut back* in spring to 
one shoot. Paulonia imperialis filled one bed. The plant 
comes from Japan, and so might be injured sometimes by 
late frosts in spring. The leaves in this bed were huge, 
and would make a very fine effect in any large place where 
there is plenty of room, and when in flower it must be a 
very handsome plant. It does not do on a sandy soil, nor 
on a very cold damp soil. The stag's-horn sumach (Rhus 
typhina) was treated in the same way, leaving only one 
shoot to grow. 

The Nicotiana tomentosa alba was quite a failure this 
wet year, and had not one flower, though magnificent 
foliage. I should say it had been put into rather too good 
soil and so had all gone to leaf. There were large beds of 
Clematis Davidiana, not effective. It is a beautiful thing, 
and two or three plants put together would make an 
interesting feature in any large garden, but neither form 



SEPTEMBER 319 

nor colour is good enough for a large bed. The white 
double Rosa rugosa made a splendid group on the grass. 
A great many of the shrubs were well pruned back even 
when not in regular beds. The bays are the hardier for 
this, and the Ehus Cotinus, if much pruned back, is a 
different-looking plant. Bhus laciniata is low growing 
and has lovely foliage. Indigofera Gerardiana is another 
plant well worth growing in a clump, and it also wants 
nothing but pruning back hard in early winter. The 
useful tall polygonums at Kew were not nearly so fine as 
my own. I do not know whether this is from the soil 
being colder and heavier than mine or from not doing 
what seems indispensable to their successful growth 
thinning out their shoots in April to five or six. Properly 
treated, both P. sachalinense and P. cuspidatum are 
superbly decorative, beautiful plants, but I never see 
them what I call properly grown. I saw no montbretias 
planted in the grass, and yet they look most beautiful done 
in that way. Even in a wood, and given moisture, they 
seem to stand a good deal of shade. So do Japanese 
anemones, which look far better planted on the edge of a 
wood, or under some small fruit-trees, than in an ordinary 
border. They hate being disturbed, and look most lovely 
growing of their own accord in the shade ; a little top- 
dressing in spring helps them. They make a great show 
of seeding, but I believe only in one garden in Ireland 
has the seed ever really ripened. The rose ' Caroline 
Testout ' was flowering very well ; it is a good pink rose. 
All the others seemed over; with roses everything 
depends on its being just their best day. 

Perhaps what interested me most in this visit to Kew 
was a cool house where the creepers were admirably 
managed and so well pruned and grown ; they were most 
healthy and covered with bloom. The large conservatories 
of the rich are built far too high, and so the pruning is 



320 A THIRD-POT-POURRI ! 

.^ 
not done, and the flowers, poor imprisoned things, stare 

out at the sun through the glass at the top. Here the 
creepers were all planted in the ground inside the conser- 
vatory, so their growth was strong and their flowers 
abundant. Blue plumbago, an abutilon * Golden Gem/ 
I think and that shy flowerer, Hidalgood^Werokalsi, was 
right across the house and covered with its goodjred 
orange blooms. Its foliage and growth are pretty and 
refined as a creeper, but the flowers are very like a single 
dahlia on a thinner stalk. There was an old plant of a 
fuchsia called ' General Eoberts,' that looked very well 
trained against the roof and falling down. That lovely 
thing, the Lonicera sempervirens, was flowering well. I 
never can get it to do very satisfactorily here out of doors. 
In the sun it gets too dry, and in the shade it does not 
flower freely, and becomes blighted ; in this house it was 
seen to perfection. On the shelves there were Solanum 
Melongenas egg plants more curious than pretty, some 
lovely pots of Campanula isophylla variety Mayi, also C. 
Loreyi, both upstanding, and worth growing for variety 
of colour in a greenhouse at this time of year. There 
were many South African plants new to me, but the chief 
interest of all was a large collection of South African 
pelargoniums. Many of these I had never seen, except 
in Andrews' book, ' The Botanist's Eepository,' where a 
great number of these plants are beautifully figured under 
their old name of geraniums which plants they re- 
semble; but pelargoniums are entirely indigenous to 
the southern hemisphere, while geraniums belong to this 
hemisphere and are all hardy ; which, of course, pelargo- 
niums are not in England, except quite in the South, and 
even there they require some protection. I have amused 
myself for the last few years collecting Cape pelargoniums, 
but they are impossible to buy, and trying to get the roots 
straight from the Cape seems rather hopeless, at least so 



SEPTEMBER 321 

I have found. I have about thirty varieties, which I have 
collected with difficulty from different people, but none 
retain their bulbous roots. The prettiest and most curious 
is one figured in the ninth volume of Curtis' ' Botanical 
Magazine,' called now 'Moulton's Gem/ but by Curtis 
Pelargonium echinatum. I have also a rich dark red 
variety spotted in the same way. Eollinson's ' Unique ' 
is another with a particularly attractive flower. Among 
the sweet-leaved varieties the best is the true old ' Prince 
of Orange.' It is not very easy to get now, and I would 
give cuttings to those who care to write and ask for 
them in August and September. This plant is rather 
tenderer than the generality of these sweet-scented pelar- 
goniums, and does best planted in the ground in a rose- 
house or vine-house and well watered, when it grows into 
a large plant. It can then be cut nearly the whole year 
round. 

I saw last year a gardening tool which I have had 
made and slightly improved upon. It is a navvy's crow- 
bar, to which is added a heavy knob of iron 
worked down to a fine point. It goes well 
into the ground by its own weight, and is 
most useful for planting small plants, on 
rockeries or in full beds, or for bulbs in 
grass. When the instrument is in the 
ground it can be shaken about to make 
quite a large hole. In the bottom of this 
hole is powdered some light soil which the 
weak roots easily penetrate. This dimi- 
nishes the necessity of much watering in 
dry weather. An iron tip put to an ordinary 
dibber makes it more useful than when 
only made of wood. 

I increasingly keep seed gathered from 
the best blooms after marking them carefully. In this 

Y 



322 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

way, I have no doubt, finer plants are secured than from 
the bought seeds. 

Gerbera Jamesoni, a native of the Transvaal, is a 
handsome, glowing scarlet flower. I bought it two 
summers ago and was told it was hardy. I covered it 
with fern, but that was no use, and it died ; so I was re- 
lieved to find they grow it at Kew in a cool greenhouse 
all the year round. I shall certainly buy it again, as it is 
well worth growing in that way. It is, to my mind, quite 
as interesting and as desirable to grow a variety of 
flowers under glass as out in the open, for those who have 
greenhouses at all. How few people, even of those with 
numberless greenhouses, grow the beautiful Cape heaths, 
of which there are such endless varieties ! They are well 
figured and described in Andrews' ' Heathery,' the folio 
volumes of which I have not got, but it is a superb book ; 
date about 1804. A few of these heaths are grown by 
dealers for the London market, where they are a constant 
bait to those who like flowers in their rooms. But, thus 
imprisoned, they quickly turn yellow and fade and die, as 
they are especially fresh-air-loving plants. And let any- 
one watch, as they walk or drive through London, how 
rare it is, except just in the summer, ever to see an open 
window. Paris is just the same. The house is supposed 
to be aired by the housemaid in the morning which it 
often is not and that is the amount of fresh air it gets all 
day. Growing plants are much to be encouraged in living- 
rooms, especially in those of children and invalids, as 
their healthiness or otherwise is a proof of whether the 
air is fresh or not. 

I have always rather snorted at the modern large 
violets, because I cannot succeed with them, and because 
they are so different from the much-loved ones of my 
youth. But I must own that, when grown to perfection, 
in soil of the strength and moisture loved by the cabbage 



SEPTEMBER 323 

tribe, in full sun, the ' Princess of Wales ' is a splendid 
variety, and has a sweet violet smell when first picked. 
I must try again, across the kitchen-garden, in soil as rich 
as I can make it, and then trust to the wet summers we 
are supposed to be going to have. 

I think that, in large places, Michaelmas daisies, grown 
all together in big beds each side of a path, make a lovely 
graduated colour-mass, as Miss Jekyll recommends. But, 
in smaller gardens, I have an idea that they look best as 
individual specimen plants ; the earlier ones planted in 
half-shade and the later ones in full sun. Aster ericoides 
seems to have several varieties. I have a very pretty white 
one which flowers latest of all and looks well in water. 

If the seed of good gladiolus is sown directly it is 
ripe, the plants will flower the second year. 

At page 71 of ' Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden,' I 
mention that I hoped to get a white crown imperial. A 
kind lady offered to send me some. On their arrival, and 
when they grew the next year, they turned out to be 
white Martagon lilies. Messrs. Barr & Son have since 
brought to my notice that there is no white variety of the 
frifcillaria except F. Meleagris, which is quite a low- 
growing one. 

As an example of how the old English duplicate 
names for a flower often conveyed a strange contrast in 
their meaning like ' Love-in-the-mist ' and ' The Devil- 
in-the-bush 'I give the following interesting little anec- 
dote which appeared not long ago in the ' Spectator/ I 
believe the flower alluded to is Amaranthus caudatus, 
often called ' Love-lies-bleeding.' 

' In the current number of the " Cornhill Magazine," 
in an interesting paper entitled "On a Few Conver- 
sationalists," the writer tells an amusing story of Browning, 
and how he received certain flowers from a lady, who, on 
being pressed to give their English names, shyly confessed 

Y2 



3 2 4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

they were called "bloody noses." I happened many 
years ago to be staying in a country house when Browning 
told this story in his inimitable way, and he ended with 
the following lines, which I then and there committed to 
memory, and which will, I think, interest your readers : 

" I'll deck my love with posies, 
I'll cover her with roses, 

Should she protest 

I'll do my best 
To give her bloody noses." ' 

In the early days of what was called the aesthetic 
movement sunflowers were much grown in gardens. The 
gardener, however, found it a greedy feeder, and the 
1 chaff ' against the ' Greenery-yallery Grosvenor Gallery ' 
school brought it into disfavour; but I still think the 
branching kind grown singly is one of the very hand- 
somest annuals we have, and useful too, as poultry are 
fond of the seed and goats like the leaves. A newspaper 
account the other day set me wondering whether in some 
parts of England farmers could not, with advantage, grow 
the variety named below, which, as is well known, yields 
the seed ; it is eaten as a dessert-nut all over Eussia. 

' The first year of the twentieth century closed with a 
curious sale on the Baltic of a cargo of sunflower seeds, 
which changed hands at 11L 5s. per ton. Though a small 
trade has been done in sunflower seed for close on two 
hundred years, this transaction was the first in which a 
whole cargo three hundred tons from Odessa was dealt 
with. In Eussia, where the cultivation of the sunflower 
and the manufacture of oil from its seed is conducted on 
a large scale, the grandiflora is the variety grown. This 
species rises in a slender stalk five feet high, producing one 
monster head, the average yield being as much as fifty 
bushels of seed to the acre. So rich is it in oil that that 
quantity of seed will yield fifty gallons of oil, while the 



SEPTEMBER 325 

refuse of the seed, after this quantity of oil has been 
expressed, weighs 1,500 Ibs. when made into cattle cakes. 
Few people in England who grow the sunflower for 
ornament have any idea of its usefulness. It is among 
neglected crops in which there is money, as is shown by 
the price paid a few days ago. Besides the seed, every 
other portion of the plant can be utilised. The leaves 
furnish an excellent fodder, while in Eussia the stalks are 
prized as fuel, and their ashes, which contain 10 per cent, 
of potash, are readily sold to soapmakers. Naturally, in 
Eussia the chief virtue of the sunflower lies in the oil 
contained in its seed. The oil is of a clear, pale yellow 
colour, almost inodorous and of an agreeable, mild taste, 
so that it is in great request as a table article. Why 
sunflowers are not cultivated on an extensive scale in 
England it is difficult to say. Poultry and cattle like the 
seed either in its natural state or crushed and made into 
cakes. No plant produces such fine honey and wax; 
when the flower is in bloom the bees abound in it.' 



326 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



OCTOBER 

Solomon's love of nature An old letter Zola and fresh air Old 
Harwich inn and curious specimen of Clematis Vitalba Mesem- 
bryanthemums for cliff gardens An old monastery fruit-wall 
Three Pergolas A long- wanted book on trees and shrubs An 
old Suffolk breviary Stories Wild flowers for garden culture 
Wellingtonias on a German hillside Chrysanthemum culture 
Mr. Morley's gift to Cambridge. 

October ls sees me once more on my dearly loved 
East Coast, with its splendid air, its open skies, its flat 
distances, its boundless seas, and, for me, its kind friends. 
This summer brought me back an old letter written in 
my middle age to a young niece during one of my first 
visits to Suffolk many years ago when out of health. At 
that time I had worldly ambitions, though rather for 
others than myself, and a simple, unartificial rural life 
would have been impossible to me in spite of my strong 
love of Nature. The only vocations which seem to com- 
bine creative work with the simplicity of an unworldly 
life, and yet give scope to great ambition, are those of the 
artist and the author, and as neither of these was for me 
my love of Nature found its main vent in admiration of 
those in whose lives it had played a dominant part. Let 
those who have this love of Nature never crush it, for 
did not the writer of old thus describe the wisdom of 
Solomon ? ' For he was wiser than all men ; than Ethan 
the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the 
sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round 



OCTOBER 327 

about. And he spake three thousand proverbs : and his 
songs were a thousand and five. And he spake of trees, 
from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon even unto the 
hyssop that springeth out of the wall : he spake also 
of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of 
fishes.' 1 Kings iv. 31-33. 

The finder of my letter writes : ' I have been all the 
morning in the attic, which is truly an Aladdin's palace 
of riches and surprises. We were choosing books to have 
in our London home, and out of a " Life of Benvenuto 
Cellini " fell this fat human document. We have read it, 
and I send it to you, knowing it will be a thrillingly 
interesting memory to you. We have so loved reading 
it, and I feel tempted to shake all the books in the hopes 
of finding more ! ' 

' Southwold, July 23, 1886. 

' . . . About friendship, dear, you can judge, about 
love don't think me a horrid old thing coming over you 
with that odious thing experience you must allow me 
to say you cannot judge, either its nature or its power, 
because you have not tried it. It will come some day, 
and you will be the first to admit it is different, and that 
the grasp of the smiling boy is all powerful. 

' I have come across here to-day one of those strange 
stories of life which are more moving than any novel. 
We went to see, M. and I, an old lady, a fisherman's 
widow. She was about seventy, strong and handsome, 
and weather-beaten, very rough at first, and then the 
intelligence, refinement, and talent came out in her talk, 
and you forgot the wild, even dirty exterior. As a girl, 
quite young, she had run away and married a handsome 
fisherman. Her family disowned her and cut her off. 
She was the daughter of a rich Liverpool citizen, brought 
up in every luxury, taught German, French, Italian, draw- 
ing, and natural history. She must have had a wild, 



328 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

strong nature, for she has been very happy. She had 
one son and she dearly loved her husband. She lived 
his life and for years sailed about with him, studying the 
stars and knowing every fish of the sea. Her brother, 

S by name, was a Fellow of the Eoyal Society and 

a great naturalist, and she has beautiful books, something 
like my botanical ones, illustrated by him. She wanted 
to see me because of the Earle name a well-known one 
in Liverpool. I wish I had known her sooner, it would 
have interested me, though I have tried here to know no 
one ; I wanted to get away from humanity and its trials 
and temptations. The old lady has six cats, to all of 
which she is devoted. What is strange is that she should 
have kept up her French and been so proud of her intel- 
lectual gifts, yet that she should be content to live in so 
dirty a cottage and be so untidy in her person. She has 
the artistic temperament, and that, I am afraid, left to 
itself, does not care always for cleanliness. All about 
her was eminently picturesque and eminently untidy. 
She has for years written the letters of these villagers, 
and they talk of her, not as one of themselves, but as " a 
real lady." Is it not curious? As M. says, in another 
age she would have been called a witch. Her husband 
has been dead many years, but she talks with pleasure of 
the happiest days of her life, sailing on the wild ocean 
and coasting along the shores in his small open boat, 
and knowing all about the curious live things that 
came up in his nets. I shall probably never see her 
again, but I shall not forget my afternoon with her. . . . 
You must not think from what I said about Zola that 
I like him. I have always hated him, and can seldom 
read him; only with this book I was agreeably dis- 
appointed, as it has both power and truth. Some of 
the things you say about truths of some kind being put 
into a novel, many people would say of your friend " Tom 



OCTOBER 329 

Jones." There are things in that not much more pleasing 
to me than the butcher's work you describe. Perhaps 
you have forgotten. However, I think in books, as in 
life, even striving at truth has a great charm for me, and 
though gazing at corruption may be sickening, I doubt if 
it is as bad for one as the most beautiful of whitened 
sepulchres. However, you and I often mean the same 
thing, only we express it differently. I certainly do not 
call a doctor a brute for publishing his experience of the 
most horrible diseases and operations. Those who are 
not interested need not read ; to thos"e who are, the beauty 
of the facts effaces entirely the ugliness of the detail. 
And so in the description of the human heart, if the dis- 
ease is possible and true, it has a distinct interest for 
those who study human nature, though it may not be 
beautiful at all. Zola's book deals with that terrible 
question the very narrow line between genius and mad- 
ness, which is one of the saddest problems of poor 
suffering humanity.' 

As I was copying this old letter into my chapter 
came the news of Zola's death from bad air. The 
pathetic account of so slight a cause having so big a 
result is almost allegorical in its significance ; for con- 
vinced as I have always been that the motive of his work 
was a noble seeking after truth, the work itself was yet 
full of the miasmatic atmosphere which rises from the 
lowest strata of human nature, and I think there is no 
bathos in saying that if he had habitually slept with open 
windows, he would not only have lived longer, but his 
work would have been much more wholesome. The 
French newspapers call it ' that stupid death which sends 
the literature of all countries into mourning and is de- 
plored by the whole world.' 

October 9th. Never till this year have I seen the old 
town of Harwich, my previous acquaintance having been 



330 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

limited to its name, and the shed at the Great Eastern 
Eailway station on the way to the steamboats. In old 
days Harwich was an important place ; the King's pack- 
boats started from the town itself, and the early Georges 
always sailed from here on their joyful visits to their 
beloved Hanover. In the town there still exists a curious 
old posting-inn called by the unusual sign of ' The Three 
Cups/ and the room where Nelson slept is still shown. 
The reason of my visit to the inn was to see one of the 
strangest natural adaptations of luxuriant growth, of a 
kind seldom seen except now and then with an old vine. 
In the corner of the inn-yard is planted a Clematis 
Vitalba (traveller's joy), which I should think may be 
two hundred years old ; the stem is as thick as an old 
apple tree, retaining of course its twisted, rope-like 
character; the long arms, viz., branches, of the plant 
have been carried across the yard in all directions, 
supported in the middle by a strong post. The plant 
grows in a damp corner next the house ; it must have 
been put there and encouraged by some plant-loving 
landlord, and has been carefully trained and pruned ever 
since. The effect is so rare and so charming that it 
might be tried and carried out with advantage in many 
places. It was such a splendid illustration of what I 
consider one of the first rules of gardening clearly to 
show the hand of man, even to the extent of a certain 
artificiality, and then Nature being allowed to assert her 
sway. Thanks to pruning and care through a century or 
more of growth, this magnificent specimen of a wild plant 
still owes some of its charm to artifice. Given a sunny 
position, an old wistaria might be trained in the way 
described which is exactly how they are treated in 
Japan. 

Loudon says, ' The first clematis brought to England 
was Clematis Viticella in 1569, Virgin's Bower. During 



OCTOBER 331 

the reign of Queen Elizabeth the name of Virgin's Bower 
might be intended to convey a compliment to that 
sovereign, who, as is well known, liked to be called the 
Virgin Queen.' 

I never now visit seaside gardens except on the East 
Coast, where the houses and gardens are close to the sea, 
but it is interesting to observe there how well experience 
teaches, for the clothing of cliffs under the spray of the 
sea, which at one time seemed impossible, has now 
gradually succeeded. My host told me the other day that 
he had had the greatest difficulty in getting Pinus aus- 
triaca to grow. I immediately said, ' Oh, I am so glad ! 
I hate them.' He answered, ' You are wrong : their 
branching habit and sturdy growth from their youth 
make them endlessly useful to us as a protection. But,' 
he added, ' you will be interested to hear, in confirmation 
of what you have often said, that whereas we lost 
hundreds of transplanted plants bought from nurserymen, 
of our own seedlings we do not lose one in a hundred.' 
I am sure this is sound gardening, and corresponds with 
my experience with pears, already mentioned. Wherever 
a plant is difficult to grow and adapt to any particular 
soil, then grow it yourself from seed. It is a slow process, 
but is best in the end. 

The sand cliffs along this Suffolk shore, the feet of 
which the sea is always licking, and at high tides gradually 
undermining and carrying away, have to be most skilfully 
preserved in both the gardens I know best. The fight 
with the powerful element seems a continual excitement 
to the owners, but to others it appears as a pathetic 
struggle against an irresistible foe which is known to be 
slowly devouring England both on the East and West 
coasts. 

One of the most interesting growths on these garden 
terraces, clothing all the artificial rockwork in the most 



332 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

perfect way, is due to various perennial and annual 
mesembryanthemums, which bravely withstand the cold 
and cutting winds. Nothing suits them so well as sand 
and gravel, and they luxuriate and blaze in the sunshine 
and pure air. The large lilac-flowered M. Pomeridianum 
revels in the driest pocket and falls for yards like mer- 
maid's hair over the hot bare surfaces. 

All Cape and Japanese plants can be played with in 
these gardens where the myrtle and fuchsia flower 
abundantly every year. The Cape annuals, Octotis 
grandis and the orange venidium, also do gloriously, but 
even here the beautiful belladonna lily will not do 
against an ordinary south wall. It must be against a 
greenhouse wall where it gets a little heat from the 
inside pipes, or it comes into bloom too late. In one of 
these gardens where it is well established and never 
interfered with, it blooms from August to October in a 
right royal manner, with richer pink blooms and browner, 
stronger stems than I have seen inland. All the genis- 
tas, from least to largest, do splendidly if cut back after 
flowering. 

I complained to one of my friend's clever gardeners 
that my pears would go quickly in the middle. He said 
he thought the cure for that was very early picking. 
They have a tendency in hot soils to ripen first in the 
middle. I long ago discovered how desirable it was to 
pick medlars while still hard and let them ripen in the 
fruit house. 

In an old Suffolk rectory garden, once the property 
of the monks, I heard of a fruit wall with this peculiarity : 
small cupboard-like recesses were built into the wall 
between the fruit-trees and cleanly finished with stone 
slabs, and in these the peaches, nectarines, and apricots 
were placed on being picked to ripen in the sun, and yet 
not be exposed as on the tree to rain, flies, wasps, &c. 



OCTOBER 333 

The entrance to the recess was closed temporarily after 
the fruit was in by a curtain of muslin or a piece of 
glass. I have never seen a fruit wall built on these 
lines, but I expect those old monks knew what they were 
about, and easily brought to their table each day such fruit 
as was ripe and ready. 

My Suffolk friends have taken to constructing strong 
wind-resisting Pergolas. In one garden the piers are made 
of rough stones with strong iron girders sunk into cement 
at the top, and they run from north to south, which seems 
to me the best aspect, as in that way the roots on one 
side are in perfect shade, or in full sun according to the 
requirements of the creepers. The other Pergola runs 
east and west, and the columns are built of brick, while 
the top is made out of the curved beams of the sides of 
wrecked vessels thrown up on the beach. What a calm 
sylvan home for the poor storm-tossed beams to come 
to in their old age ! Another Pergola I saw this year 
entirely made of young larch saplings was very pretty, 
though less substantial than the two I have mentioned. 
Alternating with three poles bound together and three 
across the top, there carne a single pole and a single one 
across the top, a far prettier arrangement and more 
substantial looking than when the poles are all single. On 
a flat piece of ground it would be an improvement to sink 
the walk and have raised stonework on each side, slightly 
after the manner of the Amain Pergola referred to in April. 

I think the small-flowered hardy clematises are not 
nearly enough grown on Pergolas, and they are so light in 
their growth that they hardly injure roses or anything else 
they climb on. I mean such kinds as C. paniculata, which 
is even later flowering than C. Flammiila ; but in Jackman's 
catalogue they are all so well classified and described that 
there is no difficulty in ordering what is wanted. The 
new hybrid types raised from C. coccinea are very pretty, 



334 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but expensive. I am very fond of two herbaceous cle- 
matises called C. erecta and C. maritima. C. Davidiana 
and C. carulea, too, are beautiful plants well grown. 
They do not like a dry place. None of these are climbers. 
The hardy yellow C. graveolens does well in these sunny, 
wind-swept gardens. It goes on flowering for months, 
the blossoms lasting long after the early ones have 
formed their pretty fluffy seed-tufts. 

In gardens where enlargements are constantly being 
made, it always surprises me to see how much repetition 
goes on. The new beds are generally filled with plants 
that are already flourishing in other parts of the garden. 
I think, if I had a large garden, I would try to keep plants 
apart, and a new bit of ground or a sheltered corner should 
be entirely devoted to new kinds that were not in any 
other part of the ground, or to plants which had failed 
elsewhere. It is so rare in English gardens to find any 
distinctive planting or originality, and I think it must be 
partly due to idleness and laziness, for I can never take 
up any gardening book without seeing thousands of things 
which I still lack. 

October 12th. I see advertised to-day a book on 
' Trees and Shrubsj' part of the ' Country Life Library,' 
by Mr. Cook, editor of the ' Garden.' I am impatient to 
see this book, as it is. one I have been waiting for for years. 
Up to now, there has been no really good one that I know 
of, except the rare old ' Arboretum ' of Loudon. I hope this 
book may supply a very real want, for, as I have repeatedly 
said, the ignorance about the pruning of trees and shrubs 
is very great. It is one of the most important parts of 
good gardening, whether practised in the tiny square of 
ground at the back of a suburban villa containing only 
two or three shrubs, or in the largest pleasure grounds of 
the United Kingdom, and yet bad pruning does more 
harm than none at all. 



OCTOBER 335 

While correcting my proofs this book has appeared, 
and I am sure will be a disappointment to no one ; it 
supplies a great want, and no garden library can afford to 
be without it. The photographs are many of them 
beautiful. Photography seems to suit the reproducing of 
trees and shrubs as well as it seems to me to do badly 
for roses either growing or as cut blooms. The book is 
suited to gardens and woods of all sizes, and touches on 
all the varieties of methods and growths for which various 
plants are suitable. The word ' English ' of course 
stands for the British Isles. Towards the end of the 
book there are admirable annotated lists, divided into 
columns under the following heads : Name Country or 
Origin and Natural Order Colour and Season General 
Eemarks. Another list gives hardy trees and shrubs for 
beauty of foliage and growth. With a careful study of 
this work no one can go wrong or leave out of his planting 
any desirable or beautiful shrub. The tender shrubs 
that only flourish in the south or west have a chapter 
to themselves. In spite, however, of its great merit and 
general usefulness, the book can in no sense compare with 
J. C. London's wonderful ' Arboretum ' which is almost a 
unique example of labour and industry in garden literature. 
While engaged on this work, which took him years and 
caused him to die heavily in debt, Loudon was in the 
habit of visiting all the large places in England, and on 
one occasion wrote to the Duke of Wellington asking for 
leave to inspect his beeches. The duke answered very 
stiffly in the third person to Bloomfield, Bishop of 
London, forwarding a pair of breeches to London house 
for the Bishop's inspection, having mis-read Mr. London's 
wish to see the beautiful beeches at Strathfieldsaye, as 
a request from the Bishop of London to see the breeches 
he had worn at Waterloo ! 

Even in the last ten years, the marvellous increase in 



336 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the beauty of seaside gardens makes one realise the power 
of man over plant life. This ought to be a great en- 
couragement to everybody in all parts of the world. Give 
plants more or less what they require, and you are sure 
to be amply repaid. 

Crabbe, who lived in Suffolk, and whose botanical 
observations, as Anne Pratt said in a book I had as a 
child, ' had led him to mark the inferiority of the vegetable 
kingdom in the neighbourhood of the sea,' gives the follow- 
ing melancholy picture of the plants of a small town on 
the coast : 

Where thrift and lavender and lad's-love bloom, 
There fed, by food they love, to rankest size, 
Around the dwellings docks and wormwood rise. 
Here the strong mallow strikes her slimy root ; 
Here the dull nightshade hangs her deadly fruit ; 
On hills of dust, the henbane's faded green 
And pencill'd flower of sickly scent, is seen ; 
At the wall's base the fiery nettle springs, 
With fruit globose and fierce with poisoned stings ; 
Above (the growth of many a year) is spread 
The yellow level of the stonecrop's bed ; 
In every chink delights the fern to grow, 
With glossy leaf, and tawny bloom below : 
These with our seaweeds, rolling up and down, 
Form the contracted flora of our town. 

This year an old local book has lately been published, 
with notes by Lord Francis Hervey. It is called ' Suffolk 
in the XVII. Century : the Breviary of Eobert Bryce, 
1618,' now published for the first time from a manuscript 
in the British Museum. One sentence in his agricultural 
descriptions naturally struck my eye. He says, * As for 
the goat hee is a stranger with us, hee likes not our fat 
fertile soil, hee comes from our Western parts, where hee 
delights in the hungry feed amongst the sharp rockes, and 
steep mountains, he is very seldome with us unless some 



OCTOBER 337 

for raritie and pleasure doe entertaine them, or for phi- 
sick's several uses doe maintaine and breed them.' 

I think perhaps few of the crowds of tourists who go 
to Suffolk in summer know the two excellent little old 
books descriptive of the East Coast, which Cassell & Co. 
have republished in their ' National Library ' for the 
modest price of 3d. One is called ' Travels in England 
during the reign of Queen Elizabeth/ by Paul Hentzner ; 
the other is a 'Tour through the Eastern Counties of 
England,' 1722, by Daniel Defoe. Defoe describes how 
in those days the poor turkeys were driven to London by 
the road ' in droves from three hundred to a thousand.' 
I think their legs must have grown harder and their fat 
less in the process. Of Ipswich he says what might be 
said to-day, ' An airy, clean, and well-governed town, a 
very agreeable and improving company almost of every 
kind. A wonderful plenty of all manner of provisions, 
whether flesh or fish, and very good of the kind.' He 
mentions the decline in the shipping trade even in his 
day. He only casually notices Harwich, from which place 
he sent round his horses and took a boat 'up the river 
Orwell to Ipswich. He mentions that the late Dutch wars 
injured the coal trade. The modern grumble is that the 
harbour is silting up, that there is no money for dredging, 
and that the fish are killed by the sewage of Ipswich, and 
that the river is being choked by a luxuriant weed that 
grows in the sewage. The future man, who invents some- 
thing that solves the sewage question, wet or dry, will 
indeed be a benefactor to human kind. 

I came across an old book last year which I have tried 
to get everywhere and have failed. It is called ' Theory 
and Practice of Landscape Gardening,' by H. Bepton, 
London, 1805. The idea of the illustrations and teaching of 
this book could be adopted by anyone wishing to improve 
a large and woody place. What the author did was this : 



338 A THIRD POTPOURRI 

He drew a faithful sketch of the landscape as it was, with 
every tree and shrub and undulation marked. You lift 
up this drawing, and he shows you how he proposes to 
alter it and how it will look when done. In some cases 
he merely opens out the view by cutting down the trees, 
in others he throws up the ground on one side and lowers it 
on another, so showing up a valley which had been hidden 
before. In another case he dams up a stream and turns 
two or three swampy fields into a large lake. The whole 
book, though old-fashioned and hardly to our modern 
taste, is full of suggestive ideas. It is a pity it is so scarce. 
The non -illustrated edition is useless, and one must get 
the first edition of 1805. 

While staying away from home the other day, a kind 
fellow-guest wrote me out the two following stories, which 
made us laugh, and which I at least had never heard 
before. 

At a rent-audit dinner, the squire noticed that a new 
tenant of his, sitting in the place of honour on his right 
hand, was taking nothing to drink, so he said, 'Well, 
Johnson, this won't do, you are drinking nothing/ &c. 
Johnson replied, ' No, squire ; I never drinks nothing with 
my meals.' ' How's that ? ' said the squire, ' are you a 
teetotaller, or suffering from rheumatism or anything, and 
acting under doctor's orders ? ' ' No, squire, t'aint that. 
It's this way : if you take a bucket full of watter you 
can't get no taters into it, but if you puts the taters in 
fust it's wonnerful what a lot of watter you can get in 
afterwards.' 

A philanthropic old lady in Exeter, very keen on the 
drink question, got hold of a very bibulous old sailor 
whom everyone had given up as a bad job. He had lost 
a leg and one eye, and used to do odd jobs about the 
market place. He told the old lady that, if he could once 
get a fair start on his own account, he would try to 



OCTOBER 339 

reform, many of the jobs he now did being paid for in 
drink. The old lady, after much thought, purchased for 
him a tray to hang round his neck with a broad strap and 
a supply of nice gingerbread, and she taught him the 
following sentence to repeat at intervals : 

' Will any good kind Christian 
Buy some fine spicey gingerbread 
Off a poor afflicted old man ? ' 

When he had sold a shillingsworth, he congratulated 
himself on his strength of abstinence, and thought he 
would treat resolution to just one half-pint. This, need- 
less to say, led to two or three more, and when he resumed 
his station on the pavement his cry became a little 
mixed, and in a loud voice he appealed to passers-by 
with: 

' Will any poor afflicted Christian 

Buy some good kind gingerbread 

Off a fine spicey old man ? ' 

Trade became very good, and he again treated resolution, 
with the result that his cry became : 

' Will any fine spicey Christian 
Buy some poor afflicted gingerbread 
Off a good kind old man ? ' 

In return, I told him the following : ' I am told that 
in the Bankruptcy Court the bankrupt is always asked by 
the Judge if he can give any reason for his failure. A 
young man who was being thus examined promptly 
answered, " Oh, yes, quite easily ; fast women and slow 
horses." I did not know him, but I heard with regret 
that this poor witty young fellow died in the war in South 
Africa.' 

The fashion of everyone discussing health his own 

z2 



340 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

or others' is so common a one now that the taste some- 
times assumes extraordinary developments, and I have 
been told that, two or three years ago in Paris, cinemato- 
graphs of hospital operations were the fashionable diversion 
at evening parties. A check was given to this kind of 
entertainment by one of the guests fainting on recognising 
a friend on the operating table. How history repeats 
itself ! In Ten Brink's latest book on the French Re- 
volution, he gives a graphic account of Paris dinner- 
tables decorated with toy models of the newly invented 
guillotine, a doll filled with red scent representing the 
victim, and ladies dipping their handkerchiefs in the 
sham blood which spurted out as the head fell into 
the basket. 

To wind up with something more human, I give the 
following letter from Major A. C. Hamilton, 6th Dragoon 
Guards, to his mother, who kindly sent it to the press : 
' Barberton, September 26. I have a little moral story 
which you can publish in a paper if you like with names. 
I dined with Van de Post, whom we took here. He was a 
Free State commandant and Speaker of the Volksraad. He 
told me after the engagement at Eamah he found a soldier 
who had been out all night bleeding to death and nearly 
dead. His doctor said, "It is useless to do anything for 
him," and suggested amputating both legs. Van de Post 
looked in his pocket and found a letter from his mother 
to this effect : " Dear George, I am so anxious about 
you in this terrible war, but I hope you will be always 
merciful to the wounded and respect women, and cause 
as little pain to others as you can, for Christ's sake. Your 
Mother." He was so touched he wired for his carriage 
and the best doctor, sent the man to his own farm, which 
was near, and he quite recovered. His name was George 
Cowan, Mounted Infantry. It would be nice if his mother 
knew this/ 



OCTOBER 341 

In the ' Spectator ' of October 18, 1902, there was a 
review of ' Ballads of the Boer War ; selected from the 
Haversack of Serjeant J. Smith, by " Coldstreamer." ' 
The article was so sympathetic and appreciative that I 
instantly sent for the book. Although I agree with the 
' Spectator's ' praise, I must say I think that many of the 
poems are better than those selected by the reviewer. 
The one which shows a real imaginative power of a 
certain kind deals with a very difficult subject, I should 
have thought ' The Queen's Chocolate.' It is too long 
to quote entirely, but these verses, taken without the 
beginning and the end, explain themselves : 

I never 'ad no truck with gals ; 

Soft, stuck-up things, they seems to me 
An' though I'd h'often see my pals 

A-settin' of 'em on their knee, 
It ain't a thing H'l ever done, 
Cos why ? I didn't see the fun. 

Them gals was nice enough, no doubt, 

I ain't a-contradictin' it ; 
I see'd young fellers walking out 

When I was polishin' my kit, 
An' each 'is bit o' chintz 'ad got ; 
Well, they was welcome to the lot ! 

And, h'as I'm talking, H'l can say, 
Tho' p'raps it sounds a funny thing, 

No woman to this blooming day 
'As give me e'er a brooch or ring ; 

No trunkets, nor the like o' that, 

Nor yet no ribbon from 'er 'at. 

An' h'only one, as I recall, 

In all these weary months o' war, 
'As sent me h'anythink at all, 

(An' she wont never send no more ; ) 
Ah J what was that, an' 'oo was she ? 
I'll tell you if you'll 'ark to me. 



342 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The Queen was driving h'out one day, 
And, 'appening to pass a shop, 

She calls the drive of 'er shay, 
1 'Ere John,' sez she, ' 'ere coachman, stop ! 

You wait a while outside for me, 

H'l wants to buy some sweets,' sez she. 

The shopman, knowin' who she were, 
'Urries respeckful to the door ; 

' I've thought,' sez she, a-smiling there, 
' As 'ow my soldiers at the war 

Would like a suck o' chocolit, 

So I come in to h'order it ! ' 

' Just send a million boxes round,' 

Sez she, an' quick she writes a cheque 

' I'll pay at once, ten thousand pound, 
You'll find the signature correck ; 

That's it, Victo-ri-a, Har. L, 

Take care, the h'ink is 'ardly dry.' 

Then h'out she goes, an' drives away, 
Without the slightest sort o' fuss ; 

The boxes they comes round next day, 
An' h'off she sends 'em out to h'us ; 

An' that was 'ow I got a bit 

0' Queen Victoria's chocolit. 

The h'only present, fust an' last, 

As any woman sent to me 
In h'all them weary years as passed 

Since first we sailed acrost the sea ; 
I've never 'ad no gifts before, 
An' so I prizes it the more. 

An' 'ere's my box, as good as new ; 

I 'aven't touched the chocolit, 
Nor yet I ain't a-goin' to do, 

'Cos why ? Because I values it. 
You'd like to buy it, eh ? Good Lor 
Wot sort o' cove d'you take me for ? 



OCTOBER 343 

Suppose a gal, some New Year's Day, 

Sent off a box o' sweets to you ; 
Would you go off an' sell it, eh ? 

Is that the sort o' thing you'd, do ? 
Wot would 'er Gracious think of it, 
If I should sell 'er chocolit ? 

' She'd never know ! ' sez you ? May-be ! 

(Gawd rest 'er soul ! ) Per'aps you're right. 
But still I likes to think as she 

Is watching 'ow 'er soldiers fight, 
An' smiling somewheres in the sky 
A-seeing 'ow 'er soldiers die ! 

But, h'if she knows or h'if she don't, 

This blooming chocolit is mine ; 
D'you 'ear ? An' part with it I won't, 

So there ! for all you talk so fine. 
I wouldn't sell it now, you swab, 
For fifty, let alone ten bob ! 

Two pounds, sez you ? You'll make it three ? 

Well you're a gentleman, H'I'm sure ! 
Don't push your blooming coins on me ! 

You thinks to tempt me 'cos I'm poor ? 
I may be so ; h'it ain't denied ; 
But still I 'as my proper pride. 

No use a-h'arsking me to sell, 

I'd feel a villain if I did 
(So you an' yours can go to 'ell !) 

I wouldn't, not for twenty quid. 
Take back your money, h'every bit ! 
I'm richer, with my chocolit ! 

October %Qth. Cultivating to perfection some of the 
wild flowers of our own country is, I think, a delightful 
thing to do, at least I do it with several plants, such as 
the blue Geranium armenum, one of the handsomest of 
our wild flowers and worthy of both a good place and a 
bad in every garden. The difference in situation will 
make a fortnight's interval in its flowering, for it grows 
both in shade and sun. The wild vellow toadflax 



344 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

(Linaria Cymbalaria) grows poorly in our hedges about 
here, but it always has a place in my garden and flourishes 
exceedingly from July to November. I grow, too, both the 
willow herbs (Epilobium angustifolium.) The pink one is 
rather a weed, but the white variety (called French because 
it is not a wild English plant) is more restrained in its 
growth, and groups charmingly with the blue geranium. 

The orange hawkweed and the little pale yellow one 
I consider both worthy of the garden. I have not many 
varieties of ferns as the dryness is unsuited to them, but 
of the Welsh Polypody (Polypodium cambricum) I take 
some care as its best time is late autumn when all others 
have turned yellow. 

I have derived immense pleasure from the branching 
larkspurs, the seed of which I brought back from Florence 
two or three years ago. I noticed there that it grew all 
over the place like a weed, as my oenotheras do here. 
The seed I brought home has grown most satisfactorily, 
and I always save my own seed now. It is certainly 
slightly different from any that I can buy in England, 
which seems more cultivated and inclined to be double, 
causing it to grow a little less freely. In a number of 
the ' Spectator ' some time ago, I saw a letter, to me 
very interesting, by Mr. H. B. Cotterill, from Switzerland. 
I venture to think that those of my readers who did not 
notice it in the ' Spectator ' will be glad to see it : 
' Sir, In an edition of Milton's " Lycidas," lately pub- 
lished by Messrs. Blackie, I gave what I consider to be 
rather strong grounds for believing the " flower inscribed 
with woe " (i.e., the ancient vaKivOos) to be the larkspur 
(Delphinium Ajacis). Correspondents inform me that 
they have examined larkspurs growing in English gardens 
and have been disappointed by not discovering the 
" A.I.A.I." marks. Perhaps you will kindly allow me to 
suggest that possibly the larkspur examined by them was 



OCTOBER 345 

some cultivated variety of the Consolida, which grows 
wild in these parts, and on which I myself have also 
failed to find the marks in question. Or possibly there 
may be English varieties of the Ajacis which do not 
possess these marks. I can only say that the larkspur 
commonly to be found in Swiss gardens is the Delphi- 
nium Ajacis (a native of Southern Europe, said to be found 
sometimes "escaped " in England), and that I have never 
failed to discover the " A.I.A.I. " or " I.A.I." on its petal. 
I am, Sir, &c., H. B. Cotterill, Clarens, Switzerland.' 

On reading this letter, I rushed out into my garden 
to see whether I could find the markings on my flowers. 
On the petals of the blue variety, the descendant of the 
Italian seed, I found the white letters ' A.I.A.I.' the cry 
of lamentation in the pagan world quite plainly marked. 
In the cultivated, or double kinds, raised from seed 
bought in England, all trace of them had disappeared. 
I also grow the red valerian. Its old cottage name was 
' Pretty Betty,' and Chaucer calls it ' Swete-wall.' It 
grows in all sorts of places about the garden. It is one 
of those kinds of plants that like dryness and poor soil, 
but as much sun and air as they can get. It is, I believe, 
quite rare to find it wild in England. I never tire of 
varieties of wallflowers (Cheiranthus), and this year 
Mr. Thompson, of Ipswich from whom, as I said before, 
I get all my uncommon and non -nurseryman's seeds 
had a long list of these plants in his catalogue. One 
which he called ' Dresden ' is very like the wild wall- 
flowers found on old buildings. It began to bloom here 
early in October and so gives a cheerful promise of spring 
before winter begins. Anne Pratt, in one of her early 
books, says it was regarded by the Troubadours as the 
emblem of faithfulness in adversity because it smiles 
upon the ruin. In Saintine's ' Picciola,' that character- 
making book which I so loved in my childhood, the real 



346 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

heroine is a wild wallflower. It is a pleasure to me to 
find that, in my old age, the books that I loved most 
between fourteen and eighteen I enjoy now with a 
renewed freshness. Second childhood I suppose. How- 
ever, ' Picciola ' the ' new book ' when I got it in 1851 
has become, I believe, a schoolroom classic for girls 
learning French. How much worldly wisdom is taught 
from that description of a political prisoner's life ! In my 
enthusiastic youth I thought that imprisonment for a 
righteous cause for liberty, for the good of the people 
would not have been hard to bear, especially if consoled 
by one fragile little plant. In those days how little I 
knew what imprisonment meant ! A man who has him- 
self experienced it, for what he considered a righteous 
cause, refers to it thus : ' Liberty ! Who that has not 
himself been once imprisoned can appreciate what this 
means ? Who that has not had to look forward with aching 
heart and longing soul for days, months, years, to the time 
when he would once again find himself unfettered, free 
to talk to his fellow-man at liberty to exercise the rights 
of his nature's manhood, undeterred by prison rules or 
the threat of warders' reports, can realise what that 
heaven-born word implies ? I was liberated once 
unexpectedly set free, after seven and a half years of 
close imprisonment, and I am almost inclined to say that 
the punishment involved in a penal servitude of that 
duration would be worth enduring again to enjoy the 
wild, ecstatic, soul-filling happiness of the first day of 
freedom. . . . Everything which meets the gaze of the 
liberated prisoner, every thought of the present and the 
future assumes a brighter hue and wears a more blissful 
meaning from the terrible recollection of the felon 
degradation, the narrow cell, the stinted sunlight, the 
loathsome daily task, the brutal warder, and the weary, 
heart-longing expectancy for the hour of deliverance.' 



OCTOBER 147 

This quotation is from a book published by Mr. 
Michael Davifet, called 'Leaves from a Prison Diary,' 
when he returned to the world after his long confine- 
ment. 

There is another well-known testimony to the suffer- 
ings of prison life in a volume of poems written by Mr. 
Wilfred Blunt called ' In Vinculis.' He says in his pre- 
face that these sixteen sonnets were written when actually 
in prison, and he adds : ' They record an episode in the 
writer's life to which, in spite of many austerities and 
some real suffering, he cannot look back otherwise than 
with affection. Imprisonment is a reality of discipline 
most useful to the modern soul, lapped as it is in physical 
sloth and self-indulgence. Like a sickness or a spiritual 
retreat, it purifies and ennobles ; and the soul emerges 
from it stronger and more self-contained. Alas, that these 
influences should so soon lose their power! And yet, 
fall as we may from the higher level, they do not wholly 
perish, but remain for us a wholesome recollection and a 
standard of all that we can imagine best for this life and 
another.' 

To return to my plants. Playing experiments with 
the sowing of flower-seeds is not entirely without danger. 
This year, instead of ordering the handsome, often-grown 
Helichrysum bracteatwn incurvum, I thought I would 
order H. Gnaphalium, in spite of the warning of 'fatidum ' 
added to its name in the catalogue. Words fail me to 
describe how the horrible smell of this plant haunted the 
garden for at least six weeks. It was like the most evil 
of he-goats. Once I picked some, and the garden gloves 
had to be burnt, as they scented the whole hall. My other 
experiment was H. setosum, described as ' new and from 
the Transvaal ' ; described, too, as a half-hardy perennial 
instead of an annual. It is rather a nice little everlasting 
with a pretty growth. 



348 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The pretty maidenhair tree its Japanese name is 
Ginkgo grows well in any strong soil in the south of 
England. In Northamptonshire, I saw it grown like an 
old pear-tree on a west wall and, as it had been a good 
deal pruned back, the leaves were large and handsome. 
They turn such a beautiful, clear yellow in autumn, that 
it seemed to me a plant to be recommended for wall 
covering. 

Saxifraga Fortunei is a plant seldom seen. It is per- 
fectly hardy, but, as it does not flower till the end of 
October or November, the delicate plumes of blossom are 
injured by cold rains or frost. The way I grow it is in 
pots sunk outside in shade all the summer and well 
watered. As the buds form they are brought into the 
room or greenhouse. I think few orchids are as pretty, 
or repay one so well for so little care. 

The beautiful Galifornian Delphinium cardwiale I find 
very difficult to grow. I have not before named as a stove 
flower for November and December the pink plumbago. 
Like the half-hardy blue one, it lives well in water if floated. 

October 23rd. I have not much increased my little 
collection of orchids, though I have propagated those I 
had. At this time of year the cypripediums are invalu- 
able. Stuck into a small Japanese wedge with a few red 
leaves of the azalea, they form a perfect autumn bouquet, 
and when all Nature is fading away their persistency and 
unfadingness have a peculiar charm. I can add to my list 
Lycaste gigantea: it is in full flower now, and is very 
ornamental in its pot with three long ribbed leaves grace- 
fully curved, and at their foot a bunch of seven or eight 
unusually shaped pale yellow green flowers. This forms 
a naturally growing Japanese combination. I repeat 
what I said before, everybody who has a small stove ought 
to insist on growing a certain number of these easier 
orchids. 



OCTOBER 349 

October %lth. In a letter to-day from my German 
friend there are two gardening paragraphs, one a great 
example of how we sow and our descendants reap, and 
the other a practical experience which may be useful to 
anyone. ' I must tell you how I went to visit a friend 
half-way between Darmstadt and Heidelberg in the Oden- 
wald. She took me a drive into her hills and woods and 
showed me a whole hillside (north-east) very sheltered 
and entirely planted with wellingtonias, Abies macro- 
carpa, and enormous Thuyas and Thuya Globosas, simply 
lovely and quite unique, I should say, in this part of 
Europe. The wellingtonias that are so hideous as single 
specimens on a lawn were grand in a big mass, and so 
healthy, not one yellow twig so picturesque, like huge 
bluish feathers. And think of the variety it made to have 
that hillside of blue in the midst of the black Tannen- 
baums and the golden oaks and beeches in their autumn 
robes ! It was all planted sixty or seventy years ago by 
my friend's father-in-law, Count Berkheim, who was a 
Frenchman, the Berkheims being the oldest feudal family 
of Alsace, and though this one branch is now German, 
they considered themselves French, and talked French in 
the last generation.' 

Her next subject is chrysanthemums. She says : 
1 Another thing I have quite made up my mind about is 
that the summer and autumn culture of amateur-grown 
chrysanthemums, as I have seen it practised in nineteen 
out of twenty gardens in England, is not so good as ours. 
Now October 25th I have not one yellow, diseased, or 
missing leaf on any single one of my 150 plants. I am 
sure it is entirely due to the plan of sinking the pots well 
and deep into a heavy wet soil, and especially giving them 
only half as much stimulant all the summer, and hardly 
any artificial manure at all ; plenty of hoof -parings and 
bone-dust in the soil at each re-potting, and always a little 



350 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

very-much-diluted liquid manure from a sink-tauk where 
there is plenty of cabbage water. I must tell you that the 
director of the celebrated Palmen Garten, the German 
Kew, came the other day and said he had never seen finer 
plants than ours anywhere, and only wished his were a 
patch on them. I only tell you this because I have always 
felt sorry to see chrysanthemums diseased, and the plants 
so straggling and empty of leaves in most English private 
gardens, for, after all, from October till the new year they 
are the staple material for one's indoor decoration, are 
they not ? ' 

There is a good deal of truth in my friend's remarks, 
and there has been much chrysanthemum disease about 
in England in the last four or five years. I have tried 
sinking the pots, even in this light soil, with great 
benefit. The wet summer has also helped; but I am 
quite sure that the tendency to overfeed cattle, plants, 
and land is one of the dangers in England at this 
moment. 

The cultivation of chrysanthemums is a bother, but at 
the same time we cannot do without them, and I suppose 
as long as gardens last we all shall feel more or less what 
is charmingly told in the following poem from the 
' Westminster Gazette ' : 



CHR YSANTHEMUMS 

We spring from the earth at the winter's birth 

When the ground is bare, 
And we reign supreme, like a passing dream, 

Till the world is fair. 

We brave the gale, and the rain and hail, 

Afraid of none ! 
While our petals blaze like the golden rays 

Of the setting sun. 



OCTOBER 351 

From bronze we shade, and to pink we fade, 

As the rosy morn ; 
And our lips are kissed by the dewy mist 

Of the early dawn. 

To mauve we turn and to crimson burn 

Then fiercer glow. 
But our souls delight in our petals white 

As the driven snow. 

Some of the critics of my other books twitted me with 
my admiration of Mr. John Morley, but that admiration 
has been even heightened by his consistent and dignified 
attitude in political life during the last three years. The 
few people whom I have seen during the present week 
had, I found, entirely missed the letter in which he 
announced his magnificent gift to Cambridge ; and if this 
can happen within sixteen miles of London, I feel it may 
the more easily occur to those abroad, or ill, or temporarily 
debarred from seeing the daily papers. These may be 
grateful to me for giving the full text of the letter here, 
for is it possible to express generosity more graciously 
and interestingly than in these words, which, apart from 
all else, are a model of noble English prose ? 

57 Elm Park Gardens : October 20, 1902. 

MY DEAR DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE, You may have 
heard some months ago that what I hope will be known 
as the Acton Library passed, by the signal regard of a 
friend, into my hands. 

For some time I played with the fancy of retaining 
it for my own use and delectation. But I am not covetous 
of splendid possessions ; life is very short ; and such a 
collection is fitter for a public and undying institution 
than for any private individual. After due inquiry and 
deliberation, and with the possible reservation of an in- 
considerable portion of quite secondary importance, I 



352 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

have decided respectfully to ask the University of Cam- 
bridge, in which you hold the high office of Chancellor, 
to do me the favour of accepting this gift from me. 

The library has none of the treasures that are the 
glory of Chatsworth. Nor is it one of those noble and 
miscellaneous accumulations that have been gathered by 
the chances of time and taste in colleges and other places 
of old foundation. It was collected by Lord Acton to be 
the material for a history of Liberty, the emancipation of 
Conscience from power, and the gradual substitution of 
Freedom for Force in the government of men. That 
guiding object gives to these sixty or seventy thousand 
volumes a unity that I would fain preserve by placing 
them where they can be kept intact and in some degree 
apart. I am led to believe that at Cambridge this desire 
of mine could be complied with. There is no other con- 
dition that I wish to impose. 

In this way, I believe, Cambridge will have the most 
appropriate monument of a man whom, though she thrice 
refused him as a learner, she afterwards welcomed as a 
teacher one of the most remarkable men of our time, 
extraordinary in his acquisitions, extraordinary in the 
depth and compass of his mind. The books will, in the 
opinion of scholars more competent to judge than I, be a 
valuable instrument of knowledge ; but that is hardly all. 
The very sight of this vast and ordered array in all de- 
partments, tongues, and times, of the history of civilised 
governments, the growth of faiths and institutions, the 
fluctuating movements of human thought, all the 
struggles of churches and creeds, the diverse types of 
great civil and ecclesiastical governors, the diverse ideals 
of States all this will be to the ardent scholar a power- 
ful stimulus to thought. And it was Acton himself who 
said that the gifts of historical thinking are better than 
historical learning. His books are sure to inspire both, 



OCTOBER 353 

for, multitudinous though they be, they concentrate the 
cardinal problems of modern history. 

I need not say that it will be a lasting pride and 
privilege to me that my name should, even for a tran- 
sitory moment, be associated in the mind of the Univer- 
sity with the establishment of the Acton Library within 
the precincts of a home so famous. 

Believe me to remain, yours sincerely, 

JOHN MOBLEY. 

October 2Qth. Weekly, now, the troops are coming 
home, and one wonders how they will settle down to the 
tame life here after all they have seen, and felt, and done 
in South Africa. Not the least regrettable influence of 
war is that it is such a bad preparation for peace. Even 
with young officers, the same thing applies. One has 
to remember that the very natures which do best for 
war wild, reckless, gallant fellows whose parents were 
glad and proud that they should volunteer to go out, are 
the very ones to be a considerable puzzle, both to them- 
selves and to their parents, on their return. The world 
has grown so wise and practical lately, one is apt to 
forget that the old-fashioned parents still exist who glory 
in imperialism, blood and thunder, &c., and who may be 
singularly blind with regard to the consequences of war 
as an effect on character. I can quite imagine a young 
gentleman, who joined the Volunteers or Yeomanry to go 
to South Africa, being a sore trial, on his return, to the 
said type of father who would probably scold and stop 
supplies. If, by misfortune, the mother were of another 
old-fashioned type, who with tears in her eyes would pelt 
him with texts, both parents might easily send him flying 
down-hill via music-halls, racecourses, and pawnshops. 

The ethics of war trouble the hearts of so many 
mothers that I must speak of a great book which has 

A A 



354 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

only just come to my knowledge, and which remains 
unknown to many people of the West in spite of the fact 
that it is one of the bibles of the world. It can hardly be 
without interest to a fighting nation that one of the most 
enlightening and inspiring books of the world's literature 
should have been given to a soldier as he stood irresolute 
on the battlefield, palsied in heart by feeling, ' Better 
in this world to eat even the beggar's bread, without 
slaying . . . than by slaughtering ... to enjoy on this 
earth alone blood-stained pleasures, lusted after by those 
desiring possessions.' 

To him the Teacher says : ' Thy business is with the 
action only, never with its fruits ; so let not the fruit of 
action be thy motive, nor be thou to inaction attached. 
. . . Surrendering all actions to Me, with thy thoughts 
(resting) on the Supreme Self, from hope and egoism 
freed, and of mental fever cured, engage in battle. . . . 

' Taking as equal pleasure and pain, gain and loss, 
victory and defeat, gird thee for the battle; thus thou 
shalt not incur sin. . . . Therefore, without attachment, 
constantly perform action which is duty, for, performing 
action without attachment, man verily reacheth the 
supreme.' 

There are two excellent translations of the ' Bhagavad 
Gita,' one by Annie Besant, to be had for Qd. in paper 
covers, one by Mohini Chatterji, a large volume full of 
most helpful notes, at 10s. 6d. 

After the publication of my second book, I received 
kind letters and even presents from unknown American 
and Canadian readers. One was an especially pretty 
little drawing of Anemone thalictroides, and some books 
and poems gave me great pleasure. I tried to answer 
and send thanks for everything as it came, but my 
personal sorrow and the black shadow of the war may 
have prevented me at the time from remembering all If 



OCTOBER 355 

there was any omission, I feel sure that in the circum- 
stances it will have been forgiven, and not have been put 
down to ingratitude. If I could write verses, I should 
like to have written these which appeared some time ago 
in the ' Westminster Gazette,' for they express what I so 
often feel that however far we are from our friends' ideal 
of us, the higher they think of us the more they help us 
to become something better than we are : 

VALE I 

I am not fair, 

But you have thought me so, 

And with a crown I go 
More rich than Beauty's wear. 

I am not brave, 

But fear has made me so, 

And dread lest I forego 
The honour that you gave. 

I am not wise, 

But you loved wisdom so 

That what I did not know 
I learned it in your eyes. 

I am not true, 

But you have trusted so 

That faithfully I go, 
Lest I be false to you. 

If Heaven I win, 

I can no virtue show 

But that you loved me so. 
Will they not let me hi ? E. C. 



AA2 



356 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR IN THE NORTH 
OF EUROPE IN 1825-26 

(REPRINTED FBOM THE ' COBNHILL MAGAZINE ') 

I FOUND the other day, when looking through some old 
family papers, a journal written by my father-in-law 
during a tour through Denmark, Sweden, and Russia in 
1825-26. 

Charles Earle was born in the last days of the pre- 
ceding century, and was consequently in the flower of 
his youth at the time that he writes this journal. He 
seems to have been a young man of a simple, genial 
nature, and in these pages, written only for his own 
amusement, he continually expresses his gratitude for all 
the kindness he received. He was apparently quite 
unruffled by the discomforts and dangers he went through 
by land and water. He narrates several times with the 
utmost simplicity his hairbreadth escapes from carriage 
accidents. In these days an occasional railway accident 
startles us because of the numbers it affects, but the risks 
that our luxurious parents experienced when travelling in 
their solitary grandeur were far greater than those in- 
curred by any individual in modern travelling. Charles 
Earle had the good fortune to be in St. Petersburg at the 
time of the death of the Emperor Alexander I. and the 
accession of the handsome and interesting Nicholas I., 
who began his reign by weakening the power of Turkey 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 357 

and helping on the independence of the Greeks, but closed 
it with his ambitions crushed by the alliance of France 
and England with the Turks, and died leaving his peace- 
loving successor Alexander II. to sign the treaty dis- 
astrous to Eussia which closed the campaign in the 
Crimea. I have had immensely to curtail the journal, 
only selecting those passages which seem of some general 
interest. The prophecy at the end, in the light of after- 
events, is distinctly remarkable. 

He begins his journal at Hamburg on July 31, 1825, 
with the following words : ' After having trodden for two 
years in the beaten track of European travellers, and 
after having visited most of the countries south of the 
Baltic, my account of which was stolen from me at 
Warsaw, I have determined, in spite of this misfortune, 
to begin another journal of the tour I am on the eve of 
making through the North of Europe.' 

He leaves Hamburg without regret, and apparently 
finds Liibeck much more interesting. He writes several 
pages in the ordinary handbook style, of which one 
remark may be noticed : 

' I was particularly amused by a picture by Holbein, 
called " Death's Dance," which occupies three walls of a 
chapel in one of the principal churches,' &c., &c. Living 
before the critical age, he simply accepts the attribution 
of this picture. Nowadays we know that the ' Dance of 
Death' was one of the favourite subjects of northern 
mediaeval painters ; and the best critics state that there 
is no authentic record of any ' Death's Dance ' by Hol- 
bein, and throw considerable doubt even on the celebrated 
engravings. 

He left Liibeck on a steamer for Copenhagen with his 
Italian travelling companion, Signor Rossi, and says : 
4 On arriving at Copenhagen, I paid my respects to Pro- 
fessor Oirsted, to whom Dr. Young had given me a letter 



358 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

of introduction, and who procured admission for me to the 
fine cabinet of minerals.' 

He constantly mentions visiting museums, and in this 
interest for science there is probably a touch of romance, 
as he was intimately acquainted with Dr. Thomas Young, 
whose wife was the elder sister of the lady whom Charles 
Earle already knew and afterwards married. Thomas 
Young, M.D., was a scientific man of great distinction. 
Among other things, I read that he discovered the law of 
the interference of light, though I know not what that 
means. He also evolved the process of investigation by 
which the received interpretation of hieroglyphics has 
been arrived at. It was he who deciphered the Rosetta 
Stone in the British Museum, and I believe he is recog- 
nised as one of the most ingenious and original philoso- 
phers of his time. 

' They show the tomb of Hamlet in a garden not far 
from the town. A simple stone marks the spot where he 
was supposed to have been buried. On arriving at 
Elsinor we paid a visit to the castle of Cronenburg, a 
fortress commanding the Sound. It is a Gothic struc- 
ture, and from its lofty tower there is a view of which 
travellers are wont to speak in raptures. In order, how- 
ever, to enjoy the prospect, the permission of the Governor 
is necessary ; no easy matter to obtain, as experience 
proved. After passing along corridors innumerable and 
traversing dirty and deserted apartments, we at length 
found the animal in his lair in the inmost recesses of the 
castle. I had seldom seen, and it would be difficult to 
describe, anything in the shape of a civilised being so 
filthy as the said Governor. His uniform, covered with 
the accumulated grease of years and in tatters, contrasted 
with the numerous orders that glittered on his breast. 
' Nein, mein Herr," was the only answer we could obtain 
to our humble request to be allowed to mount the tower 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 359 

to enjoy the view of the Sound. He assured us the 
responsibility was so great that he dared not incur it. At 
length, however, he yielded to our earnest entreaties ; but 
a dirty, slovenly sentry, to whom he gave the order to 
admit us, declared that he had refused. In vain we 
begged he would return and bring the permission we had 
been promised; so our errand was after all a fruitless 
one, and we descended in no good humour from this 
impregnable fortress.' In the midst of drastic reducing 
of the journal I keep this little anecdote of the visit to 
Elsinor as characteristic of the want of civilisation at 
that time. 

' August 22nd. On the way to Carlstadt we had had 
one of our numerous carriage accidents, so were obliged 
to remain a few days in the town for some necessary 
repairs. There being so few resources within the walls, I 
was glad to accept the invitation of some brother sports- 
men to accompany them to a neighbouring island, which 
they said abounded with game. After passing a wretched 
night in a peasant's cottage, walking twelve hours the 
following day, and narrowly escaping from drowning, I 
returned without firing off my gun or exchanging a word 
with my friends, who could speak nothing but Swedish. 
The result of the chase was one hare, which, not being 
able to escape from the island, was hunted down by the 
dogs.' 

My father-in-law remained throughout his life the 
keenest of sportsmen. He shot woodcocks in the snow a 
few days before his death at the age of eighty-two. 

* We spent two or three days at Stockholm. The 
streets are for the most part narrow, badly paved and 
very dirty. No capital I have seen contains so few 
good houses as Stockholm.' 

It is rather amusing to note that a modern tourist, 
writing to me while taking this same northern journey, 



360 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

says, on beholding the quays of St. Petersburg, ' I have 
never seen so fine a bit of town ; the only thing at all 
approaching it is Stockholm.' So great a difference has 
grown up in the last fifty years. 

' Whilst at Stockholm I made the acquaintance of a 
Mr. Lloyd, better known as "the Bear-killer." He had just 
returned from an unsuccessful expedition against the 
Russian bears, who, living under a despotic government, 
are secure from the attacks of the stranger, since no one 
can penetrate into the interior of the country without a 
particular kind of passport. Mr. Lloyd was desirous of 
obtaining a general permission to go where he liked, as in 
Sweden ; but his ideas and those of the Eussian police 
on this subject did not exactly harmonise. Whilst at 
Stockholm he received a letter from the author of a tour 
in Sweden and Lapland, requesting him to pick up as 
many anecdotes as he could for the second edition of his 
work. He showed me his characteristically laconic 
answer : " Dear B., Your work already contains so 
many lies that to add to them is not the wish of yours 
truly." 

1 October 6th. We set sail in a packet for the shores 
of Bussia. Our voyage was a prosperous one upon the 
whole, and we sailed with rapidity to Bomarsund and 
that cluster of islands, the navigation of which is often 
attended with so much danger. These islands are barren 
and for the most part uninhabited. A pole with a red 
flag was the pilot from the hidden rocks, which are so 
numerous as to render sailing through the islands by 
night impossible. We accordingly passed our second 
night under the lee of the shore, and the following 
morning ran into Abo in good time. Being the bearer of 
despatches for our Ambassador at St. Petersburg, I found 
no difficulty in getting the carriage through the Custom 
House. Abo is a dirty, uninviting place, only famous for 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 361 

the treaty signed there between Eussia and Sweden in 
1743. There is no country on the Continent where the 
posts are so well served as in Finland, and, provided you 
have a coachman who understands putting on the harness, 
you never experience a moment's delay. It was our 
intention to have reached Bjorsby the same night, but at 
a wretched village two posts from that town the rain 
descended in torrents. Notwithstanding this, we deter- 
mined to carry our intentions into effect ; but scarcely 
had we left the post when the peasant ran us off the road, 
with the wheels of the carriage in such a position against 
a rock that the least movement from within or without 
would infallibly have overturned it. We fortunately 
succeeded in taking the horses off, and, being guided by a 
light glimmering in a window, we waded through mud 
and water until we arrived at the door of a Finland hut, 
the interior of which baffles all description : those, in fact, 
who have had no experience of these unfrequented 
countries would never believe that Christians could live 
in so swinelike a manner.' 

Apparently things have not much improved, as my 
modern tourist before referred to gives the following 
description of a hut he arrived at while on a bear-shoot- 
ing expedition in Finland : ' I am writing now in the 
peasant's hut. It consists of one room, of wood, and 
contains the family (ten in number), selves (two), and 
drivers (two). In one corner is the huge stove, in another 
twelve chickens in a cage. There is a table and a bench. 
1 don't mention the other animals, though, I am sorry to 
say, I have already made their acquaintance, and am 
bitten from head to foot. There is a baby in a cradle 
that creaks horribly (the cradle, not the baby) and is 
curiously constructed. The baby is put in a basket hung 
on the end of a long sapling which is attached to the 
rafters. Then somebody crosses his legs and kicks it 



362 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

up with his foot, and the spring in the sapling rocks the 
baby to sleep. I hope there is not a cock among the 
chickens in the corner ! . . . We turned in at 8.30 last 
night, and as there was no room on the floor I spread my 
shouba on the bench, and with my tobacco-pouch as 
pillow was soon asleep. Of course nobody undressed, 
and everybody snored wonderfully; and there was a 
cock in the corner ! ' 

The journal continues : ' The Finlander's habitation 
consists of three houses ; one for the summer, one for the 
winter, and the third for a kitchen. These houses are 
joined together; they are of wood and resemble a 
Swedish cottage. On entering the one in question we 
found a large family assembled in the room, a part of 
whom were in bed, and the others preparing for a wedding 
that was to take place the next day. We in vain en- 
treated them to let us have one of the blackcock then 
roasting for our supper. The good lady of the house, 
however, promised us something to eat, showed us into 
the adjoining room, and lighted a fire. The supper then 
arrived, but, in spite of a faim de loup, I could not touch 
it. The Finland peasant, though small in stature, is well 
made, and, being constantly employed in fishing or hunt- 
ing, is more active than his neighbour the Bussian. Their 
language is peculiar to the country, though many of them 
speak Swedish. They use the Gothic character in writ- 
ing; the sound of the language is indescribably harsh. 
The Finns are still governed by Swedish laws ; there are 
no nobles. In seasons of plenty they eat five times a 
day; yet, from the severity of their climate and the 
sterility of their soil, there are no people so often reduced 
to want. So great, indeed, is the scarcity during long and 
rigorous winters that they are often obliged to mix the 
bark of the fir-tree with their meal. In spite of all these 
disadvantages they are remarkable for their longevity. 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 363 

The circumstance of the necessaries of life being only 
procured by great and constant labour, which con- 
duces so to health, may be the cause of their attaining so 
great an age. The costume of the women is singular 
enough ; they rejoice in immense earrings, usually made 
of glass, as also their necklaces, though the latter are 
often composed of pieces of money strung together. The 
men adopt the dress of the Swedes. Whilst the marriage 
feast was preparing I was in vain endeavouring to sleep 
on the table, awaiting the first ray of light, which we 
agreed should be the signal for our departure. I had not 
the good fortune to see the bride during our short stay 
under her mother's hospitable roof, but before we started 
we heard a bustle which ushered in a day of no small 
importance. A large party was already assembled, and 
their clean and smiling faces proclaimed the occasion no 
common one. The bride in Finland is obliged to present 
each guest with three yards of cloth and a pair of stock- 
ings ; the guest immediately gives their value in money, 
which belongs to the bride. 

' October 16th. As we drew near to St. Petersburg our 
desire to see some part of the celebrated city was pro- 
portionately great ; but, although we took advantage of 
every rising ground, there was nothing to be seen on all 
sides but a plain of boundless extent, little cultivated, 
thinly inhabited, and offering a prospect of which there 
are few examples in the vicinity of a large capital. But 
at length the river with its interminable quays burst on 
our view. On reaching the middle of the Neva I ordered 
the postilion to stop, that we might contemplate this mag- 
nificent city. Nothing I have as yet seen can compare 
with the coup d'ail this spot presents. Every object that 
the eye ranges over is grand ; the noble river confined in 
its bed of granite, the quays lined with sumptuous palaces 
and extending further than the eye can reach, the 



364 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Admiralty with its gilt steeple in fact, everything we 
beheld was calculated to make a deep impression on the 
mind.' 

Want of space prevents my giving his further de- 
scriptions of St. Petersburg, the sights he saw and the 
interesting people he met. I must pass on to his account 
of the revolt which broke out at the accession of 
Nicholas I. 

' On December 9 the melancholy tidings of the death 
of the Emperor reached the capital the news of his 
illness and of his death arrived almost simultaneously. 
Everyone appeared panic-stricken at this distressing 
intelligence, for the Emperor was equally beloved by all 
classes of the community. His fortitude in adversity and 
moderation in prosperity have justly procured for him 
the admiration of the present age, and I only hope his 
example may be followed by the monarchs of succeeding 
ones. 

1 The following morning the troops took the oath of 
allegiance to the Grand Duke Constantino. From this 
time until the courier returned from Warsaw on the 25th 
the public mind was a good deal agitated on the subject 
of the successor to the Imperial throne, for it was known 
that Constantine had formally announced his intention of 
abdicating in favour of Nicholas his brother, On the 
morning of the 25th the solemn renunciation of the Grand 
Duke and on the 26th the manifesto of the new Emperor 
were published, and the Imperial Council, the Senators, 
and the Holy Synod took the oath of allegiance to 
Nicholas. At about 11.30 the Colonels of the Horse and 
Chevalier Guards, of the Pre"obajensky Guards, and of six 
other regiments announced that their respective soldiers 
had taken the oath. From the other regiments nothing 
was heard, but this was attributed to the great distance of 
their barracks. At twelve o'clock intelligence was brought 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 365 

to the palace that several officers of the Horse Artillery, 
having manifested some opposition, had been arrested. 

1 It was at this moment that I passed through the Place 
d'Isaac on my way to the English Library. There was a 
vast concourse of people in the square, and the shouting 
was vehement and uninterrupted. Upon asking my laquais 
de place what they were calling out, he told me that it 
was in favour of the new Emperor. Thinking this very 
natural, I went on towards the Library. I had not been 
seated many minutes when the wife of the librarian rushed 
in, half -dead with alarm, and told me that the soldiers 
were fighting in the streets, and that the police had ordered 
the doors of all public places to be closed. On leaving 
the house I met the librarian, who informed me that 
General Count Miladorovitch had been shot. I imme- 
diately got into my sledge, and drove towards the scene 
of action, but found all the avenues to the square guarded. 
Not being allowed to pass, I was proceeding to my lodg- 
ings by a circuitous route when I met Count Doernberg, 
who was in search of Lord Strangford. He got into my 
sledge, and we went together to the H6tel de Londres, 
where we found Lord Strangford, who had seen Miladoro- 
vitch fall. We all went back together to the square. It 
was then about one o'clock, and the Moscow Regiment 
had formed a square after having refused to swear the oath 
of allegiance. Upon seeing such a concourse of people 
assembled, the Emperor went out unattended and pene- 
trated into the midst of the mob, by whom he was received 
with enthusiasm. The presence of the military now be- 
came indispensable, and the Emperor, ordering a battalion 
of the Pr6obajensky Eegiment to march to the square, 
put himself at the head of it and marched towards the 
revolted troops. He was determined, however, not to 
have recourse to violent measures until conciliation had 
failed. Shortly after this several regiments made their 



366 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

appearance, as it became necessary to oppose force to 
force. The mob began to be very riotous, and, breaking 
down the palings opposite to the Church of St. Isaac, 
armed themselves with bludgeons, and, surrounding the 
Colonel of the Horse Guards, threatened the life of that 
officer, whose forbearance was beyond all praise. It was 
quite evident that in the present temper both of the revolted 
troops and of the people all conciliatory measures were 
useless, and the Chevalier Guards were ordered to charge. 
They were received by a volley from the rebel square. A 
horse was struck close to the spot where I was standing 
with Prince Schwartzenberg ; the ball entered the poor 
animal's shoulder, and it was with much difficulty that 
the soldier dragged him from the ranks. Everyone who 
was present must bear testimony to the noble bearing of 
the Emperor upon this trying and melancholy occasion. 
Neither the tumultuous attacks of the mob nor the obsti- 
nate resistance of the revolted troops could shake the re- 
solution he had formed of not using violent measures till 
all others had proved useless. It was not, in fact, until 
the Metropolitan had harangued the soldiers of the Moscow 
Eegiment, and until these had fired several rounds at the 
troops in the square, that he could make up his mind to 
employ a force which would bring matters to a speedy 
conclusion. Such a measure was rendered the more in- 
dispensable as the daylight was fast disappearing. 
Accordingly the cannon were brought up and charged with 
grape. In the hope of intimidating the rebels the first 
shots were fired over their heads, as the marks on the 
wall of the Senate House prove. Seeing this measure 
had not the effect of dispersing them, the next discharge 
was levelled at the square formed by the revolted troops. 
The distance was not more than 100 yards, so that the 
effect of ten guns firing grape on a compact mass may 
readily be imagined. A charge of cavalry immediately 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 367 

followed ; the mob and revolted troops were dispersed in 
every direction and pursued and sabred by the Chevalier 
and Horse Guards. It will never be known how many 
fell on the occasion of this revolt, for the bodies were im- 
mediately put under the ice in the Neva. The son of the 
man from whom I hire my carriage fell a victim to his 
curiosity, and many others narrowly escaped a similar 
fate. The troops that had been engaged during the day 
bivouacked in all the principal streets and squares. The 
most profound tranquillity reigned throughout the city 
that night; not a sound was heard save a sentry's 
challenge and the soldiers talking round their fires. The 
Cossacks, as they were seated round the fires, with their 
long lances and remarkable costume, their horses tethered 
behind them, presented a novel and interesting sight. The 
following morning the troops which had revolted were 
drawn up before the Admiralty, and the colours taken 
from them the previous day were restored to them by the 
Emperor. This was an affecting ceremony. A temporary 
altar had been erected in the snow in the middle of the 
square. Mass was performed by the Metropolitan ; and 
the soldiers, prostrate before their Sovereign, seemed at 
once to implore his forgiveness and to atone for their 
misconduct by a sincere repentance.' 

The following account of the sledge journey to Moscow 
is amusing : 

'January Zlst, 1826. We left St. Petersburg for 
Moscow, placing our carriage on a sledge drawn by six 
horses abreast. The cold would have been by no means 
insupportable had it not been for the high wind, which 
was so violent at times as to make us fear the overturn of 
our carriage. The unevenness of the road soon proved 
to me how erroneous were the ideas I had formed of 
sledge-travelling in Russia. The bridges too, except on 
the main road, being only temporary and constructed for 



368 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

sledges with one horse, were not wide or strong enough 
to support us. Our peasant coachman continually left 
the main road and took us across country to save a few 
versts, so next night we were upset into a snowdrift, miles 
from help of any kind, and with no moon or stars to show 
us where we were. Our coachman threw himself down 
in the snow and burst into tears, and from this position 
nothing could induce him to stir. We could do nothing 
but await the return of day. The cold was intense, the 
roof of the carriage covered with ice, and our voices even 
appeared to freeze. Making therefore paths on the snow, 
we began to walk briskly up and down to keep up the 
circulation in our benumbed limbs. At length our wretched 
coachman began to listen to the voice of self-preservation, 
though he had been deaf to that of reason, and, rising 
from his bed of snow, mounted one of the horses and 
rode off for assistance. Hour after hour passed, and no 
signs of his return. At last at daybreak we heard bells, 
which proved to be our friend returning with two or three 
miller's horses, whose efforts, combined with our own, 
succeeded in extricating us. 

'O ye inhabitants of civilised countries, ye dwellers 
amongst hills and vales and verdant fields, think with 
compassion upon those travelling over this dreary waste 
of snow, where there is not a sign of anything animate 
or inanimate except the animals dragging and those driving 
the carriage. To arrive at a relais, which often consisted 
of a solitary hut of wood, was an event that almost 
gladdened the heart, so dreary and desolate was everything 
around us. All the days we spent on the journey, not 
having an appetite for tallow and other Eussian delicacies, 
we were well-nigh starved as well as frozen. 

' At last we saw, to our inexpressible delight, the gilded 
and painted domes and spires of the ancient capital of the 
Czars. But nothing announced the approach to a great 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 369 

city ; not a carriage, nor cart, nor the sign of anything 
living, relieved the dull monotony of the snow-covered 
plain till the Russian sentry at the gate put out his bar- 
barian hand to receive the passport of civilisation. Inside 
the barrier there was an almost equal degree of desola- 
tion. A street, the end of which no human vision could 
reach, and which we, blinded as we were with the snow, 
could hardly see across, led to the more frequented part 
of the town. We passed many palaces, which seemed to 
have parks as pleasure grounds ; and contiguous to these 
habitations of the great were to be seen the miserable 
abodes of the wretched serfs. Never did I behold such 
apparent luxury in contact with such misery.' 

He stayed in Moscow nearly six months, but states 
that this part of his journal had again been lost ! 

He merely says : 

' The hospitality of the Muscovites was boundless, but 
confined to small family reunions. The day before my 
departure the Princess Z6ne"ide Volkousky (La Corinne 
du Nord) provided me with many letters of introduction, 
much valuable information, and a number of maps of the 
Crimea, &c., she had herself made for me. 

' June nth. At midnight we started for Odessa, and 
after traversing several of the long and melancholy streets 
of this vast city we arrived at the stone bridge from which 
the Kremlin is seen to the greatest advantage. I know 
not whether it was because I beheld it for the last time, 
but I had never before been so struck with the singularity 
and magnificence of its gilded towers and antique domes. 
There is a mixture of European and Asiatic architecture 
in all the public edifices of Moscow which certainly gives 
it an interest that no city I have yet seen possesses. 
The perfect stillness that reigned all around us at the 
moment we took the last long look at the Kremlin, in the 
uncertain light that the moon cast upon every object, 

B B 



370 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

produced a sensation it is difficult to describe. We 
passed through Tula and Batourin, then to Kiew, 
formerly the capital of Eussia. Nothing can exceed its 
filth and wretchedness, but it is of great historical 
interest. 

1 Some days after leaving Kiew we came to the 
steppes. The weather being dry and the road good, we 
travelled with rapidity, this being the only circum- 
stance which alleviated the monotony of the journey. 
You see the sun rise and sink below the horizon as when 
at sea.' 

In spite of the immense increase of luxury in travel- 
ling nowadays, the modern tourist still complains bitterly 
of the discomforts attendant on this same journey. My 
correspondent writes in the train on his way from 
Moscow to Sebastopol : ' I left Moscow on Sunday 
morning. They arrange to stop the train for food, so at 
five o'clock I got out at Tula" the Eussian Sheffield," 
says Murray, " and famous for its hardware." To test the 
hardware I ate a cake, and certainly it was hard harder 
even than the Dover bun though perhaps not so strong 
in another sense as Eussian eggs are. The tea is so 
weak and the eggs so strong that I sent for the manager 
and advised a better distribution of force, but he did not 
understand. ... I have now been fifty-three hours with- 
out sleep or wash, travelling over boundless steppes 
which I am glad to have seen, and hope never to see 
again ! ' 

The journal continues at Odessa : 

' July 20^/1. On our arrival we drove to the Club 
Hotel, the appearance of which was certainly not inviting. 
Every article of furniture was covered with dust, which 
so filled the atmosphere as to render objects on the 
opposite side of the street almost invisible. The streets 
of the city are broad and uniform, and the houses for the 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 371 

most part of one storey. It is evidently a town in its 
infancy ; in fact, the ground on which it now stands was 
a barren steppe thirty years ago/ 

He gives a long and interesting account of his stay in 
the Crimea, where he was the guest of Prince Woronzow. 
How little he could have anticipated when visiting Se- 
bastopol and Balaclava, which he minutely describes, that 
he would one day have two sons fighting the Russians on 
that dreary plateau ! 

The journal ends at Brody, a town inhabited chiefly 
by Jews, where he was detained through difficulties with 
his passport, and where he put on paper the following 
reflections suggested during his stay in Eussia : 

' The menacing attitude assumed by Russia towards 
her neighbour Turkey, the revolution now going on at 
Constantinople on account of the suppression of the 
Janissaries, and the known tendency of Muscovite policy, 
will make this country, probably at no very distant period, 
the battlefield of Europe. Every step which Russia 
makes towards the Dardanelles must be considered as the 
advance of barbarism against civilisation. Whether this 
inroad of the Northern hordes will take place in the life- 
time of anyone now living, who can tell ? But come it 
must, sooner or later. The Russians even now talk of 
Constantinople as theirs, and sometimes pronounce the 
words Malta and Gibraltar. What they aim at is 
universal dominion in Europe and the annihilation of our 
power in the East. The Imperial Court is increasing its 
influence every day in Germany by the matrimonial 
alliances it is contracting with the different reigning 
families in that country, and at the same time it is con- 
ciliating the leading diplomatists of Europe by munificent 
presents. The boundary of the Empire will soon be 
removed from the Pruth to the Danube ; and with the 
mouth of that river in the power of Russia, Austria is 

B B 2 



372 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

annihilated and the commerce of Germany intercepted, 
if not ruined. Some great European convulsion is not 
by any means an impossibility, seeing how restless and 
dissatisfied France is under her present government. 
And Eussia, separated as well by her institutions as by 
her geographical position from the contact of liberal 
opinions, will be ready to pounce, as it were, upon Europe, 
torn and distracted by internal dissensions. We have 
only to observe the preparations Kussia is everywhere 
making, to be sure what her designs are. I saw fifteen 
sail of the line in the harbour of Sebastopol. What 
enemy can they fear in an inland sea like the Euxine ? 
Is it not manifestly assembled to attack Turkey, just now 
enfeebled by the revolt of the Janissaries and im- 
poverished by a defective administration of her affairs ? 
The Bussians are in no hurry to arm Sebastopol, because 
they have no one to fear ; but English engineers are now 
employed there, and I make no doubt that long before 
any necessity arises that place will be rendered impreg- 
nable. If we turn from the South to the North, what do 
we see going on at Kronstadt and other fortified towns 
on the Gulf of Finland ? What a fleet is at Kronstadt ! 
I forget how many sail of the line, but quite dispropor- 
tionate to the exigencies of the State in time of peace. 
That the blow is meditated no one can doubt ; all that 
is wanting is a pretext, a favourable opportunity. And 
when the vast resources of the country are organised, 
then the question is : Who is to oppose this inroad of the 
Eussian hordes, this second and perhaps final irruption 
of the Huns ? It is clear Turkey can oppose no effective 
resistance ; her tottering dominions are already falling to 
pieces under the weight of her own intestine disorders. 
Prussia will not she is so bound to Eussia by ties of 
consanguinity and diplomatic cajolery and indeed, if 
she were willing, she could not stem the torrent, Austria, 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 373 

with her heterogeneous and discontented population, has 
too much to do at home to send an army to the banks of 
the Pruth. The Greeks are the co-religionists of Eussia. 
What, then, remains ? England and France. But a 
cordial alliance cannot be reckoned upon between two 
countries who have drawn the sword against each other 
for twenty years. As for the Scandinavian Powers, they 
are prostrate at the feet of the great Autocrat. I really, 
therefore, see nothing that can prevent Eussia from walk- 
ing across Europe whenever she is so disposed. 

1 These somewhat melancholy forebodings were made 
whilst waiting for my passport, and no doubt were in a 
great measure inspired by the wretched place in which I 
then was ! The filth, the degraded aspect of this town, 
with its loathsome miserable population, no words can 
describe, and great indeed was my joy on seeing my 
courier arrive from Lemberg with the passport which 
was to emacipate us from this Jewish city. The rest of 
our journey was through the fertile plains of Moravia, 
and we made a triumphal entry into Vienna on Sep- 
tember 6th. Those only who have been for some time 
in contact with barbarians can duly appreciate the happi- 
ness of once more finding themselves amongst a civilised 
people ' 



374 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



THE LAST LETTERS OF CAPTAIN SYDNEY 
EARLE, COLDSTREAM GUARDS 

IT is impossible for me to judge whether these simple 
letters of one of the best of sons will be of the smallest 
interest to those who did not know him. A friend offered 
to publish them in a magazine shortly after his death. 
But then I felt I could not stand giving to the public what 
had been written in confidence to his family. Now it is 
different. It was he who encouraged me, when under 
the shadow of another sorrow, to write my second book, 
and it is indeed to his memory, and with absolute confi- 
dence of his approval, that I dedicate my third. In all 
great sorrows one longs to realise that, in spite of external 
appearances, ' Time's effacing fingers ' are not in any way 
really dimming the memory of what is most dear. I am 
in no sense a worthy mother of soldiers. I gave him very 
grudgingly to the army, and he knew quite well all it meant 
to me when his earnest desire to go to South Africa was 
granted, and he was ordered to join one of the earliest 
batches of Staff officers who were sent out. My own view 
of the war at that time was that it had been brought 
about by a mistaken policy, and was not a just war, and 
that he was not without sympathy for my attitude of mind 
is shown by the letters he wrote on board ship. I think 
he knew quite well as we walked round the garden for 
the last time that we should never meet again. I gave 
him to die for his country not willingly at all, and I publish 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 375 

these characteristic letters, because it is a pleasure to 
myself to see them in print. It is to me the same feeling 
as the preservation of any remembrance, the crystallising, 
and putting as it were into a glass case, of ' a footprint in 
the sands of time.' As with so many in the early days 
of the war, he had the strongest feeling of his coming 
doom, and when he bade good-bye to his soldier-servant 
at Orange Eiver camp, he said he would never see him 
again. Three of the letters came, of course, after the fatal 
much-dreaded telegram. His last words, written two days 
before he was killed, ' I wish it were all over/ expressed 
a desire that peace might come, not for him by his death 
but in a very different sense. The following little notice 
of his short career appeared in the ' Pall Mall Gazette ' of 
December 1, 1899 : 

'A POPULAR GUARDS OFFICER. Captain Sydney Earle, 
of the Coldstreams, killed at the Modder Biver, was, be- 
sides being one of the best liked and most unaffected 
officers in the Household Brigade, one of the most pro- 
mising of the younger generation of officers in the British 
army. After a brilliant career at the Staff College, he was 
appointed Deputy-Assistant Adjutant-General for instruc- 
tion in the Home District. In this position he conceived 
and initiated an experimental course of instruction for 
Volunteer officers in applied tactics, field engineering, and 
military sketching, and himself conducted the first series 
of classes at Wellington Barracks in the autumn of last 
year. So successful was his scheme that the authorities 
decided to make it a permanent institution in the Home 
District. 

' The handful of Volunteer officers who spent so useful 
and agreeable an eighteen days last year, not only at 
Wellington Barracks but at the Guards' field-days on 
Wimbledon Common, at open-air exercises on the Surrey 
hills, and in studying demolition work at Sandhurst under 



376 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

his guidance, must share the deep regret with which his 
brother officers in the Brigade of the Guards have heard 
of his death on the field of battle. No more genuine man 
or valuable officer served in the brigade. 

' Captain Sydney Earle was the eldest son of Charles 
William Earle of Cobham. He was born in 1865, and 
entered the army when twenty. His father was killed 
two years ago in a bicycle accident.' 

His name was the only one among the junior officers 
of the rank of Captain mentioned in the ' Times ' account 
at the end of 1899 of those who had fallen in the war. 
Will anyone who lived through them ever forget those two 
dark months, the November and December of that year ? 

I offer my sincere sympathy to all those who have 
suffered as I have done, to those who gave more than one 
son, and to those who suffered even more from their loss 
being of an only son, and perhaps an only child, for they 
cannot realise the one compensation that can come on the 
death of a child which is that it brightens the eyes of love 
for those that are left. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEYfEARLE 377 



STARS 

Stars in the North ! world-fragments, that through space 
Mori on eon ran their darkling race, 
Strike fiery-white against Earth's airy wall, 
And luminous in dissolution fall. 

Stars hi the South ! dim souls, that could not shine, 
While life's dull orbit did their course confine, 
Now, devious hurled on war's opposing breath, 
Flash in a brief magnificence of Death. 

J. RHOADES. 



No. 1 

Monday, 9/10/'99 : ' Braemar Castle ' off Gib. 
DEAR MOTHEE, Never can more auspicious start 
have been made ! Everything has gone well, fine weather, 
perfect ship, and good company. We started soon after 
five, a little after Lionel left, with cheers from a large 
crowd of people. More cheers from a big battleship, the 
'Australia,' I think, lying in Southampton Water. My 

cabin companion is called Captain B of the Army 

Service Corps, and he seems a nice fellow. We have got 
a good roomy cabin on the main deck, port side, just about 
under the saloon and bridge. There are about six or 
seven men I knew before on board, and, of course I have 
already made acquaintance with others. They are almost 
all Army Service Corps, doctors, Army Ordnance Corps, 
and special service (like me). There are just a few going 
out to join their respective regiments. Just before starting 

I received a wire from General T wishing me luck and 

sending messages to Major S and to Miss A , a 

nurse from the London Hospital. She seems a nice 
woman, but has been rather poorly from sea-sickness. 



373 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There are six or seven army nurses on board ; the only 

other woman is a Mrs. B , wife of an A.S.C. officer ; 

she, I believe, is a native of the Cape (not black). I sit 
at dinner and all meals at the Captain's table. I put my 
own name down for it. There are about eighteen at it, 

headed by Col. G and Prince C V . I sit 

between Major S , a special service officer, and the 

ship's second officer, a good fellow. The food is excellent, 
but I am dieting myself strictly. There has not been 
much in the way of combined amusement started yet, but 
I believe a newspaper has been started, as I have been 
asked to contribute, and I hope to get a game of cricket 
this afternoon. It is feeling a little muggy and warm 
now, but I have not begun to put on summer clothes. I 
feel aches about the back and legs, as I always do at first 
on board ship. We have formed a class for early morning 
' Sandow ' exercises in pyjamas on deck. I attended this 
morning. I have got my name down for a very good bath 
hour viz., 7.30 ; this is the most fashionable and sought 
after time. Don't know what has happened to Davison 
[his soldier servant], haven't seen him for about forty-eight 
hours. There is nothing for him to do, the steward looks 
after me and my clothes. This ship, though new and 
splendid, is a slow one, as she is intended for freight ; she 
only goes thirteen knots an hour, so we shall not get to 
Cape Town till about Saturday fortnight i.e., the 27th or 
28th. I can gather no ideas of what we are going to do. 

Prince C V , though he knows a good many 

things, hasn't the faintest notion. We have most of us 
been given secret books compiled in the Intelligence divi- 
sion on the Boers and the Transvaal. We have just been 
attending a lecture on inoculation for enteric by one of 
the doctors on board. I am not going to be done myself. 
People rarely get it over thirty, and the fact of having had 
typhoid is an additional safeguard. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 379 

Tuesday. Getting hotter, but I have not begun 
summer clothes or khaki, though I expect to do so to- 
morrow. I have got pains, as I often do on board ship ; 
shoulders, loins, and legs, liver, and rheumatism I suppose; 
it will be all right probably to-morrow. Mind you let 
me know comments on ' Pot-Pourri ' No. 2, especially any 
unfavourable ones. I like to hear the other side. I have 
written a heap of letters to different people ; they are taken 
back to London and posted, which accounts for the penny 
stamp doing. I see the penny stamp is to return to its 
original red after this year a good thing too. It will be 
a long time before you hear from me again, and then it 
will only be a tiresome ship letter with no news. I shall 
wire from the Cape any important news. The name of 
place, say ' Kimberley,' would mean I have been ordered 
to Kimberley, the purpose I will try to put in after. Thus 
1 police,' ' defence ' to prepare defences ; ' Irregulars,' to 
recruit and drill an irregular force. Those who wish to 
land to-morrow at Las Palmas have been directed to send 
in their names to-day, but nothing has as yet been said 
about uniform. Good-bye, dear mother, let me know all 
you do. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 

No. 2 
Monday, October 16, 1899 : ' Braemar Castle.' 

DEAR MOTHER, I find no mail goes home till three 
or four days after our arrival at Capetown, but still I will 
begin this letter early and jot down things as we go 
along. When we arrived at Las Palmas we found one of 
the Artillery ships beginning with a Z was in there, though 

she left Liverpool about a week before us. F W 

(E.A.) who was with me at S. C. and who married a Liddell, 
came with another officer alongside of us in a boat. I gave 



380 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

him a shout, and he told us they had had no news since 
the 2nd, and had come for newspapers ; he dashed on 
board and collected a few, and then off again, like a 
shot, which was accounted for by the fact of their ship 
being on the point of starting ; in fact, she was off before 
they left our ship. We heard that seven horses had died 
of pneumonia, that they could not get enough water at 
Canaries, and were going to put in at St. Vincent, in the 
Cape Verde Islands. I hope they will twist somebody's 
tail over that business ; it is time that the idea that any- 
one can swindle the Government in time of war should 
be exploded. It was a bitter blow to us to hear that 
there was no news at Las Palmas ; however, before leav- 
ing, we got an answer to a wire which the gunners had 
sent home to Intelligence Department asking for 31. worth 
of information it was to the effect that Boers had sent 
an ultimatum, and that mobilisation had been ordered ; 
the gunners had gone before it arrived, but we were 
very grateful to them. We have not had much incident. 
A man died on Saturday night of pneumonia and was 
buried on Sunday morning. I have never seen a funeral 
at sea before. We have got eight trained nurses on board, 
very nice women indeed ; they only heard the man was ill 
on Saturday. On the Superintendent applying to give 
assistance, she was met with a flat refusal from the 
Principal Medical Officer. She insisted on seeing the 
man, and saw he was very ill ; but they still refused to 
allow her to nurse him, and he was left to the tender 
mercies of the hospital orderlies. I must say that the 
army doctors make me boil with rage ; they undoubtedly 
killed a man of the Scots Guards this year, by keeping 
him with pneumonia in a tent with a daily range of tem- 
perature of about forty degrees, and in this case on board 
ship, if they had put their miserable jealousies on one 
side and called in the help of a good nurse, I have little 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 381 

doubt the poor man's life would have been saved, or at 
any rate his death would have been made pleasanter. 
Another Crimean repetition ! I have no doubt they would 
have squashed Florence Nightingale if they could. We 
had a good view of Cape Verde while passing. I have 
seen it before, but I don't like it any better, and have no 
intention of purchasing a villa there. I have forgotten to 
say that I had intended to go on shore at Las Palmas with 

S (see below), but on seeing the place all glare, sand, 

and dust, we decided that we should be better on board. 
Those who did go on shore seem only to have exchanged 
a very good luncheon for a very bad one, and to have 
spent about a sovereign to achieve the result. It seems to 
me, as far as I know of them, that we have never had 
an expedition with such good commanders or such an 
efficient Staff. Things ought to go smoothly and well when 
the army corps gets out, provided the contractors have 
done their work as regards transports and provisions. 
The sending out of Army Service Corps and Army 
Ordnance Corps to make preparations is very sound 

and wise, though rumour says that Lord L was 

much opposed to it. I view with a certain amount of 
apprehension the present condition of affairs. If the 

Indian troops have arrived, Sir G. W ought to be able 

to hold his ground in Natal, especially as they have 
withdrawn with great wisdom from the dangerous New- 
castle district. I am not sure that they would not have 
been wiser to withdraw still further (I hear this has not 
been done on account of the coalfields near Glencoe). 
They have no superiority in artillery. This is, I think, 
a pity, but I suppose it can't be helped. With regard to 
the scattered forces round the Northern and Western 
boundaries of the Eepublic, I look upon them as dis- 
playing a strategy of so mean an order as to point to 
political interference. There is no doubt that whenever 



382 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

politicians interfere with military disposition they court 
and invite disaster. Probably in this case, people 
clamoured for protection, saying that they expected to 
have their throats cut ; of course this is not likely to 
occur, as, however barbarous the Boer may be, he could 
hardly kill defenceless people ; the real reason of their 
clamour is that they want their property protected. 
I should encourage them to remove the property by 
denying them protection and by giving compensation to a 
moderate extent for property damaged that could not be 
removed, such as mine machinery. My forces I should 
concentrate sufficiently far from the frontier as to render 
an attack in overwhelming force improbable. I fully 
expect to hear that the different detachments at Tuli, 
Bulawayo, Mafeking, Kimberley, &c., have been mopped 
up : if they are not, the Boers have only themselves to 
blame ; we have played their game as much as the Khalifa 
did Kitchener's at Omdurman. I also expect a pretty 
general Dutch rising in the Colony, which also would 
have been less likely to happen if our total available 
forces had been concentrated somewhere near the line 

Colesberg-Burghersdorf . Major S , whom I mentioned 

above, is one of the special service officers. He is a Staff 
College officer and was on the same staff with me at last 
year's (Wareham) manoeuvres as D.A.A.G. He is a cousin 

of Sir Leicester S , who was a distinguished general. 

Before coming out, he was Major at the depot of his 
regiment, the 21st (K. Scots Fusiliers) at Ayr. He brought 
out a draft years ago to his regiment in Natal. The day 
they landed was the day the Boers cut up the British 
regiment at Bronkerspruit. He was hurried up with his 
draft to the front, and was present at Laing's Nek, where 
he was employed to take ranges for the Artillery, who 
could not take their own, as they were not at home with 
the new range-finder and were really garrison gunners, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 383 

not field ditto. He was in the camp the day of Majuba, 
and, after the armistice, went up to Pretoria, where he 
remained for some time with his regiment very interest- 
ing man to be with. I hope we may keep together, but of 
course we have no idea of what we are going to do. We 
have had several tremendous tropical storms of rain, just 
as if all the fire brigades in the world were playing on us. 
To-morrow we cross the line, and then we hope to meet 
the head wind which will make things cooler and dryer. 
Your thermometer has been a comfort. I sleep with it 
close to my bunk ; the heat has not been excessive, about 
89 on the bridge is the most I have heard of. I have had 
no difficulty in sleeping soundly. The greatest misfortune 
I have had at present is with my pyjamas. I asked 
Davison to get a beautiful pair of wide floppy ones 
washed, and they have come back like acrobatic tights. I 
am reading Ball's ' Story of the Heavens ' out of the ship's 
library excellent ! I also read a good bit of ' Pot-Pourri ' 
No. 2, and find it also excellent. I see you state that 
nothing grows under beech ; I saw beautiful shrubs with 
a sweet white flower (very well known, only I can't re- 
member the name) growing under the beeches at Ames- 
bury, the Antrobus' place. I find that in the ' Globe ' I 
bought just before starting, there was a criticism very 
favourable and complimentary, but nothing really in it ; 
still I was glad to see just one notice. I forgot to make 
any arrangements about having newspapers sent out. 
Something in time to catch the weekly mail which would 
give a summary of the week's news would be very accept- 
able. If there is a big war, a file of some daily paper 
would also be an interesting thing to keep for me to look 
at on return. 

Thursday, 19/10/'99. We are now well over the 
line and have met the trade winds; it has never been 
oppressively hot, and now it is perfect as regards tempera- 



384 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

ture. I think the Government treat the men on board 
ship with considerable meanness ; almost all the men on 
board are skilled men of some kind or another, and as 
such receive ' Corps Pay,' the lowest rate of which is 
Qd. a day ; this they lose from the moment they step on 
board. Of course the idea is that their skill is not required 
on board ship ; but still they don't go on board of their 
own choice, and they feel that their loss of pay is a 
grievance, and I agree. They have no beer, and I believe 
no liquor ration on board. Now, moderation is a great 
virtue, but enforced total abstinence for no definite 
reason seems to me to be unwise. While actually on a 
campaign it may not only be advisable, but necessary, 
but it should be universal ; if Pte. T. A. is compelled to 
be a teetotaller, so should the G.O.C. and all other 
officers. For future reference I am going to jot down 
my ideas on the conduct of a war against the Boers. 
A campaign of this kind necessarily forms an exception 
to several of the best known rules of strategy, as the 
advantage of rapidity of action is greatly diminished 
from our point of view in consequence of the English 
becoming stronger and the Boers weaker (owing to the 
consumption of supplies, the diminution of wealth, sick- 
ness of men and horses, desertion and evaporation of 
enthusiasm). Political reasons i.e., the protection of 
both Cape Colony and Natal oblige us to commit the 
gravest of strategical errors viz., a separation of force 
without any possibility of mutual support. This mis- 
fortune should, it appears to me, be reduced to a mini- 
mum at the outset of the campaign by massing each 
of the dividing forces at such a distance from the border 
as to render an attack upon either a difficult and 
hazardous operation ; in fact, we want to gain time. We 
undoubtedly must expect loss of prestige by leaving 
places undefended and exposed to the mercy of the Boers, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 385 

but that is better than the destruction or capture of one or 
more small garrisons. The next move depends upon 
whether the Dutch inhabitants of Cape Colony rise ; if 
they do, no forward movement should be made against 
the Boers, until the country has been properly policed by 
the soldiers ; in fact, let them (the Boers) stew a bit. The 
police duties must be carried out with rigour, and should 
consist of total disarmament and of partial confiscation of 
property of disloyal colonists. Arms should be given to 
loyal colonists, and armed local police forces raised. If 
there is no trouble of this kind, or if it has been put down, 
I should devote my attention to the establishment of an 
advanced base somewhere on the line Colesberg-Bur- 
ghersdorf. The railway bridge over the Orange Eiver 
will probably have been destroyed, but the passage of the 
river, and ultimately the repair of the Bethulie bridge, 
will probably present no very great difficulties, though it 
should not be attempted till a considerable force has 
arrived at the front (especially artillery) ; the general 
advance on Bloemfontein should not be begun till the 
whole of the army corps and line of communication troops 
have arrived at the front. From this point the advance 
must be made in conformity with the rules of European 
campaigns cavalry screen, advanced guards, &c. If 
the enemy is met with, he probably would not be in great 
strength, as it is difficult to see how the Transvaal would 
be able to take many men or guns away from the Trans- 
vaal border. But whether he is strong or weak, he must 
be gently ' levered ' out, a considerable display of artillery 
in his front, and turning movements of cavalry and 
mounted infantry round his flank. There may be oppor- 
tunities of getting him on the run, when horse artillery 
and cavalry can act with boldness, but they must be 
carefully chosen ; the one thing to avoid is running up 
against a selected position to be shot, as the Boer himself 

c c 



3 86 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

puts it, like buck in the open. Now the Boer, owing to 
being mounted, has great tactical mobility ; but in order to 
keep the field for any length of time, he must have his 
waggons, which serve him as tents, kitchens, and store- 
houses ; he has therefore very little strategical mobility, 
and it ought therefore to be easy either to separate him 
from his waggons, or at least to drive him and his waggons 
back on Bloemfontein. In either case it is difficult to see 
how he is to avoid a disaster, his inferiority, especially in 
artillery, is so evident. I am rather of opinion that one 
serious reverse to the Boers would be sufficient to stop 
the whole war. If not, the whole proceeding must be 
begun again, this time with Bloemfontein as the advanced 
base. Our line of communications will by this time have 
assumed gigantic proportions, and any advance will of 
necessity be a slow matter. However, as I have already 
pointed out, that is attended by little disadvantage except 
expense. We have, I believe, eleven battalions to guard 
our communications, and these, with all available local 
forces, will have their work well cut out for them. Great 
strictness must be enforced, and if the line is tampered 
with, the people of the district should not only be fined 
to make good the damage, but be compelled to work at it 
with their own hands. The further advance must be 
conducted on similar lines, except that immediately after 
crossing the Vaal Eiver steps must be taken to remove 
any troops still blocking the line from Natal. Pressure 
upon their line of communication with Pretoria, &c., will, 
if they are in large force, probably effect this; if their 
force is small, it may be necessary to detach a force from 
the army corps to co-operate with the Natal force. After 
our forces have got within supporting distance of each 
other, further actions must depend upon what the enemy 
do. If they, as they most probably will, fall back upon the 
Pretoria forts, I look upon the campaign as at an end, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 387 

probably without a further engagement ; if they retreat in 
some other direction, they at best can only hold out a 
certain time ; their best course is to take up some inter- 
mediate and, if possible, flanking position, to bar our 
advance on Johannesburg and Pretoria. If we avoid the 
frontal infantry attack, we still ought to have little diffi- 
culty. These are my views before seeing the opening 
moves ; they will of course be modified when I see what 

happens. Colonel E , our senior special service officer, 

tells me that he anticipates great difficulties from the 
fact that the Boers take women with them in the waggons 
to cook and look after the teams, &c. Our business will 
naturally be to go for the waggons and try to shell them, 
capture them and destroy them in all possible ways ; 
there is no doubt that the women will shoot and will 
probably get killed, and of course a howl will be raised 
about fighting against women. It is a serious business, 
as people will not accept the only rational answer, which 
is that the women should remain at home, where they 
would be safe. 

Friday. Three days ago we espied the ' Mexican,' 
the mail ship which left a day after us, lying across 
our bows in the far distance flying the signal ' un- 
manageable ' ; great excitement on board we thought 
she had broken down, and that we should have to tow her 
to St. Helena. However, when we got within a mile of 
her she steamed off on her true course, and we have never 
seen her again. The probable explanation is that she 
had got some small matter wrong with her machinery, 
and had stopped to put it right. Another excitement 
we yesterday passed the homeward-bound mail-boat 
' Dunvegan Castle,' but she was two and a half days late. 
Why ? we can't tell a possible explanation is that, as the 
interior mail trains have stopped running, there were 
delays in getting the letters from all the seaport towns. 

cc2 



3 88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Perhaps they delayed her in case she might have been 
wanted to bring troops from Natal to Cape, or vice versa. 
We expect to find Capetown crowded with refugees, so 
much so that it is doubtful whether we can get in at an 

hotel. S and I propose trying the new hotel, ' The 

Gardens,' beyond Government House ; we may of course 
be sent on at once. 

Sunday. Weather turned quite chilly and cool. 
There is rather a heavy swell, though no breeze to 
speak of. We have gone back to serge clothes, having 
been in khaki all the rest of the time. I wish now 
that I had brought more clothes of all sorts ; it is 
much better to have too much than too little, and no 
questions were asked as to the amount of baggage we 
had. I am also afraid that I left my notebooks, that I 
looked out carefully, behind ! However, I think I can 
replace them somehow. The captain and officers of the 
ship have invited us all to supper on Wednesday next 
very civil of them. I hope the company will bear the 
expense. I have recently read the ' Convention of '84, 
London ' have you ? I never thought we had much 
right in this affair, and now I am convinced we have 
absolutely none. I am not surprised we would not con- 
sent to arbitration ; no impartial person could possibly 
give it for us. If Lord Derby did not intend to resign all 
rights of any kind over the Transvaal, he was jolly well 
taken in by old Kruger and Co. ; but one would have 
thought that anyone could have seen to having what 
they wanted put down on paper a clerk in a bank could 
have done that. 

Wednesday 25th. We expect to be in to-morrow 
afternoon. Weather improved, but quite cool, and last 
night a tremendous thunderstorm, which is most unusual 
in these latitudes at this time of year. I read ' Sybil,' by 
Dizzy, out of the ship's library the other day, and on 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 389 

turning over ' Pot-Pourri ' I see you mention it as giving 
an account of the times. I thought it very interesting, 
but of course the whole tone is in the fashion of the last 
generation. The swells talked and thought in a way 
hardly conceivable at present. I had no idea Dizzy had 
such liberal ideas. Why didn't he do a bit more ? For 
instance, he is always jeering at foreign Missions ; while 
home heathen or miserables exist, I should like to see 
them made a criminal offence. The excitement about 
news is of course intense. The possibilities are so wide 
I wonder whether the telegraph will have broken down. 
I don't think Kruger knows his business if it hasn't. It 
is just possible we may be in time to catch the in-going 
mail if she is late, so if this letter ends abruptly and 
without signature, you will know that I have just sealed 
it down and chucked it in in time to catch post. 

Saturday %8th. Arrived yesterday-afternoon and heard 
the exciting news of first three battles. No one had any 
orders for us, but to-day I went to Headquarters and 
have received orders to go to De Aar, where the advance 
base is expected to be established. There are a good few 
troops there, and I think I have been lucky. I shall be 

working under Major H , who was at the S.C. with 

me a great comfort to have a friend. Du C , who is 

Staff officer, has been more than kind. I have got a Horse 

Artillery reservist as groom. J D has also been 

most attentive and helpful. Please thank Uncle Henry 
for his letters. I had an interview with the bank 
manager, and he was charming, and said he would 

do all to help me. I have not seen Lady E C , 

she is at Rhodes's place. I am going to leave your book 
for her if possible. I have bought some provisions, which 
may be useful or not, but still it is a safeguard to have 
them. I have no idea what my work is going to be ; 
probably preparing for the advance of the army corps ; 



390 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

they ought to be here in about a fortnight. S is going 

to East London, not nearly such a good post. Every- 
one is very jolly and cheerful here, and pleased with our 
having held our own. I have only seen the General in 
the distance, not to speak to. I must close now to make 
my final preparations, and get down to the station. I am 
dining with Du C . Much love to all. Bather dis- 
appointed at not getting any letter by the 'Mexican.' 
I suppose they were posted too late. I have sent a wire 
to let you know my whereabouts ; you had better still 
address Standard Bank. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 3 

(From Cape. My only letters are to you.) 

Sunday, Oct. 29, '99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, On arriving here I found your com- 
forting little note, and the extract from the 'Globe' 
which, as you will see by my other letter, I had already 
read. I was also given the telegram about Max, which 
was indeed good news, though I am afraid it will greatly 
increase your worries. However, by the time he gets 
out and up to the front the serious business will be over. 
Alas ! I hadn't a moment at Capetown to get the photo 
done. It was all rush from beginning to end. I gave 

'Pot-Pourri,' No. 2 to J D to give to Lady E 

C . I received a wire on my way up it was about 

twenty-nine hours' journey to say that my saloon was 
going to be put in a siding, so that I could go on 
sleeping peacefully; but I found that that was im- 
possible, so I bundled out at about 1.30 A.M., and 
got a good night's rest in an empty carriage. This 
morning, soon after I got up, I met my new chief, Major 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 391 

H , Gamp Commandant, who met me in a most 

friendly manner. He told me I was to sleep in the office, 
which is a large, airy, well-found waiting-room. Nothing 
could be more comfortable, and it has far exceeded my 
wildest hopes. Meals very fair we get from station con- 
tractor, in company with a large number of newspaper 

correspondents. One of them, P L , I know, a 

friend of Lord B 's. The Lochs will tell you all about 

him ; he is always civil to me. Immediately after break- 
fast I met Col. C B , who commands the regi- 
ment here the Lochs can tell you all about him and to us 
came Major Henry Barle, who is the second in command ; 
he was very civil, and it certainly is very refreshing meeting 
friends at every turn. After I had settled down a bit, I rode 

round the place with Major H on Col. B 's pony. 

Everything is in perfect order, and in an advanced condi- 
tion. We first inspected the spot selected for General 

W 's camp and mess, who is expected soon ; quite a 

nice garden with shady trees, and water laid on. A railway 
official has prepared for him a bath-room and kitchen, as 
he had the necessary range, &c., to put in a house he was 
building. We next went on past the little hospital and 
the medical camp (chiefly Volunteers) to the remount 
officer, and, practically, bought a couple of horses. I am 
going to try them with a saddle on to-morrow. They are 
poor-looking beasts ; but I dare say they are willing one 
of them is about thirteen years old, but has good strong 
legs. I think that one will be my first charger. I had 
the good fortune to pick up a Horse Artillery reservist as 
groom in Capetown. This will be a great comfort, as 
he can ride my second horse and carry kit. I have, of 
course, hardly got to know what my work will be ; but it 
will consist chiefly of making arrangements for the large 
number of men and horses that will use this point as 
their advanced base when the army corps lands. 



392 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Monday, Oct. 30th. In the afternoon I walked round 

the defences with Major H and an intelligent young 

sapper called W ; he has done excellent work all 

through, and has been particularly clever in making a gun 
carriage out of iron rails, chiefly with his own hands. 

After Kimberley was invested a Hotchkiss gun and 
ammunition came through here, but no carriage. However, 

that is all put right by W ; he has tried his gun, and 

bar the first shot, which missed the hill aimed at altogether, 
and is supposed to have fallen on a Dutchman's farm 
about five miles away (he has asked us to discontinue 
this practice), he has done very well with it. Except for 
the fact that the defences are much over extended (about 
three and a half miles for one battalion), they are very 
satisfactory, and I think it would require a very large 
force to do us any harm. We have small look-out posts 
all day long. Scouts ride out just before dawn, and all 
night the forts are held by strong picquets. Some of the 
forts are very neatly made, and without artillery I don't 
think the Boers could ever turn us out. I dined in the 

evening with F of the A.S.C. at a little mess of Army 

Service Corps, E.E., and A. Ordnance. I got up in the 

middle of the night to receive Col. G , the cavalry 

A.A.G., who was passing through on his way to Cape- 
town. Several correspondents also arrived Knight, of 
the 'Morning Post,' and Bennet Stanford, of the ' Daily 
Mail.' There was also a very suspicious Irish-American 
who came out in the ' Mexican.' He is supposed to have 
married Kruger's daughter; he refused to drink the 
Queen's health ; he stated he was going to Aliwal North 
to buy horses, and had 1,000 rounds of ammunition and a 
Mauser gun. This morning we have wired on to have 
him stopped, if he cannot show a pass or give a good 
account of himself. A wire was received to-day from 
the Postmaster-General asking who gave military people 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 393 

authority to act as censors to telegrams. No one did, 
but it is hardly likely we should allow all sorts of 
rumours and real reports of important moves to fly about 
all over the country. Heaps of telegrams come to me, 
but we hardly stop any, unless they contain anything 
which may disturb the existing quiet as regards local 
farmers, who are pretty friendly on the whole i.e., they 
are willing to sell us anything. This morning I went to 
try my two quads ; one is so yellow that I propose calling 
them Mustard and Cress, which ought to please a vege- 
tarian mother. I think I shall take them both. After 
breakfast I went out to decide upon camping grounds for 
cavalry brigade and infantry division ; they had been 
mapped out before, but in a confused manner ; they are, 
I think, now square. There is of course plenty of room, 
but we want all the camps near water, which is also 
abundant, but we have had to wire for more pipes, &c. 
We have had absolutely no news of any kind lately, but 
that is good news ; every hour we get stronger and the 
enemy weaker, and the Dutch colonists less likely to 
rise. This afternoon I am going for a ride with Major 

H (with whom I am getting on admirably, and who is 

evidently a very good man) and Col. B to consider a 

portion of the defences, and to visit two Dutch farmers in 
the neighbourhood. 

9.40 P.M., Monday. Mail closes at 10 P.M., so I have 
just left Station Eestaurant, where I have been dining 

with H and B , to close this. The day has been 

hot ; the railway engineer tells me that the thermometer 
showed 94 in the shade at his house, but your ther- 
mometer shows maximum 86, and is now at 75. The 
dust was bad, with a strong wind ; my evening bath was 
heavenly. The dryness of the air is rather trying, and 
the regimental buglers can hardly play, and one's nails 
get brittle at the end ; but it makes one feel fit and well. 



394 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The difficulty is to avoid drinking. I got down to a very 
small ration on board ship : half-cup of tea 'at breakfast, 
half-glass water and lime-juice at luncheon, and one glass 
(half -pint) very weak whisky-and- water at dinner, but I 
think that is too little here ; so I am increasing my 
evening allowance it encourages perspiration, which is a 
relief in the dryness. We had about six drops of rain in 
the afternoon. I am thoroughly well and happy, and con- 
sider myself quite out-of-the-way fortunate, as I think the 
most interesting part of the show will come my way ; but 
I am reconciled to the thought that I may be left behind 
here, in which case, however good my work, I shall get 
little credit ; it is only the advertisers who can hope for 
much, but I expect to have the satisfaction of knowing 
that I have made their way easier and smoother. Much 
love. 

Your affectionate son, 
SYDNEY EABLE. 



No. 4 

2/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Your dear letters received; most 

cheering, as I was a bit depressed at news of C 's 

force in Natal. They are making the mistakes I expected, 
detaching small forces to be mopped up in detail. From 
the meagre information to hand, it is hard to see what 
the authorities wanted in Natal, unless it was to score a 
victory before being superseded, which is a cause that 
often makes mistakes. We hear the Boers are crossing 
the Orange Eiver at Norval's Pont and Bethulie, but that 

has been expected for a long time ; and General B has 

ordered troops at Naauwpoort to concentrate here ; I felt 
sure that he would not have had all these detached posts 
to tempt the enemy. Kimberley and Mafeking seem to be 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 395 

holding out well, and no doubt we shall do the same. We 
have been strengthened to-day by a battery and a half of 

artillery, among whom is F W , whom I saw at 

Las Palmas. I am very busy here ; got up at 3.30 this 
morning to receive gunners, and have been at it ever 
since (5 P.M.). The Naauwpoort garrison will probably be 
arriving all night. I think it is evident that we have 
underrated numerical strength of Boers, and that we shall 
have a harder nut to crack than even I expected. We 
shall have a pretty strong force when the garrison from 
Naauwpoort arrives ; we want a good many, as 
we have a lot of valuable stores and a large extent 
of ground to watch. I have paid for my two ponies, 
and have got them down in the camp, not far from 
my office, but I have been too busy to ride. The 
weather two days ago became suddenly cold. Your 
thermometer was down to 49 in my room, and it must 
have been nearly freezing outside at night. The flies, 
which are a nuisance, manage to revive by day. I have 
got Davison out of the camp of the Yorkshire Eegiment, 
which he hated on account of the dust, and he lives 
now near the station, in the guard-room, much more con- 
venient for me. We are expecting General F W 

to come up here, or even General B , but we know 

nothing definite. H gets newspapers sent out, which 

is a comfort, as I read them. I wish I had made arrange- 
ments to have some sent out. I have just heard a rumour 
that wires to Ladysmith have been cut, so we sha'n't get 
any news from them for some time. It is difficult to 
understand how Boers are able to keep the field so long ; 
their organisation must be very good. 

L has taken a photograph of me on my pony 

' Mustard,' which I shall perhaps be able to send home to 
you. I shall number my letters, and send them off to you 
as I write, as the mail service might break down. I am 



396 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

going to write to Max now, so that he shall get some- 
thing on arrival. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 
Let me hear all about book. 



No. 5 

Sunday, November 5/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Things are still very busy here 
indeed, but we don't get much news. On Friday the 
troops at Naauwpoort were brought here with all their 
stores for the purpose of concentration ; it was very well 
and smoothly carried out ; the railway people worked 
wonders ; but, of course, it has created a bad effect in the 
country, as it is practically an evacuation and change of 
plan. Major Rimington's Guides form part of this force ; 
they are an irregular force of colonials, and do excellent 
work as scouts and spies ; they have been more or less in 
touch with the Boers all the time ; they seem to think 
that the Free State Boers don't mean to come down far 
this way ; on the other hand, there are rumours that about 
4,000 of these have crossed at Norval's Pont, and are 
coming this way, but they are still sixty miles off. In an 
open country like this we ought to get three or four hours' 
warning of their approach, and so be ready for them. 
I don't think they can possibly have any artillery, and we 

have got a good bit. General W arrived yesterday 

to take over the command. I hope this will be a per- 
manent arrangement for some little time, as we have 
been suffering from changes in command as senior men 
arrive. 

The weather is unpleasantly dry and windy, cracks 
one's lips, but we do not suffer from heat or cold- about 
54-77 in my room. 1 am sitting now (7 A.M.) facing the 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 397 

bright sun, on the platform, very comfortable and warm. 
On Friday we had a most terrible dust storm, covered 
everything about two inches thick and gave one a thick 
layer of ic between shirt and skin. The same evening we 
had a thunderstorm with a little rain. We get dreadful 
dust every afternoon. Martial law was proclaimed for the 
district on the 3rd, though we only heard about it yester- 
day. We stuck up a notice about registration of people 
and closing of bars. Anyone found selling drink to 
soldiers or natives is to be locked up and his goods de- 
stroyed publicly. This has given me a lot of work getting 
out the passes which I shall have to continue to-day and 
this evening. There were rumours last night again that 
the rail had been cut between this and Capetown, which has 
delayed all the trains. It was, of course, not true, as the 
wires were working, but still I expect every moment that 
it will be done ; the people are evidently very disloyal. 
The proclamation of martial law may make a difference 

if they carry it out strictly. Major E seems a very 

nice fellow, and I should think a good soldier. He 
certainly gets a lot of work out of his men, and his praises 
are always being sung by the station-master. The rail- 
way officials and telegraph are beyond all praise. Mr. 

C , traffic manager ; Mr. C , station-master ; and 

Mr. F , chief telegraphist, are all Al. A farrier 

corporal-major of the 1st Life Guards is standing about 
two yards off, which seems home-like ; we have already 
had a talk. We have large working parties out every day 
under the Engineers. They are making excellent works, 
but our whole line is much too extended, though it is difficult 
to know how to avoid it, owing to the nature of the ground 
and the extent to protect. We have got enormous stores 
here, thousands of animals, so that it would be a tempt- 
ing place for the enemy to make a dash for ; but I fancy 
he would get more than he bargained for. We are going 



398 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

to have some experimental alarms just to see how the 
disposition works out. The General and his Staff (Majors 

B and C ) are forming a small mess, and H 

and I are going to join them ; but we shall probably not 
get as good food as at the Station Eestaurant, which 
would be quite good but for the flies. We think it pro- 
bable that the first troops to arrive will come up here, 
unless they are wanted in Natal, or unless they decide to 
concentrate them further back, say at Beaufort West. 
They should begin arriving on Monday or Tuesday at 
Capetown, and I suppose Max will come about the middle 
of the week. It would be nice if he came up here. I am 
now writing at noon in my office and bedroom at the 
station ; there was a momentary lull in the business in 
which I had time to write a few words. We have just 
had news only railway news, which is, as a rule, very in- 
accurate that there has been a victory in Natal. Let us 
hope it is true. It is now about 6.30, and I am still at 
work and likely to be for some time to come, though I 
shall get some food about seven o'clock. I am getting 
very little exercise at present, which is tiresome. 

Very much love to you all. I may possibly get off 
another letter to-morrow. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

The Boers are evidently coming into Cape Colony, and 
the line to Norval's Pont has been ordered to be destroyed 
by us. 

No. 6 

Monday : De Aar. 

DEAB MOTHER, Just a line to say all well. It looks 
to me as if Boers were not coming our way after all, they 
seem to me to be just wandering through thoir own 
friends' country doing nothing. We have arrested one or 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 399 

two about here ; one, a ganger on the line, was found with 
a very dirty Mauser which he said he had borrowed to 
shoot rock rabbits. I have had a letter to-day from 
my old Colonel, who is on the Staff at Capetown. 

L , of the ' Times,' tells me he is trying to get a 

rider into Mafeking, so I propose trying to get a letter 

in for N C . We had a rehearsal to-day of 

what to do in case of attack. Our guides, Kimington's 
Horse, appear to be excellent scouts, and we shall probably 
get good warning of any attack. I have been in De Aar 
now just over a week, and I feel as if I had never been out 
of the country or town. I hope I sha'n't be here for ever. 
The station and telegraph people still work wonders. 
Love to all, 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 

No. 7 

9/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Things going on well; rumours of 
enemy being near are getting less frequent, which causes 
disappointment in camp ; people are getting jealous of 
those in Natal. We have heard to-day that the mail is 
in, but she is very late : two days we have heard nothing 
of arrival of troops. I have written and wired to Max to let 
me know of his arrival. We think it almost certain now 
that the Guards' Brigade will come up here jolly lucky 
for me to be with my friends. I have had a line from 

V C to-day. She seems to like your book, and is 

going to appropriate it, though I only meant to lend her 
my copy. As you wrote my name in it, however, you must 
do it in another. I have forgotten whether I have 
mentioned what luck I have had in my clerk S. Major 
S , of the B.S.A. Police. He was on his way to join his 



400 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

corps when he found he couldn't get on, and was com- 
mandeered here ; he is invaluable and such a nice man. 
He was one of the raiders, but does not seem bloodthirsty ; 
he says that most of them were under the impression 
that the raid had something to do with the natives. We 
have got a bad dust storm to-day, otherwise the weather 
has been perfect ; in fact, I have nothing to complain of in 
any way as regards comfort, except an all-consuming 
thirst which comes from the dust particles in the air. 
I had the misfortune to crush my fingers this morning. 
I was tying my pony to the iron railway bridge here, 
when he jerked his head up and caught my hand between 
rein and iron railing. I am afraid I shall lose some 
nails. I have had it bandaged by doctor to keep it clean, 
and it is now quite comfortable. We sent a portion of 
our artillery away to-day. I believe they contemplate 
a reconnaissance towards Belmont to put a shell or two 
into the Boers. My idea is that all the Boers near us 
are merely doing a sort of promenade round the country 
to visit their friends on the side of boundary. We 
caught three beauties to-day. A father wired to his two 
sons, students at Stellenbosch, to come home at once, and, 
from letters and information, evidently for purposes of 
joining Boers. The farm lies north of here, but at the 
next station south, the lads got frightened about passing 
through De Aar and sent for their father, who came a 
long way round in a cart to fetch them. They are now 
all in gaol, and it will go pretty hard with them I expect, 
though they are no worse than all the rest. I don't think 
the preparations generally in South Africa are in such 
a forward state as was imagined. I expect the war will 
last at least a year. If they had at once pushed pre- 
parations, war might have been saved, though only to 
lead to another crisis. Longing for your next, very well 
and happy. Turner forgot to put in my regimental 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 401 

bridle with my saddlery ; that will take the shine off my 
entry into Pretoria. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 8 

ll/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

DEAR MOTHER, I heard yesterday of the death of 

poor G K F ; so sad for his wife he was a 

real good fellow, and his loss is a great one to all. The 
news was only telegraphed by correspondents to-day. 
We knew that a reconnaissance was going to take place 
to disturb enemy and keep him on the move a bit: it 
appears to have been successful in attaining its objects. 
The proportion of officers hit appears extraordinary four 
officers and two men. The reason is that in a recon- 
naissance an officer constantly goes with a small party of 
men to some place to get a good view. The men of 
course lie down while the officer is observing, and then, 
when finished the party retires with the officer last. It 
is most difficult to tell here the difference between an 
officer and a man in khaki at anything over 400 yards, 
except from the way he moves about. There is some 
talk of giving company officers guns to complete the 
resemblance, but I don't think that will be done. It 
appears now that all the first arrivals have been diverted 
to Natal, and I suppose Max and the Guards' Brigade 
will be among them a great disappointment to me, as I 
had hoped to see them here, but possibly a good bit of 
luck for them, as apparently there is little doing on this 

side. We are expecting Lord M to-night, only there 

seems to be some doubt as to his movements, as we had 
a wire to say on his arrival ' Tell him to go back again.' 
The wire must have been sent just about the time he 
was starting on a thirty-six hours' journey with many 

D D 



402 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

stops on the way, so it is perfectly inexplicable. There 
doesn't seem to be quite so much business doing here 
now for me, though mules and stores and railway 
material of all sorts are coming, and we are holding camp 
ready for arrival of troops. I now hear that Guards are 
probably coming up here : if so we shall have a good time. 
There is a rumour that another poor fellow has died at 
Orange Eiver ; his wound was supposed to be only a flesh 
one, and he was reported going on well ; it may prove 
quite untrue. The weather has been good lovely bright 
days (except for sand storms) and clear cold nights, nearly 
freezing, I should think. The flies bother me a great 
deal. I tried to remember fly trap out of ' Pot-Pourri,' 
bread and jam on the top of a jar and soapy water under- 
neath, but it didn't do much good. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

Love to all. I hope to see Douglas to-night. 

No. 9 

Sunday, 12/ll/'99 : De Aar. 
DEAR MOTHER, Things are mighty quiet to-day, 

very little doing. Lord M arrived at about 1.30 A.M. 

this morning. I waited up for him, but they were all 
asleep when the train came in. I saw a clerk, however, 
and he told me that Douglas had been kept behind, 
and was to join some irregular force. I am afraid 
he will be disappointed, but it may turn up trumps for 
him. Three pieces of baggage of his are here. I have 
wired to him for instructions, but can get no answer. It 
was a disappointment not to see him, but everything was 
forgotten in the joy of getting your letters you did not 
say what Max. was coming out as, though you say some- 
thing about police, so I gather that you mean assistant 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 403 

provost marshal to a division. I call the notices in the 
paper most complimentary much more intelligent praise 
than last time ; the Leeds paper was not among them, 

though. Lord M did not stop long ; he went to 

Church Parade, at which we had ' Child she-bear ' hymn, 
and then went round the camp and on to Orange Eiver 
at about 12.30. He seemed in excellent spirits and 
form; his two A.D.C.s I know. Most of troops now 
here are moving to-morrow to Orange Eiver, and others 
go on Tuesday ; we shall be left with three guns, 
which have been mounted on the neighbouring kopjes, 
half company mounted infantry to act as scouts, 
and probably two battalions of infantry when they 
arrive. We are expecting almost at once a portion of the 
1st Battalion Highland Light Infantry, who were with 
me at manoeuvres this year, a very nice lot of fellows. 
I shall be glad to meet them again. As regards my own 
future, I really can't make out what I shall do ; it would 
really be very bad luck to stick here all the time, but I 
don't see how I can hope to get on far for some time. 
Please tell Lionel that I am most grateful for his letter 
and for forwarding my things, which have not yet reached, 
but I have no doubt that they will do so soon. He 
has acted quite rightly with regard to signing of cheques. 

I had a letter from Messrs. H explaining the matter, 

but I sha'n't answer them it is not worth while after such 
a lapse of time. Major Rimington's Guides are an excellent 
body of men, half-soldiers, half-detectives ; they ought to 
get great praise for the work they are doing : hardly a 
mouse stirs in the country without their knowing all about 
it. The rather vague rumours of large bodies of Boers 
moving about in various directions towards Colesberg and 
Hanover Road, Philipstown and Petrusville, have almost 
entirely stopped, but we don't know here where the 
enemy have gone to, as we don't see reports except in our 

D D 2 



404 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

neighbourhood. I don't like this forward move on 
Kimberley; it again smacks of politics and playing up 
to the B.P. Detached forces of this kind are unsound in 
principle, and as far as the ultimate result of the cam- 
paign is concerned, it would be much better to let 
Kimberley fall than to risk the entanglement of a whole 

division. M is the man to make it a success, if 

anyone can. It makes matters much more interesting 
knowing so much of what is going on as I do. Every 
wire is brought to the office, and I act, usually, as censor, 
and very strict we are ; we let none of the usual reporters' 
bosh through. They meet a man they have never seen 
before, who tells them of something he thinks has 
happened 100 miles off, and they wire it off as gospel, 
or rather they would do so if it wasn't marked ' (Stop. 
S. Earle),' which means that the message does not go on 
except by post to the P.-M.-General. Am going to bed 
for a bit. Have only had about three hours' sleep the 
last two nights. Much love. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLB. 

No. 10 

13/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Just a line before mail goes. Nothing 

to record except that General W (who nearly 

turned Gladstone out for Mid-Lothian) arrived here. Also 
the llth Co. R.E., with whom I lived at manoauvres 
this year. Quite nice to see old friends. We are expecting 
2nd Bn. Coldstream Guards to arrive to-morrow morning. 
Davison, who has nearly shaved all his hair off except a 
sort of thatch on the top, quite beamed when I told him. 
We are worried off our heads about returns, figures, &c. ; 
they are never correct, but we get them somewhere near. 
The remount officer finds he has got thirty more mules than 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 405 

he bought, though he has lost a lot through straying. We 
are to have half the Highland Brigade here, including, I 
think, my friends of the Highland Lt. Inf. who were 
at manoeuvres. We had good news from Mafeking 
to-day ; they seem to be holding their own well. We tried 
our Hotchkiss gun to-day on its new mounting ; it shot off 
well, but it only fires an armour-piercing shell for torpedo 
boats. It would frighten more than hurt. Mail just off. 
Good-bye ; write often. Correspondents here have been 
'Times,' 'Morning Post,' 'Daily Mail,' 'Sun.' Collect 
any notes about De Aar. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EAELE. 

Douglas Loch wired to have his luggage sent. 

(On a little extra sheet was written.) 
In some of our seized correspondence we sometimes 
come across some amusing yarns. One story told in a 
letter as a fact is that the British soldiers have had to be 
tied together, two and two, all the way up from Capetown. 
They are so terrified of meeting the Boers that without 
this precaution they would all escape and run away on 
the way up ! the absolute unconcern and indifference on 
the part of the real Mr. T. Atkins is most marked. I don't 
think he either knows or cares whether there is a Boer in 
the country. He doesn't like being without a canteen ; on 
the other hand, I think he prefers doing fatigue and out- 
posts to drill and barrack life. 

No. 11 

15/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, Things are fairly humming now. 
Troops are being pushed up as quickly as possible to 
Orange Eiver with a view to an advance on Kimberley 
rather a wild scheme, in my opinion. I hope they are not 



4 o6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

under-rating their enemy ; they can't have a very good 
opinion of him, as, of course, there has been nothing 
except promenades and the sieges of Kimberley and 
Mafeking open towns defended almost entirely by ir- 
regulars, and yet they have been unable to take them, or 
at any rate they have stood out for a long time. But to 
advance against the enemy with such an exposed line of 
communication as we have got would, in ordinary circum- 
stances, be the height of folly. There is a large force of 
the enemy only about fifty miles from here, and he could 
get in and bag us all with stores if he was determined ; 
but, instead, he remains at Colesberg and sends in the 
traders of that town to Naauwpoort to ask the railway 
authorities to hand over any foodstuffs that there might 
be there ; the latter wired for instructions, and were told 
' Certainly not ; send foodstuff south.' A most amusing 
way of conducting a raid. Our garrison has been con- 
siderably weakened now, but it will become stronger 
again later, and we shall have troops in trains sleeping 
here every night, though they would hardly be much use, 
as they would not be prepared for a sudden attack. Of 
course we have got scouts on the look-out at a consider- 
able distance out. The 2nd Battalion Coldstream Guards 
passed through yesterday, and a portion of them slept in 
their train here ; they were looking very fit and well, and 
Davison and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing our pals, and a 
lot of reservists greeted me in one way or another. Un- 
fortunately, their first train took us by surprise. Cape- 
town had not notified their coming, so I had nothing 
ready for them for breakfast ; however, they soon got some 
coffee, and they were all right. The second half I did ' slap- 
up,' tea and biscuits, provided by Colonel B , oranges, 

bread and a pint of beer on sale ; dinner ready for the 
officers. The Scots Guards arrived to-night, and an am- 
munition column. The New South Wales Lancers are 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 407 

here. We fairly worried them ; we had no warning of their 
arrival, and they had orders to get out here from Capetown. 
As soon as they ' were out/ and had got their camp in 
order, a wire from Orange Eiver said, ' Send them on ' ; 
back they bundled, horses, baggage, and everything, into 
the train. It was then discovered that they had no trans- 
port, and were deficient in many equipment things. Of 
course they were not expected to form part of the force, 
so we wired for instructions, and now they are finally out 
here, and very glad we are to have them ; from what I 
saw of them at manoeuvres I should say they will make 
admirable scouts. They took their worrying too, well, 

considering how annoying that sort of thing is. ' D 

that Staff ! ' Things are now working smoothly at Cape- 
town. 

The line of communication station staff is not in 
working order yet ; I have no doubt it will improve. 
I hope to send you a poem culled from a local paper 
on Martial Law at De Aar to-morrow, if I can get a copy. 
I see little chance of my moving from here for some time ; 
it will be rather dull to spend many months at De Aar. 
Love to all. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 

P.S. I haven't written to a soul except you ; you 
must make my apologies for me. I am very busy. 
I started 4.15 this morning and did not get a wash till 
1 P.M., and have been at it till now, 7 P.M., and shall start 
again at 8.30. 

No. 12 

16/ll/'99: DeAar. 

DEAR MOTHER, I got a wire early this morning to 
say I was to go at once to Orange Eiver to join 
mounted infantry of Methuen's force, in what capacity I 



48 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

do not know. I am glad to get up to the front, but I am 
sorry that I am going to take up a job of which I know 
nothing, as it is a bad time to learn. However, one can't 
tell what luck one may have, but I don't think I am 
suited for the work. I am too heavy physically. The 
troops I shall be with will be probably the Northumber- 
land Fusiliers, but I don't know yet. I am leaving 
almost the whole of my kit here in charge of a man 

named Mel , a storekeeper ; I dare say he will 

look after it all right. It is possible that I shall be 
separated from Davison ; that will be an awful blow, 
both for him and for me, but it can't be helped. I 
expect my letters will get few and far between now, as 
the opportunities for writing will almost cease. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 13 

18/ll/'99 : Orange Kiver. 

DEAB MOTHEB, I have arrived here and joined the 
Mounted Infantry of the Loyal N. Lancashire Regiment 
(the 47th Foot), and I now command a section in it. The 
captain of the company is, I believe, junior to me, but I 
have to do subaltern's work i.e., take my turn of orderly 
officer ; it is the very last job in the world that I expected. 
However, the job seems interesting, and I will do my 
best to do the thing well ; the reason I and some other 
officers have been taken is that there were so many 
casualties when poor C K F was killed. 

They say we are to start on Monday on our march to 
Kimberley ; but I have my doubts as to whether we shall 
go there at all, as it has been so advertised that we are 
going there, it has been officially announced, and the war 
correspondents allowed to wire it, that it looks to me as if 
our real ' point ' was to be somewhere else, say Norval's 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 409 

Pont or Bloemfontein. We are to take nothing with us 
but blankets and a waterproof sheet and one or two 
things on our horses or in our pockets, I am going to 
take my groom Gasten on with me, but Davison I must 
leave behind. We shall live entirely on the ration, 
tinned meat and biscuit, and I hope some lime-juice. We 
shall probably have great difficulties about water. I am 

sitting writing now in W B 's tent, which I am 

sharing. It is very hot ; your little thermometer, which I 
shall have to leave behind, now reads 88. I shall, I am 
afraid, lose almost all my kit, unless Davison can manage to 
get it on somewhere. In consequence of my sudden move 
I have not managed to get hold of my mail letters for this 
last week a dreadful deprivation. I have not heard a 
word of Max ; they have evidently got confused over him 
and me already. I was put in orders to-day as belonging 

to the Grenadiers ; and Colonel C told me that he 

was under the impression that Max was up here, and he 
wanted to 'commandeer' him to make him serve in 

his battalion in the place of poor A T . Two of 

Max's letters have just arrived here, re-directed to me ; 
rather distressing. I am not even taking any writing 
things with me now, except a notebook and stylo. Much 
love. Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 



No. 14 

19/ll/'99 : Orange Eiver. 

DEAB MOTHER, I have got the mail that I thought 
had gone wrong. . . . 

I hear Max is in Capetown now, not Natal, as I 
thought, but I have had no wire from him, though he 
might have got my address from the bank, even if my 
wires missed him. They are going to try to get him up 



410 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

here to fill T 's place. I have been trying to get moved 

from the mounted infantry to one of the battalions of the 
Brigade, but without success. We are moving across the 
river to-morrow, to encamp on the other side, near where 
the Guards are. What we are going to do then we don't 
know, though it has been carefully given out that we are 
going to Kimberley so carefully and so openly that I 
have my doubts. I should not be surprised myself if we 
made a sudden turn off to the right and tried to get down 
to Norval's Pont. This would relieve matters, I think, at 
Kimberley, and we would effect a junction with troops 
coming up via Naauwpoort. They are even loading 
trains for Kimberley, but that may be another blind, as 
they could send them vid De Aar and Norval's Pont, 
where the railway is re-opened ; anyhow, we expect excit- 
ing times the next few days. 

I shall be glad to get away from the discomforts of 
this camp to the discomforts of the open field. We are 
taking no baggage at all, and shall probably be unable to 
wash or even take off our clothes for a fortnight or more. 
I shall have no stationery with me except a field note- 
book, so you mustn't expect letters. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EABLE. 

No. 15 

Tuesday 22nd: Near Belmont, on sort 
of outpost duty, watching enemy. 

DEAR MOTHEK, We marched the day before yester- 
day across the Orange Biver, and bivouacked on the north 
side, not far from the Guards' camp, where I got a wash 

in Col. S 's tent, a mug of beer and a little soup and 

some bread and tinned meat, so I didn't do badly. I had 
a wire from Max to-day to say he was coming up to join 
the 3rd Batt. We were ordered to start off at 12.30 A.M., 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 411 

but that was afterwards altered to 2.30 A.M. My section 
consists of about twenty men, all old soldiers, and dread- 
ful ruffians in private life I should think, but not bad 
fellows to deal with, though totally without discipline. 
The non-commissioned officers are also worse than use- 
less ; they do nothing but sleep. We went as portion of 
the baggage escort, and we marched without incident to 
Witteput. I saw a good many friends on the road and 

heard use some dreadful language on having his eye 

nearly put out by a native mule driver. The march was 
short and easy, but the transport seemed quite up to its 
work. There were a farm and stores at Witteput, and we 
managed to get a tin of herrings and some bread, so we 
did well. We took our horses out to graze, and just as 
we were bringing them in there was an alarm that some 
of the enemy were advancing. We saddled up and 

dashed off, then heard that Lord M was missing. 

However, he was discovered quietly sitting at the foot 
of a kopje watching events. The alarm was false ; the 
enemy had fired five shells at the 9th Lancers, and 
killed a horse, I believe. In the evening I borrowed a 
bucket from the New South Wales Lancers and had a 
good wash. My men know nothing about looking after 
themselves, they are like idle children. I am teaching 
them a few useful habits. After a good night I was 
roused at 2.30 A.M. and at 3.30, having had a little coffee 
and bread, the whole of the M.I. trotted off in the moon- 
light towards Belmont, the place where they had the 
skirmish the other day. On getting to Belmont Farm we 
dismounted, and lined the kopjes, and except for small 
changes we are here still, though it must be about 
9 o'clock. My watch stopped yesterday a great misfor- 
tune. I suppose the dust has got into the works, or I 
have banged it about somewhere. Soon after we arrived 
here we saw numerous small parties of the enemy, I should 



4 i2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

think about 300 in all, coming out from behind one hill and 
going behind another, without much aim apparently, except 
to graze their ponies ; the men are almost all out of sight, 
but I can see their ponies with my glasses about three 
miles away. We expect to be reinforced to-day at 6 P.M., 
so we have a good long wait before us, and mighty little 
prospect of any food, though we have a day's ration on 
our horses, which are about 400 yards away. We heard 
a few shots fired on the outpost line probably someone 
got the jumps. I expected to be excited the first time I 
saw the enemy, but it seems as natural as anything now. 
The 2nd Staff (Methuen's) came out with us this morning. 
I waved to Douglas from my humble position. My 
captain seems nice, but he is not the man to keep these 
rough diamonds in order. He is too serious ; they only 

get sulky. My brother section commander is called L 

of the Bombay Army. It seems a queer turn of the 
wheel that I am commanding 20 men of the N. Lan- 
cashire Kegiment, while Max will command 120 
Grenadiers with two officers. In addition to having to 
live my time away from friends, my subordinate position 
will quite prevent my getting any professional advance- 
ment; it is bad luck. We have got E as Staff 

Officer to the M.I., and though he has been very civil to 
me, he probably hates the Guards as much as his father 
does, which accounts for my being put with this company. 
I have just jumped up in a great hurry on seeing a nasty 
looking snake making for me. He was apparently as 
much frightened as I was, as he has nipped under a stone. 

I have no stick to kill him with. 

About 4.30 p.m. My picquet was withdrawn about 

II A.M. to the farmhouse, which belongs to an English- 
man named Thomas, and where we joined the reserve. 
I got some milk, and later a little bread and jam from the 
farmer. All of a sudden the Boers opened fire on us with 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 413 

a gun, not a very big one a six-pounder I should think 
and from a long way off they made quite good practice, 
and during the afternoon they have put about fifteen 
shells into the small amphitheatre surrounding the farm 
pond and spring. Taking horses to water is the signal to 
shoot. I expected to feel anxious, but instead, I only felt 
curiosity and excitement. Of course we all ducked under 
big stone walls on seeing the smoke. Then came a pause 
before hearing the report, then the whistle of the shell, 
and then the explosion of the shell. Some did not explode 
at all ; one went thump into the rocky ground about 
twenty yards from me without exploding. Another 
missed the farmhouse just over, and exploded in the hill- 
side beyond, about two feet from a goat who was taking a 
snooze, but without hurting him. The ostriches seemed 
alarmed it is a great game here for the soldiers to pursue 
the birds and snatch out their feathers, which they then 
put inside their helmets to keep their heads cool, and 
as a present for their girls on return. We are expecting 
the advanced guard of the force this evening at 6 P.M. 
We shall probably have a battle to-morrow, which we 
ought to win easily, if we don't throw masses of infantry 
against the Boers before thoroughly shaking them with 
artillery. We are travelling as light as we possibly can 
nothing but blankets and a waterproof in cart, great-coat, 
&c., on horse. We draw rations with the men ; good bread 
or biscuit ; the tinned meat might be better, some is good 
and palatable, other tough, stringy, and nasty to look 
at a question of economy ; but I am sure soldiers would 
sooner be spared dinners and extravagances on their 
return if they might have the best possible on service. 
One should remember the initial value of the article is so 
little compared with the value of the article delivered 
here. 

Am giving this to groom to post if possible, 2.30 A.M. 



4 i4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Thursday. We expect battle to-day. We protect 
advance of Guards' Brigade. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 



No. 16 

26/ll/'99 : Near Graspan. 

DEAR MOTHER, I hope you got my fifteenth letter, 
dated from Belmont ; it was entrusted to a wounded 
sergeant of the Coldstreams, who promised to post it. 
We have had an anxious three days. Thursday we fought 
the battle of Belmont, and though we turned the Boers 
out of an almost impregnable position, we lost heavily 
in so doing. My company was operating on the right 
flank of the Guards and artillery, but we were unable to 
do much ; we began by drawing the fire of the enemy to 
enable the artillery to have a target. We remained under 
fire until the position was taken, and then we dashed 
round the south side of the great kopje and tried to catch 
the enemy trekking away ; but it was impossible to dis- 
tinguish friends from enemy ; in fact, the Grenadiers fired 
at a portion of one company. We got a few waggons and 
a small laager of the enemy, we then tried to get still 
further round, but they got away so cleverly and so 
quickly, covered by the fire of a few men, that we never 
did any good. We then went away still further from the 
rest of the force (which in my opinion is wrong, as in 
these great plains it is most important not to lose all 
cohesion), and coming on to the top of a rise, a gun 
opened fire on us at a very short range, supported by rifle 
fire ; we stopped there for some time, but did no good. If 
we had been able to get up some guns, it might have been 
all right, but still the detaching of small forces is what 
so often leads to disaster. We then returned slowly and 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 415 

got some water and Boer bread (an excellent sort of rusk) 
from this laager. We destroyed about 15,000 rounds of 
their ammunition ; they have plenty more, though. I saw 
Max, who, I hear, did splendidly on the afternoon, and 

heard about losses of Brigade. I saw C and B 

with their wounds dressed walking about quite cheerfully. 
Max gave me your letter with father's ideas about war, in 
which I quite concur ; it seems the most ridiculous thing 
that we should be going through every sort of horror in 
order to shoot at total strangers who have never done us 
much harm. They are splendid fighters too, from what 
I can see, and they make full use of the wonderful 
country in which every two miles there are perfect posi- 
tions which fulfil all the requirements that a most 
ingenious engineer can contrive a first-class position in 
Europe may fulfil five or six conditions, leaving four or 
five others unfulfilled ; here every one is fulfilled, abso- 
lutely ready made, except an abundant supply of good 
water. 

The day after the battle our company started long 
before daybreak to support the armoured train, which was 
going to repair the line. We sent out scouts in front and 
flanks. I took charge of a small rearguard and the left 
flank scouts ; all went well till we got nearly here. I was 
then sent off with a few men to a small farm about three 
miles to the right, where we thought we saw Boers and 
waggons, but on arriving we found only black farmers with 
oxen. I purchased a drink of milk all round from them, 
and was just going to water my horse at a pond when I 
saw in the far distance a big gun fire at the armoured 
train, which proceeded to retire rapidly. I at once set off 
to support it, and on arrival found that an officer and two 
of our scouts had been fired on at close range, and were 
missing. 

We have since found that the officer and one man 



416 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were killed ; the other is lying here dangerously wounded, 
shot through the back of the head. It was no good 
attempting to repair the line farther, so all retired to 
Belmont, where we stopped the night alone, all the rest 
of the army marching out north. Yesterday we did not 
start till 5 A.M., as our horses and men were very tired. I 
borrowed a basin from the farmer, whose house had been 
turned into a hospital, took it into his vegetable garden, 
which had of course been completely stripped, and had a 
fine wash, which was only spoilt by the near neighbour- 
hood of a decaying horse this was the evening of the 
armoured-train day. Next day we started off in pursuit 
of our friends, arrived just in time for the opening of 
what I suppose will be called the engagement of Gras- 
pan. We had no orders, but we had an idea that the 
9th Lancers were round on the right flank (east), so we 
rode round, being shelled at two or three places without 
result, though the aim was very good. We found the 
9th snug under a kopje. We could not tell how the fight 
was going, but our artillery fire, which had been going on 
for a couple of hours, stopped suddenly, and we saw Boers 

on three sides of us. Colonel B G was just 

going to retire when we perceived that the Boers them- 
selves were retiring, so we went on further round, very 
well concealed, till we got to a place where we could see 
them leaving the kopje with their waggons. There is no 
doubt that the Lancers ought to have charged home here, 
supported by us, instead of which we dismounted and 
fired at them. I am afraid we frightened them more than 
we hurt them. Anyhow, there were hundreds of them 
going away, trekking across the plain ; a perfectly orderly 
rabble, no hurry or confusion ; it is always so, for every 
man works for himself in this open country. We got on 
our horses again and pursued, but got no closer ; we gave 
them a parting shot or two, but they were still round us 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 417 

on two sides. The Lancers then retired, and we were 
told to hold a kopje to cover their retreat ; we had a 
ticklish time, but got out of it all right, one man shot 
through the cheek and neck. They shelled us going back, 
but only got a horse. I don't know yet whether we are 
doing much good ; we are camping on enemy's position, 
but that is only a barren honour, specially as the 
water is infamous, same for animals and men, and all the 
colour of coffee. I hope it won't give disease. I am 
trying to drink it only boiled, but the dryness makes one 
dreadfully thirsty. I am suffering, like most of us, from 
bad cracked lips, and have no grease to soothe them. To- 
day we have a rest day, but I expect we shall go out this 
afternoon. Much love. 

Your affectionate son, 

SYDNEY EARLE. 
I wish it was all over. 



E E 



INDEX 



A , Miss, 377 

Abbott, Archbishop, 101 

Abo, 360-361 

Acacia, yellow, 160, 169 

Ackland, Dr. W. H., 75 

Acorns, eatable, 164 

Acton, Lord, 351-353 

Adenophora Potanini, 218 

Adulteration of food, 32, 100 

Advertisements, teaching of, 52 

Agaves (aloes), 163-164, 170 

Agneau-de-lait, 94, 96 

Agnew, Lady, 107 

Aix, 238 

Albumen, daily allowance of, 85- 
86, 111 ; digestion of, 105 (see 
also under ' Proteid ') 

Alcohol, hereditary effect of ex- 
cessive drinking of, 51 ; Plas- 
mon as a substitute for, 55 ; 
Maeterlinck on, 73-74 ; effects 
of, 256 

Alison, Mr. George, 220 

Aliwal North, 392 

Alkaline salts in potatoes, 71 

treatment, 44 

Allen, Grant, 253-255 

Allinson, Dr., 15 ; ' Medical 
Essays,' 30; on diet for uric- 
acid diseases, 45 

Allman & Son, 34 

Allopathy, 30 

Almond cream, preparation of, 
69-70 

Almonds, prussic acid in, 62, 
98-9; in diet, 69, 71, 130; 



varieties of, 98; oil of, 99; 

amount of proteid in, 111 
Aloes, 163-164, 170 
Alternanthera, 208 
Amalfi, 198, 333 
Amaranthus caudatus, 323 
American food reformers, 112 
Amesbury, 383 
Amornum, 272-273 
Ampelopsis Veitchii, 271 
Amygdalin in almonds, 99 
Amygdalm Davidiana, 152 
Anaemia, diet for, 45, 67 
Analysis of food, 104 ; on the 

Continent, 100 
Andover, 121 
Andromedas, 233 
Anemones, 165, 172, 354 
Angelo, Michael, 173 
' Animal Life,' 272 
Anthropoid apes, teeth of, 28 ; 

diet of, 29 

Antrobus family, 383 
Appendicitis, 126 
Appetite, importance of, 67 
Apple and nut diet, 98 
dumplings, 128 ; pudding, 

baked, 129 ; meringue, 287 
Apple-trees, 212 ; prunings of, for 

goats, 103 ; grown from pips, 

260 

April, notes for, 175-202 
Aquarium, 98 ; at Naples, 185 
Arabis alpina flore-pleno, 220 
Army Service Corps in South 

Africa, 381 

E E 2 



420 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Arnold, Dr., 75 

Art, pre-Raphaelite school of, 58 ; 

modern, 205 
Artichoke, leaves of, for goats, 

103, 227; Globe, 226-227, 

260 ; how to serve, 285 
Asparagus, 4-5, 17, 260; xanthin 

in, 48 

Asphodels, 197-198 
Asters, 265 

' Astolat Press,' 100-102 
Atlee, Mr., 295 
Atwater, Professor, 27 
Auckland, 250 
August, notes for, 266-304 
1 Aurora Leigh ' quoted, 202 
' Australia ' battleship, 377 
Austria, and Russia, 371-373 
Ayr, 382 
Azaleas, 216, 231-233, 348 



378 



Captain and Mrs., 377- 



B , Colonel C., 391, 393, 406 

B , General, 394-395 

B , Lord, 391 

B , Major, 398 

B , W., 409 

Baby food, 297 

Backhouse, Messrs., 232 

Bagnoles-de-1'Orne, 63 

Baise, 179, 184 

Ball, Mr., 250 

Ball's ' Story of the Heavens,' 

383 

' Ballads of the Boer War,' 341 
Bamboos, 170, 233, 235 
Bananas, 115 
Bankruptcy Court, story from 

the, 339 
Barberton, 340 
Barcelona nuts, 130 
Barley and raisin pudding, 129 
_ bread, 126 
porridge, 112 
-water, 70, 113, 289; receipt 

for, 128 

Barr & Sons, 251, 323 
Barr, Mr. Peter, 210, 249-251 
Batourin, town 370 



Battle Creek Sanatorium, 112 

Bax & Sons, 126, 295 

Bay-trees, 162, 236-237 

Beaconsfield, Lord, ' Sybil,' 388 

Beale, Dr. Lionel, 11 

Beans, 4, 17, 57, 261 ; uric acid 
in, 18, 48 ; ancients abstained 
from use of, 49 ; used by the 
Greeks in balloting, 49 ; as 
food for the poor, 109 ; from 
Madeira, 144 ; preserved, 301 

Beaufort West, 398 

Beaumont, Sir William, 208 

Bee-keeping, 124 

Beech-trees, 211, 236, 383; at 
Strathfieldsaye, 335 

Beer, 32, 50, 90, 121 

Beer-money for servants, 145 

Beetroot salad, 288 

Bell's ' Life and Light ' series, 
26 

Bellet, 161 

Belmont, 400, 410-411, 416; 
battle of, 414-415 

Benham, Dr., 75 

Berkheim, Count, 349 

Berlin Conference on Tubercu- 
losis, 88, 158 

Bertschinger, Dr., 100 

Besant, Mrs. Annie, 354 

Bethulie Bridge, 385, 394 

' Bhagavad Gita,' 354 

' Bibelots ' series, 101 

Bible on flesh foods, 48 

Bignonias, 231 

Bills, payment of, 138-139 

Biscuits, use of, in travelling, 66 ; 
making, 252, 293, 300 

Bjorsby, 361 

Black, Dr. George, 75 

Blacker, Dr., 75 

Blackthorn, 153 

Blatchford, Eobert, * Merrie Eng- 
land,' 249 

Blight, 247 

Bloemfontein, 385-386, 409 

' Bloody Noses,' 324 

Blunt, Mr. Wilfred, ' In Vinculis,' 
347 

Boer War, 89, 194, 227-228; 
incident in the, 340 ; ' Ballads 



INDEX 



421 



of the,' 341 ; Captain Sydney 
Earle's letters on the, 374-417 

Bonn's Classical Library, 183 

Boix, Dr., 27 

Bomarsund, 360 

Books, see under Cookery, Diet, 
Education, Gardening, Health, 
Hygiene, Poems, &c. 

Booth, Charles, 139 

Boracic acid in mucus colitis, 68 

Boron in bread, 65 

Borrow, George, quoted, 147 

Botanical names and the igno- 
rant, 170 

gardens, 229-230 
Botticelli, painter, 174 
Bouchard, Dr., 27 
Boulouris, 161 

Bourget's 'Homme d'Affaire,' 165 

Bouvardias, 273 

' Braemar Castle,' 377-379 

Brams Hill, visit to, 274-275, 
306, 309 

Bran tea, 113, 294 

Brassica oleracea, 252 

Brazil nut soup, 130 

Bread, Graham brown, 4 ; gyp- 
sum in, 65 ; receipt for, 296 ; 
amount of proteid in, 111 ; un- 
fermented, 126 ; flour for mak- 
ing, 294-295; on bought, 295, 
300 ; Boer, 415 

and fruit diet, 120 
Breakfast, hour for, 4 ; omission 

of, 15-16, 27 

Briar root for pipes, 161-162 

Brighton, 279 

Brindisi, 176 

Brink's ' French Eevolution,' 340 

British Dental Association, 297 

British Museum, 358 

Broadbent, Mr. Albert, 26, 297 

Broadbent, Sir William, on con- 
sumption, 96 

Broadlands Home, 77 

Broadmoor, 72 

Broccoli, 252, 262 

Brody, town, 371 

Bronkerspruit, 382 

Brooke, Mr. Stopford, 213-214 

Brouardel, M., 158 



Brown, T. E., ' Letters ' quoted, 3 

Browning, Robert, 323-324 

Browning, Mrs., 202 

Bruccio, curd made from goats' 
milk, 96 

Bruce, Hon. Mrs. F. J., 26 

Bruges, nursery gardens at, 230 

Brussels, 230 

Bryce, Eobert, ' Suffolk Breviary,' 
336 

Bulawayo, 382 

Bull, sex vigour in the, 55 

Bullant, architect, 167-168 

Burgundy wine, 67 

'Buried Temple, The,' quoted, 
72-74 

Burne-Jones, painter, 54 

Bushey art students, 124 

Butter, 88, 90; as an aid to 
digestion, 71 ; nut, 112 ; cocoa- 
nut, 117 



C , Colonel, 409 

C , General, 394 

C , Major, 398 

C , Mr., traffic superinten- 
dent, 397 

C , Mr., stationmaster, 397 

C , E., Vale,' poem, 355 

C , Lady E., 389-390, 399 

C , N., 399 

C V , Prince, 378 

Cabbages, 252, 260 ; how to serve, 
286 ; on cooking, 287 

Cain, sculptor, 166 

Cakes, how to keep fresh, 285 ; 
foreign, 293 

Calendulas, 213 

Calomel in eczema, 46 

Cambridge University, 351-352 

Camellias, 235 

Camembert cheese, 90 

Campanulas, 217-218, 320 

Campions, 232 

Canary Islands, 162 

Cancer, cause of, 47 

Cannas, 267 

Cannell, Mr., 262-263, 267 

Cannes, 162 ; visit to, 169-172 

Cantani, Dr., 78, 80, 84, 86-87 



422 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Cape montbretias, 235 ; bulbs, 
310; pelargoniums, 320-321; 
heaths, 322 ; plants, 332 
Cape Colony, 398 ; Dutch rising 

in, 382, 385 

Capetown, 249, 378-379, 388 seq. 
Capetown Cold Storage Co., 250 
Cape Verde Islands, 380-381 
Caprera, Island of, 200 
Capri, 196-197 
Capucine convent, 198-200 
Caracciolo. Admiral, 186 
Carbolic acid in mucus colitis, 68, 

188-189 

Carisbrooke, 303 
Carlsbad waters, 44 
Carlstadt, 359 

Carmichael, Dr. D. George, 75 
Carnations, 230, 236, 263-264 
Carnivora, 28 ; sex vigour in the, 

55 
Carnivorous habit in man, 25, 

29,72 

Carrots, 261 
Carter, Mr. Albert, 298 
Carvalho. Miolan, 166 
Casein, 78 ; in separated milk, 90 
Cassell's National Library, 337 
Cassia corymbosa, 263 
Cataloguing a garden, mode of, 

253, 262 
Catalpas, 248 

Cats' tongues (biscuits), 293 
Cauliflowers, 252, 261 
Ceanothus, 212 
Cedars, 236, 327 
Celeriac, 261 
Celery, 261 

Cellini, Life of Benvenuto, 327 
Cenotaphs, 193 
Centaureas, 232 
Ceylon and the tea industry, 32, 

51 

' Chambers's Encyclopaedia ' quo- 
ted, 99, 164 

Champagne in dyspepsia, 61, 70 
Charwoman and Cabinet Minister, 

109 

Chatsworth, 352 
Chatterji, Mohini, 354 
Chaucer quoted, 345 



Cheese, 5, 78, 84-85, 88 ; melted, 
7; curd, 8, 129; as a substi- 
tute for meat, 67, 69 ; in diet, 
86-87 ; Camembert, 90; goats', 
96 ; amount of proteid in, 111 ; 
for dinner in various forms, 
113 ; and macaroni patties, 
127; Gruyere, 127; cream, 
252 ; salad, 285 ; boiled, 289 
Cherry and raspberry jam, 285 
Chestnuts, leaves for goats, 103 ; 
purchasing of, 115-116; how 
to stew, 128 ; as a sweet, 289 
Chicken farming, 124, 150 
Chicory, 261 
Chilblains, cure for, 304 
Children, management of, 30 ; 

diet for, 50, 52 

Chinese method of preparing tea, 
51 ; payment of doctors in 
health, 62; flowering shrub, 
152; Guelder roses, 265 
Chocolate in glasses, cold, 294 
toast, 285 
Chou braised, 286 
I a la creme, 286 
j Choucroute, preserved, 301 
i Christmas roses, 153, 221 
j Chrysanthemums, how to grow, 

349-350 ; poem on, 350-351 
! Cicero's essays, 'Old Age' and 

* Friendship,' 184 
Cimicifugas, 264-265 
Cinematographs of operations, 

340 

Cineraria mar itima, 271 
Claude, artist, 206 
Clematis, 222, 318, 330-331 ; ' as 
a Garden Flower,' 251-252 ; at 
Harwich, 330 ; for pergolas, 
333-334 

Clergy and the diet question, 104 
Cleveland, U.S.A., 284 
Clodd, Mr., 255 
Cobham, 294, 376 
Cocoa, 17 ; xanthin in, 48 ; sub- 
stitute for, 113 
Cocoanut butter, 117 
Cod-liver oil, 90 

Coffee, 4, 17, 42, 50 ; uric acid 
in, 18, 48; condemnation of, 



INDEX 



423 



31, 141 ; goat's milk with, 93 ; i 
substitute for, 113 

Colds, open-air treatment of, 159 

Coldstream Guards, 404, 406, 
414 

Coleridge's ' Table Talk ' quoted, 
180-181 

Colesberg, 403, 406 

Colesberg-Burghersdorf railway, 
382, 385 

Colitis, 68, 71, 126 

Comfrey for goats, 103 

Congo plants, 230 

Connington Hall, 307 

Constantinople, 371 

Constipation the proof of indi- 
gestion, 52 ; in vegetarian diet, 
81-83, 87 

Consumption, high feeding in, 
41 ; treatment of in sanatoria, 
83, 96, 178 ; Berlin Conference 
on, 88 ; Sir William Broadbent 
on, 96; suggestion for the 
King's new hospital for, 96; 
exemption of goats and asses 
from, 96; letter on the in- 
fectiousness of 156-158; Na- 
tional Association for the Pre- 
vention of, 157-158 

Convention of London, 1 884, 388 

Cookery Books, 283 ; (see also 
Health books); Kellogg, Dr., 
' Science in the Kitchen,' 5, 
32; Fernie, Dr., 'Kitchen 
Physic,' 75 ; ' Dainty Dishes,' 
287 ; Hilda's ' Diary of a Cape 
Housekeeper,' 284 ; < Where Is 
It of Receipts,' 284; instruc- 
tions for elementary schools on 
cookery, 105 ; Liverpool School 
of Cookery book, 284; Boss, 
Janet, ' Leaves from our Tus- 
can Kitchen,' 284 

Cooking reduced to once a week, 
116 

Cooks, 140-141, 144 

Cope, Sir Walter, 241 

Copenhagen, 357 

Copper stewpans lined with silver, 

302 
Cork-trees, 164-165 



' Cornhill Magazine,' articles from 
the, 107 seq., 133-151, 323, 
356-373 

Corns, cure for, 303 
Coronation decorations, 240-241 
Correvon, M., quoted, 153 
Corrosive sublimate as an anti- 
dote for microbes, 188 
Corsica, 162 ; goats in, 96 
Cottar farmers, art students as, 

124-125 
Cotterill, Mr. H. B., letter on 

larkspurs, 344-345 
Cotton, Sir Bobert, 307 
Cotton-seed oil for frying, 116 
' Country Life,' 103 ; ' Country 

Life Library,' 245, 334 
Country life and slum -dwellers, 
123; desire for, 124; advan- 
tages of, 147; expenses of, 
148 seq. 

Cowan, George, 340 
Cows, artichoke leaves as food 

for, 103 

Cowslips, 155, 206 
Crabbe, poet, 336 
Cranberries, 144 
Crawford, Marion, ' The Rulers 

of the South,' 49 
Cream, no proteid in, 90 
Cream cheeses, 252 
Cremation, 200-201; Garibaldi 

on, 200 
Crespi, Dr., 75 
Crimea, 369, 371 
Crimean war, 194, 228, 357 
Crocuses, 155 
Cronberg, 311 
Cronenburg, Castle of, 358 
Crops, rotation of, 260-262 
Cruelty to animals in Italy, 177 
Cucumbers, preserved, 301 
Cud-chewers, teeth of, 29 
Curd cheese, 8, 129 
Currie, Sir P., 208 
Curry, to make a dry, 290 
Curtis, Miss Adela, 26 
Curtis, A. C. and the ' Astolat 

Press,' 100-102 

Curtis & Davison, booksellers, 
32 



424 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Cyanthus lobatus, 310 
Cypress-trees, 172, 239-240, 248 
Cypripediums, 348 



D , J., 389-390, 406, 408 

Dabbs, Dr. G. W. E., 303 

Daffodils, 152, 155, 213 ; 'Lecture 
on,' 249-251 

Dahlias, 267-268 

' Daily Mail,' 77 ; war correspon- 
dent, 392, 405 

' Dairy Farm in Miniature, A,' 103 

DalBhat (Indian breakfast dish), 
290 

Dalmatia, 162 

Dante quoted, 46 

Danube, river, 371 

Dardanelles, 371 

Darmstadt, 349 

Date pudding, 127 

Dates, albumen in, 111 

Datura cornigera, 266-267 

David, statue of, 173 

Davison, Mr., 378, 383, 395, 404, 
409 

Davitt, Michael, quoted, 346-347 

De Aar, 389-410 

' De 1'Horlogiographie,' 168 

De 1'Orme, architect, 167-168 

Deane, Dr. E. Edmund, 75 

Defoe, Daniel, ' Tour through the 
Eastern Counties,' 337 

Delphiniums, 348 

Denmark, tour in, 356 seq. 

Depopulation of rural districts, 
108, 123 seq. 

Depression caused by indigestion, 
120 

on change of diet, 45-46 
Derby, Lord, 388 

' Devil in the bush, the,' 323 
Devonshire, Duke of, Mr. Mor- 

ley's letter to, 351-353 
Dewey, Dr. E. H., on diet, 8; 

' A New Era for Women,' 15, 

27 ; ' True Science of Living,' 

32 

Dictamnus fraxinella, 226 
Diet of the author, 4-7 

Dr. Haig's, 6, 8, 17, 41-42, 62, j 



75 ; Salisbury, 6, 46, 50 ; vegeta- 
rian, 6, 8-11, 25, 43-44, 60, 67 ; 
meat, 6, 10, 16, 18, 28, 46, 48, 
50 ; moderation in, 8, 30 ; 
change of, 11, 53, 88, 121, 255, 
300; of anthropoid apes, 29; 
of man, fruits and seeds, 29 ; 
Dr. Allinson's, 30; in illness, 
34, 62-64, 66-68; difficulties 
of change of, 46-7, 59, 60-61, 
67; wrong, the cause of dis- 
ease, 40 ; of a doctor, 42 ; in 
uric-acid diseases, 45-46 ; de- 
pression on change of, 45-46 ; 
serious study of, 46, 51-52, 
68; in old age, 47, 56; for 
children, 50-53 ; in schools, 
54-55 ; the cure for obesity, 
58 ; in indigestion, 61-62, 67 ; 
while travelling, 64-66, 204; 
dry, 69 ; the cure for skin- 
diseases, 71-72 ; Maeterlinck 
on, 72-74 ; homes for instruc- 
tion in, 76 seq. ; a friend's 
criticisms on, and Dr. Haig's 
reply, 78-88 ; habit in, 87-88 ; 
the question of quantity in, 78 
seq., 84-87 ; of nuts and apples, 
98 ; universal interest in the 
question of, 104 ; at three 
shillings a week, 109 seq. ; 
cheapest form of, 120 ; plea 
for a simpler form of, 120 seq., 
204 ; the cure for corns, 303 
Diet, books on (see also under 
Health books) : Sir Henry 
Thompson's ' Diet in Eelation 
to Age and Activity,' 13-14 ; Dr. 
Haig's leaflets on diet, 24 n., 
45, 48-49, 57; 'Diet and 
Food in Relation to Strength 
and Power of Endurance,' 

25, 41, 86 ; Eustace Miles's 
' Muscle, Brain, and Diet,' 25 ; 
' Failures of Vegetarianism,' 
25 ; 'Better Food for Boys,' 

26, 53-54; 'Forty Vegetarian 
Dinners,' 26; 'Science in the 
Daily Meal,' 27 ; 4 Fruits, Nuts, 
and Vegetables : their Uses as 
Food and Medicine,' 27 ; Mrs. 



INDEX 



425 



Anna Kingsford's 'The Perfect 
Way in Diet,' 28 ; T. E. Allin- 
son's ' Book F,' 30 ; A. W. 
Duncan's 'Chemistry of Food,' 
32; A. W. Duncan's 'Foods 
and their Comparative Values,' 
32; Hutchinson's 'Dietetics,' 
32 ; Smith's ' Fruits and Fari- 
nacea,' 32 ; Albert Carter's 
* Natural Food,' 298 

Dieting, doctors on, 6, 11 ; weight 
in, 58, 61, 78 seq., 85 seq. 

Dietists, dinner to, 20 ; and hotel- 
keepers, 64, 66 

Digestion, 79, 87 ; mental irrita- 
tion bad for, 60 ; aids to, 71 

Digestive organs, in man, 29, 60, 
79, 81 ; of the cud-chewers, 
29 

' Digit of the Moon : A Hindoo 
Love Story,' 37-39 

Dinner, the hour for, 56 

Dinners and teas to the poor, 35 

Diosma capitata and ericoides, 
211 

Doctors, imaginary conversation 
between two, 42-43 ; and the 
treatment of vegetarians, 52- 
53, 61-62; list of those who 
advocate a non-flesh diet, 75 ; 
and vegetarianism, 83 ; and 
their bills, 138 

Doernberg, Count, 365 

Dorbay, architect, 168 

Dorking, 295 

Douglas, Mr., 263 

Dover, 252 

Drill Hall exhibitions, 152-154, 
207, 210 

Drinking, hereditary effect of 
excessive, 50-51 ; Maeterlinck 
on, 73-74 ; at meals, mode of, 
112 ; stories, 338-339 

Drunkenness, 48 

Dry diet, 69 

Du C , 389-390 

Du Cerceau, architect, 168 

Dublin, 204, 230 

' Dunvegan Castle,' 387 

Dyspepsia, diet in, 61, 67; acid , 
71 ; produced by milk, 80 ; 



and tea drinking, 141-142 (see 
also under Indigestion) 
Dyspeptics, diet for, 5 ; long life 
of, 6 ; meal hours for, 57 ; 
diet for, with reduced cooking, 
118 



E , Major, 397 

E , Staff officer, 412 

Earle, Charles, Journal of, 356- 
373 

- Charles William, 376 
Major Henry, 391 

Lionel, 377, 403 

Max, 390, 396-402,'409-415 

Captain Sydney, 253 ; last 

letters of, 374-417 

Early rising, 142 

Eating, love of, 59-60 

Economy in housekeeping, 142 

Eczema, 46 ; diet in, 71 ; the 
cause of a tragedy, 71-72 

Edinburgh, 273 

Education, Books on : 'An Ideal 
School, or Looking Forward,' 
by Preston Search, 35 ; ' Educa- 
tion and Empire,' by E. B. 
Haldane, 36 

defects of modern, 149 

Edward VII., King, new sana- 
torium for consumption, . 96 ; 
and the diet question, 104 ; 
interest in the Society for the 
Prevention of Tuberculosis, 
158 ; illness of, 241, 243 

Egg-plants, 320 

Eggs, uric acid in, 16, 78, 85 

' Eighteen hundred a year,' 133- 
151 

Elementary Schools, Instructions 
on Cookery for, 105 

Eliot, George, 137 ; ' Eomola,' 
191 

Elizabeth, Queen, 307, 331 

Ellacombe, Canon, 247 

Elsinor, 358-359 

Elysee, Palace, 166-167 

Emulsin in almonds, 99 

1 Encyclopaedia Britanniea ' 
quoted, 161 



426 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Endive, 261 ; French mode of 

cooking, 287 

Enteric, inoculation for, 378 
Epilepsy, diet for, 45 
Epimediums, 155, 235 
Ericas (heaths), various, 207-210, 

224 
Erskine, of Linlathen, Thomas, 

243 

Esher, Lord, 274 
Eton and the diet question, 52 
Eucalyptus-trees, 169 
Eucomis, 310 
Euonymus, 195 
Euphorbias, 232, 270 
Evergreens in London, 195 
Everlastings, 374 
Eversley, 274 
Exercise in indigestion, 61 
for invalids, 62, 86 
Exeter, 338 

' Exile's Mother, An,' poem, 215 
Eye, training of the, 149-150 



p , of the Army Service Corps, 

392 

F , Mr., chief telegraphist, 397 

F , C. K., 401, 408 

' Family Budgets,' articles on, 

107 seq., 133-151 
Farming, various kinds of, 124- 

125 ; goat, 89-106 
Fat, reduced by diet, 57-58, 61 ; 

digestion of, 105 ; in diet, 110 ; 

in goat's milk, 93, 119 
February, Notes for, 152-159 
Ferments, 99 
Ferns, 195 

Fiesole, Mino da, 173 
Fig-trees, outdoor culture of, 268 
Fig pudding, 291 
Figs, albumen in, 111 ; stewed, 

289 

Finland, 361-363 
Fir-trees, 211 ; Scotch, 275 
Fish in rheumatism, 5 

salt, the cause of leprosy, 47 

uric acid in, 16, 47-49 
Flesh foods, Bible on, 48 ; uric 

acid in, 48 (see also under Meat) 



'Fleurs et Montagues,' poems, 
153 

Flint, Dr., 75 

Florence, 191, 284, 344 ; visit to, 
172-173 ; letter on, 173-174 

Flour, various qualities of, 116, 
294-296 

Flourens, M., on man's frugi- 
vorous nature, 29 

Flower-growing, 124 ; in London, 
difficulties of, 194 

Flowers, in table decorations, 
144-145 ; floating arrangement 
of, 221-222 ; how to dry, 302 ; 
wild, 343-344 

Fly-trap, 402 

Folco, Sina, 174 

Food, adulteration of, 32, 100 
wrong, the cause of disease, 
40 ; the study of, 51-52 ; che- 
mistry of, 53 ; on board ship, 
65-66 ; Maeterlinck on, 73 ; 
instruction in elementary 
schools on, 105 ; wholesome, 
for the poor, 107-32 ; Be- 
formers, 108, 112 (see also 
under Diet) 

Forget-me-nots, 207, 232 

Formic acid in almonds, 99 

Forsythia suspensa, 153 

Fotheringhay village, 306-307 

France, visit to the South of, 
160 seq. ; ' Eenaissance of Art 
in,' 167; and Kussia, 372- 
373 

Francoa ramosa, 268 

Frankfort, 171 

Frejus, 166 

French Exhibition of 1900, 280 

hours for meals, 57 

plums, albumen in, 111 
Froude on Mary Queen of Scots, 

307-308 

Frozen provisions, 65 

Frugivorous habit of man, 28- 
29,72 

Fruit, albumen in, 111 ; puddings, 
113 ; and bread diet, 120 ; farm- 
ing, 124 ; to bottle, 288-289 

Fruit and seeds, man's proper 
diet, 29, 43 



INDEX 



427 



Fruitarians, 54; on board ship, 

65-66 

Fruit-trees for London, 195 
how to grow, 259-260 
Fruit-wall, an old, 332-333 
Fry, Mr. Eoger, 20G 
Frying, oil for, 116 
Fuchsias, 320 
Furnishing, 138, 149 



G , Colonel, 378, 392 

G , Colonel B., 416 

Gambling, 134 

' Garden, The,' 207, 245, 334 

Garden City Association, 109 

Gardening, wild, 198, 208, 233- 
235, 282; recent books on, 
203; in winter, 204; letters 
from Germany on, 217-219, 
301-302, 310-315, 349; new 
tool for, 321 

Books on : Mr. Kobinson's 
' English Flower Garden,' 155, 
198, 208-209, 219 ; Moggridge's 
'Flora of Mentone,' &c., 161, 
165; 'Kiviera Notes,' 171; 
Jekyll and Morley's ' Eoses for 
English Gardens,' 246 ; Nichol- 
son's ' Dictionary of Garden- 
ing,' 219, 253, 273 ; Gerarde's 
' Herbal,' 225 ; ' Century Book 
of Gardening,' 237, 252-253 ; 
Miss G. Jekyll's 'Home and 
Garden,' 244 ; ' Wall and 
Water Gardens,' 244-245 ; 
'Lilies for English Gar- 
dens,' 245-246 ; ' Country 
Life Library,' 245, 334; Her- 
bert Cousins' ' Chemistry of 
the Garden,' 246-247, 314; 
Violet Biddel's ' Small Gardens 
and How to Make the Most 
of Them,' 247; Forbes Wat- 
son's ' Flowers and Gardens,' 
247-248 ; Edward Jesse's 
' Favourite Haunts and Rural 
Studies in the Vicinity of 
Windsor and Eton,' 248-249; 
Eichard Jefferies' ' Life of the 
Fields,' 249 ; Peter Barr's ' The 



Daffodil ' and ' Lilies of the 
World,' 249-251; Moore and 
Jackson, 'The Clematis as a 
Garden Flower,' 251; Mrs. 
London's ' Lady's Country 
Companion,' 252 ; Edward 
Step's ' The Eomance of Wild 
Flowers,' 253 ; Eider Haggard's 
' Farmer's Year-Book for 1898,' 
255-256; Vilmorin's 'Vege- 
table Garden,' 258 ; I. C. Lou- 
don's 'Arboretum et Fruti- 
cetum Britannicum,' 271, 334- 
335 ; Andrews' ' The Botanist's 
Repository,' 320 ; Curtis' Bo- 
tanical Magazine,' 321 ; An- 
drews' ' Heathery,' 322 ; Cook's 
' Trees and Shrubs,' 334-335 ; 
H. Eepton's ' Theory and Prac- 
tice of Landscape Gardening,' 
337-338 

Gardens, advantages of, 150 ; 
ideal position for, 231 ; shelter 
for, 234; lily, 245-246, 249- 
250 ; mode of cataloguing, 253, 
262; kitchen, 258-262, 283; 
rotation of crops in, 260-262 ; 
wall and water, 244-245 ; sea- 
side, 331 seq. 

Garibaldi, Guiseppe, 174 ; and 
the Naples Museum, 178 ; 
autobiography of, 186 ; resi- 
dence of, 200 

Garlic, wild, 232 

Garner, Professor, 272 

Garrod, Dr., 5 

Gassendi on man's frugivorous 
nature, 29 

Gasten, Mr., groom, 409 

Gastro-intestinal inflammation, 
70, 126 

Gates, Mr., 91 ; on dry treatment 
of sewage, 92 ; his goat farm, 
97, 102-104 

Gauntlet, V. V., & Co., 235 

Gaura Lindheimeri, 240 

Gem Supply Company, 35 

Genistas, 264, 332 

Genny, Dr., 75 

Genoa, 161-162, 201-202 ; ' Flora 
of,' 165 



428 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Geraniums, 219, 320 ; wild, 343 

Gerbera Jamesoni, 322 

German waters, 44, 46 

Germany, treatment of tubercu- 
losis in, 41 ; analysis of foods in, 
100 ; letters on gardening from, 
217-219, 301-302, 310-315, 
349 ; fruit-preserving in, 301- 
302 ; and Kussia, 371-372 

Gibbon's ' Eoman Empire,' 179- 
180 ; Coleridge on, 180-181 ; 
Frederic Harrison on, 181- 
183 

Gibraltar, 371, 377; goats in, 
96 

Gingerbread, receipt for the best, 
292 

Girls, training and education of, 
35-39 

Gladiolus, 210, 323 

Gladstone, W. E., 404 

Glasnevin botanical gardens, 229- 
230 

Glencoe, 381 

' Globe,' 383, 390 

Gnocchi, receipt for, 286 

Goats, 89-106, 347; sex vigour 
in, 55 ; Mr. Bryan Hook's j 
' Milch Goats and their Man- j 
agement,' 91 seq. ; Toggenburg, j 
91, 96, 102 seq. ; fat globules 
in milk of, 93, 119 ; food for, 
94, 103-104 ; Mr. Pegler's book 
on, 94; their yield in milk, 
95, 102 ; prejudice against, 95- 
96 ; cheese, 96 ; their exemp- 
tion from tuberculosis, 96 ; 
' A Dairy Farm in Miniature,' 
103 ; milk in London, price of, 
119 ; in Suffolk in the 17th 
Century, 336-337 

' Golden Treasury ' series, 184 

Goode & Co., 302 

Gorse, 224, 264 

Gourds, 262 

' Gourmands, Des,' 33 

Gourmet boiler, 127 

Gout, 34, 63; 'La Physiologie 
du,' 32 ; water for drinking in, 
35 ; diet for, 45-46, 61, 71, 84 ; 
Plasmon in, 55 ; milk and 



cheese as the cause of, 78, 86- 

87 

Gramnivorous animals, sex vi- 
gour in, 55 
' Grape nuts,' 8 
Graspan, 414, 416 
Gray's ' Elegy,' missing stanza 

of, 248-249 

Great Barton Mills, 295 
Great Bookham, 263 
Greek civilisation, high level of, 

193 
Green & Nephew's glass bowls, 

221 

Green sauce, 286-287 
' Greenery - Yallery Grosvenor 

Gallery,' 324 

Greenhouses, how to keep dry, 230 
Grenadier Guards in South 

Africa, 409, 412, 414 
Grouse a la creme, 291 
Gruel from Graham flour, 296 
Guards' Brigade in South Africa, 

399-402, 410, 414 
Guelder roses, Chinese, 2C5 
Guildford, goat farm at, 91 ; a 

day in, 97, 100-102 
Gums in underfeeding, 8, 61 
Gypsum in bread, 65 



H , Major, 389-395, 398 

H , Messrs., 403 

Haage & Schmidt, 312 

Habit in diet, 87-88 

Hadwen, Dr., 75 

Haggard, Mr. Eider, 255 

Haig, Dr., 3, 27, 30, 40, 110, 303 ; 
on coffee, 4 ; on asparagus, 5 ; 
on diet, 6-8, 17, 24 TO., 41-42, 
62, 75 ; on rheumatism, 17- 
18 ; ' Uric Acid in Disease,' 
23-25 ; ' Leaflets ' on his diet, 
24 n., 45, 48-49, 57 ; ' Diet and 
Food,' &c., 25, 41, 86 ; diet for 
consumption, 41 ; on uric acid, 
44, 46; on the progress of 
enlightenment, 48; on meal 
hours for dyspeptics, 57; his 
diet for fat people, 58 ; patients' 
cases, 62-64, 66-71 ; his ad- 



INDEX 



429 



dress, 75; his home for in- ! 
valids, 76 seq. ; criticisms on 
his diet, 78-84 : his reply, 84- 
88 

Haldane, E. B., ' Education and 
Empire,' 36 

Hall, W. H. Bullock, 'The 
Eomans on the Eiviera,' 166 

Hamburg, 357 

Hamilton, Major A. C., 340 

Hamilton, Sir William and Lady, 
185 

Hamlet, tomb of, 358 

Hampton Court, 236, 273 

Hams, curing of, 150 

Hanbury, Mr. Thomas, 171 

Hanover Eoad, 403 

Hares, 234 

Harris, C. J., 43 

Harrison, Frederic, quoted, 181- 
183 

Harrod's Stores, 302 

Harwich, 329-330, 337 

Hatton, Sir Christopher, 309 

Hawkweeds, 344 

Hawley, 208 

Haymarket Stores, 295 

Headaches, caused by uric acid, 
42 ; diet for, 45 ; from indiges- 
tion, 120 ; cure for bilious, 304 

Health, 1-88 ; a stranger's letter 
on, 2 ; of the author, 3-5 ; 
undermined by adulterated 
food, 32 ; where to obtain 
books on, 32 ; Natural Health 
Society, 34 ; ' Paradise of,' 46 ; 
study of, 52 ; a sure sign of 
good, 58-59 ; International 
Health Association, 112; sub- 
jects, legislation on, 158 ; the 
houses best for, 277 seq. ; dis- 
cussion of, in public, 339-340 

Health, books on (see also un- 
der Cookery) : Dewey, Dr. E. 
H., ' A New Era for Women : 
Health without Drugs,' 15, 
27 ; ' True Science of Liv- 
ing,' 32 ; Haig, Dr., Uric Acid 
as a Factor in the Causation 
of Disease,' 23; Miles, Eus- 
tace, ' Avenues to Health,' 26 ; 



Kellogg, Dr., 'The Stomach,' 
32 ; Pouchet, M., Pluralite de 
la Eace Humaine,' 28 ; Cuvier, 
* Le Eegne Animal,' 29 ; Law- 
rence, Professor, ' Lectures on 
Physiology,' 29 ; Bell, Charles, 
'Diseases of the Teeth,' 29; 
Allinson, T. E., ' Medical 
Essays,' 30; Searle, Henry, 
' Tonic System of Treating 
Affections of the Stomach and 
Brain,' 31 ; Fernie, Dr., ' Her- 
bal Simples,' 32; Huxley's 
' Elements of Physiology,' 32 ; 
' La Physiologic du Gout ' de 
Brillat Savarin, 32 ; Lancaster, 
Owen, ' A Short Account of the 
Human Body,' 34; 'Water: 
How it Kills its Thousands,' 
35 ; Maeterlinck, ' The Buried 
Temple,' 72-74; 'Herald of 
Health,' 99; Kuhne, Louis, 
' New Science of Healing,' 296 ; 
Cox, Edwin, ' Degeneracy and 
Preservation of the Teeth,' 
298 

' Heart of the Empire, The,' 108 

Heath gardens, 208 

Heaths, 161-162, 207-210, 233; 
books on, 322 

Hedgerow cuttings for goats, 103 

Heidelberg, 349 

Helichrysums, 347 

Hell, Dante on, 46 

Hellebores, 221 

Henry IV., 168 

Hentzner, Paul, ' Travels in Eng- 
land,' 337 

Herb eaters, 29 

' Herbal Simples,' 32 

Herbs, sweet- smelling, 162 

Hertfordshire garden, 236-237 

Hervey, Lord Francis, 336 

Heywood, Mr., 4 

Hidalgood Werokalsi, 320 

High feeding, cure, 41 ; insanity 
from, 41 

tea, 121 

Highland Light Infantry, 403, 
405 ; Brigade, 405 

' Hindoo Love Story, A,' 37-39 



43 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Holbein's ' Dance of Death,' 357 
Holland, third Lord, 242 
Holland House, 275, 309; rose 

show, 241 ; gardens of, 242- 

243 

Holly, 195 

Hominy with cheese, 113 
- fried, 128 
Homoeopathy, 30 
Horace quoted, 193, 282 
Horses, rheumatism in, 18, 92 
Horticultural Show, 222 
Hospitality, 144 
Hotel-keepers and dietists, 64, 

66 

Housekeeping in country, 148 seq. 
in town, 135 scc[. 
Housemaids, 145 
Houses, on building, 277-281 
Housman, Mr. Laurence, 222 
Houston, Miss, 72 
Howard, Dr. E., 75 
Hyacinths, 154-155, 232, 249 
Hyamas, food of, 29 
Hydrangeas, 212, 222, 233 
Hyeres, 161 
Hygiene, books on, 32 
Hyssop, 327 



ICE for thirst, 70 

Illness, diet in, 34, 60 

Imaginary conversation between 
two doctors, 42-43 

Imprisonment, Michael Davitt 
on, 346-347; Wilfred Blunt 
on, 347 

' In Memoriam,' 101 

' In Vinculis,' by Wilfred Blunt, 
347 

Income, expenditure of, 138 

India and the tea industry, 32, 
51 

Indian breakfast dish, 290 

Indigestion from tea-drinking, 
31; as the cause of constipa- 
tion, 52 ; the cause of diseases, 
60, 120; diet in, 61-62, 67 
(see also under Dyspepsia) 

Indigofera Gerardiana, 319 

' Individualist, The,' 165 



Inflammation, gastro-intestinal, 

70 

Insanity from high feeding, 41, 48 
from tea-drinking, 142 
Intelligence Department, 378, 

380 
International Health Association, 

112 
Invalids, effect of vegetarian diet 

on, 60, 67-68 ; exercise for, 62, 

86 

Ipswich, 295, 337 
Ireland, tea-drinking in, 142 ; 

visit to, 204 seq. ; emigration 

from, 213-215 
Iris garden, 236 
Irises, 154-155, 165, 170, 199, 

235 ; time to plant, 310 
Italian Government and Pompeii, 

190-191 

Italian may, 200 
Italy, diet in, 64 
Ivy, 195 



JACKMAN, Messrs., 251, 333 

Jam, a new, 285 

James I., 275, 307 

Jameson, Mrs., ' Diary of an 
EnnuiSe,' quoted, 189-191 

Jameson Kaid, 400 

Japan, Bishop of, 121 

Japanese decorations, 145, 178, 
192 ; nurseries, 235 ; garden, 
242 ; lilies, 246, 250 ; loniceras, 
282 ; anemones, 319 ; treat- 
ment of wistarias, 330 ; Ginkgo, 
maidenhair-tree, 348 

Jasminum nudiflorum, 152 

Jeaffreson, J. C., ' Lady Hamilton 
and Lord Nelson,' 185 

Jekyll, Miss, 277, 323 ; works on 
gardening by, 244-246 

Jersey cows, 103 

Jesse, Edward, ' Gleanings from 
Natural History,' 248 

Jessop, Miss Florence, 76 

Johannesburg, 387 

Johnston, Dr., 75 

Johnstone, Sir Harry, 256 ; letter 
on monkey's food, 272-273 



INDEX 



Jones, Inigo, 309 

Jones' ' Views of Seats, Mansions, 

and Castles of England,' 

309 
' Journal of a Tour in the North 

of Europe,' 356-373 
' Journal of Horticulture,' 249 
Jowett, Benjamin, 3 
Julius Caesar on goat's cheese, 

96 

July, notes for, 244-265 
June, notes for, 224-243, 267- 

268 



KALES, flowering, 197 

Karlsbad, 64 

Katharine of Arragon, 305 

Keats quoted, 147 

Keith, Dr., on diet, 8 

Kellogg, Dr., 27, 112; 'Science 
in the Kitchen,' 5, 32 ; * The 
Stomach,' 32 

Kew Bridge, old, 220 

Kew Gardens, 155, 209, 238, 242, 
318-319, 322 ; of Germany, 
350 

Khalifa, the, 382 

Kid, roast, 93-94 

Kidney padding, illness from eat- 
ing, 178 

Kiew, 370 

Kimberley, 379, 382, 392-394, 
404-410 

Kingsley, Charles, 274-275 

Kirby Hall, 308-309 

Kitchener, Lord, 382 

Kitchens, German, 301-302 

Knight, ' Morning Post ' corre- 
spondent, 392 

Koch, Dr., on tuberculosis, 88, 
158 ; antidote for microbes, 
188 

Konig, Professor, 112 

Kremlin, the, 369-370 

Kronstadt, 372 

Kruger, ex-President, 388-389, 
392 

Kugler's ' Handbook of Painting,' 
185 

Kuhne, Louis, 296 



L , officer, 412 

L , Lord, 381 

L , P., 391,395,399 

La Cava, station, 200 

La Mortola, 171-172 

'La Kose de Noel,' poem, 153- 
154 

Laburnum, 231 

Lactic acid, 78 

Ladies' maids, 140 

Ladysmith, 395 

Laing's Nek, 382 

Lalange, Adolphe, 32 

Lancers, 9th, 411, 416-417 

' Lancet,' 201 

Landcress, as a vegetable, 285 

* Landscape Gardening,' 337-338 

Lard, substitute for, 117 

Larkspurs, 312 ; markings of, 
344-345 

Las Palmas, 379, 381, 395 

Laurels, 236-237 

Laurustinus, 170, 225 

Lavender, 236, 270 ; oil of, 282 

' Lavengro,' 147 

Lawless, Miss Emily, ' The Wild 
Geese,' quoted, 213-216 

Lawns, Americans on English, 
276 

Le Veau, architect, 168 

Leghorn, 161, 201 

Leichtlin, Mr., 217, 219 

Lemann's biscuits, 300 

Lemberg, 373 

Lemon souffle, cold, 292 

Lemons in Italy, 198 

Lentils, 5, 17 ; uric acid in, 18, 
48 ; as food for the poor, 108 
seq. 

Leprosy, 71 ; cause of, 47 

Lescot, architect, 167 

Letter, an old, 327-329 

Lettuce, 261 

Liatris, 218 

Liddell, Miss, 379 

Lilacs, 225, 231 

Lilies, 199, 233, 235, 245-246, 
323, 332; 'for English Gar- 
dens,' 245; 'of the World,' 
249-250 

Linden, Mr., 230 



432 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Linnaeus, on man's frugivorous 

nature, 29 

Lion, sex vigour in the, 55 
Lippi, painter, 174 
Liverpool, 327-328 
Liverpool School of Cookery, 284 
' Lives of the Twelve Caesars,' 

183 

Lloyd, Mr., 360 
Lobelia, 310 
Loch family, 391 
Loch, Douglas, 402, 405, 412 
London, 135 seq. ; ' Life and 
Labour of the People in,' 
139 ; flowering plants in, 194- 
195 
London (Bloomfield), Bishop of, 

335 

London Hospital, 377 
Longden, 102 
Loniceras, 320 
Loubet, President, 96 
Loudon, Mr. and Mrs., 252 
Louis XIV., 168 
Louvre, the, 167-168 
* Love-in-the-mist,' 323 
' Love-lies-bleeding,' 323 
' Love's Labour Lost,' by Owen 

Meredith, 173 

Loyal North Lancashire Regi- 
ment, 408, 412 
Liibeck, 357 
Lucerne for goats, 103 
Lung Arno, 172 
Lyttle, Dr. J. Shaw, 75 
Lytton, Bulwer, 191 
Lytton, Robert, quoted, 196-197, 
317 



M , Lord, 401-404, 407, 411- 

412 
Macaroni, 7 ; cheese, 113 ; and 

cheese patties, 127 ; a la tripe, 

127 ; and Portugal onion, 287 

Mel , storekeeper, 408 

Madeira, 162 

Maeterlinck quoted, 72-74, 203 ; 

his appeal against meat and 

alcohol, 110 
Mafeking, 382, 394, 399, 405-406 



Magnolias, 235, 237 

Maidenhair tree, 348 

Maize, Indian, 125 ; with cheese, 

113 ; bread, 126 
Majuba, 383 
Malet, Lucas, 274 
Mallock's ' The Individualist,' 

165 

Malta, 371 ; goats at, 96 
Manchester. International Health 

Association of, 112 
Mangold for goats, 194 
Manures, 247 
Manuring, 261 
Maples, 235 

March, notes for, 160-174 
Marigolds, 213 
Mario, Jesse White, 186 
Market gardening, 124 
Marrows, 262 

Marseilles, 162 ; ' Flora of,' 165 
Martial, quoted, 194 
Mary Queen of Scots, 306-308 
' Materia Medica,' 9 
May, notes for, 203-224, 238 
Meals, hours for, 56-57, 116 
Meat, one of the causes of cancer, 
47 ; amount of proteid in, 111 ; 
the sale of diseased, 177 
Meat diet, 6, 10, 62 ; uric acid in, 
16, 18 ; man's teeth not adapted 
for, 28 ; hereditary effect of, 
51, 122 ; in dyspepsia, 61, 67- 
68 
Medical books, old and new, 31 

(see also under Health books) 
Medici, Catherine de, 166-167 
Mediterranean heath, 161-162 
Medlars, 332 
Medstead, 77 
Meissonier, Madame, 169 
Meissonier's studio, 168-169 
Melbourne, 298 

Mellin's food, in dyspepsia, 61, 
70 ; as a substitute for tea, &c., 
113 

Mental irritation bad for diges- 
tion, 60 

Mentone, 171 ; ' Flora of,' 161 
Menus, vegetarian, 113-115, 117- 
119 



INDEX 



433 



Mercer, Dr. A. B., 75 

Mercury in eczema, 46 

Meredith, Owen, quoted, 173 

' Merrie England,' 249 

Mesembryanthemums, 332 

Metabolism, 9, 80, 86 

Metropolitan Hospital, 77 

' Mexican,' E.M.S., 387, 390, 392 

Michaelmas daisies, 236, 265, 323 

Microbes in dust, 163 ; antidote 
for, 188 

Miladorovitch, Count, 365 

Miles, Eustace, 40, 55, 57 ; works 
by, 25-26, 53-54; on diet in 
uric acid diseases, 45 ; home 
recommended by, 77 

Milk, 78, 84-85 ; separated, 4, 7, 
90, 93 ; in diet, 86 ; in consti- 
pation, 87 ; of goats, 89 seq., 
119 ; ignorance of the properties 
of, 90-91 ; of sheep, 96 ; albu- 
men in, 111 seq. ; fat globules 
in, 93, 119 

Milk soup, 288 

Milkwoman, The,' 299 

Miller, Dr. E. P., 99 

Milton, John, lost poem of, 256- 
258 ; ' Lycidas,' 344 

Mimosa, 116 

Mitchell, Dr., 75 

Modder Eiver, 375 

Model village, 122 

Moggridge's 'Flora of Mentone,' 
161 

Monkeys, food of, 272-273 

Mont St. Michel, 201 

Montagu, Lady M. W., 238 

Montbretias, 235, 319 

Moore, H., & Son, 294 

Moore, Mr., 295 

Moral self-control, 55 

Moravia, 373 

'More Pot-Pourri,' 2, 77, 244, 
379, 383, 390, 403 ; American 
reception of, 354-355 

Morley, Mr. John, quoted, 137 ; 
his gift to Cambridge, 351-353 

' Morning Post ' war corre- 
spondent, 392, 405 

Morrison, Arthur, 107, 115 

' Morte d'Arthur,' 101 



Moscow, 367-370 

Mothers and the training of 

children, 36 
Motley, Mr., 1 
Motor-cars, 274-275 
Mowat, Dr. Thomas, 75 
Mucus colitis, 68, 71 
Mulberry-trees, 195, 236 
Munby, Mr. A. J., quoted, 298- 

300 
Munthe, Dr. Axel, quoted, 187- 

189 
Murray's 'Guide to Pompeii,' 

187 ; ' Guide to Eussia,' 370 
Mushrooms, 17, 272 ; dried, 301 ; 

xanthin in, 48 
'Mustard' and 'Cress' (two 

horses), 393, 395 
Mustard bath for bilious head- 
aches, 304 

Mutton, leg of, mode of using, 151 
Myrtle, 162 



NAAUWPOOBT, 394-396, 406, 410 
Naples, goats in, 89, 185; visit 
to, 175 seq. ; sanitary condition 
of, 187-189 ; museum, 193 
Narcissi, 154-155 
Natal, 381-388, 394, 398-399, 409 
National Association for the Pre- 
vention of Consumption, 157 
' National Eeview,' 195 
Natural Health Society, 34 
' Natural History, Gleanings 

from,' 248 

Natural History Museum, 272 
Nature in art, 205-206 
Neapolitan violets, 170 
Nelson, Lord, 185-186, 330 
Nemesia strumosa, 316-317 
Nene, river, 307-308 
Nerves injured by tea drinking, 

51 ; in underfeeding, 61 
Nervous diseases, high feeding 

in, 41 

Nervousness, from indigestion, 
120 ; from excessive meat eat- 
ing, 122 

Neuralgia, diet for, 45, 67 ; inter- 
costal, 63 

P F 



434 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Neva, river, 363 

New Eaglish Art Club, 205-206 

New South Wales Lancers, 406, 
411 

' New Trafalgar, A,' 100 

Newcastle, 381 

Nice, 161 

Nicotiana sylvestris alba, 269 

Nightingale, Florence, 381 

Nightshade, deadly, 48 

Nordrach treatment for tubercu- 
losis, 41 

Northamptonshire, visit to, 305 
seq. ; maidenhair-tree in, 348 

Northumberland Fusiliers, 408 

Norvals Pont, 394-398, 408-410 

' Nouilles lactees Suisse,' 100 

Niiremburg, 161 

Nut butter, 112, 117; cutlets 
129, 132 

Nuts, 43, 111 ; 'Fruits, Nuts, and 
Vegetables,' 27 

Nuts and apples, diet of, 98 



OAKS, 236; 'Turkey,' 248; Go- 
vernment plantation of, 275 

Oatmeal, amount of proteid in, 
111 

Oats, cause of rheumatism in 
horses, 18 ; bread from, 126 

Obesity, cure for, 57-58, 61 

Observation, powers of, 149-150 

October, notes for, 326-355 

Octotis grandis, 332 

Odessa, 324, 369-371 

(Enotheras, 268, 344 

Oil as an aid to digestion, 71, 
of almonds, 99 ; cloth, 165 ; 
olive, 284 ; stoves, 117 

Oirsted, Professor, 357 

Okapi, 272 

Old age, diet in, 47, 56 

1 Old Glory,' 170 

Oldfield, Dr., 75 

Olive oil, 284 

Olive-trees, 172 ; at Cannes, 169 

Omdurman, battle of, 382 

Onions, 7, 261; braised, 131; 
how to serve, 285-286 

Open-air treatment of colds, 159 



Operations, cinematographs of, 

340 

Opium, 32 

Orange jelly, the best, 293 
Orange Biver, 385, 394, 402-410 
Orange Kiver Camp, 375 
trees, 144, 236 
Orangeade, as made in Paris, 

293 

Orchids, 154, 230 ; wild, 232, 348 
Ornithogalums, 239 
Orwell, river, 337 
Ostriches and the soldiers, 413 
Owen, Professor, 29, 260 
Ox-tongues, to cure, 292 



PJEONIES, 235 

Paestum, 176, 196 

Page-boys, 146 

' Palace of Truth,' 36 

' Pall Mall Gazette,' 256, 375 

' Palmen Garten,' 350 

Palms, 170, 272 

Parents and the diet of children, 

52-53 

Parinarium-tree, 272 
Paris, 226, 240, 340 ; Op6ra 

Comique, 166 ; restaurants, 64 ; 

visit to, 168-169 

Parkinson, Mr., 251 ; on cypress- 
trees, 239-240 

Parkyn, receipt for, 127-128 
Partridge a la creme, 291 
Paths planted with thyme, 163 
Paton, Mr. J. B., 247 
Patties, macaroni and cheese, 127 
Pattison, Mrs. Mark, ' Kenaissance 

of Art in France,' 167 
Peace in South Africa, 222, 227 
Pear-trees, 212 ; grown from pips, 

260, 331 ; prunings of, for 

goats, 103 

Pears, early picking to save, 332 
Peas, 4, 17, 261 ; uric acid in, 18, 

48, 57 

Pegler, Mr., 94 

Pelargoniums, 230, 262, 320-321 
Penzance, sweet briars, 242, 282 
Pergola, at the Capucine convent, 

198-200; in Suffolk, 333 



INDEX 



435 



Pernettias, 238 

Peterborough Cathedral, 305, 307 

Petersfield, 232 

Petrusville, 403 

Pheasants, 234 

Philanthropic, suggestion for the, 
95-96 

Philipstown, 403 

Phillips, H., 75 

Phlebitis, 63-64 

Phloxes, 219, 270, 314 

' Picciola,' 345-346 

Pigeon-houses in France, 309 

Pigs, keeping of, 150 

Piles, diet for, 67 

Pinus austriaca, 331 

Pipes, briarwood, 161-162 

Plane-trees, 165 

Plants, overfeeding of, 350 

' Plasmon,' 13, 54, 56, 110-112 ; 
biscuits, 8, 18 ; in rheumatism 
and gout, 55 ; in mucus colitis, 
68 ; in gastro-intestinal inflam- 
mation, 70; as a drink, 113 
seq. ; in cooking, 127 

Platycodon, 218 

Playfair, Dr., 41 

Pleas for a simple diet, 120 seq., 
204 

Pliny on the uses of cork, 165 ; 
' Letters,' 183 

Plumbagos, 220-221, 320, 348 

Poems quoted : Keats', 147 ; Cor- 
revon's ' La Hose de Noel,' 153- 
154 ; J. Bhoades' poem on 
flowers, 155-156 ; Owen Mere- 
dith's 'Love's Labour Lost,' 
173 ; Shelley's ' Ode to Naples,' 
190; Sir Henry Taylor's ' Philip 
van Artevelde,' 194 ; Robert 
Lytton's ' Sorrento Revisited,' 
196-197 ; Mrs. Browning's 
'Aurora Leigh,' 202; Miss 
Emily Lawless' ' Wild Geese,' 
214-216 ; Laurence Housman's 
' The Winners,' 222-223 : on a 
pigeon in St. Paul's, 228 ; ' The 
Settlers,' 229 ; missing stanza 
of Gray's ' Elegy,' 249 ; Lord 
Tennyson quoted, 255 ; lost 
poem by John Milton, 257- 



258; B. L. Stevenson's 'The 
Celestial Surgeon,' 258 ; Miss 
Una van A. Taylor's 'Nous 
n'irons plus au bois,' 276 ; on 
rain, 278 ; A. J. Munby's ' The 
Milkwoman,' 299-300 ; Bobert 
Browning quoted, 324 ; Crabbe 
quoted, 336 ; a sailor's street 
song, 339 ; ' The Queen's Cho- 
colate,' 341-343; 'Chrysan- 
themums,' 350-351 ; ' Vale,' 
355 ; J. Bhoades's ' Stars,' 377 

Polenta cutlets, 125 

Polygonums, 238, 319 

Pommes a la caramel, 286 

Pompeii, 184 ; art treasures of, 
178 ; visit to, 186 seq. ; ' Last 
Days of,' 191 ; books on, 192 

Poor, food for the, 108 seq. 

Portinari family, 174 

Post, van de, 340 

Postcard box, automatic, 97 

' Pot-Pourri from a Surrey 
garden,' 220, 323, 389, 402 

Potatoes, poisonous berries of, 48 ; 
mode of cooking, 71, 288; 
baked, 113; to keep when 
cooked, 116 ; souffle with nuts, 
130 ; early, 261, 271 ; puree of, 
286 

Poultry-keeping, 150 

Poussin, artist, 206 

Pratt, Anne, 282, 336, 345 

Prescriptions for weakness on 
change of diet, 45 

Press, and the diet question, 104 

on the training of the eye, 149 ; 
on tuberculosis, 158; and the 
Coronation, 241 

Pretoria, 383, 386-387 

' Pretty Betty ' (red valerian), 345 

' Pretty Polly ' (Pelargonium), 262 

Primroses, 232 

Privet, 195, 264 

Proteid food, 55 ; in obesity, 61 ; 
daily allowance of, 78 seq., 85 
seq., 104, 111, 119-120; in 
separated milk, 90 ; amount of 
in various foods, 111 ; in flour, 
116 (see also under Albumen) 

Protene, 13, 112 



436 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Pruning, necessity of, 211, 237, 

319-320, 334 
Prunus Pissardii, 152 ; spinosa, 

153 
Prussia acid in almonds, 62, 

98-99 

Pruth, river, 371, 373 
Puddings, fruit, 113 ; raisin and 

barley, 129 ; semolina, 289 
Pullar, Dr., 75 
Pythagoreans and the bean, 49 



QUACK DRUGS, 32 

Quacks, 31 

Quadrumana, diet of the, 29 

' Queen Mary's Tears ' (thistle), 

308 
* Queen's Chocolate, The' (poem), 

341-343 
Quo Vadis,' 183 



E , Colonel, 387 

Eailway carriages, infection in, 
156-158 

Raisin tea, 112, 131 ; and barley 
pudding, 129 

Eaisins, albumen in, 111 

Ealeigh, Sir Walter, 48 

Ramondia pyrenaica, 219 

Eanunculus, turban, 172 ; Per- 
sian, 210 

Easpberries, 260 

E6camier family, 32 

Eeceipts, 125-132, 151, 284-297, 
302-304 

Eedruth, 235 

Eeed, Mr. T. G.,297 

Eeinholdt, Dr. Chas., 75 

Eeligion, 59 

' Eenaissance of Art in France,' 
167 

Eheumatism, 34 ; fish in, 5 ; 
cause of, 17-18, 86-87; in 
horses, 18, 92 ; water for 
drinking in, 35 ; diet for, 45-46, 
61, 71, 84 ; Plasmon ' in, 55 

Ehoades, Mr. James, 155 ; poem 
by, 377 

Ehodes, Cecil, 389 



Ehododendrons, 231, 233 

Ehubarb, 269 

Rhus Cotinus and laciniata, 319 

Ribss sanguinea, 282 

Eice, 7 ; with cheese, 113 ; bread 
from, 126 ; croquettes, 130 

Eichmond, 318 

Eimington's Guides, 396, 399, 
403 

Eippingille's oil-stoves, 117 

' Eiviera Notes,' 171 

'Eiviera, The Eomans on the,' 
166 

Eoberts, Captain, 200 

Lord, ' on treating soldiers,' 
21-23 

Eobinson, Mr., 219 ; ' English 
Flower Garden,' 155, 198 ; on 
heaths, 208-209 ; on vegetable 
gardens, 258, 260 ; list of sun- 
flowers, 270 

Eockery plants, 310 

Eogers, Samuel, 242 

Eoman ruins at BaisB, 179 

Eome, 175 

Romneya Coulteri, 240 

Eoosevelt, President, quoted, 213 

Eoot crops, 261 ; plants, 270 

Rosa rugosa, 319 

Eosemary, 236 

Eoses, 170 ; Christmas, 153, 221 ; 
in water, 221 ; Holland House 
show of, 241; for English 
gardens, 246 ; Chinese Guel- 
der, 265; soil for, 283 ; on 
growing, 314-315 ; difficulty 
of photographing, 335 

Eosetta stone, 358 

Eossi, Signor, 357 

Eotation of crops, 260-262 

Eoyal Engineers, 404 

Eoyal Hospital for Children and 
Women, 77 

Royal Scots Fusiliers, 382 

Rubus deliciosus, 222 

1 Eulers of the South,' 49 

Eural districts, depopulation of, 
108 seq. 

Eush-broom, Spanish, 264 

Euskin, John, 247 

Eussia, tour in, 356 seq. 



INDEX 



437 



Russia, Alexander I. of, 356 ; 
death, 364 

Alexander II. of, 357 

Grand Duke Constantine of, 
364 

Nicholas I. of, 356 ; acces- 
sion, 364 



S , Colonel, 410 

S , Sir Leicester, 382 

S Major, 377-378, 381-382, 

388, 390 
S , Sergeant-Major (B.S.A. 

Police), 399 

Sabajone (Venetian dish), 291 
Sage, 162 
St. Claude, 161 
St. Helena, 387 
St. Hospice, tower of, 161 
St. Paul's Cathedral, 228, 309 
St. Petersburg, 356, 360, 363-367 
St. Eaphael, 160-1 
St. Thomas of Canterbury, 101 
St. Vincent, 380 
Saintine's, ' Picciola,' 345 
Salad, cheese, 285 ; potato, 288 
Salisbury cure, 6, 46, 50 
Salsify, 261 
Salt one of the causes of cancer, 

47 

Salutaris Water, 35 
Sande-Torte (cake), 293 
Sandhurst, 375 
' Sandow ' exercises, 378 
Sandwiches of almond cream, 70 
Sanguisorbas, 265 
Sapon (powdered soap), 302 
Sardinia, 162 
Sauce, green, 286-287 ; Sevillane, 

289 
Saving, habit of, 133 seq. ; object 

for, 147 

Savoury vegetable stew, 128 
Savoys, 252 
Saxifrages, 163, 348 
School Board curriculum, 120 
Schwartzenberg, Prince, 366 
Scorzonera, 261 
Scots Guards, 406 
Scott, Mr., 295 



Sea-buckthorn, 238 

Seakale beet, 271 ; to cook, 288 

Sea Point Horticultural Society, 

249 

Sebastopol, 370, 372 
Second childhood, 346 
Sedentary occupation, diet for, 

54, 62, 67 
Seeds, growing from, 170, 331, 

347 ; preservation of, 322 
Semolina pudding, 289 
Senile decay, 104 
Sensuality and diet, 55 
September, notes for, 305-325 
Servants and diet, 121 ; wages 

and treatment of, 139, 141 
Sewage, dry treatment of, 91-92 ; 

question 337 
Sex vigour in animals, 55 
Shanklin, 303 
Sheep's milk, 96 
Shelley, 'Ode to Naples,' 190; 

cremation of, 200 
Shelter for gardens, 234 
Shingles, 46, 64 
Shopping, 144 
Shrubs, treatment of, 225 ; lists 

of, 237, 253 

Shuckburgh, E. S., 184 
Sidalcea Candida, 218 
Sienkiewicz's Quo Vadis,' 183 
Skin-diseases cured by diet, 72 
Slaughter-houses, cruelty in, 177 
Slough, 76 
Slums, overcrowded condition 

of, 122-123 
Smoke nuisance, 318 
Smoking, hereditary effect of, 

50-51 

Snake's head iris, 155 
Snowdrops, 152 
Soap, powdered, 302 
Social reformers on diet, 108 
Society for Prevention of Cruelty 

to Animals, 177 
Socrates quoted, 144 
Soda, bicarbonate of, 45 : salicy- 

late of, 45, 63 ; in bread, 65 ; 

in mucus colitis, 68-69 ; water, 

70 
SoH, how to tell a good, 231-232 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Solanums, 317, 320 
Solomon's seals, 225, 232 
wisdom, 326-327 
Sorrento, 196 ; poem on, 196-197 
Souffle potatoes with nuts, 130 
Soup, vegetable, 284 ; milk, 288 
South Africa, deficiency of women 

in, 272 ; return of troops from, 

353; Captain Sydney Earle's 

letters from, 374-417 
South Kensington Museum, 308 
Southwold, 327 
'Spectator' quoted, 222, 229, 

323, 341, 344 

Spencer, Herbert, on diet, 15 
Spikenard of the Bible, 282 
Spinach, 261 

Spirals, 200, 225, 238, 265 
Spitting, on the habit of, 156- 

157 

Stag's-horn sumach, 318 
Standard Bank, 390 
Stanford, Bennet, 392 
Starch, digestion of, 105 ; in 

flour, 116 

' Stars ' (poem), 377 
Starvation, cure, 11, 70-71 ; 

death from, 50; from under- 
feeding, 67 

Steamships, food on, 65-66 
Stellenbosch, 400 
Stevenson, B. L., quoted, 258 
Stockholm, 359-360 
Stonehenge, 201 
Strangford, Lord, 365 
Strathfieldsaye, 335 
Strawberries, 260 
Suffolk, visit to, 326 seq.; 

1 Breviary,' 336 ; books on, 337 
Sugar in gout and rheumatism, 

46 ; in diet, 110 
Sugden, Mr. B., 102 
' Sun ' war correspondent, 405 
Sundial, 320-321 
Sunflowers, 269-270; for goats, 

103, 324; grown for profit, 

324-325 

Sunstroke, 255-256 
Surrey, gardens in, 232-234 
Swanley Horticultural College, 

272 



Sweden, tour in, 356 seq. 

Sweet peas, 316 

Swiss Government and the ex- 
port of goats, 102 

Switzerland, goats in, 96 ; analysis 
of foods in, 100 ; letter from, 
344 

Synaptase in almonds, 99 



T , A., 409-410 

T , General, 377 

Table decoration, 144-145 

Tamarisk, 237-238 

Taylor, Miss U. van A., quoted, 
275 

Taylor, Mrs. Fleetwood, M.D., 75 

Taylor, Sir Henry, quoted, 194 

Tea, 17, 121 ; afternoon, 6-7, 42 ; 
uric acid in, 18, 48 ; condemna- 
tion of, 31-32, 141 ; hereditary 
effect of, 50 ; excessive drink- 
ing of, 51, 142 ; various qua- 
lities compared, 51 ; Chinese 
mode of preparing, 51 ; goat's 
milk in, 93 ; substitute for, 
113 

Teeth as an indication of man's 
proper diet, 25, 28-29 ; books 
on the, 29, 298; early decay 
of, in the present generation, 
89, 297-298 

Teetotallers, 83 ; use of tea and 
coffee promoted by, 50, 142 

' Temple Classics,' 101 

Tennyson, Lord, 101 ; quoted, 
255 

Thalictrums, 265 

4 The Choice ' (poem), 214 

' The Settlers ' (poem), 229 

' The Winners ' (poem), 222 

Theosophy, 20 

Thirst, treatment of, in illness, 
70 

Thistles, 308 

Thomas, Mr., 412 

Thompson, Dr. Alexander, 183 

Thompson, Mr., 345 

Thompson, Sir Henry, on diet, 
13-14 ; on cremation, 201 

Thorne, John, 241, 309 



INDEX 



439 



' Three Cups Inn,' The, 330 

Thrift, habit of, 133 seq. 

Thrombosis, 63 

Thuyas, 349 

Thyme, 162 ; for paths, 163 

Tiger, food of the, 29 : sex vigour 
in the, 55 

' Times,' 88, 376 ; war corre- 
spondent, 405 

Titian's landscapes, 206 

Toadflax, wild, 343 

Tobacco, to keep moist, 285 

Toggenburg goats 91, 96, 102 seq. 

Tomatoes, stewed, 129 

Tool, a new gardening, 321 

Toothache among the troops in 
South Africa, 89 

Toulon, 161 

Tradescant, Mr., 240 

Tragedy caused by eczema, 71-72 

Tranquillus, C. Suetonius, 183 

Transvaal, 385, 388 

' Traveller's joy,' 330 

Travelling, diet while, 64-66, 70 

' Treating,' Lord Roberts on, 21- 
23 

Tree heaths for briarwood pipes, 
161-162 

Tuberculosis (see under Con- 
sumption) 

Tuileries, ruins of the, 166-169 

Tula, town, 370 

Tuli, town, 382 

Tulip-trees, 248 

Tulips, 207, 213, 222, 225-226 

Turkey and Eussia, 371-372 

Turkeys, 337 

Turner, Mr., 400 

Turnips, 261 



UNDEKFEEDING, 19 ; the gums in, 
8, 61 ; from non-assimilation, 
41 ; Dr. Haig on, 67 

' Unit Library,' 101 

Upton Church, 248 

Uric acid, 17, 18, 42-44, 60-61 ; 
definition of, 16 ; in eggs, 16, 
78 ; as the cause of disease, 23- 
25, 78 seq., 84 ; as the cause 
of headaches, 42 ; diet, 45 ; in 



flesh and vegetables, 48 ; foods 
free from, 68-69, 85, 87, 110 ; the 
cause of gout and rheumatism, 
86 (see also under Xanthin) 



VAAL river, 386 

Vaccination, 10 

' Vale ' (poem), 355 

Valescure, 160-161, 169 ; heaths 
of, 162 ; cork-trees at, 164-165 
books on, 165 ; fragments of 
the Tuileries at, 166-168 

Van der Goes, Hugo, 174 

Vegetable, stew, 128 ; gardens, 
258-262 ; soup, 284 

Vegetables, amount of proteid in, 
111 

'Vegetarian,' newspaper, 43; 
creed, 97, menus, 113-115, 117- 
119 ; Society, 297 

Vegetarian diet, 6, 8, 11, 25-27, 
43-44; books on, 26, 27; 
objections to, 48, 58 seq., 108 ; 
for children, 52 ; list of doctors 
who advocate, 75 ; homes for 
instruction in, 76 seq. ; ques- 
tion of quantity in, 78 seq., 84 
seq. ; constipation in, 82-83 ; as 
taught in schools, 105 ; on three 
shillings a week, 109 seq. ; plea 
for a, 120 seq. (see also under 
Cookery books and Diet) 

Vegetarianism and sociability, 
52 ; and sentiment, 60, 177 ; 
effect on invalids of, 60 ; 
Maeterlinck on, 72-74 ; and 
the medical profession, 83; 
Virchow on, 122 ; an American 
judge on, 284 

Vegetarians, unscientific, 41 ; in 
the Army, 53 ; dining out, 
57 ; and cruelty to animals, 177 

Veitch & Sons, 210, 213, 222 

Venidiums, 268, 332 

Veratrum nigrum, 270-271 

Verbascum phceniceum, 222 

Verbena, 263 

Vesuvius, 175-176, 187, 201 

Victor Emmanuel, King, of Italy, 
174 



440 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Vienna, 373 ; flour, 116 

Villiers, Charles, 12 

Vilmorin, M., 'Vegetable Gar- 
dens,' 227, 258-259 

Vine-clad Pergola, 198-200 

Vinton & Co., 91 

Violets, 171, 232, 249 ; on grow- 
ing, 322-323 

' Violettes de Parme,' 170 

Virchow, Dr., 27, on vegeta- 
rianism, 122 

Virginia creeper, 271 

' Virgin's bower,' 331 

Volkousky, Princess Z6neide, 36 



W , General, 391, 396, 404 

W , sapper, 392 

W , Sir G., 381 

W , F., 379, 395 

W , General F., 395 

Wagner, composer, 59 

Wales, Henry, Prince of, 275 

Wallace, Mrs., 99 

Wallflowers, 207, 345-346 

Walnuts, 130 

Walters, Dr., 75 

Wareham, 382 

Warsaw, 357, 364 

Water, when to drink, 7 ; for 

gout and rheumatism, 35 ; 

' How it kills its thousands,' 

35 

Watercress as a vegetable, 285 
Water-lilies, 242 
Waterer, Messrs., 231 
Waterhouse, Elizabeth, 243 
Waters, German, 44, 46 
Waterton Collection, 308 
Watts, Mr. G. F., 243 
Weight in dieting, 58, 61, 78 

seq., 85 seq. 
Weir-Mitchell, Dr., 41 
Wellbank, Mr., 127 
Wellington Barracks, 375 
Wellingtonias, 349 
Welsh polypody, 344 
West Surrey Dairy Co., 97 



Westminster Abbey, 307 

' Westminster Gazette,' 155 ; let- 
ters to the, 156-158, 303 ; poems 
from the, 221, 275-276, 350- 
351, 355 

Wheatmeal bread, 126 

White, Dr. Charles, 75 

Whitmore, Mr., 195 

' Wholesome Food for the Poor,' 
107-132, 283 

Wild flowers, 343-344 

gardening, 198, 208, 233-235, 
282 

' Wild Geese,' The, 212-216 

Wilde, Oscar, 251 

Williams, Dr. E., 27 

Williams, Mr., 200 

Willow herb, 344 

Wilson, Dr. Helen, 75 

Wilson, Mr. G. F., 233-235, 246 

Wimbledon Common, 75 

Winchester, 101 

Windsor, 290 

Wine, the purchase of, 144 

Wisley, 225, 233-235, 246 

Wistaria creeper, 175, 225, 231, 
330 

Witteput, 411 

Woking, 231 ; ' Nursery,' 251 

Wolf, food of the, 29 

Wood gardening, 211, 237, 282 

4 Workman's budget,' 108 

Worthing, 178 



XANTHIN, 45, 48, 85 ; in fish, 49 
in eggs, 85 ; in lentils, 108 
(see also under Uric acid) 



YEW hedges, 211 
Yews, 172, 236, 269 
York, 232 ; Cathedral, 305 
Young, Dr. Thomas, 357-358 
Yuccas, 207 



ZOLA, M., 



Spottiswoode & Co. Ltd., Printers, New-street Square, London. 



U.C. BERKELEY LIBR 




14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 



LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE LIBRARY 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or 

on the date to which renewed. 
Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 



JUN 1 7 1957 



LD 21-100m-6,'56 
(B9311slO)476 



General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 



Cornell University Library 
SB 455.E3 1903 

A third pot-pourri, 



3 1924 000 403 968 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000403968 



A THIED POT-POUEEI 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



Twenty-sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6(Z. 

POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY GARDEN, 

With an Appijndix by Lady Constance Lytton. 

Dean Hole, in an article upon the work in the Nineteenth Century, 
says :  ' There is not time for farther enjoyment of this sweet, spicy 
"Pot-Pourri;" no space for further extracts from this clever and 
comprehensive book ; only for two more earnest words to the reader 
 Buy it.' 

Fifth Impression. Large Crown 8vo. 7s, Qd. 

MORE POT-POURRI FROM A SURREY 
GARDEN, 

' This second volume has all the charm of the first. It is just 
the friendly chat of a lady who has not only read, books, but knows 
all about her kitchen, and. If possible, more about the garden she 
loves. On each, sound, useful information is pleasantly conveyed.' 

PtTNCH. 

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 "Waterloo Place, S.W. 



A 



THIRD POT-POURRI 



BY 

MES. C. W. EAELE 

AUTHOK OF ' POT-POUBRI FBOM A SURREY &ARDEM ' ETC. 



SECOND EDITION 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDBE & CO., 15 WATEELOO PLACE 

1903 

[All rights reserTed] 



Home now your comrades come again, 

But you come not. 
For them life's triumphs still remain ; 

You draw Death's lot. 

Oh, lying far from home away. 

Peel not so far ; 
For, though all come, my heart does stay 

There where you are. 

B. Fuller Maitland. 
June 1902 



TO THE MEMOBY 

OF 

SYDNEY EABLE 

I DEDICATE THIS BOOK 



I WISH to offer my very best thanks to my friend, 
Miss Adela Curtis, and my niece,. Lady Constance 
Lytton, for the very material help they have given 
me with this book. 



CONTENTS 



HEALTH 

PAGE 

Beasons for more about health  A stranger's letter  En- 
couragement from Dr. Halg  Details of my diet  Eeason for 
early breakfast  Asparagus poison  Arguments of opponents 
 Dulness of diet  Eeason of benefit felt on first going 
back to mixed foods  Test of underfeeding  Dentist story  
Opposition of medical profession  Their indifference to diet 
 The ordinary man at his breakfast-table Doctors to be 
educated by the public  Uses of Plasmon  Necessity for 
mothers and children to learn physiology  Definition of 
uric acid  Instincts not safe guides  Difficulties of hos- 
pitality  Lord Boberts on ' treating '  List of useful books 
 Home education of girls : two methods  Hindoo love 
story ........ 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 

Imaginary conversation between two doctors  Advertisements 
versus Dr. Haig  Eemedies for depression on beginning diet 
 The old need not fear change of diet  Tea-drinking and 
the Chinese  The Bible and meat-eating  Pythagoreans 
and the bean  ' Better Food for Boys,' and the schoolmaster 
 Difficulties of the diet  Fat and thin women  Mediseval 
and Greek idea  Individual oases  Maeterlinck's testimony 40 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



SUPPLEMENT 



PAGE 



Home started in Buckinghamshire, under Dr. Eaig, for in- 
struction and practice in uric-acid-free foods  A second 
home in Hampshire for fleshless diet, recommended by 
Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A.  Critical paper, by a patient of 
Dr. Haig  Dr. Haig's answer to same 76 



GOATS 

Goats at Naples  Possible solution for milk difficulty in rural 
districts  A toothless generation  Ignorance as to nourish- 
ing value of separated milk  Mr. Hook on goat-keeping  
Personal experiment^Roast kid and agneau-de-lait  
Reasons for prejudice against goats  Suggestions for the 
philanthropic  Immunity of goats from tubercular disease 
 Day at Guildford  Almonds  The Astolat Press  Mr. 
Gates' herd of Toggenburg goats  Feeding of goats  
Chemistry of food to be taught in elementary schools . 



WHOLESOME FOOD ON THREE SHILLINGS A 
WEEK 

CornhUl ' budgets  Food reformers and lentils  Taste for 
savoury foods  Nervous appetites  Cabinet Minister and 
charwoman  The healthy foods  Maeterlinck's appeal 
against meat and alcohol Food values  To feed a family 
of four on 12s. a week Nut milk  A week's menus, and 
cost  Ditto, with once-a-week cooking  Advantage of living 
in country  Goat's milk at a London dairy  Cheapest and 
healthiest diet at 2s. id. a week  To wean servants from 
the beef-beer-tea faith  Possible purpose of meat-eating 

phase in evolution  A philanthropist's experiment 

Amateur farmers  A pair of Bushey art students  Beeeipts 107 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A TEAR . . 133 



CONTENTS 



FEBBUAB7 

NOTES FROM NINE MONTHS OF A SCRAPPY JOURNAL 

1901-1902 



PAOE 



Forcing cut branches  Amygdalus Davidiana  Early spring 
flowers under glass  Bulbous irises  Epimediums in pots- 
Letter to ' Westminster Gazette ' on railway carriages and 
tuberculosis  Congress on tuberculosis in 1901 . . 152 



MARCH 

Valesoure  Tree heath and briar-wood pipes  Fragrant herbs 
and thyme carpet  Aloes and agaves  Cork-trees  Frfijus  
Buins of the Tuileries : De I'Orme and BuUant  Meis- 
sonier's picture of the burnt Tuileries  Cannes Eucalyptus- 
trees  La Mortola  Arrival at Florence Turban ranun- 
culus  Mino da Fiesole  Letter about Florence . . 160 



APRIL 

Arrival at Naples  Museum  English Society for the Prevention 
of Cruelty to Animals at Naples  Slaughter-houses in 
England  Art objects from Pompeii sometimes echoes of 
modern Japan  Baias  Coleridge and Harrison on Gibbon  
South of Italy less affected by barbaric invasions than other 
parts  Aquarium  Goats  Dr. Munthe on the housing of 
the poor  Mrs. Jameson's picnic  Pompeii : smallness of 
the houses  Mr. Eolfe on Pompeiian pins and matches  
Cenotaphs and war memorials  Pompeiian gardens as models 
for London  Sorrento and Amalfi  Garibaldi on cremation 
 ' Aurora Leigh ' 175 



MAT 

Apology for more gardening notes  Journey to Ireland  ^New 
English Art Club A modern landscape recalling Claude at 
his best Spring in the West of Ireland- Glorification of 



xii A THIRD POT-POURRI 

P>GE 

flat garden by old yuccas  Fersian ranunculus  Want of 
thinning out and pruning a universal fault  An East Coast 
garden  Cultivation of Sydrangea pamculata  ' The Wild 
Geese '  Gardening letter from German friend  Two good 
spring plants  A sundial  Floating bouquets  The May 
horticultural show 203 



JUNE 

Cuttings of double gorse and ericas  A gorse hedge  Gerarde 
on Solomon's seal  Preserving tulip bulbs after flowering  
Dictamnus fraximella in Wiltshire  The globe artichoke as 
food for man and goats  Peace  Glasnevin  Mr. Linden's 
garden at Brussels  Old wistaria and bignonias grown as 
shrubs  How to tell a good soil  Mr. G. F. Wilson's wild 
garden  ^How to grow Portugal laurels in boxes  
Tamarisks and sea-buckthorns grown inland  The beauties 
of Polygonum cojrapociMm London and the 24th of June  
The rose show at Holland House . . . . 224 



JVLT 

An account of lately bought gardening books  A lost poem by 
Milton  Vegetable gardens and rotation of . crops  How to 
easily catalogue a garden  More half-hardy plants suitable 
for large pots  Carnations at Mr. Douglas'  Spanish rush- 
broom . . ... ... 244 



AVOUST 

Cultivation of various plants  Outdoor fig culture Ehubarb in 
France  Effects of Nicotiana syl/oestris alba  Potatoes in 
succession  Colonial branch of Swanley Horticultural Col- 
lege for Women  ' Animal life '  Letter about monkey's 
food  Hampton Court garden and the old railing  The 
motor and Bramshill  BuOding a house  Eose planting  
Cooking receipts  Autumn work in a German country-house 
kitchen  Household receipts 266 



CONTENTS xiii 



SEPTEMBEB 

Visit to Northamptonshire  Peterboro', Fotheringhay, and Kirby 
Hall  Iris in pans for spring flowering A last year's 
autumn letter from Germany  Kew and the smoke curse 
Pruning baot of shrubby plants to imitate sub-tropieal 
gardening  Japanese anemones in shade  Sunflower seeds 
as a possible farming industry 305 



OCTOBEB 

Solomon's love of nature- An old letter Zola and fresh air  
Old Harwich inn and curious specimen of Clematis Vitalba 
 Mesembryanthemums for cliff gardens  An old monastery 
fruit-wall  Three Pergolas  A long-wanted book on trees 
and shrubs  An old Suffolk breviary  Stories Wild flowers 
for garden culture  Wellingtonias on a German hillside  
Chrysanthemum culture  Mr. Morley's gift to Cambridge . 326 



THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR IN THE NORTH OE 

EUROPE IN 1825-26 . . .356 



THE LAST LETTERS OF CAPTAIN SYDNEY 

EARLE, COLDSTREAM GUARDS . . 374 



INDEX .419 



A THIED POT-POUEEI 



HEALTH 

Beasons for more about health  A stranger's letter  Encouragement 
from Dr. Haig  Details of my diet  Beason for early breakfast  
Asparagus poison  Arguments of opponents  Dulness of diet  
Reason of benefit felt in going back to mixed foods  Test of 
underfeeding  Dentist story  Opposition of medical profession  
Their indifference to diet  The ordinary man at his breakfast- 
table  Doctors to be educated by the pubUo  Uses of Plasmon  
Necessity for mothers and children to learn physiology  De- 
finition of uric acid Instincts not safe guides  DifEoulties of 
hospitality  Lord Eoberts on 'treating'  List of useful books 
 Home education of girls : two methods  Hindoo love story. 

I MUST apologise to the public for the apparent poor- 
ness of idea in again repeating my somewhat tiresome 
title. I heard Mr. Motley, the historian, once say, a title 
should be ' telling and selling.' A ' Third Pot-Pourri ' 
will very likely turn out to be neither of these, but it 
seemed to me the most honest title I could think of 
towards those who were kind enough, not only to read, 
but to like, my former books. They may find the matter 
in this book better or worse ; the manner is exactly the 
same as before, and it could hardly be otherwise at my age. 
I must, perhaps, also apologise for putting the Health 
chapters prominently forward at the beginning of this 
book, and I can only ask those who have no interest in 

B 



2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the subject to skip them altogether. They are written for 
those who asked for them. The chapter headed ' March ' 
in my second book, ' More Pot-Pourri,' which contained 
my personal confessions about diet, brought me such a 
number of touching and appealing letters from people of 
all sorts in every part of the world, that I cannot help 
thinking it almost a duty I owe to the readers of that book, 
to tell them as plainly as I can what I have learnt further 
about the subject, which for want of a better title we may 
call Diet, or Food, and its effects on the health of all 
classes of the community. 

A great many people will merely laugh and think it very 
conceited and ridiculous that I should set up my opinion 
in matters of health against the great majority of the 
medical profession ; but to anyone who has acquired good 
health, even late in Ufe, the blessing is so inestimable, 
that it is only natural to try to help others to attain 
it. A note received the other day from a complete 
stranger stimulated me, perhaps, more than any other to 
feel that the knowledge and experience I have gained 
in the last three years might really be of some use to a 
few human beings. In this last of several letters, my un- 
known correspondent says, ' I am not likely to forget to 
associate your name with my improvement, and you, on 
your side, vriU have the satisfaction of knowing you have 
been the means of brightening and bettering our family's 
existence.' 

Now, it seems to me that, however ridiculous it may 
appear to be very much absorbed in any one subject, if 
taking the trouble to publish a book upon it can call forth 
such an expression as this, and benefit, say, half-a-dozen 
famihes, I am well rewarded. As a further justification 
of my action in this matter, I should like to quote what 
T. B. Brown says in one of his delightful ' Letters ' : 
' I believe that Jowett, like so many Englishmen, carried 



HEALTH 3 

the principle of not "pinning his heart upon his sleeve for 
daws to peck at," so far as to forget that, besides the 
peeking daws, there are the craving hearts of others . . . 
craving for the food which, God help us, is not too 
abundantly spread upon the tables of this world.' Sym- 
pathy comes naturally to those who have prosperous 
circumstances, and I, who enjoy life so abundantly, 
in spite of age and sorrows, on account of my health, 
cannot help responding to appeals, from those who 
suffer, for further information as to the means by which 
I obtained it. 

I am always being asked what I do myself. So far as 
I can, I will teU this exactly, first briefly stating that my 
health, which was good three years ago, has been dis- 
tinctly improving both as regards endurance and nerve- 
power, and this in spite of heavy trials and sorrows borne 
a great deal alone, which to a nature like mine, after a 
life spent as mine has been, is no small additional suffer- 
ing. Added to this, late in life I have had thrown upon 
me the entire management of house, garden, servants, 
stables, hospitality, which means a great strain on 
memory, especially after a lifetime with a man who 
shared all this with me, taking on himself the sole re- 
sponsibility of much of it, and financially directing the 
whole. 

My own conviction is, that though I started by myself 
on what I consider the right road as regards diet and 
health, yet without the assistance and support of Dr. Haig 
I should never have had courage to persevere against all 
opposition, and so have reached a level of health which 
has enabled me to withstand all this, and be so much 
better and stronger than either my mother or most of my 
aunts and uncles, who, with constitutions strong enough 
to live to a great old age, did so with much suffering from 
constant^ailments  loss of hearing, sight, and brain-power. 

b2 



4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

A great many people may think that my improved health 
is a matter of imagination, and I am the last to deny that 
the mental attitude has an immense effect on the success 
of diet ; but with due allowance for this, my present 
increased mental and physical power is a somewhat 
unusual record, considering my family history, which is 
one of strong constitution and bad health. 

To come now to the details of my diet : At breakfast, 
8 A.M., I eat a thick slice of home-made brown bread of 
the kind known as ' Graham,' made without yeast [see 
receipts in August] (to be bought from Heywood, 42 Queen 
Anne Street, London, W., but better made at home), with 
butter and marmalade, and a cup of hot separated milk 
tinged with coffee. I have reserved to myself the right to 
continue this self-indulgence of a small amount of coffee 
in my milk, in spite of Dr. Haig's warnings : first, because 
I so dislike the taste of milk, and secondly, because it 
leaves me something tangible to leave off in case advanc- 
ing years should make me less well. But I have a 
nephew who looks with horror at an aunt whom he used 
to think of as a kind of prophetess, who sits down at 8 
in the morning in front of a coffee-pot. People often ask 
me why I breakfast at 8. My general answer is that I 
like it, and that it gives me a nice long morning ; but the 
real reason why I recommend it to others is, that if food is 
taken at all in the morning, it must be taken five hours 
before the luncheon time, as I think pihng on another 
meal before the previous one is digested is one of the 
many causes of ill-health in the present day. 

At my second meal, 1.30, 1 eat potatoes and vegetables 
that are in season, experiencing no harm from young peas 
or beans, but finding asparagus quite a poison to me. 
Three years ago I wrote to Dr. Haig, saying that I had 
been less well, and asking if it could be from asparagus, 
as I had been eating it twice a day for ten days during my 



HEALTH 5 

full spring supply. He answered that, as far as he knew, 
asparagus was quite harmless, and that he thought I must 
have taken a chill. Last year, on the same symptoms 
reappearing, I wrote again. Dr. Haig replied as follows : 
' I write a line at once to tell you what I know will 
interest you  that the asparagus is the cause of all your 
troubles.' This did not surprise me very much, as I knew 
that thirty years ago Dr. Garrod, the great gout specialist 
of that time, used to forbid asparagus to his patients. In 
winter, for the sake of change, I sometimes eat some well- 
cooked lentils. At this meal I generally eat salad, with 
about an ounce of cheese and a good big slice of home- 
made white bread with butter. If I still feel hungry I eat a 
milky pudding and some stewed fruit. This is unwise for 
those who are dyspeptics, as fruit and vegetables are best 
kept for separate meals (see Dr. Kellogg's ' Science in the 
Kitchen ') ; fortunately, I have had a good digestion all 
my life. My great object has always been, within certain 
health conditions, to keep my feeding as nearly as possible 
that which wUl fit in with the non-dietists who surround 
me. For instance, I always serve potatoes with fish, that 
I may take something and so save the depressing effect of 
a person sitting so long at table without eating anything ; 
and once or twice a month I have been known to take a 
little bit of fish if I fancied it, especially if I have been 
lunching or dining out, though I have proved conclusively 
that so simple a food (according to ordinary ideas) as 
plain boiled fish, if I eat it two or three days running, 
has a distinctly injurious effect on the rheumatic pain 
in my hip. 

This sensitiveness to change of food is one of the 
strongest arguments used by the opponents of diet, and I 
confess it has some disadvantages ; but this applies to all 
forms of abstinence, and I would rather suffer occasionally 
than submit to an habitually low standard of health. The 



6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

enemies of dieting  and most doctors to whom I have 
spoken about it are of the number  declare that the great 
objection to strict dieting is that it weakens the digestion. 
This, I think, is quite true of the Salisbury diet  namely, 
meat and hot water, as that gives the digestion next to 
nothing to do, and dilutes the gastric juices with quan- 
tities of hot water ; but Dr. Haig's diet of cereals, cheese, 
milk, salad, raw fruit, and vegetables, is by no means easy 
of digestion, and the quickness with which I am now 
made aware of the harmfulness of many things that I used 
to take with apparent impunity, is in my opinion due, 
not to a weakened digestion, but to a return of healthy 
sensitiveness, induced by living for a long time on the 
natural food of man. I am quite sure if meat were given 
to horses, cows, or monkeys, though starvation might force 
them to eat it, they would be made very ill by such a diet. 
Eightly or wrongly, this seems to me the attitude to take 
towards the objection raised against what is called the 
' weak digestion ' of the vegetarian. 

We have always been told that dyspeptics live for ever 
 this only means that nature is severely kind and sets 
pain as a sentinel to warn them when they have eaten 
something which they are unable to assimilate, and ex- 
perience teaches them what to take and what to avoid ; 
whereas the person of strong digestion, warned by no 
suffering, swallows everything and thinks he may do so 
with impunity. We all know how healthy children and 
healthy animals show when anything disagrees with them, 
and some of us well remember how the old nurses used 
to say, ' The sick baby always thrives,' meaning the baby 
whose stomach refused to be overloaded. 

At 5 o'clock, for the meal which I still call ' Tea,' with 
the same truthfulness that I say ' The sun sets ' though 
I know it doesn't, I drink one or two teacups of separated 
milk and hot water in equal proportions, and eat two or 



HEALTH 7 

three pieces of toast made from home-made white bread, 
with butter, jam or honey, or watercress. 

The meal at night when I am alone I own I seldom 
enjoy. I sometimes, besides home-made bread, have 
melted cheese (see receipts), or macaroni, sometimes 
rice and onions or other vegetable, with bread and butter 
and a little dried or fresh fruit, or both. At meals I drink 
very little indeed, milk being counted as nourishment 
rather than drink, but if I feel thirsty I take a Uttle 
water  great thirst I should look upon as a sign of bad 
health, unless produced by excessive exercise. It is not 
a necessity, but I constantly drink a tumbler, or half a 
tumbler, of either moderately hot or cold water on getting 
up in the morning or on going to bed, or perhaps both. 

Many people would say, ' So strict a way of diet would 
make life unbearable,' but after a time this strictness so 
changes the taste that the simpler foods are really enjoyed, 
and I distinctly think, that when people have dieted for 
several years, the amount of harm done by an occasional 
relapse is so small that the social convenience of it makes 
it worth while, so long as it is acknowledged as a conces- 
sion to weakness and not a thing to be continued. It is 
what is done every day that matters. 

People often tell me they feel so much better when 
they leave off the diet. This would only be a proof to me 
that they had not strictly dieted long enough, or had been 
under-nourished, and that the return to stimulating food 
does for them what alcohol does for those who already have 
too much in their system, and is merely a putting back of 
ultimate cure. I think all who have tried the diet 
for some time can always regulate it according to their 
varying requirements, if they will read the books and 
give the matter a little consideration. I, for instance, am 
always being told that I underfeed, and Dr. Haig never 
sees me without expressing his surprise that I am as well 



8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

as I am, considering that I live a good deal on vegetables 
and certainly, as a rule, take much below the correct 
amount of proteids for my age and weight. My under- 
feeding cannot be serious, for I sleep my six or seven 
hours, have not lost or gained flesh, and feel perfectly well. 
I often have tried to add food of a more nourishing kind, 
such as curd cheese, Plasmon biscuits, milk, &c., but after 
a few days I generally find it has a tendency to bring on 
a slight return of rheumatic stiffness. I am inclined to 
think that the doctors who preach great moderation, 
whatever the diet, such as Dr. Keith and Dr. Dewey, have 
a good deal of truth on their side, as, though the proper 
standard of strength will never be attained by the under- 
fed, still the full allowance of food may go to feed the 
particular weakness or ailment which people of a certain 
age are almost sure to have, and will thus prevent them 
reaching the level of health they might have on a lower 
standard. People seem to assimilate food so differently 
that, given there is no permanent pallor, especially no very- 
white gums, or sense of fatigue, each one must judge a 
little for himself what he requires. Did I not suffer less 
from fatigue than I have ever done in my life, I should try 
harder to live up to the standard settled by physiologists 
as necessary to health, and which would doubtless be 
essential were I younger. I tried some Grape-nuts in the 
winter and felt a hot Hercules for a few days, but I beheve 
them to be distinctly a gout-making food. 

Two or three years ago I had occasion to go to an 
oculist to see if my spectacles required strengthening. 
I begged him to test my eyes thoroughly. At the end of 
the interview I asked him if in every respect they were up 
to a good average standard for my age. He said most 
certainly they were, and in a most healthy condition. 
I then asked whether he would be surprised to hear that I 
had for some years been what is called a vegetarian. He 



HEALTH 9 

immediately assumed a serious medical manner and said, 
' Up to now it seems to have done you no harm, but, 
please, don't go on Tvith it too long ! ' the manner implying 
that terrible things might happen. I smilingly rephed that 
I promised I would give it up the moment I was less well. 
I mention this to encourage people to meet the opposition 
which they must expect from all doctors, nurses, aurists, 
oculists, and dentists  in fact, all the minds trained on 
the lines of the regular accepted medical teaching. The 
study of food in relation to health is a branch of medical 
science as yet in its infancy, for the best authorities, as 
may be seen in the standard text-books on Materia 
Medica, own that they know next to nothing of meta- 
bolism, or the changes undergone by food in the body. 

A great many people tell me that diet involves so 
deep a knowledge of physiology that they cannot possibly 
undertake it. They cannot risk the responsibiUty of going 
against their doctor. They say to me, ' How can I fight 
a man who has given his lifetime to the study of these 
things, and who must know so much more about them 
than I can, even if I give my best attention to studying 
them ? ' But is this the truth ? Has not the doctor been 
taught to study drugs for the cure of disease rather than 
food as the basis of health ? He never gives diet much 
consideration except in the case of over-eating in severe 
iUness. In giving a mother rules for the health of her 
children, doctors will constantly recommend fresh air, 
exercise, and above all sufficient nourishment ; but they 
rarely give any details as to the best hind of nourish- 
ment. I have heard of a doctor who recommended a 
non-flesh diet to one of his patients, and on expressing 
his surprise at finding he had really followed it, said, 
'There are at least 120 of my patients who would be 
benefited by it, but not one of them would do it.' I 
think this is only natural, as the moment the patient was 



lo A THIRD POT-POURRI 

better he would say, ' Does Dr. practise this diet 

himself and in his own family ? If not, why am I to do 
it now I am better ? ' Can anyone think that vaccination 
would be so universally accepted if doctors and their 
children were not themselves vaccinated ? 

Only those people who have strength of character 
enough to take responsibility against pubUc opinion 
should attempt the simpler food diet. To begin it hap- 
hazard with no knowledge and little faith is almost 
bound to end in failure. The undeniable success of the 
diet upon myself has caused many people to say, ' There 
is no doubt this diet suits you,' with an emphasis on 
the ' you,' intended to convey ' what suits you, would 
be fatal to me.' With these I go no further. The real 
fact is an immense number of people are very fairly well, 
and much enjoy the good things of hfe, including food, 
between their attacks of illness. They entirely forget the 
expense of time, strength, and money entailed by these 
little attacks of colds, bilious headaches, feverishness, &g., 
the mornings spent in bed, the afternoons on a sofa in 
a darkened room, the days lost at business from bronchitis 
and influenza. 

If people could once be persuaded that the reduction 
of luxurious food does mean improved health, I think I 
should hear less about the extreme self-denial involved in 
. my diet. The man who comes down in the morning and 
grumbles because he likes neither of the two hot dishes 
provided for breakfast, would be the last to consider him- 
self either a luxurious liver or an invalid ; but, having 
been convinced by the preaching of years that he must 
' keep himself up ' by eating well, any change from a 
three-meal a day meat diet, without considering sand- 
wiches at 5 o'clock tea, strikes him with horror as a 
low diet which will result in ' running down ' and losing 
the strength of mind and body so necessary for work. 



HEALTH II 

This ' running down ' does indeed happen not infrequently 
as a result of the old-fashioned unintelligent vegetarianism. 
A great obstacle to change of diet is the family doctor. 
I have known two or three who sadly needed it them- 
selves, and having tried it more or less for a few months, 
pronounced it a failure because the good result was 
not instantaneous. The best results never come under 
eighteen months or two years. I wish to warn people 
that if they consult their doctor no diet will be tried. 
The doctors must be educated by the public. The ma- 
jority of them have no idea of giving up their own food 
and social enjoyment, though I have heard of a few of 
those very men recommending it to their wives ! Doctors 
are good kind men on their own lines, and devoted to 
their profession as long as it means curing iUness by 
drugs ; but a little reflection teaches us that the members 
of a learned profession are naturally the very persons 
least disposed to innovation upon the practices which 
custom and prescription have rendered sacred in their 
eyes. A lawyer is not the person to consult upon bold 
reforms in jurisprudence, and a physician can scarcely be 
expected to own that diet may cure diseases which resist 
an armament of phials. Every feeling of a doctor must 
be against a system which does not profess to be a cure 
of active disease, but a radical reverse of all the pre- 
conceived ideas of maintaining health, and is also a 
denial of the principles taught by the College of Surgeons. 
AU the same there are hopeful signs that a great change 
is coming about. Dr. Lionel Beale used to tell young 
practitioners many years ago that they would often come 
across cases for which starvation was the only cure, but 
he said, 'Of course, if a patient came to you and you 
advised him to starve himself, you would never see him 
again. But there are many ways of inculcating good 
advice without shocking the nerves of sensitive people 



12 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

who suppose that abstinence from food for a few hours 
means death. Tell your patient not to take any solid food 
for a week. Order him a Uttle beef-tea three times a day. 
Towards evening he may take with it a biscuit, or a little 
dry toast. ... By a little exercise of ingenuity you may 
suggest various things to take that will satisfy him, but 
which altogether will not amount to much.' 

To-day's post brings me this account of what is called 
a ' hoUday doctor ' in a neighbouring village. The patient, 
a strict vegetarian, had caught measles. She writes : 
' We had a sensible young doctor who knew nothing of my 
ordinary way of living. He gave me no medicine, and 
recommended me to give up lobster and pork. He was 
much interested because I had rheumatism in the joints, 
which he said he had heard of in measles, but never seen. 
As to medicines, he said he never took any himself. As 
I said I did not like them, he said he would not offer me 
any till I asked him for some. " But," he added, " most 
people will have them, even if one only sends them 
a little coloured water." With high fever I have always 
before this had headache, but this time I had no headache. 
The rash rushed out, and vanished suddenly the second 
day. I have had a most comfortable illness, and really 
actually feel the better for it.' The recommendation not 
to eat pork and lobster makes me think of a story of 
forty years ago. An uncle of mine, Mr. Charles VilUers, 
returning from one of the German baths, told us he had 
been much amused by the German doctor in his parting 
instructions, saying, after a good deal of apologetic attempt 
to soften the blow, ' There is one thing I really must beg 
you not to eat, and that is bear's flesh ! ' 

The oft-repeated injunction of doctors to eat chicken 
and fish after illness has sometimes amusing results 
amongst the uneducated classes. A soldier who had been 
off duty for some days with a severe bilious attack came 



HEALTH 13 

back and said with pride to the inquiring officer that he 
was much better, and his wife had given him a 'nice 
dinner of tinned salmon ! ' 

My last word is, if you want to try the diet on children, 
you must have both faith and knowledge enough to fight 
nine doctors out of ten, although in my experience, with 
adults, they are quite willing to leave all matters of food 
and even drink to the patients themselves, merely 
cautiously changing the wine or recommending none at 
aU. I had one friend, a doctor, who had the honesty to 
say to me after years of threatening me with every kind 
of misfortune, ' Mrs. Earle, what would happen to doctors 
if everybody lived as you do ? ' He also confessed to me, 
with great generosity, that in consequence of what I had 
said, no doubt assisted by the way the profession recom- 
mends Plasmon, he had had great success vrith two inebriate 
female patients by making them drink dissolved Plasmon, 
mixed with tea, milk, barley-water, &o. Plasmon should 
never be used without being first dissolved by boiling it 
in a little water, and this must be done even when it 
is introduced into puddings, cakes, biscuits, or any food 
or drink whatsoever. Plasmon is now being so much 
used by those who I consider are already suffering from 
over-feeding, that both Plasmon and Protene, as well as 
many other concentrated foods, promise to be, in my 
opinion, a considerable danger in the future. 

Sir Henry Thompson, in his most practical and 
temperately written book, ' Diet in Eelation to Age and 
Activity,' says : ' Eespecting the act of eating itself, it is 
desirable to add a few words here. Not many persons 
learn the importance of performing it rightly in youth and 
middle life. Indeed, it ought to be taught among other 
elementary lessons in physiology at every school in early 
life, a short course of which would be much more im- 
portant and far more interesting than some of the other 



14 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

courses which the existing curriculum contains. I mean 
by this, a simple description of the chief internal organs 
connected with digestion and how they act. Every child 
at eight or ten years of age should know what becomes 
of his bread and butter, and of his meat, when he gets it. 
I can scarcely conceive a better subject than this for a 
simple and entertaining talk to a class of these young 
people, with a diagram on the wall showing the chief 
organs contained in the chest and abdomen. Another 
chat about respiration and the circulation of the blood 
would follow at a later period. The subject is regarded 
with suspicion by the public, from the imposing effect of 
the five-syllabled Greek term ' ' Physiology, ' ' which suggests 
the idea that I propose to teach young children " science " ! 
 as if that term, let me remark, whenever it is used, 
denoted anything more than an "exact knowledge re- 
specting the matter in hand." ' 

How many mothers possess this knowledge which Sir 
Henry Thompson declares should be famihar to 'every 
chUd of eight or ten ' ? Can it be so very abstruse and 
difficult if children of this age can begin to learn it 
through the medium of ' a simple and entertaining talk ' ? 
A gardener who means to be successful is not content to 
work on hearsay ; he takes care to acquaint himself with 
the best books on the chemistry of soils, and by careful 
experiment builds up for himself a first-hand knowledge 
of the best foods for his plants ; and the same process is 
followed by the horse-breeder and the farmer of crops 
and cattle. The human animal alone, most precious and 
costly of all, is reared on the traditions of nurses and 
doctors, the mother apparently not thinking it her business 
to know anything of its anatomy and physiology, or of 
the chemistry of the food on which its healthy growth 
must so largely depend. For want of such knowledge, 
moreover, she is not really capable of judging of the 



HEALTH IS 

fitness of either doctor or nurse. Many of the women 
who object that this subject is too difficult for them will 
spend hours every day in reading current works of fiction, 
history, biography, travel, politics, &e., in order to establish 
or keep up a reputation for being ' well-read,' ' cultured,' 
or whatever the phrase may be which conveys the im- 
pression that they can take intelhgent, if not brUliant, 
part in dinner-table conversation on the interests of the 
hour. If part of the time now spent by women in doing 
as a matter of course the work which contributes towards 
' social success ' were to be given to the elements of 
physiology, hygiene, and the chemistry of food, the health 
of future generations might be enormously improved. 
These are not subjects which can give any social brilliance; 
they merely lay the foundation of physical, mental, and 
moral well-being in the family and the race. This is my 
reason for including at the end of this chapter a few of 
the books which quite clearly explain all that it is de- 
sirable to know ; Dr. AUinson's books, which are read and 
understood by thousands of the poorer classes, supply a 
good deal of instruction in a popular form. 

Eeturning from London, in February this year, where 
I had caught a cold in the head which never laid me up for 
an hour, I fancied I was a little less well. A friend sent 
me the American Dr. E. H. Dewey's book, ' A New Era 
for Women'  his text being Herbert Spencer's words: 
' If there were no eating without hunger, and no drinking 
without thirst, then would the system be but seldom out 
of working order.' The book is full of useful information, 
his panacea being the abolition of breakfast and eatiag 
nothing till 12 or 1 o'clock. Out of curiosity I tried this 
for ten days with the same kind of benefit that I used to 
feel in old days when I took a tonic that suited me. I did 
not continue it for the same reasons which prevent my 
doing several things that I believe would be better for 



i6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

me  the unsociability, and finding that I got too hungry 
by 1.30, the luncheon hour, which I could not conveniently 
change. I think a great many people who live on the 
ordinary food, and have eaten a large dinner the night 
before, will find benefit from cutting off breakfast alto- 
gether, or, at any rate, diminishing it. 

My great difficulty is when I pay visits, but as they 
seldom last for more than a week or ten days, and I have 
the courage to ask for servants' cheese even of the swellest 
butler, and as change of air always gives me an appetite, 
I generally come home feeling better than I went, whether 
I have underfed or not. This is the case even if I have 
eaten fish once or twice  boiled fish, one of my remaining 
temptations, seeming to me one of the most harmless of 
uric-acid-containing foods. This term, uric acid, I find is 
bewilderingly mystifying to most of my friends, who seem 
to think it is a medical glorification of ordinary acidity. 
So far as I understand it, it is a necessarily component 
part of our body, but 75 per cent, of modern human 
beings have an excess of it. Every bit of flesh food, in- 
cluding fish and eggs, contains a certain portion of this 
substance, of which we have already too much ; therefore 
the very facility with which we digest it adds to its 
injuriousness, while its tonic properties add to its attrac- 
tiveness. 

One of the questions I am constantly asked is, ' Why 
may we not follow our instincts, and eat light foods in 
summer and meat in winter ? ' I should answer : Because 
I believe that many of our eating and drinking instincts, 
not coming from that actual healthy hunger which finds 
dry, good bread and plain water a delicious repast, are on 
the level of the inebriate's desire for alcohol. Given that 
we are underfeeding, we need more nourishment  i.e., food 
containing albumen or proteid  in hot weather than in 
cold, when we lead, as a rule, much more sedentary lives, 



HEALTH 17 

and take much less out of ourselves. What many people 
call ' natural ' is often most ' artificial,' and generally 
wrong. All my generation were brought up to think that 
beef-tea and port-wine were naturally essential to fight 
the weakness consequent upon illness and fever ; now, 
except in very remote country districts, beef-tea is never 
ordered except as a substitute for brandy  i.e., stimulant 
without nourishment. 

It is no small compliment to what is expected of diet 
that many people who have been ill or aihng for years 
under the ordinary regimen, and with the advice of 
various physicians, when they visit Dr. Haig, and begin 
his methods, express great anger if not instantly better, 
and instead of returning to give him the chance of 
changing his prescription  viz., readjusting the diet  
throw up the whole system in disgust as a failure. This 
is, of course, most unreasonable. The other cause of 
anger against Dr. Haig is that he changes the details 
of the dietary he recommends. At first he had to accept, 
as all doctors do, the conclusions of others as to the con- 
stituents of food ; and in consequence he recommended 
the pulses  peas, beans, and lentils. Further personal 
experience and first-hand investigation convinced him 
that these and a few other vegetable substances  as 
asparagus, tea, coffee, cocoa, and mushrooms  contained a 
poison differing but slightly from, and in no way less 
injurious than, the animal poison of uric acid. To me, 
changes in detail, round a central idea, are the greatest 
proof of intellectual growth. 

A vegetarian friend has related to me the explanation 
of the well-known story which goes the round of London, 
and is cited by doctors when asked by patients if they shall 
try Dr. Haig's diet, or consult him for rheumatism. The 
story is that when Dr. Haig read a paper on flesh-eating 
as the cause of rheumatism, before a medical congress 

c 



1 8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

some years ago, a member present asked a question which 
' floored him '  viz., why rheumatism was prevalent in 
many countries where no flesh was eaten ? The imme- 
diate answer did not occur to Dr. Haig, as he had not 
then carried his researches far enough to know that the 
pulses  peas, beans, lentils  and other vegetable sub- 
stances, as tea, coffee, &c., contain even more uric-acid- 
producing poison than riieat itself. The question, how- 
ever, set him to work on those foods, with the result that 
he soon discovered the full answer to the question, 
and published it. This important point seems to have 
escaped the notice of those members of the profession who 
content themselves with telling only the first half of the 
story, which gives an inaccurate and unfair impression.' 
I myself have often been asked why horses get rheu- 
matism. My answer has always been, ' Too many oats ' ; 
for years ago, from his study of animals while soldiering 
in wild countries, my husband used to tell me that excess 
of cereal foods, with their high percentages of acid salts, 
caused rheumatism in horses unless well balanced by 
fresh green foods. 

I have found that my difficulties in wishing to provide 
my guests with what they like to eat have been immensely 
increased of late years. As long as one's friends are 
mixed feeders, a great variety of diet is necessary. The 
best solution has seemed to me that the invalids should 
have their meals apart, and that in mixed company there 
should be three side-tables. On one of these, soup, fish, 
meat, and vegetables ; on another, farinaceous foods 
and stewed fruits, Plasmon and other biscuits ; and on 
another, fresh raw fruits and nuts. The great thing is to 
reduce courses and to serve dinners more as luncheons or 
suppers, everything being brought in at the same time 
This helps to disguise what people eat, and what they 
don't eat. Cheese is always offered with the salad to 



HEALTH 



19 



those who do not eat meat. I have no wish to be ex- 
travagant and give dainties which no one will eat, and a 
whole dinner of soup, fish, two meats and a sweet, for one 
or two people, while the rest eat only some vegetarian food, 
is rather obviously uncomfortable not only for the hostess 
but for the guest  and I confess a general tone of ab- 
stinence, and desire to prove indifference to food and 
drink, have greatly increased in my house in the last few 
years. This is in a measure due, no doubt, to people's 
kindness of heart and friendliness towards an old woman 
with a crank ; for I know my sons have often been con- 
doled with on the excessive pity it is that their mother 
has gone mad on the food question, the speaker putting it 
dovsm, no doubt, to nervous depression from starvation, or 
failure from old age. 

I, myself, have now considerable dread that mere 
abstemiousness should lead to underfeeding, which all seem 
agreed upon as the greatest danger for the young ; and if 
mixed feeders ask my advice, I say, ' Knock off vwong foods 
at breakfast as much as you like, but keep your other 
meals very much what you have been accustomed to until 
you have time to attend properly to the subject, and 
decide what is really the best diet for you.' Sportsmen 
and others who lead an habitually outdoor life can eat 
most things, and a middle-aged nephew, who has always 
led a healthy country life, said to me lately, ' My system 
is never to allow my stomach to dictate to me. The other 
day I took a glass of beer which, as you know, I never 
drink. It disagreed violently vnth me ; so I said, " Very 
well ; you shall have it every day for a week, and I got 
perfectly used to it. Then I left it off.' There is a rough 
truth in this ; an immense number of people can eat, with 
apparent immunity, for many years the food they are used 
to. But this is a question of training the digestion to 
assimilate and not refuse unaccustomed food, and is quite 

c 2 



20 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

a different matter to well-digested food introducing poison 
into the system, if that food contains poison. 

A friend staying with me received the other day the 
following account of a large dinner to mixed dietists, after a 
meeting on Theosophy,the description being by a semi-con- 
vert to strict diet who was present : ' I was much amused 
to see one odd-looking person after another, with various 
degrees of dyspeptic appearance, helping themselves, with a 
pious air of exclusiveness, to one tomato, or a dish of beans, 
while some took fish, and others refused it with horror, 
and all agreed that meat was anathema. Certain stolid, 
wholesome-looking folk ploughed steadily through the 
whole menu, from soup to fruit ; and another entertaining 
point to the naughty scoffer was the amount of food-talk 
among the " dietists,'' while the brutal carnivora had 
leisure to devote themselves to other subjects ! One of 
the elect, who was daintily regaling himself on an apple 
and a glass of milk, explained to me, as I ate my salmon 
and cucumber, the brutalities of the slaughter-house and 
fisheries, and when I demurred to the statement that 
animals reared for food have a bad time of it, my opposite 
neighbour leaned forward and solemnly informed me that 
" some day I should have to be eaten " ! ' Does not this 
comic account of a modern effort to imitate the old bar- 
baric method of bringing people together by providing 
them with food and stimulants, rather suggest that, in 
the future, the one animal function we still perform in 
public  eating and drinking  may cease to be the pivot 
of sociability, and that when we wish to see a friend, old 
or new, we shall some day write : ' Come and have a chat 
with me ' instead of ' Come and dine, or lunch, or have a 
cup of tea ' ? 

The accusation that dietists talk too much about their 
food is perfectly true, and must be guarded against ; at 
the same time, I am all for people talking about the sub- 



HEALTH 21 

jeets that particularly interest them at the moment, for 
'out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh,' and 
the tendency of conversation at many dinner-tables, even 
when stimulated by meat and wine, often does not rise 
above the level of sport, scandal, or games. A few years 
ago it was bicycles, now it is motors that often absorb a 
whole evening. 

The breaking up of uniformity in food may be the 
initial stage of transition to a higher civilisation, luxury 
in social entertainment, both in food and drink, having 
governed the world too long. Just think what it means 
as showing the change that has come over the world, that 
a conquering general on his return home should think it 
desirable to write such an appeal to his countrymen as 
Lord Eoberts' letters to the press on ' treating ' soldiers. 
He wrote two letters, the second emphasising the first ; 
and so much did I honour him for such action, and so 
important did I feel it to be to spread the knowledge of his 
wishes in every possible way, that, together with some 
of my neighbours, I had large posters printed and 
circulated in the village, giving the full text of the letter, 
and headed in red ink : ' Eeturn of our soldiers from South 
Africa.' I take the liberty of including the letter here, 
' lest we forget ' : 

' Sir,  Will you kindly allow me, through the medium 
of your paper, to make an appeal to my countrymen and 
women upon a subject I have very much at heart, and 
which has been occupying my thoughts for some time ? 

' All classes in the United Kingdom have shown such a 
keen interest in the army serving in South Africa, and 
have been so munificent in their efforts to supply every 
need of that army, that I feel sure they must be eagerly 
looking forward to its return, and to giving our brave 
soldiers and sailors the hearty welcome they so well 
deserve when they get back to their native land. 



22 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

'It is about the character of this welcome, and the 
effects it may have on the reputations of the troops whom 
I have been so proud to command, that I am anxious, 
and that I venture to express an opinion. My sincere 
hope is that the welcome may not take the form of 
" treating " the men to stimulants in public-houses or in 
the streets, and thus lead them into excesses which must 
tend to degrade those whom the nation delights to honour, 
and to lower the " soldiers of the Queen " in the eyes of 
the world  that world which has watched with undis- 
guised admiration the grand work they have performed 
for their Sovereign and their country. Prom the very 
kindness of their hearts, their innate politeness, and their 
gratitude for the welcome accorded them, it will be 
difficult for the men to refuse what is offered to them by 
their too generous friends. 

' I therefore beg earnestly that the British public will 
refrain from tempting my gallant comrades, but will 
rather aid them to uphold the splendid reputation they 
have won for the imperial army. I am very proud that I 
am able to record, with the most absolute truth, that the 
conduct of this army from first to last has been exemplary. 
Not one single case of serious crime has been brought to 
my notice  indeed, nothing that deserves the name of 
crime. There has been no necessity for appeals or orders 
to the men to behave properly. I have trusted implicitly 
to their own soldierly feehngs and good sense, and I have 
not trusted in vain. They bore themselves like heroes on 
the battlefield, and like gentlemen on all other occasions. 
Most malicious falsehoods were spread abroad by the 
authorities in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal as 
to the brutality of Great Britain's soldiers, and as to the 
manner in which the women and children might expect to 
be treated. We found on first entering towns and villages, 
doors closed and shops shut up, while only English-born 



HEALTH 23 

people were to be seen in the streets. But very shortly 
all this was changed. Doors were left open, shutters 
were taken down, and people of all nationalities moved 
freely about in the full assurance that they had nothing 
to fear from " the man in khaki," no matter how battered 
and war-stained his appearance. This testimony will, I 
feel sure, be very gratifying to the people of Great Britain, 
and of that Greater Britain whose sons have shared to 
the fullest extent in the suffering as weU as the glory of 
the war, and who have helped so materially to bring it to 
a successful close. 

' I know how keen my fellow-subjects will be to show 
their appreciation of the upright and honourable bearing, 
as well as the gallantry of our sailors and soldiers, and I 
would entreat them, in return for all these grand men 
have done for them, to abstain from any action that might 
bring the smallest discredit upon those who have so 
worthily upheld the credit of their country. 

' I am induced to make this appeal from having read, 
with great regret, that when our troops were leaving 
England, and passing through the streets of London, their 
injudicious friends pressed liquor upon them, and shoved 
bottles of spirits into their hands and pockets  a mode of 
" speeding the parting " friend which resulted in some 
very distressing and discreditable scenes. I fervently 
hope there may be no such scenes to mar the brightness 
of the welcome home. 

' I remain, Sir, yours faithfully, 

'EOBEBTS, F.M.' 

Health Books 

' Uric Acid as a Factor in the Causation of Disease,' 
a contribution to the pathology of high blood-pressure, 
headache, epilepsy, mental depression, paroxysmal hsemo- 



24 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

globinuria, and anaemia, Bright's disease, diabetes, gout, 
rheumatism, and other disorders, by Alexander Haig, 
M.A., M.D. Oxon., P.E.C.P., Physician to the Metro- 
politan Hospital, and the Eoyal Hospital for Children 
and Women; late Casualty Physician to St. Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital. Fifth edition, with seventy-five illustra- 
tions. (Churchill, London.) 

In spite of having mentioned this book before, I must 
re-name it here at the head of these health books, as the 
more I understand the subject, the more I am convinced 
that it is one of the most important books on medical 
science that have ever been given by a doctor to the public. 

I am told that it is much disputed here in England, 
though how it is scientifically disproved I am not able to 
judge. It has been translated into German, and, with 
their usual broadmindedness in matters of science, German 
doctors and scientists are taking a deep and practical 
interest in Dr. Haig's researches, and are even coming 
over here to consult him ; whereas in England I was 
lately told by a medical man of high standing and large 
practice, that ' Dr. Haig stood alone in his opinions, which 
were not shared by a single member of his profession.' 
Anyone who knows even as much of the matter as I do, 
knows this to be quite untrue. How far Dr. Haig's book 
has been seriously considered and answered in his own 
country I am not in a position to decide, but I do know 
that I have the names of over a score of doctors who are 
working on his lines.' 

The book is a big one and costs 14s., a sum which 
may be deterrent to many in these non-bookbuying days. 
It is hard reading, highly technical, and almost impossible 
for a lay -mind to read straight through ; but as a book of 

' Leaflets of instruction in the best ways of beginning the diet 
are given by Dr. Haig to his patients, and are to be got by writing 
for them to A. Haig, Esq., M.D., 7 Brook Street, W. 



HEALTH 



25 



reference it is singularly clear and instructive, the index 
being so good that any subject can be readily looked 
up. 

' Diet and Eood in Eelation to Strength and Power of 
Endurance.' Haig. Fourth edition. Seven illustrations. 

This book, costing only 2s., has been prepared by Dr. 
Haig for the general public in order to make plain and 
easy the A B C of his theory, so that the many sufferers 
from the diseases he has specially investigated may begin 
their studies and have an opportunity of being able in 
time to judge for themselves. 

I must again repeat that all hope of real improvement 
in the standard of health must come through the intel- 
ligent experience of the public teaching the doctors. 

Even those who already possess the earlier editions of 
this book I strongly recommend to get this latest one, as 
it contains valuable additional pages on bread foods  i.e., 
not only good home-made unadulterated loaves and bis- 
cuits, but all the many kinds and combinations of cereal 
products, such as wheat, barley, oats, maize, rice. There 
is also an interesting page of dental illustration, which 
ought to end the old controversy as to man being car- 
nivorous or omnivorous. 

One of the most interesting converts to the diet is 
Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A., the well-known tennis champion 
and Cambridge coach, who has frankly given to the 
public his personal experience in ' Muscle, Brain, and 
Diet,' a book which contains most useful general instruc- 
tion about food and health, together with some excellent 
cookery receipts for the simpler diet  one of which I 
include in my list of cooking receipts, it being in my 
opinion much too good to be missed. Two other useful 
volumes for the student of food as the basis of health, 
are Mr. Miles' ' Failures of Vegetarianism,' which is far 
more helpful than all the successes I have ever read of. 



26 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

because it warns beginners of the errors they are almost 
sure to fall into if unguided : and ' Better Food for Boys,' 
a little Is. number of Messrs. Bell & Sons' ' Life and Light' 
Series, which brings the subject poignantly home to 
parents, guardians, and schoolmasters, and by providing 
a table of food values enables everyone, girls and adults, 
as well as boys, to calculate the right quantity and kind 
of food necessary for health  though nothing but personal 
trial and careful observation and patience will teach each 
individual the best food for his or her particular constitu- 
tion and way of life. 

' Avenues to Health.'  This last of Mr. Miles' books on 
this subject is, perhaps, the most important of all, for it is 
brim full of generally interesting information culled from 
all kinds of sources, old and new, Western and Oriental, 
as to the best means to attain and maintain the highest 
physical and psychical health. 

My friend, Miss Adela Curtis, writes me the following 
notice of three useful pamphlets : 

' When first we opened our bookshop, we got a 
quantity of little penny books on diet from Mr. Albert 
Broadbent, of Manchester, and experimented by putting 
one or two in the window, and about the shop casually 
among the other books. It may interest you, as much as 
it amused us, to learn that these little things were picked 
up, looked into, and bought by all classes of people, 
whenever we happened to bring them forward. One of 
these, " Forty Vegetarian Dinners," of which 20,000 have 
been sold, contains an interesting introduction by the 
Hon. Mrs. F. J. Bruce, whose testimony as the mother of 
a large and healthy family, and the head of a household 
numbering some twenty-two members, is exceptionally 
valuable, seeing that she has nothing but praise for the 
system after sixteen years' practice. 

' Another of these dainty pennyworths, now^ in its 



HEALTH 27 

seventeenth thousand, is called " Science in the Daily 
Meal," and gives carefully proportioned dietaries for six- 
teen days, as well as helpful advice for curing common 
ailments, and many remarkable extracts on the evils of 
modern diet from the works of Professor Atwater, the 
great American chemist, Dr. E. Williams of the Middlesex 
Cancer Hospital, Drs. Haig, Bouchard, Boix, Virchow, 
and Kellogg. This little book has lately been enlarged 
to a 3d. edition in paper and Qd. in cloth. 

' " Fruits, Nuts, and Vegetables : their Uses as Pood 
and Medicine," a new 3d. edition of a booklet which has 
gone to its forty-fourth thousand, is an admirable com- 
pilation, adapting the quaint and half-forgotten lore of 
many herbals to the needs of modern Ufe.' 

A friend sent me the other day Dr. E. H. Dewey's 
book, ' A New Era for Women : Health without Drugs.' 
This book seems to have considerable attraction for many 
people, but I should say it was rather addressed to those 
who take drugs, or who over-eat, as his great panacea for 
health seems to be leaving off breakfast  a remedy much 
more necessary in America, where they have ten dishes at 
that meal. He preaches a great deal what we are all be- 
ginning to know and even to believe  that Nature is a 
wonder worker. His system of no-breakfast is based on the 
fact that sleep never makes anyone hungry, the gnawing 
sensation in the morning which people mistake for hunger 
being caused by the indigestion of the previous night's 
dinner or supper. Food will certainly stop this pain, but 
only at the expense of further digestive trouble, and hot 
water would be the best treatment of this spurious hunger, 
as it would cleanse the stomach of its unwholesome con- 
dition and help it to regain a normal and healthy desire 
for food. Most people relieve it by biscuits and milk in 
the night. Of course, there is such a thing as healthy 
hunger in the morning for those who have well digested 



28 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

their dinner the night before, and who have done several 
hours' work before breakfast. 

' The Perfect Way in Diet.'  A book which for its size 
contains a greater wealth of scientific information than 
almost any I know on the subject, is ' The Perfect Way 
in Diet,' by Mrs. Anna Kingsford, M.D. It is a transla- 
tion of her ' Thfese pour le Doctorat ' presented at the 
Faculte de Medicine of Paris on taking her degree in 
1880, and is just one of those good things which the 
public is apt to lose sight of in the rush of new books. 
The treatise opens with a clear and able condensation of 
anatomical and physiological evidence for man's frugi- 
vorous habit, culminating in the following passage : ' If 
we have consecrated to this sketch of comparative anatomy 
and physiology a paragraph which may seem a little 
wearisome in detail, it is because it appears necessary to 
combat certain erroneous impressions affecting the struc- 
ture of man which obtain credence, not only in the vulgar 
world, but even among otherwise instructed persons.' 
How many times, for instance, have we not heard people 
speak with all the authority of conviction about the 
' canine teeth ' and ' simple stomach ' of man, as certain 
evidence of his natural adaptation for a flesh diet ! At 
least we have demonstrated one fact : that if such argu- 
ments are valid, they apply with even greater force to the 
anthropoid apes  whose ' canine ' teeth are much longer 
and more powerful than those of man  and the scientists 
must make haste therefore to announce a rectification of 
their present division of the animal kingdom in order to 
class with the carnivora and their proximate species all 
those animals which now make up the order of primates. 
And yet vnth the solitary exception of man, there is not 
one of these last which does not in a natural condition 
absolutely refuse to feed on flesh ! M. Pouehet, in his 
'Pluralit6 de la Eace Humaine,' observes that all the 



HEALTH 29 

details of the digestive apparatus in man, as well as his 
dentition, constitute ' so many proofs of his frugivorous 
origin '  an opinion shared by Professor Owen, who re- 
marks that the anthropoids and all the quadrumana derive 
their aUmentation from fruits, grains, and other succulent 
and nutritive vegetable substances, and that the strict 
analogy which exists between the structure of these 
animals and that of man clearly demonstrates his frugi- 
vorous nature. This is also the view taken by Cuvier in 
' Le Eegne Animal,' Professor Lawrence in ' Lectures on 
Physiology,' Charles Bell in ' Diseases of the Teeth,' 
Linnaeus, Gassendi, Plourens, and a great number of 
other eminent writers. The last-named scientist gives 
expression to his views after the following manner : ' Man 
is neither carnivorous nor herbivorous. He has neither 
the teeth of the cud-chewers, nor their four stomachs, nor 
their intestines. If we consider these organs in man, we 
must conclude him to be by nature and origin frugivorous, 
as is the ape. It may possibly be objected that since, 
according to natural structure and propensities, man is a 
fruit and seed eater, he ought not to partake of those 
leguminous plants and roots which belong rather to the 
dietary of the herb-eaters, whose organisation we have 
shown to differ in so many details from that of man. It 
may be urged that trouble is wasted in proving to what 
order man belongs by nature, since with him, alone of all 
animals. Art has superseded Nature, and has enabled him 
by means of fire, condiments, and disguise, to eat and 
digest without disgust, and even with relish, the food of 
the tiger, the wolf, and the hyena. Such objections are 
not without an air of reason; and I shall meet them 
first by the frank statement that the most excellent and 
proper aliments of which our race can make use consist 
of tree-fruits and seeds, and not of the plants themselves, 
whether foliage or roots.' 



30 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Just lately a book has come to my hand which I think 
will be of the greatest use to those who are staggered by 
Dr. Haig's scientific language. It is called ' Medical 
Essays,' by T. E. AUinson, physician and surgeon, but note, 
as he does on his title-page, that he is ' Ex ' L.E.C.P., &c. 
This book, in 1901, had reached its twenty-ninth thousand, 
a sale as cheering as it is enormous, showing as it does 
how its teaching must have permeated all classes. It is 
in fact a popular mixture of very short articles on health, 
food, ailments, management of children, and general in- 
structions for right living, and makes the whole subject 
of physical well-being so plain and straightforward, that 
I think no head of a young family should be without it. 
So many are deterred from trying moderation and abste- 
miousness by the severity of Dr. Haig's measures, that it 
might help them greatly to read Dr. AUinson's explanations, 
and begin by trying his less strict form of diet. I should 
certainly have bought his largest book (price 10s. 6d) if I 
had known of it. As it was, I got Book P. at 6s. 6d., 
which is naturally less complete. 

Dr. AUinson's main principle seems to be that the 
greater proportion of disease is brought about by our own 
ignorance. I know well that in my youth when I ate a 
large breakfast, which always made me feel uncomfortable, 
I did it with the sincere belief that I was adding to my 
strength and working power during the day, whereas it 
often took me an hour and a half to get over the first 
effects of the meal, especially in winter. Dr. Allinson 
states in his preface that what he writes is also ' the be- 
ginning, I hope, of a school of healing that will take the 
place of allopathy and homoeopathy.' I feel sure that while 
medicines are still taken, strict dieting is much impeded 
in its benefits. Till all drugs are left off, few can judge 
of what they want in the way of food. 

' A Treatise on the Tonic System of treating Affections of 



HEALTH 31 

the Stomach and Brain.' By Henry Searle, Surgeon, Ken- 
nington Common. Published by Eichard & John Taylor. 
London. 1843. 

Amidst the rush of modern medical books, it is not 
otherwise than sobering and extremely interesting to take 
up an old book, and see what doctors believed and what 
they taught sixty years ago. It is one of the most 
beautiful articles of the creed of the profession, that no 
knowledge they obtain, no invention they make must ever 
be kept secret, but always openly given both to fellow- 
members and to the public. This is a noble idea, and 
often constitutes the great difference between a doctor 
and what is called a ' quack,' for the latter is apt to keep 
his discoveries to himself in order to make money out of 
them. 

There are many notable things in this old book, and 
the stuffing and tonic system we were all brought up on 
is well argued ; but I mention it chiefly for its strong con- 
demnation of tea and coffee so early as 1843. The 
increase of tea-drinking in all classes is astonishing. Mr. 
Searle says, ' Previously to the introduction of tea into this 
Kingdom, disorders of the stomach were by no means so 
prevalent as they have been since. Tea in the evening is 
found particularly refreshing, and is therefore considered 
an indispensable article of diet; but the refreshing 
effects of tea are not always unalloyed, most unpleasant 
symptoms of indigestion being sometimes experienced im- 
mediately after taking it. As tea-drinking is a univer- 
sally established practice, it would be vain to recommend 
its discontinuance ; but it may be strongly urged that tea 
should be taken in small quantities, and of moderate 
strength, and that those who are troubled with indiges- 
tion should combine with it a large proportion of milk.' 
Only so did this timid doctor in the early Victorian 
period venture to advise the public. In my lifetime tea 



32 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

P 
has been entirely discontinued after dinner. Twenty 

years ago I can remember how the tray used to come in 

after dinner, and be almost universally refused ; and is it 

not quite possible that the same fate may be in store for 

the 5 o'clock custom when once the young realise how 

bad it is for themselves and their children after them ? 

Alas, the same economic danger stares one in the face as 

with meat, beer, or spirits : hundreds would be ruined in 

India and Ceylon if the drinking of tea were appreciably 

to decrease, but I confess I have no sympathy with those 

who make money by the adulteration of food, or by the 

sale of beer, spirits, tea, opium, quack drugs, or anything 

else that brings ruin and misery through bad health to 

millions of human beings. 

Other books that I should like to recommend to 
students of health are Hutchinson's ' Dietetics,' Parke's 
' Practical Hygiene,' Dr. Pernie's ' Herbal Simples ' (5s.), 
Dr. Kellogg's ' Science in the Kitchen ' (12s. 6d.), and 
' The Stomach,' Mr. A. W. Duncan's ' Chemistry of Food,' 
and ' Foods and their Comparative Values,' Dr. Lehmann's 
' Eational Hygiene,' Dr. Poore's ' Rural Hygiene,' Dr. 
Dewey's ' True Science of Living,' Smith's ' Fruits and 
Parinacea,' Huxley's ' Elements of Physiology.' 

These and many other books, English and American, 
on health, education, &c., are kept in stock, as a rule, by 
Curtis & Davison, 4 High Street, Kensington. 

Having given the pubUc this list of books, which, I 
believe, will help the introduction of a new and a better 
era, I cannot resist the pleasure of speaking of a French 
classic, ' La Physiologie du Qott, de Brillat-Savarin,' re- 
pubUshed in 1879 by the Librairie des Bibliophiles with 
Eaux-fortes par Ad. Lalauze. 

My own old edition was of 1841. Most people know 
his famous aphorism, ' Dis-moi ce que tu manges, et je te 
dirai ce que tu es.' This book by the friend of the Eeca- 



HEALTH 33 

miers has all the charm of the best eighteenth-century 
French literature. 

It is perhaps unkind, but I should be more than human 
if I withstood the temptation to quote here what he says 
about the doctors in Ms day, in his chapter called ' Des 
Gourmands ' : ' Des causes d'une autre nature, quoique 
non moins puissantes, agissent sur les m6deeins : ils sont 
gourmands par sdduction, et il faudrait qu'ils fussent de 
bronze pour resister k la force des choses. 

' Les chers docteurs sont d'autant mieux accueillis que 
la sante, qui est sous leur patronage, est le plus pr^cieux 
de tous les biens ; aussi sont-ils enf ants gsbtds dans toute 
la force du terme. 

' Toujours impatiemment attendus, ils sont accueillis 
avec empressement. C'est une jolie malade qui les 
engage ; c'est une jeune personne qui les caresse ; c'est 
un p6re, c'est un mari, qui leur recommandent ce qu'ils 
ont de plus oher. L'esp^rance les tourne par la droite, 
la reconnaissance par la gauche ; on les embecque comme 
des pigeons ; ils se laissent faire, et en six mois I'habitude 
est prise, ils sont gourmands sans retour.' 

In the editor's note to the 1879 edition he has a sen- 
tence which I think may form a motto very applicable to 
the eaters of the simpler foods compared with those who, 
up to now, have met to consume fish, flesh, and fowl. I 
claim that in the future the simpler foods may be as dainty 
and attractive as those recommended by Savarin, and that 
the contrast between the meals of the future and of the 
present will be as great as between the French cooking 
and the Eoman : ' Et d'ailleurs, il ne faut pas s'y tromper, 
la cuisine est v^ritablement un art, art tout moderne, art 
tout fran9ais, et qui trouve en Fi'ance son chantre le plus 
autoris6. Les grands repas des Eomains n'6taient qu'un 
brutal amas de plats gigantesques, ou les mets et les 
ingredients de toutes sortes se trouvaient confondus dans 

D 



34 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

des sauces dont la seule analyse nous soulfeve aujourd'hui 
le coeur. La description du plus beau festin de LucuUus 
ne peut rien inspirer d'analogue a la douce Amotion qu'on 
ressent en lisant le r6cit du simple et succulent ddjeuner 
du cur6, si onctueusement racont6 dans le paragraphs des 
" Vari6t6s " qui a pour titre " L'Omelette au thon." ' 

I would recommend all those interested in the instruc- 
tion of the young to get ' A Short Account of the Human 
Body,' by Owen Lancaster, lecturer to the Natural Health 
Society, published by Allman & Son, 67 New Oxford 
Street, W.C., price 2s. 6d. It contains a coloured picture 
of a manikin with the skin removed, and folds that lift up 
and show the position of the internal organs. This 
diagram is exciting and interesting, and would inspire the 
young with a kind of reverential feeling for their internal 
machinery, of which they know so little, and which they 
treat so often with great unfairness. It has long been 
said a man is a fool or a doctor at forty. I fear, then, I 
know many fools, especially among women, who more 
frequently starve themselves and overwork than men 
do. What I want is that all, even the quite young, 
should respect their bodies, and believe that health also 
means beauty and strength; that all should know the 
difference between health, or what we are intended to be, 
and that continual, uncertain, ailing condition so common 
with young, middle-aged, and old, and to which people 
actually think it a virtue to submit. How few, even 
among nurses, know that if anyone is struck down by any 
kind of accident, the first thing to do, as with a man 
wounded in full health, is immensely to reduce nourish- 
ment and quantity of food ! I have several times known 
more injury to come from overfeeding when all exercise 
is stopped than from an accident itself. Wherever there 
is a weak or injured part, there the mischief vw'U settle, 
especially where the constitution is gouty or rheumatic ; 



HEALTH 35 

and this, as should always be remembered, is the case 
with seventy -five out of every hundred persons. 

' Water : How it Kills its Thousands.' This is a 
pamphlet issued by the Salutaris Company, which is well 
worth reading, if only for the caution against hard water 
as a drink for the gouty and rheumatic. Those who 
cannot afford habitually to buy Salutaris Water may like 
to know that it is easy enough to have distilled water at 
home by getting one of the stills supplied by the Gem 
Supply Co., 6 Bishop's Court, Chancery Lane, E.C. 

Would it not be better if, instead of expressing the 
heartiness of our rejoicings by giving enormous teas and 
dinners to the poor, which often make them ill or un- 
comfortable for days after, we were to give them wholesome 
food to carry away to their homes, which they would often 
spin out to last a week, and which would help the sick and 
healthy alike and cost the givers no more ? 

After the ' Health ' chapter, the subject in both my 
former books that roused most opposition and yet most 
interest was what I said about girls  their training, rela- 
tion to their mother, &c. In fact, I have several times 
been asked to give more of my advice. I never have any 
'views,' except as the outcome of my own experiences, and 
all my dear nieces, real and adopted, have now grown 
into women and are bringing up their ovm children. 

Opinions on education grow quickly, and as the subject 
is of perennial interest to me in a general way, 1 can only 
mention a book or two which may be found useful and 
have come to my knowledge, almost by chance, in the last 
few years. All that is newest, most enlightening, and 
most stirring seems now to come from America, and I can 
recommend strongly to all a book, full of concentrated 
instruction and valuable suggestions, called ' An Ideal 
School, or Looking Forward,' by Preston Search, United 
States Superintendent of Schools, one of the 5s. ' Inter- 

d2 



36 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

national ' Series, published by Arnold. An English book, 
lately published with an idea of awakening more general 
interest in the subject, is 'Education and Empire,' by 
E. B. Haldane. 

But to mothers, when education is over, I can only 
repeat what I have said before  that when all has been 
said and done with reference to education, human nature 
remains the same, and the really important thing for 
mothers to do is to try to know their own children. 
They may exhaust themselves in efforts to make their 
daughters sweet, attractive, graceful, and marriageable^ 
but unless they realise that no young people, any more 
than the rest of us, can live up to an ideal, the end is 
often artificiality and deceit in the children, and bitter 
disappointment to the parents. 

It seems so easy, in theory, for parents to know their 
children; but, in fact, nothing is more difficult. There 
are two courses open to every mother of young children, 
say, to the age of fifteen. One is, to hold up in practice 
and precept a high ideal, and persistently encourage the 
children always to act up to this standard, so impressing 
its importance on them that they come to feel it a proof of 
their personal affection for her to try to come up to it, at 
least, in her presence, even to the extent of acting a part 
to please her. This way, though often satisfactory in 
childhood, generally ends, so far as my experience goes, 
in disaster to character, for in insensibly forcing them to 
appear to be something they are not, it actually helps to 
train them in habits of deception and lying. 

The other course is to make up one's mind to the 
probability of naughtiness, selfishness, want of good 
manners, or any other undesirable but natural expression 
of themselves  in fact, to live in what is called the ' Palace 
of Truth,' trying to discover the plan Nature has outlined 
for them, and helping them to fulfil it by natural growth 



HEALTH 37 

rather than forcing them, however gently and skil- 
fully, into some mould of our own choosing. This way 
brings a good deal of mortification to the mother and 
condemnation of her training from her friends; but I 
firmly believe that this method turns out in the end the 
truest and best human beings, and if the mother's own 
example, supported by the father's, has meanwhile 
declared and upheld her ideal of what her children should 
be, they will probably realise it in later life. 

I am always being told that everything is now very 
different from my day, but I still maintain, as I said in 
my former book, that all those differences are superficial. 
It is but the outward fashions that change. Only three 
years ago was published one of the most charming books 
of imagination that has appeared for a very long time  
' A Digit of the Moon : A Hindoo Love Story.' A great 
many people were disappointed at finding out that it was 
original and not a translation ; but to my mind it only 
adds greatly to its charm and interest that an Englishman 
living in India should have been able in these days to 
write such a book. It is perhaps too well known to justify 
a long quotation from it here. All the same, life is so 
full that many miss what they would like to see, and this 
description of man's notion of how woman was made 
seems to me a literary gem : 

' One day, as they rested at noon beneath the thick 
shade of a Kadamba tree, the King gazed for a long time 
at the portrait of his mistress. And suddenly he broke 
silence and said, " Easak6sha, this is a woman. Now, a 
woman is the one thing about which I know nothing. 
Tell me, what is the nature of woman ? " Then Easakosha 
smiled, and said, " King, you should certainly keep this 
question to ask the Princess, for it is a hard question. A 
very terrible creature indeed is a woman, and one formed of 
strange elements. Apropos, I will tell you a story. Listen ! 



38 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

'"In the beginning, when Twashtri came to the 
creation of woman he found that he had exhausted his 
materials in the making of man, and that no solid elements 
were left. In this dilemma, after profound meditation, 
he did as follows. He took the rotundity of the moon, 
and the curves of creepers, and the cUnging of tendrils, 
and the trembUng of grass, and the slenderness of the 
reed, and the bloom of flowers, and the lightness of leaves, 
and the tapering of the elephant's trunk, and the glances 
of deer, and the clustering of rows of bees, and the joyous 
gaiety of sunbeams, and the weeping of clouds, and the 
fickleness of the winds, and the timidity of the hare, and 
the vanity of the peacock, and the softness of the parrot's 
bosom, and the hardness of adamant, and the sweetness 
of honey, and the cruelty of the tiger, and the warm glow 
of fire, and the coldness of snow, and the chattering of 
jays, and the cooing of the K61ila (the Indian cuckoo), 
and the hypocrisy of the crane, and the fidelity of the 
chakrSiWaka ; and compounding all these together he 
made woman and gave her to man. But after one week 
man came to him and said, ' Lord, this creature that you 
have given me makes my life miserable. She chatters 
incessantly, and teases me beyond endurance, never 
leaving me alone ; and she requires incessant attention, 
and takes all my time up, and cries about nothing, 
and is always idle; and so I have come to give her 
back again, as I cannot Hve with her.' So Twashtri 
said, ' Very well,' and he took her back. Then after 
another week man came again to him and said, ' Lord, 
I find that my life is very lonely since I gave you back 
that creature. I remember how she used to dance 
and sing to me, and look at me out of the corner of 
her eye, and play with me, and chng to me ; and her 
laughter was music, and she was beautiful to look at 
and soft to touch ; so give her back to me again.' So 



HEALTH 39 

Twashtri said, 'Very well,' and gave her back again. 
Then, after only three days, man came back to him again 
and said, ' Lord, I know not how it is, but after all I have 
come to the conclusion that she is more of a trouble than 
a pleasure to me, so please take her back again.' But 
Twashtri said, ' Out on you ! Be off ! I will have no more 
of this. You must manage how you can.' Then man 
said, ' But I cannot Uve with her.' And Twashtri re- 
plied, ' Neither could you Uve without her.' And he 
turned his back on man and went on with his work. 
Then man said, ' What is to be done, for I cannot live 
either with or without her ? ' " 

' And Easak6sha ceased and looked at the King. But 
the King remained silent, gazing intently at the portrait 
of the Princess. ' 



40 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



HEALTH OF OTHEBS 

Imaginary conversation between two doctors  Advertisements versus 
Dr. Haig  Eemedies for depression on beginning diet  The old 
need not fear change of diet  Tea-drinking and the Chinese  
The Bible and meat-eating Pythagoreans and the bean  ' Better 
Food for Boys ' and the schoolmaster  Difficulties of the diet  
Fat and thin women  Medieval and Greek idea  Individual 
cases  Maeterlinck's testimony. 

Hating done my best in the last chapter to tell about 
myself, I think it may be of some interest to those who 
are trying to help themselves, and who have, probably, 
those they love best and all the world against them, that 
I should now give some account of my personal observa- 
tion of others, and the details of a few cases that have 
come more particularly under my notice, these having 
been kind enough to send me their individual experience. 
Some are patients of Dr. Haig, others have been induced 
to try the diet from reading Mr. Miles' book, or from 
seeing the conspicuous benefit I have derived from the 
diet. 

Por a long time I thought Dr. Haig was the only 
medical practitioner of the kind, but the last six months 
have convinced me of my error, and now it seems to me 
that the idea of wrong food being a great cause of disease, 
is quite in the air and widespread. But it cannot be too 
often repeated, that the work of Dr. Haig and his col- 
leagues is not primarily a specific cure of disease, but a 
scientific research into food, their aim being to establish a 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 41 

high standard of health on a simple and sound foundation 
of right diet. Being a doctor, however, Dr. Haig's 
experience must necessarily lie among the diseased, or, at 
least, the non -healthy, and this gives his system of diet a 
most severe trial. I must honestly say that, in all the 
cases that have come to me, there has never been one 
healthy person ; all have been suffering more or less from 
headaches, dyspepsia, anaemia, gout, rheumatism, weak- 
ness, &o., in spite of belonging to a class that has every 
chance of high feeding in the ordinary way, though many 
of them, from non-assimilation, have been as underfed as 
the unscientific vegetarians. I confess I am still puzzled 
by the apparently good results of the cramming system, 
which has been so generally adopted for nervous diseases 
by the medical profession, and of which Drs. Playfair and 
Weir-Mitchell are the renowned exponents. The benefit 
is, I believe, only temporary, and the over-stimulation of 
cramming on meat and wine is so dangerous for nervous 
temperaments that many cases of death and madness 
might be written down as ' victims of the medical pro- 
fession.' The high-feeding cure for tuberculosis has given 
this system such an immense fashion, that in Germany 
it is recommended as a -preventive measure as well as 
a cure, it being well known that the weakly form the 
best soil for the germs of the disease. I know a German 
mother who sent her only and very delicate son of sixteen, 
reduced by overwork and examinations, to Nordrach, the 
consumptive cure place, to face the possible infection, 
that he might be fed on a system which she could not 
induce him to follow at home. The result was so satis- 
factory that he was willing to go back there for his 
summer hoUday in the following year. The lesson to me 
from this, is not that the Nordrach meat diet is best for 
the purpose, this being attained with greater ultimate ad- 
vantage upon the Haig diet (see ' Diet and Food,' p. 108), 



42 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but that a person can be made to eat food enough by 
the help of a mental effort, or by the moral influence 
of some other human being, such as a doctor, friend, or 
nurse. The immediate results of the stuffing system tend 
immensely to support Dr. Haig's theories, as represented 
in the following imaginary conversation, written for me 
by a doctor : 

' K.  If you take only small quantities of food, you 
may continue some meat, and even tea and coffee, with 
but little harm. 

' H.  I grant this to a certain extent, and I know that 
a little uric acid is better than a great deal; but I can 
show that it always does harm to take any uric acid, and, 
personally, I never swallow a grain of it, if I have power 
to leave it out. 

' K.  Well, it does not seem to harm me ; I am much 
better than I used to be, and I am old and yet feel well. 

' H.  Let us get to facts ; will you tell me, for instance, 
what your old diet used to be and what your present 
diet is ? 

' K.  -My ordinary diet might have been 1,200 grains of 
albumen per day. I then formed 12 grains of uric acid 
per day, and I introduced some 8 grains more in flesh 
and tea. I thus had to deal with 20 grains of uric acid 
a day, and with this I suffered badly from headaches. 
My present diet is about 800 grains of albumen, and I 
form 8 grains of uric acid, and introduce in the small 
quantities of flesh and tea I take some 8 or 4 grains more. 
I thus have to deal with some 11 to 12 grains of uric 
acid a day, and have no headaches. 

' H.  No doubt this is a gain ; but what about your 
nutrition, and circulation ? 

' K.  I lead a quiet life, and get up late ; but I am able 
to walk for several miles every day, and do a good deal 
of reading and writing. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 43 

' S.  But your blood colour is nowhere near the proper 
standard, and your circulation in skin and all organs is 
slow, so that their nutrition is feeble. Now I know a 
man who is at present in his eightieth year, and who 
would do in one hour all the exercise you take in a day 
(Mr. C. J. Harris, often mentioned in the " Vegetarian " ) ; 
his ordinary day's work is thirty to forty miles on his tri- 
cycle, and he not infrequently rides fifty to sixty miles, 
and on several occasions has done a hundred in the 
twenty-four hours. His blood colour is good, his circula- 
tion is good, he is in every way strong and well nourished ; 
and the reason is simple, for he takes, each day, his 
physiological allowance of albumens, quite free from 
uric acid, while you only take two-thirds of your physio- 
logical allowance (800 in place of 1,200), and you further 
hinder your circulation, and injure your blood colour, by 
swallowing uric acid, which he does not. 

' K.  I do not wish to do as much as Mr. Harris, I am 
content with my life as it is. 

' H.  But you only live one-half the life that Mr. Harris 
does, and produce only one-half of the effect in the world ; 
if you are content with half a Ufe, when a whole one is 
open to you, well and good ; that is your affair ; but you 
will not persuade me that the half is equal to the whole.' 

The following is a doctor's note on the Mr. Harris 
referred to in the conversation : ' I may say that I have 
been watching Mr. Harris carefully for some years, that 
he always takes a physiological allowance of albumens, 
and produces a physiological amount of urea (which I 
have repeatedly estimated). There is no doubt where his 
strength and power come from ; and he gets his albumens 
chiefly from bread, nuts, and fruit, with very little milk or 
cheese, and at times none of these last. On K.'s diet such 
work as Mr. Harris does is impossible.' 

Time after time I have heard of various people, and 



44 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

even doctors, trying the diet and giving it up after a few 
weeks or months, finding they could not do their work on 
the non-stimulating food. My family are then much 
surprised that this does not bring home to my mind a 
sense of failure. All it does do, is to convince me that very 
little is yet known of the right mixtures of food ; that there 
is, in most cases, a more or less severe reaction to be 
reckoned vsdth from the accumulated uric acid rushing 
into the blood on the withdrawal of the meat-tea-and-wLne 
diet, and that good results can rarely be expected, except 
with the young and healthy, under eighteen months to 
two years time. The change is too radical and permanent 
to be effected hurriedly. 

The hoarding of uric acid in the system seems to me 
to be Dr. Haig's great scientific discovery, and the one 
most disputed by other medical men. His work proves 
conclusively to me that aU benefit from German waters, 
alkahne treatment, &c., is only a temporary palliative, 
necessitating constant return, with danger of severe 
relapse in the end. I have known cases of extreme illness, 
and even death, from missing a course of Carlsbad waters 
for one season. The advertisements that explain health 
questions so clearly to the public every morning and even- 
ing in the newspapers are all based upon the old theory, 
that it is possible to clear the whole system of uric acid by 
alkaline drugs and mineral waters. If the advertisements 
are right. Dr. Haig's theories are all wrong. The first thing 
that put him on the scent of error in the old accepted 
idea, was that none of the usual remedies bring away any 
uric acid, though, of course, they clear it from the blood, 
and, therefore, give the weU-described sense of relief to 
the patient. This made him ask, ' Where does it go ? ' 
He now declares, after years of examination, that it is 
deposited on the soft tissues, the internal organs, the brain, 
the muscles, nerves, bone-joints, &e., waiting either to set 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 45 

up disease in them under the action of any favourable 
external circumstance, or again to enter the blood stream 
and cause distress as soon as rising alkalinity will dissolve 
it. He maintains, in his books, that the sole real cure is 
to stop the introduction of foods containing uric acid, or 
its equivalent, xanthin, and replace them by a diet vrhich 
he considers suitable and natural for man. 

It is undeniable that, with most people, a few months 
of the diet causes great depression and weakness, which, 
for those who cannot take rest from work, is sometimes so 
serious a matter, that it means giving up the diet or the 
work. Great relief would be found in these cases if they 
took, in summer, 20 grains of bicarbonate of soda dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of cold water and hot water added 
till the mixture is of the warmth of a cup of tea, or, in 
winter, a 5-grain dose of salicylate of soda. Neither of 
these remedies being a tonic, but rather a depressant, it is 
obvious that the relief experienced must be due to the 
effect they have in clearing the blood of the uric acid 
which has been brought into it from the tissues on its way 
out of the body. They must be kept in reserve for times 
when rest is impossible, and so enable the patient to con- 
tinue the diet which is to bring about ultimate cure. The 
same effect can be produced, by a temporary lapse back 
to the old uric-acid diet, which is an immense triumph to 
the enemies of the system, though perfectly intelligible to 
any student of Dr. Haig's theory. He himself has taken 
the trouble to publish leaflets expressly recommending a 
very gradual change of diet in order to avoid any severe 
degree of this depression and apparent exhaustion. 

Dr. Haig, Dr. Allinson, and Mr. Miles all seem to 
think that uric-acid diseases, such as gout and rheu- 
matism, headache, neuralgia, anasmia, epilepsy, would 
cease to exist if their diet were adopted. For as much 
as it is worth, my own personal experience and my 



46 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

observation of others under various doctors and treat- 
ments absolutely corroborate their views. Doctors are 
still very much divided in their opinion as to meat being 
bad for gout and rheumatism, and very many of them tell 
gouty and rheumatic patients to eat plenty of meat and 
not much sugar, farinaceous, or carbohydrate substances ; 
so it is not their opinion that uric acid is increased in the 
system by flesh foods. These very doctors, however, 
always prescribe the medicines which, as Dr. Haig shows, 
clear the blood of uric acid but throw it back upon the 
tissues. Of late years, in severe cases of eczema and 
shingles, their great salvation seems to be the much-dis- 
carded remedy of mercury (calomel). Only the future can 
prove how far the few are right and the many wrong in this 
matter. In all probability diet will take centuries to have 
a fair trial, for the changes it would involve in every 
department of our modern life are almost unthinkable. 
I am most anxious that anyone who is at all interested 
in anything I have to say, not only as regards the im- 
provement of his own health but the benefit to the 
whole human race, should remember that the subject is 
one which demands at least a year of close and careful 
study, that it is in no sense like the German waters, or 
Salisbury cure, or any other diet prescribed for illness, a 
temporary affair with the hope of returning cheerfully to 
luxurious living ; it is a road on which may be written 
what Dante wrote over the entrance to Hell : ' Lasoiate 
ogni speranza voi che entrate.' There is absolutely no 
return without greater injury from the increased sensi- 
tiveness of the body and the quicker realisation of what 
is injurious food, but I do deny that the road leads to 
Hell ; I should like to add that, even when adopted late 
in life, it leads to the Paradise of Health. I am also the 
last to deny that, however strong this belief may be, it 
does include self-denial even to the old ; for, when people 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 47 

are no longer young, habit has become second nature, 
and with people all round you eating what you have 
always been accustomed to, it does require a certain 
amount of strength of mind to refuse all the dishes that a 
few years ago you would have gladly eaten as the most 
wholesome food. It has taken me nine years of ex- 
perience to find out how injurious the most simple food 
of the flesh-eater, such as the invalid diet of boiled fish 
and chicken, really is. 

A great many elderly people say to me, ' I am too old 
to change ' ; only civility prevents me from saying to their 
face, ' I think you are quite wrong : it is never too late to 
mend. Many of the symptoms you suffer from would 
be immensely lessened if you did change.' As regards 
benefit, a great deal, of course, must depend on how much 
actual disease is already set up in the system, and in the 
case of old people it is even more important than with 
the middle-aged to avoid the crisis described above as 
depression and weakness. On the other hand, it should be 
remembered that at no other time of life is it so dangerous 
to overfeed and so little injurious to underfeed as in old 
age. I believe the time is not far distant when it may be 
discovered that the great cause of cancer is meat and salt, 
as leprosy is supposed to originate in eating salt fish in 
large quantities. 

There are no doubt a few people whose healthy faces 
shine and beam when they tell you they can eat every- 
thing. They are seldom really ill, they have beautiful 
teeth and complexions, strong bright healthy hair, and 
their nerves are not overstrung. But I think everyone 
will admit that these people, in all classes, are distinctly 
rare in civilised Europe in this year of our Lord 1902. 
Also, if you question them closely, you will generally find 
that they take mineral waters, aperients, pain-killers, 
and various other drugs, and are frequently affected by 



48 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

changes of temperature, fatigue, missing a meal, east 
wind, &c. 

Many people quote the Bible in favour of flesh foods, 
saying, 'If meat had been very injurious, one would 
expect to find some warning words advising people not to 
eat it.' According to this line of argument, vegetarians 
have been hardly used at finding no warning against the 
deadly nightshade of our damp meadows, or the poisonous 
berries of the potato which cost Sir W. Ealeigh some 
pangs when he ate them by mistake on first discovering 
the plant. 

In a letter I have received this morning from Dr. 
Haig in answer to things I had told him, I having been 
depressed at the little progress made by what I consider 
the new enlightenment, he says : ' I have now no doubt 
that the cause will succeed, and that success cannot be 
too great or come too soon, for there are to-day millions 
and millions of people who are suffering, dying, or be- 
coming insane simply from ignorance.' I believe this 
opinion of Dr. Haig's will gain ground, and that twenty 
years will make an enormous difference in the under- 
standing of everyone on the subject of food. Nowadays, 
if we see a man drunk, we are half angry and half sorry, 
but we do not require telling that he has taken too much 
alcohol to bring him to the state we see him in. I 
believe that, in course of time, the same knowledge will 
be ours with regard to right and wrong feeding and its 
obvious results. 

I am fond of distributing Dr. Haig's leaflet, which 
explains most clearly that the xanthin of certain vegetable 
substances  peas, beans, lentils, mushrooms, asparagus, 
tea, coffee, cocoa  is the equivalent poison to uric acid in 
fish and flesh. Apropos of this latest discovery in the 
chemistry of food, I was amused to come across the 
following the other day in that very popular book of Mr. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 49 

Marion Crawford, ' The Eulers of the South ' : ' Hallam 
says somewhere that mankind has generally required 
some ceremonial follies to keep alive the wholesome spirit 
of association. It is hard to say now how many of the 
curious rules of life adopted by the Pythagorean brother- 
hood should be traced to this motive, and many of these 
contain more wisdom than appears in them at first sight. 
The brethren abstained from eating flesh, as most mystics 
have done, but they were as careful never to eat beans.' 
So many of our most modern inventions were known to 
the ancients that I feel the reason for the Pythagorean 
rule ' abstain from the bean ' is quite as likely to have 
been due to a knowledge of its harmful properties in 
dietetics as to a dread of that life of political intrigue 
which was symbolised by the bean used by the Greeks in 
balloting. 

An amusing instance came to me lately of how little 
these leaflets are understood even by intelligent and 
educated people, when a father wrote to me as foUows : 
' A cowardly thought arose in my mind of submitting the 
leaflet to a friend of mine who is obliged by circumstances 
to devote much attention to his inside, but unhappily in 
an unguarded moment I remarked to Mrs. G., in the 
presence of the most intelligent of our cats, "I am 
surprised that you should provide so much fish for the 
household, when you know Mrs. Earle's leaflet says that 
fish positively reehs with xanthin." I don't know how 
the leaflet which riots in that particular subject of organic 
chemistry came to be torn into little bits, but for me it 
disposes of the subject altogether, which is too abstruse 
for the man in the street, and needs an expert to confirm 
or deny. " Xanthin " may be as real as " microbes," but 
is equally invisible, and I have my doubts about the whole 
lot of scientific conclusions based upon these insects or 
fish or whatever they are.' So carelessly had the leaflet 

B 



so A THIRD POT-POURRI 

been read that my correspondent can talk of the xanthin 
in fish ! 

A curious case of the effects of the harm the Salisbury 
cure has brought about in unintelligent hands was told 
me the other day by a friend. His mother-in-law lost 
her teeth, and her gums were too tender to admit of 
artificial aid. She therefore took pulped meat, often three 
pounds a day, and strong soups. Between the age of 
fifty and sixty she became very ill, and a great London 
specialist was sent for. After seeing her he took the son- 
in-law aside and said, ' All her symptoms point to a secret 
store of alcohol. Are you quite certain this is not the 
case ? ' Both the son-in-law and the servants were quite 
certain that she had nothing of the kind. She did not 
even take wine. But it is interesting to note that the 
stimulating meat-juices had produced the same symptoms 
as drink, accompanied by great exhilaration and depression. 
At sixty she died of starvation, with no organic disease 
at all. 

The question often asked me, and which moves me 
most, is what I recommend for the feeding of children. 
There is no doubt that the strongest argument which can 
be used against drunkenness and debauchery is the heredi- 
tary effect it has on children. Doctors now say that the 
children of confirmed smokers are far sooner injured by 
smoking themselves than the children of very moderate 
or non-smokers. It seems to me that this may be an 
explanation of the younger generation of the present day 
being so much more quickly and harmfully affected by 
tea than we were. Both coffee and tea have got much 
cheaper, and their use has been immensely promoted by 
the preaching of the teetotallers. Clergymen's wives, 
nurses, and all classes of over -worked women and men 
of the conscientious type, who would repudiate the help 
given to them by a glass of beer, habitually stimulate and 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 51 

injure their nerves by excessive tea-drinking. I think 
there is no doubt that Indian and Ceylon tea are more 
injurious than even the poor quaUty Chinese which is 
sold in England to-day. This may be an additional 
explanation of the increased nervous disease among the 
poor, who love the rank flavour of the cheap Indian teas, 
and stew them long to extract all the goodness. Let people 
who doubt this try leaving off tea for a few months, and 
then see how it affects them on taking to it again. One 
of the strongest arguments for tea-drinking is that the 
Chinese have drunk it for centuries and remain what they 
are. I sat at dinner the other evening, next an English- 
man who had lived many years in China. I soon began 
to question him as to how far he thought the tea-drinking 
in China had been injurious to the natives. He said that, 
so far as he had ever been able to ascertain, he thought 
that it was absolutely harmless, but this probably from 
the way they made it. A small pinch of sun-dried leaves 
 just as much as they could take up between the finger 
and thumb  was put into a small cup, boiling water 
poured on it, the cup covered up with its saucer for a 
minute or two, and the infusion drunk when it had cooled. 
It was then scarcely more than hot water with a sUght 
flavour of tea. Besides the harmlessness of this mixture, 
no doubt the Chinese are better able to take tea through 
never having reduced their strength and created compli- 
cated diseases by centuries of excessive meat-eating and 
alcohol. For poison from the European way of tea- 
drinking, as from excessive smoking or drinking of alcohol, 
is supposed to be hereditary and is consequently more 
quickly injurious in the second or third generation. If 
this is so, surely the consideration and study of the effects 
that food has on the body is in no sense a ridiculous or 
degrading subject. So many people say, 'It is so un- 
worthy always to be talking or thinking about food or 

J33 



52 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

health.' Their one wish is laughingly to put it aside and 
shift the responsibility of their own and their children's 
health on to the shoulders of the doctors, not even taking 
the trouble to learn what the modern advertisements try 
to teach them, viz. which foods are digested in the upper 
stomach and which in the lower, or that constipation is 
the commonest proof of indigestion. 

This question of the diet for children seems to me to 
be full of difficulty, and I should say cannot be under- 
taken without the consent of the father. This he is not 
the least Ukely to give unless he has studied the subject 
enough to wish to adopt it for himself as well as for his 
children. The first object of ambition to an intelligent 
boy or girl is to try to imitate father, and if he con- 
stantly throws brickbats at dieting the case is hopeless. 
I am sure in a few years the great school diflSculty wiU be 
much lessened, and that if a boy is anxious to continue his 
regular home food, there will in time be a house for non- 
stimulating diet at Eton. One of the keenest vegetarians 
I know succeeded in converting her daughter who was 
out of health, but had no effect on her son-in-law or her 
grandchildren. Where father and mother are agreed, I 
think the experiment of bringing up children as vegetarians 
may fairly be tried, though probably even those parents 
hardly realise the difficulties before them. A great deal 
will depend on how they can train their children mentally. 
In any case, in the present state of things, the parents 
can hardly ever go away from home together for any 
length of time, or to a distance which prevents their quick 
return, as the children ought not to be left to the sole 
care of even the best of nurses. She cannot be expected 
not to send for a doctor the moment anything goes wrong, 
and he in turn would, from want of practice among 
vegetarians, fail to understand the sensitiveness of the 
children. The nurse would have no weight in explaining 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 53 

to him the wishes of the parents ; whereas if the parents 
were present probably the doctor would not interfere with 
the diet. The plain truth is that it all resolves itself into 
a question of character and knowledge in the parents. 
When a doctor finds that he has to deal with men and 
women who have taken the pains to acquaint themselves 
with the elements of physiology and the chemistry of 
food, his tone is very different from the one he uses, 
naturally enough, to the young and ignorant mother who 
appeals to him to make her sick child well, as if he 
worked by miracle, and who submits to be told by him 
that if she brings up her children on a non-meat diet she 
is ' a very wicked woman.' 

My object in repeating these things so often is that 
radical changes in diet can only be brought about by the 
public, and children are not likely to take to what their 
parents and elders do not practise ; though if the parents 
are non-meat-eaters the consequences of home example 
may act powerfully in this, as in other matters, when they 
grow to man's and woman's estate. One case, at least, I 
know where the diet has been successfully carried through 
school and college and joining a regiment, where the 
young man was looked upon as rather a curiosity, but was 
left unmolested. 

I am always supposed to be proselytising, and last 
year I sent to an old friend, a middle-aged schoolmaster, 
Mr. Miles' 'Better Food for Boys.' He says in reply: 
' I have read and thought over Miles' book. It seems to 
me that the question is mainly a medical one.' This 
sentence epitomises what so many think and feel, and 
when I say, 'But apparently the medical profession 
refuse to give the matter serious thought and experiment,' 
this closes all discussion, and I am looked upon as a pre- 
judiced idiot. This I try to bear with the philosophic 
calm of a non-meat-eater. He writes further : ' To a lay- 



S4 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

man there is much in what Miles says, and for a large 
number of adults  for any adult, in fact, who leads a 
sedentary life, I believe his system is beneficial. I am 
following it myself in moderation  that is to say, I have 
knocked off meat meals and substituted Plasmon for them, 
and already dread the idea of sitting down to a big dinner. 
But if the practice becomes general, what a blow it will 
be to the social side of life ! You can't seriously sit down 
to rice and stewed fruit with half a dozen friends.' 

My friend's despair about the social side being reduced 
to stewed prunes and rice is very much as if he invited 
his friends to cold shoulder of mutton and potatoes. For 
festive occasions endless combinations and much luxury, 
attractive to all the senses, could be made. Even for the 
severest stage of diet  the fruitarian  if a housekeeper 
spends half what she does on fish, game, poultry, &c., 
for a dinner-party, she might have the most gorgeous and 
attractive display of the best fruits to be had in any 
market, and a cook once trained to the food would produce 
endless dainty varieties of cakes, biscuits, nut-creams, and 
rolls. These people who think that the social side of life 
must suffer with the disappearance of meat from our tables 
seem to forget that cereals, fruits, and wine are the foods 
which the highest imagination of man has always thought 
the most fit for the feasts of the Gods, a detail eagerly 
seized upon by Burne-Jones for representation in his 
famous picture on that subject. 

To go back to my letter : my friend says, ' I cannot 
persuade myself that the health of boys suffers from a 
meat diet. They do not, as a rule, overload the stomach 
and take strenuous exercise. Of course, it may fairly be 
said that if you bring boys up on meat they will be less 
likely to take to the simpler foods later on. But there are 
great difficulties in the way. Miles' diet cannot be made 
compulsory, and at a big school two systems cannot well 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 55 

be worked, but I think schoolmasters might do much good 
by example and by preaching. That is the line I follow. 
The question which the author raises in his opening 
chapter is of the utmost importance, but there, again, only 
a doctor is qualified to give an opinion. Is sensuality 
less developed in gramnivorous animals than in the car- 
nivorous ? I doubt it. Plasmon is becoming popular 
with doctors. I am convinced that any baddish rheumatic 
or gouty tendencies would be the better for it.' I should 
like to say to this last sentence that this attitude towards 
Plasmon of thinking it a ' cure ' for rheumatism and gout 
is as dangerous as it is prevalent. In itself this valuable 
preparation is no cure ; it is a highly-concentrated proteid 
food, which enables people to leave off the alcohol, and 
the uric-acid-forming foods they have been used to. The 
allusion to animals seems to me rather wide of the mark. 
All Nature, even in flowers as described in the botanical 
language which I have known to shock prudish mothers, 
is apparently wasteful ; but, as I understand it, the word 
sensttality implies a moral conception  i.e. the antithesis 
of self-control, and this is a province with which Nature 
in the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms has 
nothing whatever to do. What I suppose my friend really 
means to ask is, whether sex vigour is less in gramnivorous 
animals than in carnivorous ? Had he thought for a 
moment, it would probably have come to his mind that 
the buU and the goat are almost proverbially used in art 
and literature to express this vigour rather than the lion 
and tiger. In Mr. Miles' books there are frequent allusions 
to the point, which is always puzzling schoolmasters, 
as to how to increase physical strength with moral self- 
control. Schoolmasters solve the difficulty by incessant 
games, to the detriment of learning. Mr. Miles' solution 
is non-stimulating food and drink. 

I was pleased to see that my friend sympathised with 



S6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

me about the facility of carrying out the diet in old age, 
and the benefit of teaching by example. 

One advantage of taking to a diet of simpler food late 
in life is that it lessens to a great degree the family and 
social opposition, which from the kindest of reasons is 
almost universal. Abstinence in old age is looked upon 
as rather a virtue by the young, but when practised by 
their own contemporaries they consider it as a sign of 
eccentricity, affectation, love of notoriety, or extreme bad 
health. This being so, I find that diet looms as an 
insuperable obstacle with the young. Their experience 
being nil, their knowledge is weak ; the diet is often badly 
managed, the worry is great, and unless the improvement 
in health is rapid, as in several cases I have known it to 
be, they lose heart and prefer bad health under a doctor 
to trying to cure themselves against the approval of rela- 
tions and friends. No one but an actual invalid, for 
instance, can stand having to change the hours of meals 
instituted by our modern civilisation. Unless we are 
actually ill enough to give in, we must live according to 
the divisions of the day which suit the occupations of 
the various members of our family. These change with 
passing fashions, and, for aught we know, our grand- 
children may dine at Queen Anne's hour, which was 

5 P.M. 

To a bachelor athlete like Mr. Miles, or a curate in the 
wilds of the country, it seems no hardship, and there is 
no pulling of the heartstrings in living on Plasmon and 
fruit ; but think of the young wife whose tired husband 
comes home at 7 p.m. after making, or trying to make, 
money for her, and finds that she has had her meal of dry 
bread and nuts and fruit at 6 p.m., and, however affection- 
ately disposed, can only sit and watch him drink his hot 
soup and eat his daintily -cooked chicken, winding up with 
iced fruit and cream. The situation is really harrowing, 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 57 

and yet Dr. Haig says one of the best divisions of meals 
for dyspeptics is 11 and 6. These used to be the Erench 
hours for everybody, but that custom is now so entirely 
changed that when we come across it in hotels our home 
habits cause us to think the division tiresome and in- 
convenient. Many husbands might submit to this in their 
own homes ; but a still greater difficulty and irritation 
arises when the couple go from Saturday to Monday to 
friends in the country, where the tables groan with 
luxuries of every kind, and the wife finds it difficult to eat 
anything, for she has not the courage to ask for milk and 
cheese, and, the bread being uneatable from newness and 
baking-powder, she has to wait till the end of dinner for 
fruit, and suddenly realises, when she is at last eating her 
grapes, that the mistress of the house is dying to leave 
the table. I remember well years ago a vegetarian of 
some distinction who used to dine at our house, and 
invariably emptied the dessert-dish that happened to be in 
front of him, whatever it contained. It used, then, to 
cause me considerable suppressed irritation, but we change 
so that he has now all my sympathj^, and I often long to 
do it myself. Even with the help of summer vegetables, 
such as peas and beans, which are dangerous food to those 
with weak digestions, the young wife has been absolutely 
starved, and feels it all the more as, being an amateur 
vegetarian, she will probably, in nine oases out of ten, be 
underfed and have no reserves to fall back upon in emer- 
gency. Even if she has read Dr. Haig's leaflets, or Mr. 
Miles' lists of food values, she will most likely have done 
so without the real comprehension which would enable 
her to apply the facts to her individual case. She 
might be able to get more bulk of food at an ordinary 
table, but is perhaps prevented from taking it by the 
haunting fear of getting fat, which I find among nearly all 
young people of the present day. Obesity is, of course. 



S8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

disease, and I believe is more easily cured by the diet than 
in any other way, for when I began it I lost two stone 
in six months ; but plumpness, especially for women, is 
natural and healthy, and the vanity of wishing to be thin, 
which has been so encouraged by the Pre-Eaphaelite 
School of Art with its unhealthy ideal of beauty, still 
holds its sway and accounts for much nervous disease 
among women. It is undeniable that the serpentine 
clothes of the present day look best on a thin peg, but on 
the whole there is no doubt in my mind that health comes 
before everything, and for a girl or woman whom Nature 
means to be fat, to diet herself thin, no matter by what 
means, is an exceedingly dangerous process which may 
cause many sufferings and complications, and even end in 
disease, and is quite as foolish as the efforts of the frog to 
swell itself to the size of an ox. At the same time, when 
I am told as I often am  ' I should so like to take to 
your delightful diet of vegetables, only it would make me 
grow so fat,' by people who take butter and cream two or 
three times a day, in addition to a rich ordinary diet, I 
cannot help being amused, knowing how easily Dr. Haig's 
diet can be regulated for fat people. 

The old mediaBval theory of disregard of the body is 
still so strongly ingrained in some of the noblest natures 
that they would far rather be ill now and then than have 
to think out habitually what is good for them and act up 
to it, or to believe when they are, ill that it is their own 
fault rather than a visitation of Providence which they 
are to bear with resignation. They send for a doctor, 
pay him cheerfully, and hope for better days. This attitude 
of mind will change when people are trained from child- 
hood to understand that all sickness not caught from a germ 
is preventible, and that doing without food for a day, or 
even two, does far less harm to the healthy than eating 
wrong food. To be able to miss a meal without feeling 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 59 

the worse, is one of the surest tests of being in good 
health. There was a time in my life when I nearly cried 
with misery if I did not get my tea at 5 o'clock, and 
felt quite ill all the evening. We must have patience and 
some courage. Eevolutions are never effected in the 
bosom of peace and perfect concordance. 

When I was young I remember saying to a friend, 
' I wonder what the new religion will be when it comes ? ' 
She answered, ' Something set to Wagner's music' This 
did not seem to me to strike the true note. She had been 
long in Germany and was devoted to Wagner and his 
genius. I was not musical, and did not at that time know 
much of Wagner, but from the little I did know I felt he 
did not strike the key-note of self-denial which in some 
form or other is the basis of all religion. It will be 
curious if the religion of the future should avoid the 
dangerous asceticism of the Middle Ages which denied 
the body, by going back to the earlier Greek idea which 
recognised it as deserving of all respect, and treated it as 
a precious instrument to be kept in the highest degree of 
eflBciency and perfection : practising abstinence for the 
sake of health rather than as a direct means to moral 
excellence. 

In advocating the diet, one of the hardest things to 
combat, after the opposition of friends and inconvenience 
to social life, is a certain fondness of food and drink among 
those who consider that the one legitimate indulgence of 
life is to eat, if not drink, what one likes. I know several 
people who never deny that they are much the better for 
dieting, but who nearly burst with indignation when sitting 
at a table and seeing others eating all round them, because 
they cannot do the same. This naive and childlike side 
of the question was rather a revelation to me, as all my 
life I had avoided the things I thought not good for me, 
however tempting they were. I can't understand eating 



6o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that which you know does you harm. Modern vege- 
tarianism has enormously grown out of sentiment, but 
I think it is exceedingly advisable that people who take 
to the simpler foods for health's sake rather than for 
sentimental reasons, should at least adopt an attitude of 
mind which will give the system a fair trial unprejudiced 
by likes and dislikes, mental irritation being bad for 
digestion. 

A terrible idea has got about amongst my friends, and 
I might almost say patients, that if they take to the diet 
more or less strictly, they are not only to be quickly made 
quite well, but to remain so perpetually. Over-fatigue, 
change of weather, indigestion, &c., are supposed to have 
no effect at all on the non-meat-eater. Now I want 
everybody who undertakes the diet in consequence of 
ill health to understand that it cannot suddenly repair 
a debilitated state of the digestive organs. Most of our 
modern ailments are acknowledged to come from indi- 
gestion and non-assimilation. This goes on in many 
oases long after the excess of uric acid has ceased, and 
then the patients turn round on me and say, ' Why, after 
years of this self-denial and all the trouble that this 
peculiar feeding brings, am I to have this and that ail- 
ment? ' The probability is that they have frequently 
not digested their simpler food any better than they did 
their mixed foods ; they also do not get the enforced rest 
which attacks of illness, often lasting a week or more, 
imposed upon them. One can only assure them  and 
this sounds a feeble comfort  that they would have been 
much worse on the old diet, for I have never met a case 
which did not admit that any attacks of illness under the 
diet were very much milder than they formerly were. 

It is obviously unfair to judge of a diet which is the 
best for man in health by its effects on invalids. People 
with weak digestions have a difficult hill to get over in 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 6i 

leaving off meat, as doubldess it is lighter of digestion 
than any other food containing the same amount of 
nourishment. But people seldom realise that what may 
be a gain to the digestion may be an injury to the blood, 
and will bring round in time the very troubles from 
which they temporarily escape. For those who are digest- 
ing so badly that they are underfed, which can easily be 
told by colour of gums, loss of weight, excitable nerves, 
&c., it is most important that they should test themselves 
by weighing from time to time  say every three months. 
The nightmare of growing fat, alluded to before, makes 
many women believe they cannot take either milk or 
cheese. In these cases there must be a diet within the 
diet and a careful study of the proteid foods, which give 
nourishment without bulk. 

In cases of severe dyspepsia, Mellin's Food is invalu- 
able. Most people at the first difficulty say, ' The diet is 
not agreeing with me,' and go back to meat and cham- 
pagne, which does them immense good for a short time 
till the increased uric acid in their system brings back 
their original troubles. All the relations are delighted, 
the doctor in attendance is jubilant, and the vicious circle 
again begins. Their winter or spring illness is attributed 
to cold and east wind. 

I, from my experience, am quite convinced that in all 
cases of dyspepsia, rheumatism, gout, it is impossible to 
live up to anything like the full physiological allowance 
of proteid, especially in the case of women who do not 
work off the evil effect of non-assimilation by violent 
exercise as most men occasionally do. And here comes 
the great difficulty, viz. that each person has to find out 
for himself what amount of proteid he can assimilate, and 
in what form. Nobody else can know whether Nature 
is properly performing her functions, and digesting the 
food taken. Any necessity for a return to drugs, or 



62 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

violently irritating foods like cracked wheat, is a sign that 
even the simpler foods are not being properly digested. 

I have never come across anyone who has given the 
simpler foods a fair trial of several years, who found any 
permanent benefit in returning to a meat diet. Doctors, 
who judge by the immediate results, would not agree with 
this. Most doctors naturally take a pride and pleasure 
in seeing their patients return to them after a tentative 
course of the diet, and it is an equal humiliation when 
good health results and enables them to keep away. 
Perhaps the health of the community would be improved 
if we adopted the Chinese and pauper system of only 
paying the doctors during health and not illness. There 
is a considerable difiSculty in the law of the land being 
entirely on the side of the doctors. The conversation at 
my breakfast table this morning would have made a more 
nervous woman's hair stand on end. Having an invalid 
patient of Dr. Haig's in the house under a strict diet of 
bread, almonds, and fruit, a member of the family said, 
' It is quite clear we shall have an inquest very shortly in 
this house. I see the coroner saying with great emphasis, 
"Are you sure that Mrs. Earle is in her right mind? " ' 
This arose from a discussion as to whether the patient 
was being starved to death, or poisoned by prussie acid, 
the real point in my mind being whether she was taking 
more proteid food than she was able to digest, although 
within her physiological allowance, or whether she was 
less weU from being out too much in the damp. Damp 
certainly has a bad effect on a great many people's 
digestion. Driving and walking are to my mind much 
less harmful than the sitting about out of doors which is 
the invalid rule. 

The following statement of his own case was written 
out for me by a man-patient of Dr. Haig's : ' Present 
age 42. Occupation sedentary. Lives in London for ten 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 63 

months of the year. Medical history bad, both on pater- 
nal and maternal side. Paternal : gout for generations. 
Father suffered from it on and off all his life, and acutely 
during ten years in the eyes, necessitating surgical treat- 
ment by operation. Maternal: chronic dyspepsia and 
liver complaint. Mother's father died of latter at 34. 
The man himself up to the age of 34 lived very well and 
thought much about eating and drinking, but did not 
indulge in either excessively. Was a heavy cigarette 
smoker. Suffered during every epidemic of influenza. 
In 1894 had an attack of influenza, followed by acute 
intercostal neuralgia, which continued for one month, and 
ended in an attack of phlebitis in the left leg, which 
lasted seven months (of which six were passed in a com- 
pletely recumbent position, the patient being forbidden 
to move without professional assistance), involved the 
two soffena veins and the femoral vein, and culminated 
in thrombosis, which left the femoral vein blocked perma- 
nently for the length of five inches close to the groin. 
Attack very severe, the leg remaining considerably larger 
than normal size with much varicosity. This attack 
was followed at intervals during six years by four other 
attacks of intercostal neuralgia (so severe that the dread 
of recurrence completely shook naturally strong nerves), 
the treatment of which, by means of salicylate of soda 
(in 20 gr. powders often taken every hour for eight hours 
at a stretch), reduced the patient to a condition of abject 
weakness, requiring weeks of the strongest tonics before 
strength at all was recovered. Two of these four attacks 
were followed by phlebitis in the leg originally attacked, 
which, though less severe than on the first occasion, neces- 
sitated spells of months' duration in bed or on a sofa. In 
September 1899 the patient underwent treatment at Bag- 
noles de I'Orne, in Prance, for the after effects of phlebitis. 
In November 1899 occurred an unusually severe attack of 



64 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

shingles on the right jaw and side of the neck and upon 
the back of the head under the hair. In January 1900 
phlebitis attacked the right leg, and the patient was 
warned by the leading French specialist on the subject, 
who is one of the doctors at Bagnoles, and came from 
Paris to see him, that he was in danger of constantly 
recurring attacks, which might well result in a chronic 
condition, and that elastic stockings must be worn on both 
legs from the toes to the knees, and never taken off except 
in bed. He pointed out that the treatment at Bagnoles 
was in many ways wonderfully efficacious in restoring 
elasticity to the tissue of veins, thickened and hardened 
through phlebitis, but procured no immunity from fresh 
attacks of that disease. Such immunity could only be 
obtained (if at all) by improving the condition of the 
blood, for which purpose he recommended a yearly visit 
to Carlsbad for the next twelve or fifteen years. The 
patient adopted Dr. Haig's system of diet on April 21, 
1900, and has continued it ever since. He has never had 
another attack of phlebitis or intercostal neuralgia, and 
was, in August 1901, authorised by the specialist in ques- 
tion to discontinue the use of elastic stockings altogether, 
even when taking strong exercise, such as walking or 
bicycling for long distances.' 

The following letter may appeal to those who have 
to practise the diet under the difficulties of travelling. 
I myself have not taken voyages in steamers of late 
years, but in travelling on the Continent I find that if you 
conciliate the hotel-keeper and make it clear to him that 
economy is not your object, by paying cheerfully for all 
you don't eat and nearly double for what you do, you will 
find him most accommodating. ItaUan food adapts itself 
much more easily to the taste of the vegetarian than the 
modern French, at any rate in the expensive Paris re- 
staurants ; but there is no doubt that the long table-d'hdtes 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 65 

where you don't eat are even more trying than the long 
tables-d'hdte where you do eat, and this must be just 
accepted as a trial which can only be avoided by taking 
lodgings. 

' July 28, 1902. 

' As we have just come back from travelling, you may 
care to hear how we got on as to diet. We had foohshly 
taken only a small amount of concentrated food with us, 
and this very soon ran out. However, we were thus able 
to experiment on how far it is possible to live on the 
gleanings from 'board-ship table-d'hdte. Practically every- 
thing is artificial  adulterated milk and butter, frozen 
meat, frozen vegetables, frozen fruit. Formerly a goat or 
a cow used to travel on the ship, and I beUeve that is still 
the case on some of the very small obscure Continental 
lines. The bread is extremely poor, little white rolls that 
taste very acid, and are probably made of gypsum, boron, 
soda, in fact anything except wheat. The artificial milk 
is exceedingly nasty and unwholesome and could only 
possibly be taken in very small quantities with tea or 
coffee. The only drink that commends itself is hot water. 
The unboiled water is never supposed to be safe in the 
Mediterranean and mineral waters certainly have a very 
bad effect on people unaccustomed to them. It seems to 
me, however, that those who have a peculiar diet ought 
to expect all these drawbacks, and starvation is not very 
terrible for a short space of time. The thoroughly ob- 
jectionable thing is the immense length of the meals, 
they nearly always consist of nine or ten com'ses and 
take nearly two hours. Imagine munching dry bad bread 
for nearly two hours while carrying on a sort of pretence 
at eating some of the meat courses, all for the sake of a 
little fruit and cheese at the end, these last being the 
only courses that are hurried. The only time I got on 
well, as regards food, was when the weather was bad. 



66 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Then the waiter brought me the few items of the menu 
that I could eat at once and without " reasoning why." 
I wish that providing necessaries and not " luxuries " 
was the ideal of 'board-ship caterers, as the effort to pro- 
vide "luxuries" only produces a lot of highly sauced 
dishes one more uneatable and unwholesome than the 
other. There is yet another unpleasantness ; on some 
steamers the stores of food are all kept on ice, and when 
they are removed from the ice, decomposition sets in very 
rapidly, the result being that the dining saloon, besides 
its normal, fragrant smeUs, has a peculiar, drain-like at- 
mosphere. The Continental train services with restaurant 
cars have the same principles ; they never have fresh 
food, even though they may be travelling through the 
richest countries in the world, and constantly stopping. 
No doubt the reason for this kind of food being supplied 
is, that there is a' demand for it. The class that lives 
most artificially is the class that travels most, and there- 
fore it becomes a matter of business necessity to supply 
the kind of food which is most constantly asked for. If 
we may be bold enough to give advice to other people 
who have the same diet as ourselves, it is that they should 
not travel at all, or that they should have a private 
yacht, or, if they have to travel in the ordinary way, that 
they should take a large supply of nourishing biscuits and 
a pouch like Jack the Giant-killer, into which they may 
slip everything, and thus keep up the appearance of 
having the eating capacity of the average traveller, and 
avoid the accusation made by hotel-keepers of undue 
economising.' 

The following case has been written out for me by 
the patient  a young woman whom I have known for 
many years, and who has most bravely fought against long 
chronic bad health : 

' Five years ago, in the winter of 1897, I began a diet 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 67 

of cereals, milk, cheese, nuts, fruits and vegetables, to 
the total exclusion of flesh foods, eggs, pulses, tea, coffee 
and cocoa. I was at that time suffering from anaemia, 
indigestion, neuralgia, and general weakness. My work 
was sedentary, and lasted from 9 a.m. till 7 p.m. For 
eleven months I stuck to the diet, appetite gradually 
getting so bad that, for the last few months, I used to live 
on the less solid foods, as milk, savoury vegetables, and 
the more tempting kinds of fruit, with very little bread, 
cheese, or nuts. At the end of the time I was so much 
worse that I went to Dr. Haig. He looked at the diary 
I had kept of my food and shook his head. He then 
examined me generally, and said I was " starved." After 
a few questions about the food I liked, he said, " Go out 
and get a mutton chop and a glass of Burgundy. Then 
go into the country for a rest, be out of doors aU you can, 
take this tonic, and eat as much fish and meat as you 
like. The first thing to do is to get a healthy appetite  
then we will consider the diet. But eat anything rather 
than be underfed." I carried out these instructions and 
went back to him much improved a few weeks later. He 
then advised me to change very gradually, substituting 
cheese for meat at one meal only  and after keeping to 
that for some weeks, to change another meal, and so by 
degrees to get on to the diet. This I tried, but failed 
again, and then gave up altogether for about a year. 
Then I began again, and for two years had a series 
of hopeful beginnings and dismal endings. My friends 
used to say, " But why change at all when the ordinary 
diet suits you ? " It certainly did seem to suit me for 
the first three or four weeks when I went back to it 
from a non-meat diet, but I had always to be taking 
medicines, and sooner orlater came the dyspepsia, with 
the consequent exhaustion that made life a burden. 
As I woke each morning I used to feel "Here's 

f2 



68 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

another day to drag myself through "  and as I lay 
down at night I used to be so dead beat that I felt 
it would be a relief to sleep for good. The change to 
Haig's diet always brought, at first, a delightful sense 
of lightness and well-being  a difference as between a 
well-oiled machine and one clogged with grit and dust  
but after a few weeks I used to get too weak to go on with 
my work, and had to give it up. At last, after rather a bad 
collapse, the friend with whom I worked bound me over 
to a meat-fish-wine, &c., diet for twelve consecutive 
months. When they were over, I started once more very 
cautiously on the uric-acid-free diet, making a careful 
study, meanwhile, of food values, mixtures and quantities, 
and for six months I succeeded beyond my hopes. Every- 
one noticed how much better I was in every way, and I 
found for the first time since childhood, that I could dis- 
pense with all kinds of medicine. Suddenly I caught a 
bad chill after weeks of excessive overwork, which re- 
sulted in mucus coUtis with total collapse, and for two 
months I was in bed in charge of a nurse. The treatment 
was injections of carbolic alternately with boracic acid, 
and this played such havoc with an already enfeebled 
digestion, that I could take no sort of invalid food, except 
minute quantities of dissolved Plasmon, without hours 
of distress. At the end of three months' most careful 
nursing, my strength had so far improved that I was able 
to go into the country with a nurse, but the colitis being 
none the better for the treatment I had undergone, and 
the doctor who had attended me telling me that it might 
go on for three years, as it was a most difficult thing to 
cure, there being no drug that would touch it, I wrote 
to Dr. Haig and asked him to prescribe. He instantly 
stopped all injections and put me on salicylate of soda, 
and in three days the mucus had diminished. At the end 
of ten days it had entirely ceased, and I then went to 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 69 

stay with a friend of his who asked him to come down 
from London to see me. This he most kindly did, and 
the result of the interview was that he stopped the 
salicylate, which had done its work, and for the dyspepsia, 
which was still very bad, he prescribed a perfectly dry 
diet, of bread, pounded almonds, fruit, vegetable and 
cheese, telling me to replace the two latter by more fruit 
(fresh and dried) and almonds, as I found I could take 
them. This answered so weU that digestion rapidly 
improved and, with it, strength. At the end of a month 
I could walk up steep hills on hot days, vsdth pleasure, a 
thing I had never, at my best, been able to do before. The 
almonds, even when ground in a nut-mill and pounded 
by a careful cook, were, I found, Uable to aggravate the 
intestinal inflammation, and as I did not digest cheese 
well enough to nourish satisfactorily upon it, I experi- 
mented upon the almonds till I got a substance as smooth 
as Devonshire cream, and of this I could soon take 
4 oz. a day with comfort. So many people find almonds 
a difficulty that it may be as well to say how this almond 
cream is prepared, for almonds are equal to their own 
weight of meat in nourishment, and for those who dislike 
cheese, they are far too valuable an item in the list of 
uric-acid-free foods to be cast aside. 

' Almond Cream.  Blanch the almonds in boiling water 
and grind in a nut-mill. Put about a tablespoonful at a 
time into a mortar with a teaspoonful of cold water, and 
work with the pestle till as smooth as butter, no particle the 
size of a pin's head being left. Mix in a little more cold 
water till of the consistency of clotted cream, and scrape 
out on to a dish. It is better to have only a small quantity 
at once in the mortar, or the smoothness is not so uniform. 
The nut-mill should be taken to pieces (one easy screw 
undoes the whole) every day and well scalded, for 
almonds turn as sour as milk, especially after they have 
* f3 



70 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

been wet. For this reason, the almond cream should be 
freshly made every day. For travellers who prefer 
almonds to cheese, but cannot venture to eat them whole, 
this form of cream is excellent for sandwiches. Children 
and invalids, too, can digest them in this way. When I 
had been three months on this diet, I caught another bad 
chill, which brought on a severe relapse of the gastro- 
intestiaal inflammation, and again for two weeks I had to 
have a nurse and be kept in bed. For four days various 
invalid foods  barley water, beaten white of egg, cham- 
pagne and soda-water, weak solution of Plasmon, &o. 
 were tried in teaspoonfuls at the time, and all with 
equally distressing results. Finally a nutrient sup- 
pository was tried, which also proved a failure, and still 
further reduced my strength. Then, having convinced 
my nurse that the very things administered with the time- 
honoured idea of "keeping up my strength" not only 
failed to do this, but actually drained the little I had by 
causing sickness and pain, I insisted on a fast of twenty- 
four clear hours, to give the stomach a chance of righting 
itself. The thirst, which was intense, I relieved partly by 
holding a piece of ice in a bit of linen on the lips, and 
rinsing the mouth from time to time with bicarbonate of 
soda. Even a spoonful of hot or cold water instantly 
produced sickness, and there was nothing to be done but 
leave things alone and wait. At the end of twenty-four 
hours I took 20 grains bicarb, soda in haU-a-pint of 
hot-water  a teaspoonful every two minutes. After thirty 
hours I took, with comfort, 2 oz. Mellin's Food of the 
strength given to infants of four months, and this I 
repeated three times a day for two or three days, after 
which the quantity, though not the quality, was gradually 
increased  the bicarb, being taken an hour before each 
meal of Mellin's Food. Dr. Haig again most kindly came 
down from London, and said the starvation treatment was 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 71 

the only one for the case  there being no risk whatever 
in fasting for five days, so long as I had 10 lbs. of flesh 
on my bones. His advice for future diet was to drop 
almonds entirely till all sign of weakness had disappeared 
in stomach and bowels, and to " feel my way " slowly on 
to a diet of bread, potatoes, milk, fresh curd cheese, fruit, 
with oU, cream, and butter ad lib. The bread to be stale, 
home-made, white [i.e. the wholemeal minus the bran), 
the potatoes to be steamed or baked in the skins to pre- 
serve the alkahne salts so valuable in all forms of gout 
and rheumatism (colitis being a kind of intestinal gout) ; 
the fruit to be ripe and uncooked, and always eaten with 
potatoes to prevent acid dyspepsia, and plenty of oil or 
butter to aid digestion. After being on this diet for a 
month, I dropped everything but bread and fruit, and 
recovery became so much more rapid that I have kept to 
this permanently with Dr. Haig's fuU approval, and have 
already built up a reserve of strength such as at one time 
seemed impossible to aU the doctors I consulted.' 

A young man I know has had eczema from his birth 
and, with every chance of consulting many physicians, 
no one had been able to cure it, eczema being one of the 
illnesses which, like leprosy, seem, on their own confes- 
sion, to baffle doctors, though many remedies make it 
apparently better for a time. After two and a half years of 
a form of the simpler foods which suited him, he seems, for 
the first time in his life, to be quite free from it. Having 
just heard of this cure, the following story in the papers 
(July 1902), of the tragedy in the home of an artisan 
(a marble-polisher) seemed to me peculiarly distressing. 
The mother had been very despondent because her two 
little boys were severely afflicted with eczema. She had 
taken them to several hospitals in vain, and at last, in 
despair, drowned them in a tub. ' It was God's curse ! ' 
she said to the police ; ' the neighbours used to call 



72 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

their children away from playing with them, and it 
broke my heart. I put them into a tub of water and put 
them into the bed. I did not know what I was doing.' A 
verdict of ' wilful murder ' was brought in against her. 
This probably means a lifetime in Broadmoor. I quote 
this humble tragedy because I feel that, of all disorders, 
skin disease is most obviously cured by diet. 

After writing these long, and perhaps boresome, 
chapters on the subject of health, it was with no small . 
comfort that I found in Mr. Maeterlinck's latest book of 
essays, ' The Buried Temple,' in a chapter headed ' The 
Kingdom of Matter,' the following passage, which brought 
me that best of all consolations on a road that is impopular 
and strange, namely, to feel ' Verily, I am not travelling 
alone ' : 

' We have said that man, in his relation to matter, is 
still in the experimental, groping, stage of his earliest 
days. He lacks even definite knowledge as to the kind of 
food best adapted for him, or the quantity of nourishment 
he requires ; he is still uncertain as to whether he be 
carnivorous or frugivorous. His intellect misleads his 
instinct. It was only yesterday that he learned that he 
had probably erred hitherto in the choice of his nourish- 
ment ; that he must reduce by two-thirds the quantity of 
nitrogen he absorbs, and largely increase the volume of 
hydrocarbons ; that a little fruit, or milk, a few vegetables, 
farinaceous substances  now the mere accessory of the 
too plentiful repasts which he works so hard to provide, 
which are his chief object in life, the goal of his efforts, of 
his strenuous, incessant labour  are amply sufficient to 
maintain the ardour of the finest and mightiest life. It is 
not my purpose here to discuss the question of vegetarian- 
ism, or to meet the objections that may be urged against 
it ; though it must be admitted that, of these objections, 
not one can withstand a loyal and scrupulous inquiry. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 73 

I, for my part, can affirm that those whom I have known 
to submit themselves to this regimen have found its result 
to be improved or restored health, marked addition of 
strength, and the acquisition by the mind of a clearness, 
brightness, well-being, such as might follow the release 
from some secular, loathsome, detestable dungeon. But 
we must not conclude these pages with an essay on 
alimentation, reasonable as such a proceeding might be. 
For, in truth, all our justice, morality, all our thoughts 
and feehngs, derive from three or four primordial necessi- 
ties, whereof the principal one is food. The least modifica- 
tion of one of these necessities would entail a marked 
change in our moral existence. Were the belief one day 
to become general that man could dispense with animal 
food, there would ensue not only a great economic revolu- 
tion  for a bullock, to produce one pound of meat, con- 
sumes more than a hundred of provender  but a moral 
improvement as well. . . . For we find that the man who 
abandons the regimen of meat abandons alcohol also ; 
and to do this is to renounce most of the coarser and more 
degraded pleasures of hfe. And it is in the passionate 
craving for these pleasures, in their glamour, and the 
prejudice they create, that the most formidable obstacle is 
found to the harmonious development of the race. De- 
tachment therefrom creates noble leisure, a new order of 
desires, a wish for enjoyment that must of necessity be 
loftier than the gross satisfactions which have their origin 
in alcohol. But aire days such as these in store for us  
these happier, purer hours ? The crime of alcohol is not 
alone that it destroys its faithful and poisons one-half of 
the race, but also that it exercises a profound, though 
indirect, influence upon those who recoil from it in dread. 
The idea of pleasure which it maintains in the crowd forces 
its way, by means of the crowd's irresistible action, into 
the life even of the elect, and lessens and perverts all 



74 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that concerns man's peace and repose, his expansiveness, 
gladness, and joy ; retarding, too, it may safely be said, 
the birth of the truer, profounder, ideal of happiness ; 
one that shall be simpler, more peaceful and grave, more 
spiritual and human. This ideal is evidently stiU very 
imaginary, and may seem of but little importance ; and 
infinite time must elapse, as in all other eases, before the 
certitude of those who are convinced that the race, so far, 
has erred in the choice of its aliment (assuming the truth 
of this statement to be borne out by experience) shall 
reach the confused masses, and bring them enlightenment 
and comfort. But may this not be the expedient Nature 
holds in reserve for the time when the struggle for life 
shall have become too hopelessly unbearable  the struggle 
for life that to-day means the fight for meat and for 
alcohol, double source of injustice and waste whence all 
the others are fed, double symbol of a happiness and 
necessity whereof neither is human ? ' 



I owe most of my scientific instruction in the non- 
meat diet to Dr. Haig and his books. His address is 
A. Haig, Esq., M.D., 7 Brook Street, W., but, anxious as 
I was not to be supposed to favour one man in my wish 
to. advocate a cause, I was- given at my request, by a 
leading vegetarian, a list of medical men in different 
parts of England who were supposed to agree more or less 
with Dr. Haig, to the extent, at any rate, of recommending 
a non-flesh diet. I thought the list might be of some 
service to those of my readers interested in the health 
question not living in London. It has now been brought 
to my notice that one of these doctors objects to his name 
being mentioned in such a list as not warranted by fact, 
and Mkely to injure his standing in his profession. I 
offered this gentleman my sincere apologies in private. 



HEALTH OF OTHERS 75 

and, as he wished it, in public also. It has been thought 
better that, for fear of injuring anyone else, I should with- 
draw the list altogether. I am sorry for this, not for the 
doctors, but for the convenience of the public, as the hst 
contained names in many of the principal towns in Eng- 
land. To doctors it is especially applicable, and is their 
own unwritten law, that ' good wine needs no bush.' 

The last information that reaches me is that the most 
successful and fashionable doctors in Paris, Berlin, and 
London are all striving to improve the health of their 
patients by diet rather than by drugs. And when this 
becomes more generally known it will do away with the 
great difficulty of dieting children. One reviewer notices 
this difficulty and says : ' I confess that I think the diet 
of the sons of the professional classes ought to be ar- 
ranged on the same lines as the theologies of princesses. 
It should be adaptable to any career likely to be em- 
braced; it would seem a pity therefore to educate the 
digestion of a child only to cope with one particular form 
of food.' As things are now this remark is quite just, 
and an Englishman without his meat and stimulant is a 
very uncomfortable individual. But many things will 
change and conform to circumstances, and time alone 
can prove if this new movement to improve the standard 
of health is right or wrong. Joubert said somewhere of 
Plato that he does not so much give us ideas of truth as 
create the atmosphere of light by which we perceive them 
for ourselves. So let it be. 



76 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



SUPPLEMENT 

Home started in Backinghamshire, under Dr. Haig, for instruction 
and practice in uric-acid-free foods  A second home in Hamp- 
shire for fleshless diet, recommended by Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A. 
 Critical paper, by a patient of Dr. Haig  Dr. Haig's answer to 
same. 

A FEW fresh facts having come to my knowledge since the 
former chapters were written, I am adding them here as 
a postscript because I think they will be useful to those 
who have read what I have said before. 

The news has just reached me that a grateful patient 
of Dr. Haig's has started a self-supporting home where 
invalids, and those interested in Dr. Haig's theories of 
diet, may reside under his personal supervision and teach- 
ing. Miss Florence Jessop, the secretary of the home  
Apsley House, Slough  will give all the necessary informa- 
tion to those who write for it. The pamphlet, describing 
the objects of the home, opens with this sentence : ' Life is 
not mere existence, but health and happiness. The object 
here is life in its fullest sense.' With Dr. Haig's 
characteristic eagerness to share his knowledge and experi- 
ence with all who care to learn, he has provided that 
doctors shall be taken in, free of charge, for Saturday to 
Monday visits, that they may get to understand about the 
place. This is only one more instance of what I have 
noticed ever since I have known him, viz. that he tries to 
teach everyone all he knows in the belief that, if only they 
understand his theory, they will be able to keep their own 



SUPPLEMENT 77 

health in order and greatly control the chances of disease. 
The terms of the home are from three to five guineas per 
week, which include all comforts, and Dr. Haig's attend- 
ance on his bi-weekly visits. Poor patients can place 
themselves in his care at the Metropolitan Hospital, or 
the Eoyal Hospital for Children and Women, at both of 
which he is a visiting physician. 

I was told that, after the publication of my second 
book, some people said, ' I wonder what Dr. Haig pays 
Mrs. Earle for puf&ng him in her books ? ' This deliciously 
characteristic question of the age amused me immensely. 
I wonder what these same people will say now? It 
seems a pity that there should be anyone who does not 
understand the difference between personal interest of 
any sort, and the impersonal interest in scientific work 
which promises to benefit the whole world, if those who 
believe in it help to make it known. 

Mr. Eustace Miles, M.A., is thoroughly recommending 
another home called Broadlands, at Medstead, Hants, 
and says that he may be used as a reference, as it is just 
the kind of establishment to which he alluded in a recent 
letter to the ' Daily Mail.' Particulars can be obtained 
from Miss Houston, the secretary. The terms are two 
guineas a-week, which at first sight appears cheaper than 
Apsley House, but as this charge does not include 
medical attendance and instruction, there is no great 
difference. 

It being my fixed idea that the food question rests 
with the intelligent public and not with the doctors, I 
asked a friend who for over two years has taken immense 
interest in the question both for himself and others, to be 
kind enough to put on paper his present attitude with 
regard to diet. My friend sent his critical paper to Dr. 
Haig, who has most kindly taken the trouble to write for 
me his explanation of the difficulties raised. 



78 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' 23rd October, 1902.  You ask me to give you a risume 
of my present views on diet. I am still as firm a believer 
as ever in Dr. Haig's conclusions as to the part played 
by uric acid in causing disease, and in that authority's 
contention that it must, from any point of view, be de- 
sirable to avoid as far as possible all food vrhich in itself 
contains uric acid, or one of the other acids producing 
analogous effects. On some points, however, I am in a 
critical frame of mind towards Dr. Haig's opinions, or 
rather what I believe to be his opinions, which conceivably 
may not be quite the same thing, seeing that I am only a 
humble amateur follower of the expert to whom I owe so 
much. And, firstly, as to cheese and milk. Whether by 
reason of the casein or of the lactic acid, which both 
contain, it seems to me to be clear that a large number 
of people cannot digest these substances, at any rate not 
in the large quantities originally recommended by Dr. 
Haig ; and many of the cases treated by Dr. Cantani, the 
Neapolitan specialist, seem to prove that milk and cheese 
are the direct cause of gout in some constitutions. It 
may well be that these substances must, for such people, 
be placed in the same category as eggs, which, on Dr. 
Haig's own showing, contain no uric acid, and yet, 
according to him, produce the same effects as if they did. 
I am told that Dr. Haig has ceased ordering milk and 
cheese so freely as at one time he did ; if that be the fact, 
I am glad to hear it, for I incline strongly to the opinion 
that their habitual use by many people has been re- 
sponsible for many mishaps. Then, as to the amount of 
food which each person should eat in the twenty-four 
hours. I doubt the reliabihty of Dr. Haig's method of 
computation  I mean, the method of multiplying the 
weight in pounds by nine, and treating the product as the 
number of grains of proteid which should be eaten per 
diem. Pritna facie, I should have expected that people 



SUPPLEMENT 79 

would differ from each other in digestive idiosyncrasies 
quite as much as in other respects, and my experience up 
to the present time seems to me to show that the as- 
sumption is well founded. If this be true, a rule whereby 
the amount of food is ascertained for each person in an 
identical manner cannot be sound, because it takes no 
account of his or her individual peculiarities. Again, 
the circumstances and conditions of life frequently vary 
very much in the course of a few years ; at one time a 
man may work more physically than mentally, at another 
the reverse may be the case ; at one time he may be living 
in a hot climate or in a stuffy town, at another he may be 
living in a cold climate or in the country ; at one time he 
may be leading a life of constant worry and strain, at 
another he may be enjojdng a tranquil existence. I do 
not believe that these changes are represented by sufficient, 
if by any, changes in the weight, so as to make it the 
proper, or even a possible, criterion ; while I do believe 
that these changes materially affect the digestive capacity. 
At any rate, in my own case and in that of my wife, we 
were not in a satisfactory state, when eating at the rate 
prescribed by Dr. Haig's method, during the first two 
years, whereas we began to improve from the moment 
that we began to eat considerably less. My proper 
amount, according to Dr. Haig, is about 1,500 grains of 
proteid, whereas I am eating at this moment, and for the 
last two months have been eating, under 1,200 grains. It 
may be that two months do not afford a sufficiently long 
test; but against that objection I set the fact that the 
experience of everyone whom I know (including your- 
self) tallies with mine of the last two months. The 
matter is all important if the true rule is that every 
particle of proteid taken during the twenty -four hours, 
which is in excess of what is actually required just to 
make up the loss occasioned by the energy, mental or 



8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

physical, expended during the twenty-four hours, or which, 
for any reason, the individual is unable to metabolise, 
acts as a direct poison. This is the rule laid down by 
Dr. Cantani, as I understand the matter, and I am con- 
vinced that it is the true rule, and that the disregard of 
it explains many of the failures of the diet, and stiU more 
the quasi-failures. A friend of yours and mine suggested 
to me on Sunday last a way of maintaining the reliability 
of the method of calculation laid down by Dr. Haig, and 
yet of admitting that it often gives unsatisfactory results 
in individual cases. This was to regard Dr. Haig's 
amounts as the proper ones for the normal person, but to 
hold that very few people who take to the diet are in a 
normal condition at the start, and take a longer or shorter 
time, and generally longer time, to become so, and that 
beginners should regard Dr. Haig's amounts as the goal 
towards which they should work, but should not expect 
to be able at first to eat in accordance with them. My 
reply is that the assumption that people are not in a 
normal condition at the beginning is almost certainly true, 
and that the suggestion may be as sound as it is ingenious, 
but that it does not represent Dr. Haig's view, as I 
understand it, and that, further, a method of calculating 
the proper amount of proteid which is not a reliable 
guide at the precise time when people most want such a 
guide  namely, at the beginning, when they have no 
data of their own to go on can hardly be considered 
satisfactory. 

' I would further point out that the weight, to which Dr. 
Haig's method has to be applied, is the normal or proper 
weight, not the weight at any given moment, as indeed 
must be the case, for otherwise the fatter a person got the 
more he would be bound to eat, irrespective of all other 
consideration, and vice versa. Now everyone does not 
know his normal or proper weight, seeing that we have 



SUPPLEMENT 8i 

not all been in the habit, from early youth, of being 
weighed at frequent intervals, and of taking a careful note 
of the result : we are therefore not in a position to strike 
an average, and so ascertain the normal weight. In such 
circumstances the only thing to be done is to take the 
weight according to the height, but Dr. Haig himself 
regards that method as by no means satisfactory. Again, 
all methods of computation necessarily depend for their 
success on the accuracy of the tables of analyses, which 
purport to show the proportions of proteid and other 
things contained in the different foods. Now it is obvious 
to anyone who has looked into the question at all that 
hardly any of these tables agree, and sometimes they 
differ materially; and even when they do agree, there 
remains the question whether the person consulting them 
can extract the whole of the proteid shown by the tables 
to exist in a particular food ; in other words, whether he 
can fully digest it. 

' In short, from whatever point of view you consider 
the matter, nothing can take the place of personal ex- 
perience ; and therefore, while it is desirable, and in truth 
unavoidable, to accept Dr. Haig's method of calculation, 
and to assume the accuracy of some of the food tables to 
begin with, as one must have some basis to start on, it 
must be clearly understood that, if the result is not what 
it should be, the blame is not to be attached to the simple 
foods, or to the principles inculcating their adoption, but 
to the manner in which the patient is applying them in 
his or her case. 

' One of the surest signs in my opinion that the in- 
dividual application is wrong, is constipation, whether the 
patient has previously been a sufferer from that scourge 
or not. Of course, if the patient, on mixed foods, has 
never been troubled with it, and it began only with the 
adoption of the simple foods, the proof of mistake in in- 

G 



82 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

dividual application is the more emphatic, but in any case, 
as I maintain, it is only a question of degree. The usual 
experience is, I fancy, that the adoption of the simple 
foods is followed at once by a marked improvement in the 
behaviour of the bovrels, which causes the heart of the 
neophyte to rejoice, and makes him think that the problem 
is solved for good and all. Such may indeed be the happy 
fate of some of us, but more usually, I think, the initial 
improvement gradually slackens, and finally dies away 
altogether, and the status quo ante the change of diet 
returns more or less. To all persons in that position I 
say that they should not be discouraged, that they should 
not think that the diet is in principle at fault, but that 
they should think that their individual method of appli- 
cation is wrong, and should never rest until, by experi- 
ment, they have discovered exactly what is the cause of 
the trouble. I do not think that Dr. Haig looks at this 
complaint, as it ought to be looked at, namely, as one of 
the most immediate and natural proofs that the diet is not 
being properly applied, except, of course, in cases where 
there is reason to diagnose structural or other organic 
defect in the bowels themselves. The result of not doing 
so is that a person, who adopts the simple foods, is very 
liable to bring over from his former condition and training 
the orthodox attitude, both among doctors and laymen, that 
constipation is one of the mysteries of Nature, which must 
be tolerated with resignation and fortitude, or treated 
with violence. Yet it seems to me much more hkely 
that it is merely due to the fact that the food is pre- 
sented to the bowels in a condition not suitable to their 
task, and that, either because something, which ought to 
have been removed by the process of mastication and 
stomachic digestion, has been left in, or vice versa, and is 
a kindly warning of Nature, which is meant to show us 
either that we are taking the wrong foods, or that we are 



SUPPLEMENT 83 

taking them in the wrong quantities, or that we are com- 
bining them wrongly. 

'I expect you will say that, if the whole matter ia 
really a question of individual effort and experiment, there 
is very little chance of right principles of diet ever spread- 
ing generally, seeing that most people expect their doctors 
to do all the thinking for them on the subject of health, 
and would decline even to entertain a proposition to 
change their diet, unless at least one could assure them 
that they had only got to foUow a cut-and-dried pro- 
gramme. I quite agree ; but then I do not think, and never 
have thought, that most people are at all likely to be con- 
vinced in any circumstances at the present stage. What 
I hope wiU happen is that the experience of the teetotallers 
will be repeated, and that a sufficient number of people 
will become convinced of the evils of the mixed foods, to 
bring the necessary pressure of public opinion to bear 
upon the medical profession to force them to review their 
pronouncements in the light of the new data, which are 
slowly accumulating. When this has been done, and the 
majority of doctors advocate a non-flesh diet, at first for 
invalids and then generally, the lay public will follow 
their lead, as a matter of course, in time. Considering 
that the profession is now contemplating the establish- 
ment of sanatoria for the treatment of consumption at 
the North Pole, and remembering what they would have 
thought of such a proposition, say, to be quite safe, forty 
years ago, we need not despair. Meanwhile we should 
none of us lose an opportunity of drawing the attention 
of our medical friends to their monstrous impertinence in 
claiming our respect and implicit belief professionally, so 
long as they, as a class, are at least as unhealthy as the 
rest of us. What should we say to a seaman who ob- 
viously could not sail his own boat, if he wanted to come 
and take charge of ours ? 

g2 



84 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

' P.S.  By the Way, the Cantani I have referred to above 
was a doctor of that name who practised at Naples and 
died in 1898. He was immensely thought of by the Itahan 
medical world, and devoted himself specially to gout, 
rheumatism and kindred disorders, in the treatment of 
which he obtained some remarkable successes, principally, 
as it seems to me, by his skill in applying the rule which 
I have quoted in this letter. He admitted meat in small 
quantities into his dietary, and absolutely excluded milk 
and cheese ; but as I have not yet been able to get hold of 
any of his books, which have not, I believe, been trans- 
lated, and have only seen an English work, which pur- 
ports to give a r&sum& of his theories and practice, I do 
not feel myself in a position to speak more definitely on 
the subject.' 

Dr. Haig answers these criticisms as follows : 

' In making a few comments upon your friend's letter, 
I should like first to mention some points which cannot 
be lost sight of without getting into hopeless confusion. 

' (1) Certain diseases are due to excess of uric acid in 
the body and blood. 

' (2) I propose to get free from those diseases by as far 
as possible ceasing to swallow uric acid. 

' (3) As a practical result of this a daily excretion of 
uric acid amounting on meat and tea diet to, say, 20 
grains, can in eighteen months to two years be reduced 
to 10 or 11 grains a day ; and with this reduction the 
diseases due to uric acid gradually diminish and cease to 
trouble. 

' (4) This result has nothing whatever to do with in- 
dividual constitution, age, digestion, or metabolism ; it is 
simply a matter of swallowing or not swallowing some 8, 
10, or 12 grains of uric acid each day. 

' (5) Quantity of food on a diet on which one has lived 



SUPPLEMENT 85 

from childhood is a matter of habit : one unconsciously 
learns as a habit to eat enough ; but even here one may 
learn to eat too much. On a new diet one must have 
some rule to prevent any serious mistakes ; but no rule is 
absolute, it is a rough guide to be adjusted by each in- 
dividual. The rule of 9 or 10 grains of albumen per 
pound of body weight per day is the one that was taught 
in all text-books of physiology when I was a student 
twenty-five years ago. These twenty-five years of use 
have not enabled me to convict it of serious error ; on the 
contrary, I believe that for a rough guide it is very close 
to the truth, and that investigation would show that when 
the weight to be nourished has been properly calculated 
(and this, of course, requires skill and experience), there 
are not many people who do good work in the world and 
maintain their weight, strength, activity and blood colour 
at the normal standard, on less than 9 grains of albumen 
per pound of body weight per day. 

' (6) No one has, I believe, found any xanthin or uric 
acid in milk or cheese, and the taking of one and a half 
pint of milk and one ounce of cheese every day does not 
interfere with the reduction of uric acid from 21 grains 
down to 10 per day (see No. 3). Some German chemists, 
on the other hand, have found xanthin in the yolk of eggs, 
and the taking of eggs does at once raise the uric acid above 
10 grains per day in proportion to the quantity of egg 
taken. Milk and cheese are therefore uric-acid-free foods : 
yolk of egg is not. Thus far we have nothing to do with 
individuals, all are absolutely alike ; those who swallow 
uric acid suffer from its effects, those who do not swallow 
it do not suffer. 

' (7) But when we come to deal with the available uric- 
acid-free foods, it is quite a different matter : here every 
individuality in health, disease, deformity, age, and condi- 
tion has to be considered in deciding which foods offer 



86 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

special advantages for each individual case; and here 
there is scope for endless experience and discussion, which 
I shall not attempt even to outline in a letter. 

' I can now, however, indicate shortly what I should 
say in reply to your friend's remarks. As to milk and 
cheese, I know some who do best on large quantities of 
milk, and I know others who do best on none ; such fluid 
diet is very bad for some diseases, very good for others ; 
there can be no rule for all. The harm that Cantani saw 
in gout and rheumatism from taking milk and cheese was 
possibly due to taking them in excessive quantity, or to 
the acids and salts in cheese, or to the dyspepsia which is 
in some people produced by milk ; but gout and rheuma- 
tism are but a small part of the diseases produced by uric 
acid ; and the harm that milk and cheese did in these was 
not due to introduction of uric acid. I have known cheese 
cause a relapse of rheumatism ; but this was because it 
contained much salt. I often purposely put patients on 
too large an allowance of albumens at first as in some 
diseases it is safer to be overfed rather than underfed ; 
and later, when the patient has got over'the change of diet, 
the quantity can be reduced. 

' As I say in " Diet and Food," but few people want more 
than 1,400 grains per day ; but it is easy to over-estimate 
the exercise taken, and also to over-estimate the correct 
weight, or proper quantities of tissues to be nourished, as 
distinguished from fat which does not want extra nourish- 
ment. No doubt I often make mistakes in these matters 
in spite of my best endeavours. No rule is or can be 
absolute which has to take such data into account. If 
strength and blood-colour keep normal, I am content no 
matter how little food is being taken ; but for those who 
maintain strength and colour over years my figures will 
not often be found to be very far out. 

' I do not know anything about Cantani's metabolism. 



SUPPLEMENT 87 

I do know that, if I do not swallow uric acid or take too 
much food i.e. above the 9 grains limit (an error which 
may be committed on all diets)  I do not sufifer. I quite 
agree that each person is to some extent a law to himself, 
especially as regards digestion ; and to a lesser extent as 
to quantity ; but the great physiological law of quantity 
is much less often broken than might be imagined. As 
to kinds of food each must try for himself, only general 
rules can be stated, and your friend is quite right in saying 
that the mistakes of individuals in details do not affect 
the great principle of the exclusion of uric acid. I am 
also inclined to agree with him that constipation is often 
a question of finding the particular uric-acid-free foods 
that suit the individual in question. StiU even here it is 
a rule that milk and cheese are constipating (and this may 
account for part of their evil influence in gout and rheu- 
matism as noticed by Cantani), while some breadstuffs 
and most vegetables and fruits have the opposite effect. 
Constipation may precipitate an attack of gout or rheu- 
matism, but it does not cause it ; and it can only preci- 
pitate it when an excess of uric acid is present in the 
blood; and Cantani's patients would often have some 
excess of uric acid in the blood as they took some meat, 
so that milk and cheese might precipitate gout in them, 
but not in one of my patients ; and the case mentioned 
above was a beginner who had not got free from uric acid. 
Many meat-eaters suffer from constipation, but not all, 
and one must, of course, give a different diet to those who 
suffer and to those who do not. Those who can take 
breadstuffs freely generally do well to live on them ; but 
many, myself among the number, cannot take enough 
bread, and must add milk and cheese to a small extent or 
starve. In my case this is due to an error in education, 
for if I had been brought up on breadstuffs I could easily 
have lived on them now. No one ever swallows uric acid 



88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

with impunity ; but each, as he learns this and comes to 
change his diet, must decide which foods suit his disease 
his stomach, his teeth, his age, and his habits, which last 
have grown to be a part of him. 

(Signed) ' A. Haig.' 

I read this autumn, according to my custom, the 
epitome in the ' Times,' of the speeches which a number 
of our greatest doctors addressed to their pupils on the 
reopening of the schools, and it is a remarkable thing 
that in those speeches there was not one word of instruc- 
tion, or, indeed, the smallest allusion to the fact that it 
was either desirable or possible to keep people from being 
ill at all. 

Just as I reached the end of my notes comes the thrill- 
ing account of the Berhn conference on Tuberculosis. 
It is a disappointment to me to find that there has not 
been sufficient investigation made during the last eighteen 
months to confirm or refute Dr. Koch's theory that the 
bovine tubercle is not transmissible to man. It is, how- 
ever, cheering to find that Dr. Koch is himself as firm as 
ever in his belief that overcrowding, damp, want of fresh 
air and sunlight are the predisposing causes to consump- 
tion, and that we must aboUsh these unhealthy conditions 
if we would successfully fight the monster which preys on 
so large a proportion of our population. He also refers 
to a point I have often been surprised to see so much 
neglected, viz. that while people will take care not to 
drink unboiled cow's milk, they cheerfully eat butter and 
cheese without any sterilising precautions. 



89 



GOATS 

Goats at Naples  Possible solution for milk difficulty in rural dis- 
tricts  A toothless generation  Ignorance as to nourishing value of 
separated milk  Mr. Hook on goat-keeping  Personal experiment 
Boast kid and agneau-de-lait  Keasons for prejudice against 
goats  Suggestions for the philanthropic  Immunity of goats 
from tubercular disease  Day at Guildford  Almonds  The 
Astolat Press  Mr. Gates' herd of Toggenburg goats  Feeding of 
goats  Chemistry of food to be taught in elementary schools. 

When walking in April in the streets of Naples, I came 
across a large herd of goats being milked from door to 
door, and it suddenly flashed upon me with great force 
that, if the English people could be persuaded greatly to 
increase the keeping of goats, especially in rural districts, it 
might be possible to arrive at some solution of the problem 
which faces everyone who gives thought to matters of 
health, viz. the serious deterioration in the physique of 
the people of this kingdom. There is no more convincing 
sign of this than the fact, universally acknowledged I 
believe, that a whole generation is growing up which have 
hardly any teeth left by the early age of twenty. I am 
told that not by any means the least of the sufferings of 
the soldiers in S6uth Africa was toothache, and I remem- 
ber it was suggested in some newspaper that the War 
0&ce should provide false teeth for the recruits ! This 
state of health is by no means surprising when it is 
remembered how many children and young people are 
now brought up on baker's bread and stewed tea without 
any milk at all ; and, strange as it may seem, I believe a 



90 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

child might have a better chance of health if it were 
brought up on moderate quantities of pure beer, instead 
of what the village mothers of to-day give their children. 
Milk is looked upon in our country districts as an extrava- 
gant luxury sometimes ordered by the doctor instead of 
cod-liver oil, and even when milk is ordered, there is 
great difficulty in getting it, for it is an easily verifiable 
fact that farmers prefer to keep their skim milk for young 
stock to selling it to the poor  and the new milk is all 
sent to the towns, or sold to well-to-do customers. Of 
course, skim milk would in no sense take the place 
of cod-liver , oil, neither does skim milk do for babies 
unless enriched by some fattening food ; but most people 
are hopelessly ignorant of the value of separated milk; 
they think the nourishment of milk is removed with the 
cream, whereas all the proteid is in the casein of the 
separated milk, there being none whatever in the cream 
or butter. For this reason it is obviously useless to 
depend for nourishment on cheeses made from cream, 
such as Camembert. I know one village in Suffolk 
where the proprietress offered the poor the separated milk 
of her dairy as a gift. This they refused, as they thought 
it quite worthless, and only ' pig's food,' a very different 
thing in their minds from food that was good for pigs. 

In a village not far from here a friend told me that 
she had been helping a man seriously ill of consumption. 
After he was removed to a home, the clergyman said the 
wife and five young children were very badly off. She, 
not sending food from her own house except in cases of 
grave illness, offered to give the mother two quarts of new 
milk a day for the children. After a few days the mother 
came up, and said she did not want the milk at all, as she 
had no use for it. It is almost inconceivable that a 
mother could so ignorantly refuse what was good for her 
children; it only helped to confirm me in my opinion 



GOATS 91 

that the use of milk and the knowledge of its value are 
absolutely dying out in English villages. 

On my return home after my visit to Italy, I made 
inquiries as to the most recent book that had been pub- 
lished in England on goat-keeping. This brought to my 
hand the excellent little book by Mr. Bryan Hook, son 
of the artist vyhose beautiful sea-scapes delighted the 
eyes of my generation on their visits to the Academy. 
The book is called 'Milch Goats and their Management,' 
and is published by Vinton & Co., 9 New Bridge Street, 
E.G., 1896. For anyone interested in the subject of 
goats, and especially for those meaning to keep them, 
there could hardly be a better guide than this book, 
prompted as it was (see preface) by ' a firm conviction of 
the advantage that might be derived from a wider cul- 
tivation of the milch goat in this country, and an affection 
for the most intelligent, engaging, and picturesque of our 
domestic cattle.' Mr. Bryan Hook has had so many 
years' experience in goat-keeping, that his testimony is 
exceptionally valuable, and intending goat-keepers will do 
wisely to follow his advice as to choice of breed, feeding, 
housing, and general management, the only point in 
which I would beg to differ from him being in the con- 
struction of the goat-house. Mr. Hook recommends a 
raised path down the middle of this, and a gutter on each 
side for drainage, which is to flow into a pail or tank 
sunk outside the buildings, and be used for garden manur- 
ing. Mr. Gates, the well-known owner of the pure 
Toggenburg herd of goats near Guildford, suggests that a 
better way, as an economy of labour and an improvement 
in hygiene (see results of experiments by Dr. Poore in dry 
treatment versus water-borne sewage, in his invaluable 
book 'Eural Hygiene'), is that the raised paths and 
gutters be omitted, and the floor simply strewn with 
sawdust or dry garden earth. This absorbs all liquids. 



92 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

prevents smells, and is easily swept up each morning 
when the house is brushed out, and if buried superficially 
is one of the finest fertilisers. This system has been 
followed by Mr. Gates, and he recommends it in preference 
to the water-swilled gutters. Certainly nothing could 
have been sweeter than his goat-house, which I visited 
one summer afternoon when it held ten goats. The 
sparred floor of the stalls is better raised eighteen inches 
from the floor, and the spars should be placed half an inch 
apart instead of one inch, as young kids are apt to get their 
very slender hoofs in between the wood when it begins to 
soften, and a broken leg may be the result of spars too 
wide apart, these young creatures being astonishingly 
nimble even from birth. 

Mr. Hook says : ' Goats are probably more subject to 
rheumatism than most other animals, and I have known 
them to be so acutely affected when heavy in kid that 
they were unable to rise, and almost unable to walk when 
on their legs.' I quote this sentence because it strikes 
me that goat-keepers may find that this tendency to 
rheumatism is caused by too high feeding, especially with 
oats, peas, and beans. Horses in the confinement of the 
stable often suffer in the same way, and are unable to 
stand the damp when turned out into the fields, not 
because that gives them the rheumatism any more than 
bad weather gives it to us. They have it in them from 
wrong feeding : the damp merely develops it. 

In consequence of this book I bought one goat, a 
hornless black and white crossbred, so that I and my 
gardener might gain a little personal experience  I always 
dispute that ' a little knowledge is a dangerous thing,' a 
little to my mind being better than none  and find out 
how much trouble and benefit there is in keeping goats 
on a very small scale. 

My first experiment after the birth of the two kids the 



GOATS 93 

next spring  a boy and a girl  was to give to the children 
about the place a goat's-milk tea. They all, with one 
exception, said they liked it very much. The exception 
was the youngest, almost a baby, who was probably not 
hungry. After this the goat's milk was divided between 
the children of the gardener and coachman, and such 
honoured guests who were fond of milk and yet totally 
disbelieved that goat's milk was without taste or smell. 
Without a single exception every one of these pronounced 
it excellent, and some preferred it to cow's milk as a 
constant drink. This may be due to the fact that, as 
Mr. Hook says, the fat globules in goat's milk are so 
much more minute than in cow's milk that it is lighter 
on the palate and easier of digestion. Servants  who in 
my experience are the most conservative-minded of all 
classes  have now found out the good qualities of goat's 
milk so markedly that they are glad not to allow it to go 
out of the house. 

I can see the cautious reader^probably a male  
saying, ' I wonder why she didn't take it herself ? ' It was 
because I did not wish to mix goat's with cow's milk in the 
separator, and I always drink separated milk ; for though 
not a large milk consumer, I prefer it without its cream, 
taking that portion of the milk by preference in the form 
of butter. Those who drink coffee or tea will find that 
goat's milk gives both these a much better colour in the 
cup than even the best cow's milk. 

My little kids I did not want to keep. I tried to sell 
them both in the neighbourhood, but no one would give me 
anything for them, dead or aUve, so I had the Billy killed 
and served for a Saturday to Monday party which I knew 
had no interest in the simpler foods. Having seen them 
immensely enjoy it, I called to their notice the menu, on 
which was plainly vTritten 'roast kid,' whereupon a 
young man at my side told me the following anecdote. 



94 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

He had lately dined at a very expensive restaurant where 
the menu contained for the roast, cogneau-de-lait. He, 
having a frugal mind, and thinking of his own lambs in 
the country which sold for very little, asked to interview 
the chef after the feast. He said, ' Well, sir, I have no 
objection to telling you that agneau-de-lait is not to be 
procured in England, or at any rate is enormously ex- 
pensive. This dish of which you have been eating is 
only a kid.' 

I could not bear to kill the useful Nannie, so I gave 
her away to the man who had had charge of her mother. 
He used her as a pet for his children to drag a tiny cart, 
and is now so delighted with the milk our goat gives that 
he is going to keep his own for the same purpose. This 
year the same mother only had one kid, a very pretty 
little female, which I am rearing and keeping. The one 
kid instead of the usual two may be due to the mother 
having been principally fed on grass. She does not give 
nearly as much milk as the better-bred goats, but this may 
be partly because she is not so highly fed. She is pastured 
in a fresh spot every day and is given leaves, &c. In 
winter I find chopped mangold is a favourite food. 

Several cases have come to my knowledge of poor 
people refusing to keep a goat even when it had been 
given them, because they say it is so troublesome and 
destructive a creature. My interpretation of this would 
be that it is no good giving a goat to poor people, unless 
you give with it a strong collar, chain, and tethering pin, 
for unless this is done it is always breaking loose and 
doing damage. These things are expensive for poor 
people to buy  the collar and chain costing 7s. 6d.  they 
try to manage with bits of rope, or any other makeshift, 
and the result is unsatisfactory. 

Mr. Hook says in his book which supplements the 
larger work on goats by Mr. Pegler, that this prejudice 



GOATS 



95 



against goats is largely due to the fact that English 
cottage people get their small experience of goats from 
buying them out of the Irish herds which are brought 
over now and then. ' Unfortunately, it is from such 
inferior animals that an estimate of the whole species is 
generally formed, the over-sanguine goat-owner becoming 
disappointed by the wild nature, mischievous habits and 
scanty produce of the animal that he has purchased on 
the assurance that it will give two quarts of milk a day, 
and Uve anywhere and anyhow.' 

I was walking one evening on a Surrey common, and 
saw a little boy just taking a goat into a cottage. My 
interest being very keen, I began asking him why he kept 
it. He said, ' For milk.' My next question was, ' What 
do you do vnth the Mds ? ' He answered with a grin, 
' Our goat don't 'ave no kids : she ain't 'ad none fur 
seven years.' This surprising answer so floored me that 
I meekly said, 'I suppose she doesn't give much milk f 
He said, ' No, not much.' I aftetwards heard that the 
little cottage contained a family of fifteen children and 
mother and father. 

There is no doubt a difficulty in the poor keeping a 
goat for each family, unless they are near a good common 
with grazing rights, which exceptional circumstance is 
practically not worth reckoning. My idea is that as 
philanthropic people abound everywhere, some of these 
might be the goat-keepers of the district, and either send 
the goats, in charge of a boy, round to the cottage doors 
to be milked there in a small measure, to be charged for 
at a remunerative price, or have the goats milked at 
home at an early hour in the morning and evening, so 
that the children might fetch the milk before and after 
school-hours. The charitable, on the other hand, who do 
not fear to give  such as the clergyman, the nurse, the 
district visitor, &c.  might keep goats for their own use 



96 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and give away milk for sick children and other urgent 
cases. 

Only time and patience will get rid of the prejudice 
against goats which exists in all classes, and may be 
partly due to experiences at Gibraltar, Malta, Corsica, 
and parts of Switzerland where the goat's milk is almost 
undrinkable. This unpleasant smell and flavour is 
caused by wrong feeding, by dirty hands in milking, and 
by letting the milk stand too long. The dehcious bruccio, 
of Corsica, is a fresh curd made from goat's milk. Julius 
Caesar openly avowed he preferred the plebeian goat's 
cheese to the greatest deUcaeies of the table, and the 
newspapers say President Loubet does the same. 

In the dim distance it does not seem to me impossible 
that useful foods may be made from sheep's milk, 
especially while lambs are still killed for meat. 

One of the chief recommendations of goat's milk in 
these days of nervousness about the danger of cow's milk, 
is that goats are among the few animals entirely exempt 
from tubercular disease. Sir "William Broadbent, writ- 
ing on the prevention of consumption, says, 'It is in- 
teresting to note that asses and goats do not suffer from 
tuberculosis.' It is a continual surprise to me that goats 
are not kept to supply the consumptive sanatoriums, and 
I hope this most important measure may be adopted at 
the King's new Hospital, for the prejudice of the patients 
might be met in the same way as the French chef met the 
demand for agneau-de-lait as stated before. 

The other day a friend came to see me who had last 
year been interested in my goat-talk. She told me she 
had bought a goat for her baby and was going to buy 
another, as both she and her children liked it so much. 
She said with pride, on my showing her my comparatively 
ugly black and white hornless mongrel, that her goats 
were beautiful fawn and white Toggenburgs. I felt 



GOATS 97 

humbled, and she said, ' Don't you know the goat-farm 
at Guildford, kept by Mr. Gates, the head of the West 
Surrey Dairy Co. ? ' A few days afterwards I and a 
friend, who was herself anxious to keep goats, started for 
Guildford. Arrived at the station I suddenly remembered 
that I wanted to order a book, and trying the penny in 
the slot post-card box, found to my disgust that the 
cards were unstamped. I think the sale of these post- 
cards would greatly increase if, instead of two com- 
paratively useless cards at a penny, one, stamped ready 
for use, were sold at the same price. The diminution of 
profit would probably be covered by the additional sale. 
We walked up to the dairy and felt a little fiat when told 
that Mr. Gates was not there and lived three miles away. 
The clerk suggested that we might talk to his nephew. 
This we accordingly did, and heard that Mr. Gates was 
going to sell the whole herd, as it had been a hobby and 
he no longer had time to devote to it. It being part of 
the vegetarian creed to be cheerful under disappointment, 
we resolved to spend our two hours before the return 
train in loafing about the picturesque old town. 

Our first excitement was finding the Market Place 
filled with a detachment of Engineers, whose carts looked 
rather like Chinese junks and whose Boer hats and rough 
costume, to our imagination, conveyed the impression 
that they were just back from the front with all the 
South African dust and sunburn still thick upon them. 
On inquiry we found they had only returned a short 
time ago, but they had been on manoeuvres in the 
neighbourhood, and the junks turned out to be pontoons, 
the dust being good Surrey sand. 

Passing beautiful fruit shops, so rare in the villages 
near me, we bought two very cheap market baskets and 
proceeded to load them with fruits of all kinds which had 
suddenly flooded the market from the lateness of the 



98 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

season, and were plentiful and cheap. Our next search 
was for almonds, but walkmg up the High Street I 
was suddenly glued to the window of a curiosity shop 
by the sight of a gorgeous blue and green fish, different 
from any I had in the china aquarium of fish which swim 
over my ugly hall stove on the whitewashed wall at 
home. Finding the price moderate, I yielded to the 
temptation to make the fish share the basket with my fruit. 
We then went to the best looking grocer's shop we could 
find, and my friend, who is an almond-fancier, asked if 
they had any Jordans. Fortunately for us they had 
bought in an extra large supply in the season, and had 
plenty of this kind at 2s. per lb., a great improvement upon 
the Valencias at Is. 8d. The disappointment sometimes 
caused to housekeepers by receiving bitter almonds, with 
the possible result that the nourishing item of a guest's 
meal has to be left out, may be guarded against by 
ordering ' second quality Jordan almonds,' which are 
Is. IQd. per lb. at the Stores. The twopence extra is well 
worth while to those who have once appreciated the 
difference between them and Valencias, which are the 
same in shape and size as the bitter almonds, so that it is 
impossible for a cook to know she is preparing uneatable 
food if she gets the latter by mistake. It is extravagant 
to buy the best Jordans at 3s. per lb., when the second 
quality are as good except for size. The shape, a very 
long oval, is the same, quite unlike the squat oval of the 
Valencia almond. 

It is curious to notice that when the derisive enemy 
accuses one of living on ' nuts and apples,' he is generally 
ignorant that almonds are nuts, and far the most nourish- 
ing of the whole nut family. Even when people do 
realise this, they are filled with dread at being ordered to 
consume a vast amount of prussic acid, having vaguely 
heard that this poison is extracted from almonds. It 



GOATS 99 

may be worth while here to go back once more to our 
friend ' Chambers's Encyclopaedia,' and quote a few facts 
on the subject :  

'Bitter almonds contain the same substances (as 
sweet), and, in addition, a substance called amygdalin, 
from which is obtained a peculiar volatile oil. For the 
preparation of Fixed Oil of Almonds either bitter or 
sweet may be employed. The cake which is left after 
the expression of the fixed oil from bitter almonds, con- 
tains among other matters a portion of two substances, 
called respectively amygdalin and emulsin or synaptase. 
When the cake is bruised and made into a paste with 
water, the synaptase acts as a ferment upon the amygdalin, 
and one atom of the latter resolves itself into two atoms 
of volatile oil of bitter almond, one atom hydrocyanic 
acid (prussic), one atom grape sugar, two atoms formic 
acid, seven atoms water.' 

The volatile oil is not originally present in the bitter 
almond. The nut does not contain a trace of the oil 
ready formed, so that the oil is purely the product of the 
fermentation of amygdalin. 

It may be suggested that this change might be brought 
about by fermentation inside us; but in an interesting 
paper in the ' Herald of Health ' for April 1902, by Dr. 
E. P. Miller, there is an aceoimt of the two so-called 
ferments, the digestive or inorganic fermentation versus 
organic fermentation, and he says : ' The term ferment is 
not one that should be applied to the enzymes spoken of 
as the unorganised ferments that are elaborated within 
the cells of the glands producing them, for they are not 
in reality ferments, but simply digestive agents provided 
to prepare the nutritive constituents of food for absorption 
and assimilation.' Mrs. Wallace's excellent monthly 
magazine the ' Herald of Health ' is full of information 
of all kinds on health topics. The last page gives a set 



loo A THIRD POT-POURRI 

of useful general rules ' for the physical regeneration of 
man,' with which I am in great sympathy, a sympathy 
which I cordially extend to the motto of the paper : 
'Life is not mere existence, but the enjoyment of 
health.' 

To go back to my account of the day in Guildford. 
In the shop where we bought our almonds was a stall 
presided over by an American girl with a chafing-dish 
and several varieties of American cereal foods and speci- 
men dishes prepared from them. What attracted me, as I 
had a vegetarian coming who always asked for farinaceous 
bulk which I avoid when alone, was a bundle marked 
Id., and called ' Nouilles lact^es Suisse,' or Swiss milk 
vermicelli, which shows its Swiss intelligence by instruct- 
ing the public as to the percentages of its component 
parts in an analysis signed by Dr. Bertschinger of Geneva; 
It is not otherwise than a noticeable sign of the times 
that in Germany and Switzerland prepared foods have to 
be analysed and certified by first-rate chemists. I have 
never come across this with either French or English 
foods. In the case of England, at any rate, where 
adulteration is so common, I think all patent medi- 
cines and foods should be certified by a Government 
inspector. 

Having filled our market baskets, we found them so 
heavy that we left them with this young lady till our 
return, and, with all the joyful feeling of touring in a 
picturesque foreign town, we walked on to find the shop 
of the well-known Mr. A. C. Curtis, author of ' A New 
Trafalgar,' and founder of the Astolat Press. It was a 
slight shook to our aesthetic sensibilities to find the shop 
in a chaotic bustle of ' sale,' which we forgave when we 
learnt that it ensured our finding Mr. Curtis himself on 
the premises ; and as my friend too was a writer and a 
bookseller, he welcomed us with all the friendhness of a 



GOATS loi 

fellow-craftsman, and fetched out from the back of the 
shop a case of his dainty little editions. Amongst these 
was his ' In Memoriam ' on vellum published at 10s. 6^^. 
net, of which he himself lately bought back the few re- 
maining copies he could find among the booksellers at 
an increased price, as the book is now out of print and 
scarce. 

The present fashion for these miniature libraries  as 
seen in the success of the ' Temple Classics,' the ' Bibelots,' 
and the new 'Unit Library,' which brings the great classics 
of all nations within the reach of EngUsh peasants  
is very indicative of the stress of the times, which means 
pocket volumes for the busy workers who would perhaps 
never read at all but for the snatched intervals between 
work. 

The name ' Astolat Press ' suggested to us on our 
return to write and ask Mr. Curtis the origin of the 
assertion that Astolat  the home of Elaine  was the old 
name of Guildford. This was his reply : ' In the "Morte 
D' Arthur," book xviii. chap, ix., Sir Thomas Malory says 
of Sir Lancelot, "And then he rode so much until he 
came to Astolat, that is Guildford, and there it happed 
him in the eventide he came to an old baron's place that 
bight Sir Bernard of Astolat." There is no doubt that 
Tennyson identified Astolat with Guildford, and used the 
present ruined keep in his mental pictures. And he might 
well fancy Elaine watching the ford by St. Catharine's 
for the flash of the knight's armour as he rode from 
Winchester up the track we call " The Pilgrim's Way," 
but which is one of the earliest roadways in England, and 
existed long before St. Thomas of Canterbury's day. The 
Astolat Press is quite a small affair and inhabits, in what 
was once Archbishop Abbott's stable, an Elizabethan 
red-brick building, with solid walls, oak beams, and 
square-paned leaded casements. The loft makes a capital 



I02 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

compositors' room, and the solid ground floor a good 
foundation for engines, machines, and hand press.' 

After the first day at Guildford we felt rather crest- 
fallen at having learnt so little that was new about goats. 
I wrote to Mr. Gates, and he quickly answered that we 
might come over at once and see his herd. We were 
received with the greatest kindness and hospitality, and 
every question was most cordially answered. His goat- 
house was a picturesque thatched building, the floor 
strevm with sawdust, the animals being tethered in little 
stalls on a raised platform of battens half an inch apart, 
and about two inches wide. Apart from the obvious gain 
in cleanliness, this raised structure is a great convenience 
in milking and saves a special milking bench. 

The goats were nearly all pure Toggenburgs  beautiful 
deer-like creatures with fine fawn-and-white coats  and 
when I asked why they were being sold all together, 
thinking in my ignorance that it would be better to 
spread them about, Mr. Gates told me that he was 
anxious to sell them to someone who would keep the 
breed pure, as the Swiss Government had now forbidden 
their exportation. They have been purchased by Mr. 
R. Sugden, Longden, near Eugeley, Staffs. Mr. Sugden 
intends to keep the breed pure. 

The average yield of these goats in full milk is two to 
two and a half quarts each daily, the actual quantity given 
by Mr. Gates' herd of five in one season having been 
714 Imperial gallons, or forty-two full-sized railway 
churns. In addition to his household supply of milk and 
butter, Mr. Gates has sent out more than 1,000 bottles of 
milk, sterilised for travelHng, besides selling the fresh 
milk for infants at Guildford. The price he charged  ^viz., 
eightpence a quart  is an interesting contrast to the price 
at the London dairies. 

Further details may be gathered from an illustrated 



GOATS 103 

article entitled ' A Dairy Farm in Miniature,' by Mr. 
Bryan Hook, in ' Country Life ' of April 8, 1899. The 
goats were photographed, but the pictures do not do them 
justice. 

The impression made on one by these goats is that, 
compared with other breeds, they are as racehorses to cart- 
horses. Probably with increased knowledge and interest 
in the subject, the English goat will be improved  it 
being a most useful creature for all who cannot afford the 
special breed. Mr. Gates' little goat farm had the ad- 
vantage that it was adjoining a common where the goats 
could be turned out in charge of a boy. We also noticed 
that those in a field were allowed to run loose, a great 
improvement on the tethering system, as these creatures 
love change. Mr. Gates told us that this was quite safe 
when once they had grown used to a place, for they are 
so intelligent and friendly that they attach themselves to 
people and places like dogs. It was interesting to us to 
notice that, although there were eight milch goats and 
two or three kids in the house, the place was as sweet as 
a well-kept stable the he-goats, the only offenders in this 
matter, being kept apart in a field. 

On the subject of feeding Mr. Gates told us that he 
grew lucerne on purpose for them, as they were fond of it 
for a change, and it was a most useful fodder, as he cut it 
three times over in the summer, and it grows almost as 
fast as it is cut. 

I have found that other useful foods are comfrey, sun- 
flowers, summer prunings of apple and pear trees, hedge- 
row cuttings, sweet chestnut leaves, and the leaves of 
the globe artichoke. In Italy cows are fed on artichoke 
leaves, but I cannot persuade my pampered Jerseys to 
eat them. 

According to many people, for the last two years I 
have had goats on the brain, which is only a variety of 



I04 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the more usual accusation that for many years, alas ! for 
them, I have had diet on the brain. These accusations 
at first really distressed me, as no one feels cheerful under 
the implied supposition that senile decay is coming upon 
one with rapid strides. The fact is that goat-keeping is 
merely a variation of my interest in diet and the im- 
provement I hope it is to bring about in the health of the 
modem world. It has been an immense gratification to 
me to see that there has been such a very general growth 
of interest in this subject during the last few years. We 
see it affecting all classes from the highest to the lowest  
our statesmen, our clergy, our men of science, almost the 
entire Press, and last, but not least, the King himself. 
The cloud of ignorance about food shows signs of break- 
ing up and dispersing. How complete it can be, even 
among intelligent well-educated people, was illustrated to 
me the other day when talking about food values over a 
tea-table with a trained village nurse and a friend much 
interested in the subject. Neither of them seemed to 
understand what I meant, and one of them suggested, 
' Surely the most nourishing food is that which digests 
most easily.' I answered, ' You may easily digest fruit 
and vegetables, but the actual food value of what 
you have digested is very small indeed.' In fact, they 
were entirely unaware that there was such a thing as 
chemical analysis of food, and a scientific knowledge of 
the subject which they might have mastered with half the 
labour and time spent over complicated crochet stitches 
and lovely drawn-thread needlework. A friend of mine 
who has lately had a serious illness, told me that neither 
of the first-rate trained nurses who attended her had ever 
heard of such a thing as being able to calculate, the 
number of grains of proteid necessary for the day's 
nourishment, or to decide at a glance, at a well-spread 
table, what food on it is the best to choose. 



GOATS I OS 

Nothing has encouraged me more than finding this 
summer that the matter has been taken up in the iiighest 
quarters, and has been introduced into the Eevised In- 
structions for the Public Elementary Schools (1902). As 
few people take the trouble to get Blue-books, I venture 
to quote the following paragraphs from Appendix V. on 
Cookery :  

' v. The dietary value of the food and cost of 

the materials should be taught at each lesson, if only one 
course of Cookery lessons is being given. When the 
arrangement is that the girls attend Cookery classes for two 
or more successive years, the dietary value of food should 
not be taught till the second year. 

' Second year.  Instructions should be given on the 
various food stuffs, i.e.  cereals, pulse, fruits, vegetables, 
meats, and fish ; beverages. The dietary value of food. 
Digestion of albumen, starch, fat. More advanced dishes 
should be demonstrated and practised at each lesson, 
illustrating over again the Primary Methods taught in the 
First Year course. 

* Third year.  Complete dinners should be cooked by 
groups of children attending the class. The price of the 
dinner and the number of persons for whom it is in- 
tended should be written on the blackboard. Instruc- 
tions should be given on :  

(a) Expenditure of wages on food. 
(6) The making of preserves. 

(c) Use and abuse of tin foods. 

(d) Vegetarian diet. 

(e) Preparation of food suitable for infants. 

'The scholars should have practice in drawing up 
menus of dinners suitable for an artisan family, stating 
the price and season of the year.' 

This will instruct in the Elementary Schools, but I 



io6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

hope the time is not distant when no educated child will 
sit down to any table whereon food is displayed without 
a perfect knowledge of the simple rules as to the nourish- 
ing values and right combination of food, and when a 
young mother will no more dream of asking her nurse 
whether she shall give her rather delicate offspring fruit 
or no fruit, than whether it shall go naked or clothed. 



loy 



WHOLESOME FOOD ON THREE SHILLINGS 
A WEEK 

' Cornhill ' budgets Food reformers and lentils  Taste for savoury 
foods  Nervous appetites  Cabinet Minister and charwoman  
The healthy foods  Maeterlinck's appeal against meat and 
alcohol  Food values  To feed a family of four on 12s. a 
week  Nut milk  A week's menus, and cost  Ditto, with onoe- 
a-week cooking  Advantage of living in country  Goat's milk 
at a London dairy  Cheapest and healthiest diet at 2s. id. a. 
week  To wean servants from the beef-beer-tea faith  Possible 
purpose of meat-eating phase in evolution  A philanthropist's 
experiment  Amateur farmers  A pair of Bushey Art Students 
Beceipts. 

In 1901 the Editor of the ' Cornhill Magazine ' pub- 
lished a series of five articles called ' Family Budgets,' 
beginning in April with that of the workman at 30s. a 
week, by Mr. Arthur Morrison, and ending in August with 
lOjOOOZ. a year, by Lady Agnew. Between these came, in 
May, a lower middle-class budget of 150Z. to 200Z. a 
year, in June an income of 8001. a year, and in July my 
own, which I now republish, on 1,800Z. a year. The 
reviewers found great amusement in the idea that there 
could be the smallest difficulty in living on such an 
income, but the proper adjustment of medium or large 
incomes is often a more complicated matter than the 
management of one which provides only for the necessi- 
ties of life. A friend of mine whose inheritance of 2,000Z. 
a year was stated in the newspapers, received a letter 
asking for a considerable sum out of it, on the plea that 



io8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the loss of it could not be felt out of her ' boundless 
wealth.' 

The ' Workman's Budget ' is, I think, the most interest- 
ing one of the series, as it deals with the hardships of 
town life on an income which is ten shillings a week 
higher than the usual bare subsistence of a pound a 
week. 

My friend, Miss Curtis, has kindly sent me the follow- 
ing suggestions on wholesome food for the poor and the 
depopulation of rural districts  huge difficulties, which 
have been dealt with in a most thoughtful and stimulat- 
ing way in a book of collected essays by various vraiters, 
and published by Fisher Unwin in 1901, under the title 
of ' The Heart of the Empire.' 

' The question of wholesome food for the poor is not in 
itself a difficult one : the real obstacle lies in the pre- 
judice against a non-meat diet, which is often to be traced 
to the want of knowledge and sympathetic understanding 
of the tastes of the poor, in those who champion the 
economic way of living. Social reformers urge lentils 
as the article of food which gives the maximum of 
nourishment at the minimum of cost ; but, apart from the 
little-known fact that the xanthins of lentils and all 
pulse foods are now suspected by experts to be as un- 
wholesome as those of flesh foods, and therefore to be 
ruled out from the dietary of all who wish to control as 
far as possible the causes of disease, we have to face the 
fact of the people's dislike to all porridgy foods. This 
dislike cannot be lightly dismissed as a fad: the plain 
truth is that the appetites of the people are indicative of 
their constitutions, and these have changed during the 
last century of meat and tea diet. 

' Imagine the under-nourished, over-worked mother of 
a family, after a hot day's washing or charing, sitting down 



WHOLESOME FOOD 109 

with appetite to a mess of lentils. One might as well 
expect a delicate, hard-worked Cabinet Minister to enjoy 
a summer luncheon of boiled bacon and beans. The 
Cabinet Minister chooses lobster salad and a whisky-and- 
soda : the charwoman chooses tinned salmon and tea  
if she can get it. 

' The poor like fried food a bit of fish ready cooked 
from the shop, a rasher of bacon, a pig's fry, anything 
crisp and savoury and failing this, they like the tinned 
stuffs which give an excuse for just the piquant dash of 
vinegar or pickles which their jaded appetites require. 

' Perverted tastes ! says the reformer. Yes, but why 
are they perverted ? Surely the whole conditions of life 
in our big towns are perverted from the way of health, 
and it is unreasonable to expect unhealthy men and 
women to have healthy appetites. 

' The charwoman's husband, if he has the luck to earn 
his living by outdoor labour, may have a lentil-hunger; 
but how can she be ready for stodgy food after a day, or 
rather a lifetime, spent in wrestling with dirt in a stuffy 
house set in acres of stuffy streets ? 

' Before we can expect people to eat lentils and beans 
we must see that they live under conditions which pro- 
duce a healthy hunger, and towards this the Garden City 
Association, 77 Chancery Lane, W.C, is working in a way 
that deserves the support of all who wish to improve the 
present state of our towns and cities. 

' I have lately been asked to advise the best dietary for 
a family of four, consisting of father, mother, and two 
young children, in circumstances that allow of only 3s. 
per head a week for food, and since this is a case which 
may easily come into the experience of any who work 
amongst the poor, I include it here on the chance of being 
able to offer some useful hint. By " best " I understand 
" healthiest," so I exclude all such articles of food as are 



no A THIRD POT-POURRI 

shown by Dr. Haig's researches either to produce uric- 
acid diseases, or to aggravate a previously existing 
tendency towards them. This cuts off all flesh foods, 
together with eggs, the pulses (peas, beans, lentils), tea, 
coffee, cocoa, and alcohol : and leaves milk, cheese, nuts, 
cereals, vegetables, and fruit, to which may be added 
Plasmon, which is milk in a dry, concentrated form, 
requiring discretion in its use, for if taken indiscrimi- 
nately it may, like all highly nitrogenous (albuminous) 
foods, cause indigestion. A propos of the many objections 
from intelligent people to its being an " artificial food," it 
may be stated that Plasmon is no more artificial than the 
strong stock which a cook prepares by allowing the water 
to evaporate. All cooking is artificial to primitive man, 
and Plasmon is milk so cooked that the water evaporates 
and the condensed nutriment remains. Being made from 
sMm milk, which explains its extreme cheapness, it is 
deficient in the fat and sugar present in new milk, and for 
this reason Plasmon should not be substituted for new 
milk in feeding children. All young animals require fat 
and sugar, and a calf brought up on skim milk may be big 
and bony, but is never so well-favoured and thriving in 
condition as one which has been even partly fed on whole 
milk. Moreover, fat, so necessary to good digestion, is 
very evenly distributed in new milk, and for this reason 
alone it is, as a rule, unwise to upset nature's balance 
when feeding children. To adults, invalids, travellers, and 
athletes, Plasmon is an immense boon, and it should also 
do much to solve the problem of right feeding for the 
many whose incomes are insufficient for their needs. 

' Here, for a moment, I would beg leave to refer to 
Maeterlinck's recent splendid appeal against meat and 
alcohol. In it he says, " A little fruit, or milk, a few 
vegetables, farinaceous substances .... are amply suffi- 
cient to maintain the ardour of the finest and mightiestlife." 



WHOLESOME FOOD iii 

' If anyone ignorant of food values should try to reform 
his diet by this statement, it is probable that he would 
come to grief, although a student of dietetics would avoid 
disaster by substituting a7id for or in the sentence above, 
and by taking all four kinds of food to make up his 
dietary. Fruit can hardly be made an alternative to 
milk, the respective albumen values being too dispro- 
portionate. One pint of milk = 262 grains albumen or 
proteid ; but it would take over 2 lbs. of fruit to get this 
amount of nourishment, and so great a bulk of watery 
food would be likely to upset digestion somewhat 
seriously. If dried fruits such as figs, dates, raisins, and 
French plums were used, a much smaller quantity  
2 lb.  would give the necessary albumens ; but most 
people, when told to eat fruit, think of the fresh kinds, 
which are more tempting to sight, touch, taste, and smell. 
Only if " fruit " were read in its widest sense to include 
nuts, could it be fairly substituted for milk, and very few 
general readers would be likely to remember this. Milk 
itself is rather too bulky a food to depend on for the day's 
proteids, and should be supplemented by a dry form such 
as cheese or Plasmon, or by nuts  the following list 
showing roughly the order in which the simpler foods 
take rank as compared with meat, and with each 
other :  

1| oz. meat = 1 oz. cheese = 1| oz. almonds = 2| ozs. 

oatmeal. 
  = 4 ozs. bread = 4 ozs. dried fruit = ^ pint 

mUk. 
  = 17 ozs. vegetables or fresh fruit = 140 grs. 

proteid. 

' To return to our family of four. If it is obliged to 
live in London, milk at 4d. a quart is too costly an item 
to allow of the parents drinking it, and even if an effort 



112 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were made to give the children ^ pint each every day, our 
12s. would be seriously diminished. 

' A cheaper drink, and one which Professor Konig says 
contains 268 units per lb. more nourishment than fresh 
milk, is the Nut Butter, sold in 1 lb. tins at 8d. by the 
International Health Association of Manchester, which 
supplies all the nut and cereal foods invented by the 
Battle Creek Sanatorium group of American food re- 
formers, headed by Dr. Kellogg. This nut butter is to be 
had from any vegetarian stores, and can be mixed with 
water to the consistency of cream or milk as desired. It 
is not at all greasy, and can be used as a substitute for 
milk in soups, puddings, &c. Children would prefer it 
sweetened. It has a roasted pea-nut colour and flavour, 
and next to Plasmon and Protene is the most highly 
nourishing drink I know, containing a greater proteid 
percentage than milk or raisin tea. Containing as it does 
a good proportion of nut fat in the finest possible emul- 
sion, this nut milk would obviously be far more economical 
as a food-drink than cow's milk, and for half the cost  
viz., 8d. a week  the children could be given twice the 
amount, or 1 pint each a day, instead of ^ pint. 

' For breakfast, then, oatmeal or barley porridge eaten 
with bread and marmalade or treacle, the children being 
trained to drink their nut milk in sips bettoeen the dry 
food, instead of washing it down half chewed, which is 
the usual result of the common habit of pouring milk ovei 
porridge  a bad plan which effectually prevents the 
cereal from being mixed with the saliva necessary to its 
digestion. If the adults cannot at first manage the 
porridge, fried bread and potatoes, or rice rissoles with a 
little Plasmon powder mixed in them, wiU make a savoury 
and sustaining meal, and if well masticated with bread 
there would be no craving for drink till an hour or two 
later, when water, hot or cold, is all that is necessary for 



WHOLESOME FOOD 113 

health ; but as beginners often sadly miss the pick-me-up 
of the hot tea at breakfast, the following week's menus 
allow for Plasmon, hot bran tea, barley water, or any 
similar drink. To those who can afford it, Mellin's Food 
is an excellent substitute for tea, coffee, and cocoa, if 
made with a good deal of water, and not much milk. It 
is a malted food, and a great help to weak digestions. 

' For dinner, cheese eaten plain with bread, vegetable, 
and salad, or grated and mixed with some cereal like 
macaroni, rice, hominy, or ground maize. 

' For supper, bread with dried and fresh fruits, either 
plain or cooked into one of the many forms of pudding. 

' If the fruit supper be not liked, as is possible enougli 
in the early stage of the diet (except by children who, if 
healthy, always enjoy it), some variety of vegetable with 
cheese or Plasmon may take its place. The week's 
menus here given have been found successful, and the 
cost is not above 12s. a week for quantities enough for 
two adults and two children, the albumen values being 
calculated at 1,400 grains a day for the man at hard work 
ratio, 1,300 grains a day for each child at growing ratio, 
and 1,200 grains a day for the woman, supposing her to 
be thirty-five years old. 

' The receipts for these and other dishes will be found 
at the end for convenient reference in cooking. They 
admit of endless modification and enrichment with cream, 
butter, &c., but are given in a cheap form as the most 
useful. 

Sunday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Fried polenta. Bread. Jam. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Baked potatoes. Sage and onions. 
Apple sauce. Bread. Date pudding. 

Siqyper, 6 p.m. Cheese. Bread. Lettuce salad. 

I 



114 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Monday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Pried bread. Oatcake. Treacle. 
Plasmon drink or barley water. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Savoury polenta and grated cheese. 
Cabbage. Bread. 

Supper, 6 p.m. Barley and raisin pudding. Grated 
nuts. Bread. Bananas. 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Oatmeal porridge. Milk. Bread. 
Jam. Plasmon drink or bran tea. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Eice croquettes. Bread. Potatoes. 

Supper, 6 p.m. Cheese. Bread. Eadishes. Apple 
dumplings. 

Wednesday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Pried hominy. Milk. Bread. 
Treacle. Plasmon drink. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Vegetable stew with barley. Bread. 

Supper, 6 p.m. Cheese. Oatcake. Celery. Dates. 
Bread. 

Thubsday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Oatmeal porridge. Bread. Jam. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Macaroni a la tripe. Cheese. Stewed 
tomatoes. Bread. 

Supper, 6 p.m. Grated nuts. Bananas. Bread. 

Pkiday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Fried potatoes and onions. Milk. 
Bread. Treacle. Oatmeal drink. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Savoury nut cutlets (or stewed chest- 
nuts). Bread. Potatoes. Celery. 

Supper, 6 p.m. Cheese. Beetroot. Bread. Baked 
apple pudding (or jam roll). 



WHOLESOME FOOD 115 

Satueday. 

Breakfast, 8 a.m. Barley porridge. Bread. Oatcake. 
Jara. Milk. Plasmon drink. 

Dinner, 1 p.m. Macaroni and cheese patties. Braised 
onions. Potatoes or carrots. Bread. 

Supper, 6 p.m. Grated nuts. Dates. Bread. Currant 
dumplings. 

Cereals . 1 lb. daily per head, lid. a week. 

Dried fruit 2 ozs.  

Cheese . 2 ozs.  

Nuts . 2 ozs.  

Vegetables and fruit . 

Jam or treacle . 



^-packet Plasmon 

Nut milk and nut butter 



ty 


Bd. 


11 


id. 


tt 


id. 


. 


6d. 


 


2d. 


25. 


6d. 




4 


lOs. 


Od. 


, 


8d. 


Is. 


id. 



12s. Od. 



' The prices given are not such as the West-end house- 
keeper is accustomed to, but happily, as stated in 
Mr. Morrison's article in the " Cornhill " for April 1901, 
the truth of which can be proved by a walk through any 
of the Saturday night slum-markets, the poor have 
facilities for buying cheaper than is dreamed of by those 
of comfortable income, and where the housewife who 
prides herself on catering for her family at 10s. a head, 
pays l^d. each for bananas, the slum-sister gets them at 
three and sometimes even six a penny. 

'For the town-dweller in winter, chestnuts are not 
dear if bought by the stone or half stone at Co-operative 

i3 



ii6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Stores, for although by the pound they are a somewhat 
expensive food, the good ones rarely being under id. and 
often 6d. per lb., in quantities of 14 lbs., the finest dark- 
skinned Italian chestnuts are sold at the rate of 2d. a lb., 
and there is no more delicious and nourishing dish 
than stewed chestnuts. Children like it as kittens like 
cream. 

' The amount of cooking may be urged as a drawback 
to such a diet, for it presupposes a wife at home all day, 
and anxious enough to make the meals attractive not to 
mind the extra work, though this might be reduced by 
making two meals a day instead of three ; for instance, at 
7 A.M. and 2 p.m., or at 8 and 3, 9 and 4, 10 and 5, 11 and 
6, or 12 and 7, according as is most convenient. This 
scheme is being tried by all classes in America with singular 
success. But there are many women who have to be 
out all day, and cannot therefore attend to cooking. For 
such, another dietary of wholesome and nourishing food 
is given for the same cost, and which will only involve a 
once-a-week cooking  i.e., of bread-stuffs, including cakes, 
biscuits, and tarts to make a pleasant variety. Potatoes, 
too, might be boiled or baked in skins and used for salads 
as required, if kept in a cool place  outside on a window- 
sill, for instance, provided it did not overhang a drain ! 

' Home-made bread a week old is such sweet eating 
that those who have to study their digestion take care to 
have no other. The success of the diet at this cost depends 
upon the house-mother making the bread, for it is half 
the cost and four times the nourishment of baker's bread, 
and the cheaper the flour she buys the better it is, the 
expensive "pastry whites " and " Vienna " flours contain- 
ing more starch and less proteid than the yellowish house- 
hold " seconds.'' For frying purposes the cotton-seed oil 
used by fried fish shops is the cheapest, and a quart once 
bought will last for months, being used over and over 



WHOLESOME FOOD 117 

again. This has not been estimated for in the list, 
because its cost being spread over so long a time is 
fractional per week, and the original outlay may be 
regarded by the housewife as part of her cooking " plant," 
Uke frying-pan or kettle. The nut butter in the week's 
expenses refers to cocoanut butter, which is a pure and 
excellent substitute for butter, lard, or dripping for pastry, 
biscuits, cakes, &c. The nut butter from which the nut 
milk is made will not do for these purposes or for frying, 
it being pulse-like rather than fatty. 

' The Eippingille oil stoves are admirable for bread- 
making, as for all other cooking operations, and are 
cheaper than coal. 

Sunday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Barley flour biscuits. Jam. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Celery. Ginger cakes. 
Sufjper. Bread. Dates. Grated nuts. Oranges. 

Monday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Oatcake. Treacle. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Watercress. Jam tarts. 
Supper. Bread. Bananas. Nuts. 

Tuesday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Maize biscuits. Marmalade. 
Plasmon drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Lettuce. Parkyn. 
Supper. Bread. Apples. Nuts. Mgs. 

Wednesday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Wheatcake. Jam. Plasmon drink. 
Milk. 



ii8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Potato salad or watercress. 
Currant short cakes. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Oranges. Dates. 

Thursday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Barley wafers. Treacle. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Onions. Marmalade tarts. 
Supper. Bread. Nuts. Figs. Apples. 

Feiday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Oatcake. Marmalade. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Eadishes or beetroot. 
Ginger biscuits. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Bananas. Eaisins. 

Saturday. 

Breakfast. Bread. Maize biscuits. Jam. Plasmon 
drink. Milk. 

Dinner. Bread. Cheese. Potato salad. Currant 
loaf. 

Supper. Bread. Nuts. Dates. Apples. 

' The following is an excellent diet for dyspeptics who 
wish to reduce cooking. 

Breakfast, 10 a.m. 4 ozs. bread. 

8 ozs. potato. 

4 ozs. curd cheese with green salad. 

^-pint milk. 
Dinner, 5 p.m. 4 ozs. bread. 

8 ozs. potato. 

16 ozs. fresh fruit. 

^-pint of milk. 

Oil, butter, cream, ad lib. 



WHOLESOME FOOD 119 

' This gives a total of 1,208 grains proteid, which is the 
physiological allowance for a man or woman of 9 stone 
9 lbs. leading an active working life. 

' The details are as follows :  

4 ozs. curd cheese = 400 grains proteid or albumen. 

80ZS. breadorcereals= 272   

16 ozs. potatoes . . =137   

16 ozs. fruit . . . = 137 

1 pint of milk . . = 262   

1,208 

'jThe cost of this diet to anyone living in the country 
with a couple of goats, a patch of vegetable garden, some 
fruit trees, and an acre of arable land, would be literally 
nothing but the labour of working the land and caring for 
the goats. Honey, too, could be added, and with due 
exercise of forethought in bottUng, drying and storing 
surplus fruits and vegetables, the supply during the 
winter months could be secured. 

' To those fortunate enough to be able to get it, goat's 
milk is highly to be recommended, for the minuteness of 
the fat globules makes it easy of digestion, and being 
thinner to the palate, it is appreciated by those who 
dislike the fulness of unseparated cow's milk. If the 
demand in London were at aU in proportion to the worth 
of the article, the present ridiculous price charged for it 
would fall to something within reason. Last summer I 
went into one of the principal branch offices of a well- 
known London dairy and asked the price of goat's milk. 
I was told it was 4s. a quart, and in reply to my in- 
voluntary exclamation at such an exorbitant charge, the 
amiable young woman in charge said, " But think how 
many hves it has saved. Madam ! " It did not seem to 
occur to her, or to her employers, that this was the very 



I20 A THTRD POT-POURRI 

reason why it should be within the reach of all who 
need it. 

' Cheapest and healthiest of all the forms of diet I have 
experimented upon is that of bread and fruit. With 
bread, dates, and apples, it is easy to live on id. a day, 
and get the full proteid ration for active working life for 
a body weight of 9 stone 4 lbs. A big man might have 
to spend 6d. Life on this diet is easier and happier than 
on the regime of meat, fish, game, wine, tea, &c., which 
costs eight times as much, for there are no digestive 
troubles on bread and fruit, unless one makes the mistake 
of taking them in a wrong proportion, or of eating stupid 
kinds of bread and unripe or overripe fruit ; and when 
one thinks how digestion controls such things as de- 
pression, headache, irritabihty, nervousness, exhaustion, 
and other minor ills which go to make some lives almost 
unbearable, one cannot help wishing that all suffering 
people could be persuaded to give fair trial to a diet of 
the simplest foods. 

' Unhappily, for the physical well-being of the next 
generation, the countryman who now possesses a large 
well-stocked garden, and, as in many of the yillages in 
the West and South of England, often an orchard and bit 
of pasture as well, has so little knowledge of how to make 
the best use of his belongings that he sells his produce in 
order to buy unwholesome food such as tea, bacon, beer, 
butcher's meat, and tinned abominations like lobster, 
salmon, sardines, and potted meats. There is_^ little 
reason to suppose that the parents of to-day vrill change 
their habits of diet, but much may be hoped for in the 
way of a more intelligent and less wasteful order of things 
in the next generation, now that the beginnings of the 
chemistry and economics of food have been introduced 
into the School Board curriculum. And if, meanwhile, 
the educated and leisured classes would take the trouble 



WHOLESOME FOOD 121 

to look carefully into these matters, and begin to practise 
a more enlightened system of dietetics, such as can be 
begun without any household upset of drastic change, the 
servant class would at least see that masters and mis- 
tresses no longer believe that life depends on eating meat 
three times a day. 

' A great opportunity in this direction might be seized 
with advantage by the wives of country clergy. The 
wife of the present Bishop of Japan, when living at 
Andover, used to have a group of young village women to 
" high tea," or early supper at the Vicarage every Sunday 
evening, the household servants being given a holiday, 
and the meal being prepared and shared by the family 
and guests. 

' A similar plan could be made the occasion for intro- 
ducing the simpler foods in many an attractive guise, and if 
the supper were given on a week day, it could be arranged 
to follow an informal cookery demonstration. Servants, 
like children, are very imitative, and will take to a new 
idea much more quickly if it is not forced upon them. 
One mother of a young family lately lit upon a happy 
plan in this connection. Her husband took to the simpler 
diet for health's sake, and she tried it from curiosity. The 
children soon began to beg for the food they saw their 
parents eating, and at last, as a great treat, they were 
allowed a non-meat dinner twice a week, with the result 
that before long they chose no meat at all. 

'This surely is a good way to treat the subject with 
regard to servants. Let them see that you are well and 
able to work without meat and stimulants, and they will 
gradually lose their faith in beef, beer, and tea  a faith 
for which the example of the upper classes is entirely 
responsible, and which the bulk of the medical profession 
still supports. 

' It has taken hundreds of years of bitter experience of 



122 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

disease to awaken even a small percentage of the race to 
seek more wholesome food, and it will take centuries yet 
to convince the majority. Meanwhile there are interest- 
ing signs that the course of evolution for humanity leads 
through a meat-eating stage, and although one may 
gladly endeavour to save suffering to those who are ready 
for the change, one can possess one's soul in patience 
with regard to the world at large. Our very blunders 
towards the truth have their place and purpose in fitting 
us to appreciate the truth when we find it. The age of 
excessive meat-eating is helping to produce a highly 
nervous race, which is apparently the material required 
for the next stage of evolution  the stage in which the 
psychic force is to dominate the physical. 

'Only by the apparent perishing of one order can 
another and higher order be bom. Perhaps when 
physical suffering and disease have reached their limit, 
we shall be ready to receive and to obey the laws 
of a saner and loftier way of life. When a man like 
Virchow says, " The future is vnth the vegetarians," one 
realises that with all their errors, and they are legion, 
they are the pioneers whose blundering efforts may be 
compared to the old shoes, and empty tins, and broken 
shards which go to make the foundation of the new road 
along which the whole race will some day travel. 

' To try forcibly to evade the intermediate phases, 
heart-rending as some of these must be, is as foolish as 
any other premature interference with the natural laws of 
social growth. For instance, I heard lately of a bene- 
volent landowner who, distressed by the overcrowded 
condition of the slums, and the dearth of people in the 
country, built a model village with delightful cottages 
and gardens, recreation hall and library, church, club- 
room, inn, baths, and everything else that could be 
desired for health and happiness. He then transplanted 



WHOLESOME FOOD 123 

slum-dwellers who were known to be in actual desti- 
tution  literally starving  and provided them with 
varieties of wage-earning occupation under the most 
healthy and liberal regulations. At the end of a year his 
village was deserted ; all the starving slummers had gone 
back, of their deliberate choice, to the misery whence he 
had taken them. Such facts would at first sight appear 
to be baffling. They do but illustrate the old adage, 
" You may take a horse to the water, but you can't make 
him drink." Those slum-people had not yet had their 
fill of slum experience, and were by no means thirsty for 
the refreshing life of the country. Wretched as they 
were, they had not reached the limit of their capacity for 
enduring squalor and getting some mysterious good out 
of it. Their turning-point had not yet come. Their 
evolution had been forcibly interrupted, and their blind 
instinct in returning to take it up where it had been 
broken off was a sound one, strange as it may look on 
the surface. 

' A friend, who for years had had slum-dwellers driven 
down in brake-loads of fifty for summer days in her fields 
and gardens, told me once that her heart had never ached 
for them with quite such intolerable bitterness since she 
had heard from their spiritual pastor, that as they drew 
up one evening at the entrance to their alley after one of 
these outings, one of them had said, as if voicing the 
general sentiment, " The country's fine for a 'oliday, mates, 
but, arter all, this smells hke 'ome ! " 

' There are many athirst for a country life, but they are 
not necessarily dwellers in the slums, though they may 
be found there, as in any other quarter of our crowded 
towns. Perhaps we should waste less time in futile 
regret over the depopulation of our villages if we could 
look upon our cities as the great mills of evolution into 
which the slow, massive, yokel strength has inevitably to 



124 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

be drawn and ground " exceeding small," even to the dust 
of physical wreckage, that the nervous matter of the brain 
may be developed and exercised at all costs. It is those 
who have gone through the mill who are ready for the 
country : whose nervous systems have been developed to 
the point of exhaustion by the strain and grind of city 
life for, it may be, two or three generations, and whose 
brains are as restless and alert as the ploughboy's are 
dull and apathetic, whose nerves need repose as much 
as his need tension. The weary governess, the neurotic 
dressmaker, the dyspeptic bank-clerk, the anaemic 
student, the worn-out mother, these are they who crave 
for the country as prisoners crave for air and light, and 
these are the types which,, in my experience, are to some 
extent counterbalancing the current that sets from village 
to town, for these are among the applicants for ' small 
holdings,' in the hope  sometimes forlorn enough  of 
making a livelihood out of market gardening, chicken, 
bee, flower, and fruit farming. Many are the mistakes, 
and grievous the disappointments and even failures which 
they must suffer ; for as a rule they have little capital, less 
health, and no experience, and yet, in spite of all, so 
intense and deep-seated is their instinct for country 
life that they often manage to struggle through the 
first few years of hardship and make the modest living 
they desire. 

' To those whose experience has brought them into 
more or less intimate touch with widely different classes 
of the community, there are not a few indications that the 
farming industries of England are being recruited from 
social levels entirely unhke those of old days. 

' It used to be almost a joke among the Bushey art- 
students that if anyone married before his profession could 
support him he turned cottar-farmer ; and certainly some 
of them succeeded as such in the face of overwhelming 



WHOLESOME FOOD 125 

difBculties, by the very simple and sensible device of 
throwing conventional ideas of fitness to the winds, and 
doing in England, without false shame, the work they 
would have done as a matter of course if they had gone 
" out West," or to the Colonies, to " take up land." These 
men and women, in most cases of delicate constitution 
and highly nervous temperament, have pitted themselves 
against conditions which to the labouring and artisan 
class would have seemed hopeless, and by sheer force of 
the cultivated intelligence that comes of good birth and 
breeding have won against long odds. One couple who 
started with lOOZ. capital and no income, on a tumble- 
down little farm of twenty acres, of which ten were so 
" foul " that no farmer in his senses would have taken the 
place  the docks and thistles having to be scythed down 
before the horse could be coaxed to pull the plough 
through them !  have done so well that they have now 
moved on to a sixty-acre farm in the next county which 
has been under intensive culture for many years. 

' The full story of their experiences  some of them as 
comic as others were tragic  I hope to tell elsewhere 
another day.' 



BECEIPTS 

' Polenta Cutlets.  Stir one pound Indian maize 
m'ealinto slightly salted boiling water, adding two Spanish 
onions chopped very fine, an ounce of butter or oil, three 
ounces grated cheese, a little pepper, and herbs, if liked. 
Mix well, and put into a double pan and cook for half an 
hour, when it should be stiff. Turn out into a dish and 
press it into convenient shape for cutting up when cold 
into fingers, which dip in milk and breadcrumbs, and fry 
brown. Can be served with sauce if desired. 



126 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Unfermented Bread. To every pound of flour allow 
half -pint milk and water (quarter-pint each). Mix lightly 
as for pastry, no kneading being required. Form into 
small rolls or fingers and bake in moderate oven on a 
pastry tray. 

If wheatmeal {i.e., the flour of the entire wheat grain) 
is used, care should be taken to have it very finely ground, 
as bran flakes are irritant and relaxing and very unsafe in 
some forms of digestive trouble, though equally good and 
useful in others. The indiscriminate recommendation of 
cracked wheat porridge and whole-meal bread is hardly 
wise in these days of gastro-intestinal delicacy, as seen in 
the many cases of appendicitis in adults and colitis in 
children. House-mothers should know when to give the 
right food to those in their charge. 

It is a good plan to keep in the house several different 
grains, such as wheat, barley, maize, oats, rice, in two 
forms  i.e., in the whole grain and as flour  and to make 
bread or biscuits of both mixed. For instance, pearled 
wheat, or the grain stripped of its outer bran, should be 
cooked slowly for three or four hours in a double pan with 
water enough to swell it without breaking the grain into a 
mash ; this cooked wheat is then mixed with ordinary 
wheat flour to the consistency of bread or pastry, and is 
shortened if liked with cocoanut butter, or ground nuts, 
and left plain, or sweetened and flavoured with dried 
fruit, spices, &c., and rolled out and cut for baking into 
biscuits or finger rolls. The same method can be followed 
with all the other cereals except maize which in the 
whole grain is too hard in this country. Maize meal 
mixed with wheat flour is very good in biscuit form, but is 
best cooked first,. as if for polenta without the savoury 
seasoning. All these whole and ground cereals can be 
got from Bax & Sons, millers, 35 Bishopsgate Street 
Without, E.G. The whole groats (the entire oat grain) 



WHOLESOME FOOD 127 

are particularly good for porridge, but should, like all 
grains, be cooked several hours in a Gourmet boiler, or 
duplex boilerette, or other form of double saucepan which 
prevents burning. The duplex boilerette is made by Mr. 
Wellbank, Duplex Boilerette Works, Banbury, Oxon. 

Date Pudding* (cheap). Wash dates quickly in hot 
water, dry, stone, and chop thtem, mix with double their 
weight of breadcrumbs, and a little sugar. Add skim 
milk or weak Plasmon solution till of pudding con- 
sistency. Steam two hours in buttered basin. Ground 
nuts and grated lemon peel may be added, if liked, or raw 
coarse oatmeal, and soaked tapioca, with a little flour, 
may be used instead of the breadcrumbs. 

Macaroni and Cheese Patties. Take one ounce 

macaroni well boiled, cut very small, and add one large 
tablespoonful of grated cheese and the same of cream or 
nut butter. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard, if 
liked. Make some short paste, roU out thin and line 
patty pans. Fill with the mixture and cover with paste. 
Bake a light brown. Instead of patty pan, the paste can 
be doubled over the mixture and fried as fritters if pre- 
ferred. Butter and milk can be substituted for cream, and 
it is quite good without either, but in that case the maca- 
roni should be rather moist and the cheese fresh and soft. 

Maearoni a la Tripe.  Boil some macaroni till soft. 
Drain and put aside. Cut in fine rings as many 
Spanish onions as will equal the macaroni in bulk. Fry 
in butter till quite tender, but not coloured. Eemove from 
pan, and make a sauce by adding flour, milk, pepper, salt, 
a dash of nutmeg, and a torn bay-leaf. Eeplaee onion 
rings in this, and simmer gently for twenty minutes ; then 
remove the bay-leaf and add the macaroni, and heat 
through. Serve with grated Gruyere or other cheese. 
Chopped parsley may be substituted for the bay-leaf. 

Parkyn.  One pound sifted oatmeal, one pound 



128 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

treacle, one pound coarse, brown sugar; .quarter-pound 
butter. Ground ginger to flavour. Mix, and bake in very 
slow oven in flat cakes the size of a saucer. 

Barley Water.  Four ounces pearl barley, two quarts 
water. Thoroughly wash the barley, add the water and 
boil till reduced to one quart. Strain through hair-sieve 
(or musUn) previously scalded, and press through some of 
the barley to thicken. Time to reduce, three to four 
hours. Can be flavoured with lemon peel and juice, 
sugar or honey, apple peel and pips, or any fruit juice. 
Stewed rhubarb juice is good. 

Savoury Vegretable Stew with Barley. Chop up 

carrots, turnips, onions, potatoes, celery, tomatoes, and 
fry in butter. Add pearl barley and plenty of cold water, 
with seasoning of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, mace, pepper, 
and salt. Stew in double saucepan till the barley is 
swelled and thoroughly tender. Serve with fried dice of 
bread. 

Fried Hominy.  Cook hominy in the usual way 
(soaking overnight in cold water, and boiling like por- 
ridge till soft) and put aside to cool. Then cut in any 
shape preferred, fry brown in oil or cocoanut butter, dust 
with sugar or salt, and serve. 

Stewed Chestnuts.  Slit the skins of the chestnuts, 
and put them into cold water. Bring to the boil, keeping 
lid tight, and cook about ten minutes. Lift out a few at 
a time and remove both outer and inner skins. When all 
are done, put them into a clean saucepan and cover with 
milk or milk and water. Stew slowly till the nuts break 
and are coated in a smooth creamy sauce. Time, one to 
two hours. An old saucepan used for nothing else should 
be kept for blanching them, as chestnut skins discolour it 
badly. 

Apple Dumplings without Suet. Soaked tapioca 
and butter make a good substitute for suet in boiled 



WHOLESOME FOOD 129 

pudding crust. Pare and core a large apple for each 
dumpling required. Mil the centre with a clove, a little 
sugar and a bit of butter. Cover with paste, tie in a 
floured cloth, and boil thirty to forty minutes. For the 
crust use as much soaked tapioca and butter in equal 
parts as you would have used of suet. 

Stewed Tomatoes.  Skin one pound tomatoes by 
blanching in boiling water for five minutes; then put 
them into a stewpan (earthenware for choice) with two 
lumps of sugar, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a 
little salt. No water. Stew them in their own juice gently 
for twenty minutes. 

Baked Apple Pudding. Fill a pie-dish with 
alternate layers of sliced apples and bread crumbs, 
seasoning each layer with bits of butter, a little sugar, and 
a pinch of mixed cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Pour 
over the whole enough water and treacle mixed to 
moisten it, cover with crumbs, stand in a baking tin of 
hot water, and bake till apples are soft, three-quarters to 
one hour. 

Barley and Raisin Pudding. Take the barley left 
from making barley water, put it into a buttered pie-dish 
with a handful of washed raisins. Cover with milk or 
dissolved Plasmon, and bake slowly one hour, or tiU the 
barley has swelled to top of dish. 

Curd Cheese.  Take two pints new milk, curdle it 
either by slow heat, or by rennet, lemon juice, fig juice, or 
bruised nettles. Turn the curd into a cheese cloth or 
butter muslin (coarse canvas will do), previously scalded, 
tie loosely and hang up to drain. After three or four 
hours tie again tighter. In twelve hours it is fit to eat, 
but if preferred it can be pressed and turned every day 
till as firm as ordinary cheese. 

Nut Cutlets.  Boil two ounces of butter in rather less 
than half-pint of milk. Add three ounces of dried browned 

K 



I30 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

breadcrumbs (or brown breadcrumbs). Cook till it does 
not stick to the pan. When cool add two ounces of ground 
walnuts, almonds or Barcelona nuts, seasoning to taste, 
and a little chopped onion or chives. Mix thoroughly and 
shape into cutlets or balls. EoU in flour, or in egg and 
breadcrumb, and fry in butter. Serve with tomato sauce, 
walnut gravy, or for children with bread sauce. 

If the same dish is prepared with white breadcrumbs, 
and a little good melted butter sauce used for mixing, it 
looks and tastes very like chicken croquettes. 

Souffle Potatoes with Nuts. Take out the inside 
of as many large baked potatoes as you require. For 
each potato add one ounce of ground nuts, a dessert spoon- 
ful of cream or a bit of butter the size of a small walnut, 
pepper, salt, and if Uked a seasoning of onion juice and 
parsley. Beat thoroughly to a smooth creamy con- 
sistency, put the mixture back into the potato sMns, 
bake till very hot, and serve. 

A very savoury flavour is given by frying some sliced 
onions in the butter and adding the butter alone to the 
potatoes, but the colour is a little darkened by doing 
this. 

Brazil Nut Soup.  One pound of ground Brazil nuts 
stewed for twelve hours in two quarts of water ; flavour 
with celery and a few fried onions. Add one quart of 
boiling milk. Pass through a strainer, season, and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

A nourishing dish for a child or invalid is good bread 
sauce to which has been added two ounces of ground 
almonds, well pounded in a mortar. Serve with fried 
dice, or spinach. 

Baked almonds slightly salted, and ground, make 
excellent sandwiches. 

Riee Croquettes.  Take cold boiled rice and mix it 
with fried chopped onion, a few breadcrumbs, pepper, 



WHOLESOME FOOD 131 

salt, chopped parsley, or mixed herbs flavouring, and 
enough melted oocoanut butter or nut milk to bind all 
together. When cold, shape into cakes, and fry in deep 
boiling fat. 

For this, as for all sorts of savouries like nut cutlets, 
fritters, &c., a frying basket and plenty of oil or fat are 
necessary for good cooking. It also needs experience, or 
a frying thermometer, to know when fat is at the right 
heat for deep frying. 

Braised Onions. Peel large or medium sized onions 
in warm water to prevent the volatile oil from affecting 
the eyes, place them in a baking dish with butter enough 
to baste them well, and bake three hours, when they will 
be brown and tender. Eemove them on to a serving 
dish, pour hot water into the baking tin, and with a 
wooden spoon rub off all the dark brown caked juice, 
thickening if liked with a Uttle flour, in which case the 
tin must be placed over heat enough to boil the gravy and 
cook the flour. Pour over the onions and serve. This is 
a delicious dish which puzzles meat-eaters, as they think 
they are eating a rich meat sauce. 

Raisin Tea.  Take half a pound good raisins and wash 
well in cold water. Cut them up roughly to free the pulp in 
cooking, and put them into a stevring jar, or Gourmet 
boiler, with one quart cold water (distilled, for perfection). 
Cook three to four hours, when the liquid will be reduced to 
one pint. Press all but insoluble skins and stones through 
a fine, scalded sieve, and use either hot or cold. If too 
sweet, a little lemon juice may be added, but it is best 
without for invalids and children. This drink is of the 
same proteid value as milk, and is so much more easily 
digested that it is being used successfully in many cases 
of gastric disease where both milk and vegetable or meat 
soups are impossible. It is not recommended to meat- 
eaters, as the sweetness might cause bilious disturbance ; 

e2 



132 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but to scientific vegetarians and fruitarians it is in- 
valuable as a nutrient drink. For those who suffer from 
cold it is very warming. 

Nut Cutlets (another way).  One cupful grated 
bread, one cupful each of grated almonds and walnuts or 
Brazils, one teaspoonful powdered mace, one tablespoonful 
grated onion juice, one teaspoonful powdered mixed herbs, 
salt and pepper if liked, enough good melted butter sauce 
to mix and bind together. Stir all thoroughly well, and 
allow to go cold. Shape into cutlets or balls, flour, or 
egg and breadcrumb, and fry in a basket in deep fat at 
350. A few seconds will turn them brown, and they are 
crisp and dry, not the least greasy. A very nourishing 
and savoury dish which should be eaten with vegetables 
in the same proportion as if the cutlets were of meat.' 



133 



EIGHTEEN HUNDBED A YEAB 

REPKINTBD TEOM THE ' COBNHILL MAGAZINE ' 

A YOUNG friend came to see me not long ago, and after a 
short period of a somewhat shy reserve he looked up 
with a beaming, happy face, and said, ' I'm going to be 
married.' It all sounds so simple, these few words, and 
yet what do they not mean in two young lives 1 I re- 
sponded with a smile and the ordinary platitude of, ' I am 
very glad, and especially so for your mother's sake, for it 
will give her great pleasure.' As we talked on, I naturally 
came to the prosaic, elderly question, ' What have you 
got to live upon ? ' His answer came short and straight 
enough. ' With what my father left me and my salary, 
I shall make up 1,6001. a year, and the lady I am about 
to marry, I am told, is to have 200Z. of her own.' 

' That will do well enough,' I said, ' even if you have 
to live in London. The most pessimistic objector to early 
marriage can hardly say that love need fly out of the 
window on such an income as that. But, all the same, 
wealth is comparative,' for everything depends on position 
and what there is to keep up. The young man, being of 
the cautious, prudent type, asked, ' And what do you think 
I ought to save yearly on such an income ? ' I answered, 
' Erom 200Z. to 3001. a year.' He, not differing, but yet 
interrogatively, replied, 'I wonder why? I shall have 
more later on. Why is it necessary to save at all, and 
not just fit my expenditure to my present income ? ' This 



134 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

opens so large a question that on my young friend's 
departure I asked myself why I think as I do about it. 

There seems to me a point of resemblance between 
saving and the very different occupation of gambling. 
Why is it that gambling has always, in all countries and 
at all times, been condemned by wise and prudent people, 
and saving (that is to say, not living up to your income, 
but leaving a margin more or less \nde, which you intend 
to add to your capital) been approved ? It cannot be only 
that in ten years or so you should be 2,000L or 3,O0OZ. 
richer. The approval of the saving and the condemnation 
of the gambling are directed, I think, to the mental 
attitude of the gambler or the careful man, rather than to 
any practical result to them personally of their conduct. 
The saving recommended is in no sense the spirit of the 
miser who piles up wealth for which he has no use, but 
a cautious guarding of expenditure which provides for 
future children, against a rainy day, or enables a man 
later in Mfe to better his house or his furniture, or 
to increase the enjoyment of his holidays. To adjust 
income and expenditure exactly is extremely diflScult, and 
anyone who does not pitch his estimate of expenditure 
below his income is almost sure in practice to exceed it. 
Of course, it is much less important to save on a more or 
less assured income (for no income is absolutely assured) 
than it is to save on an income which is almost entirely 
derived from salary, and dependent on a man's life or 
health or the success of the business in which he is 
engaged. To save ever so httle is very much better than 
keeping elaborate accounts. If, at the end of the year, 
the savings are there, no doubt remains that the expendi- 
ture has been, as regards essentials, well regulated  
though getting as much as can be got out of the money 
spent is quite a different matter from making both ends 
meet. It is, all the same, interesting and good to re- 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 135 

member what can be done at a pinch, and how the upper 
working classes live in comfort on an income where 
thousands of impoverished gentry would simply starve on 
double the sum. The fundamental principle which governs 
the Uves of the working classes is to ignore to-morrow  
to live from hand to mouth and day to day. And it is 
on this point that gentUity with a very small income is 
often perverted by not recognising the merits of the 
principle when circumstances make it a necessity. This 
seems to me worth considering, although I recommend 
the opposite principle as the one generally most admirable 
to practise with a larger income. The working man does 
his best for the moment, assumes that his children when 
reared will do Ukevrise, and the rest he leaves to Provi- 
dence, or chance, or whatever the unknown quantity may 
be called. The 'gentle' reared man, I say, cannot be 
happy unless he has a security against fate, not only for 
himself but for his family. It is a fine idea in many ways,, 
but it can perhaps grow into an exaggeration. The 
serious handicap to the ' gentle ' man is the education of 
his children. He must pay through the nose for it, or 
his children are apt to sink into a class to which they do 
not rightly belong and for which they are quite unfitted. 
The working man starts his children as he started him- 
self, with nothing more than the education provided by 
the nation, and their ovm power to work. 

The expenditure of an income of 1,800Z. a year will 
vary a great deal in detail according to whether it is spent 
in London or the country. I shall therefore consider the 
two separately, taking London first. Of course, the most 
important item is house-rent, and requirements and taste 
differ so widely that it seriously affects the whole income. 

The old idea was that house-rent should absorb only 
a tenth of the income ; but this in London is practically 
impossible  an eighth is nearer theV average nowadays. 



136 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Even this will vary very much with circumstances  ^the 
requirements and wishes of both parties. The wife con- 
stantly holds to living within easy reach of her family 
and friends, and the husband's wishes will be much 
affected by his kind of work. Saving of time in getting 
to work may be of great importance, necessitating the use 
of cabs. The house rent, which, on an income of 1,800Z., 
in most cases had better not exceed 200Z., including rates 
and taxes, may very easily mount up to 3501. When 
this is the case it is well to commit the extravagance 
boldly, and so secure a house in a locality which is 
practically a certain let, if circumstances make this de- 
sirable, or if the expenditure of any one year has exceeded 
the average. There seems to be a very general impression 
that living in a better locality and a more central part of 
the West End is an actual economy ; this may be the case 
if cabs are much used, but if the Underground or 'buses 
be the usual mode of locomotion, very little is saved 
except time, which in the case of the woman does not 
generally affect the income. At one period of my life, 
influenced no doubt by the growing so-called artistic 
fashion, I had a great dislike to the old two-roomed back 
and front house ; but I am now inclined to think that on 
the whole, especially in small houses, it is the best plan 
of house building for London. It gives more room, more 
convenience, and more air than any of the modem houses, 
arranged on what is considered a superior system  viz., 
blocking up the middle of the house with staircase and 
landings, all more or less dark, and which divide all the 
rooms from one another. Corner houses are, in my 
opinion, to be avoided, as they are always stuffy, a draught 
through being not easily obtained. Plats are not suited 
to young married couples. 

The boudoir or morning room so vaunted by agents 
seems to me very superfluous for young married people. 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 137 

In early married days and in winter, for reasons of 
economy, the husband being out all day, there seems no 
reason why the wife should not share the man's sitting- 
room. But if the drawing-room is used, she must live in 
it, or it will have an unbearably stiff appearance. The 
great advantage of the two-roomed house, with the 
absence of a dividing landing on the bedroom floors, is in 
case of illness. No one who has had to experience any 
kind of nursing fails to appreciate the great importance 
of rooms that communicate, and much suffering is often 
spared to the nervous child who feels the presence of its 
nurse in the adjoining room, and sees the gleam of the 
nursery light through the half-closed door. Besides, in 
the busy modern London life, those who have lately 
become one will feel it an advantage, by no means to be 
despised, that they can talk at all sorts of odd times 
through the open door, and discuss life's little difficulties, 
which are often created by a non-understanding of the 
circumstances. When man and woman are joint masters 
in the small details of everyday life and the just ruling of 
servants and children, there should be the comprehension 
of what Mr. Morley calls 'government by discussion, 
which is now counted the secret of liberty.' George Eliot 
says somewhere that ' a man with an affectionate dis- 
position who finds a vdte to concur with his fundamental 
idea of life easily comes to persuade himself that no other 
woman would have suited him so well, and does a little 
daily snapping and quarrelling without any sense of 
alienation.' How true this is; but also, how infinitely 
better is it that this should be done upstairs than in the 
drawing-room or dining-room, possibly before servants 
and guests. 

Having now given my opinion on the preferable style 
of house, for the sake of argument I will say that the 
young couple decide on the more fashionable locality, and 



138 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



weight their income with a disproportionately high 
Under these circumstances I think the disposition of 
income and general expenditure would work out 
something like the following table :  



I. Eent, rates, and taxes 

II. Housekeeping, including living, washing, lighting 

III. Eepairs, insurance, cleaning, painting, <So. 

IV. Coal 

V. Dress (man and woman) 

VI. Wages, including beer, for four servants 

VII. VPine 

Stamps, newspapers, stationery, &c. 

IX. Doctors, dentists, accidents, journeys . 

X. New house linen ..... 

XI. Charities 



VIII 



 

360 

550 

100 

60 

200 

130 

60 

30 

100 

20 

40 



rent. 

their 

into 

s. d. 

























1,650 



Cabs, amusements, and presents will have to be saved 
out of clothes or journeys ; with so heavy a rent, putting 
by money some years will be very difficult. Here I must 
add a grave word of caution against a practice, only too 
common I fear, of running into debt over the process of 
furnishing. A wise man ought to have money in hand 
before he decides to marry. If he has no savings, it is 
better to take some portion of his capital and pay his biUs, 
returning it by degrees out of his yearly income. In this 
way he begins fair on strictly ready-money principles, by 
which I mean paying everything weekly, an impossibility 
if stray bills keep coming in. Any bill that cannot be 
paid weekly should be paid quarterly. One biU I fear 
often postponed is that of the doctor. I think it would 
be immensely to the advantage of both doctor and patient 
if it were a more received custom that the general prac- 
titioner should be given his half-guinea, like the M.D. his- 
guinea, at the close of each visit. Few people have any 
idea of how unjustly doctors are treated as regards their 
bills, hardly liking to complain when they are neglected 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 139 

or even forgotten altogether. At the time of the illness. 
no fee is ever grudged, but doctors' visits carelessly in- 
dulged in are apt to run up a very heavy bill, which causes 
considerable and unjust irritation at Christmas. Eeceiv- 
ing bills, paying bills, and running up new bills poison 
the first weeks of the new year to a great many. 

I enter into no details with regard to servants' wages, 
as on this subject also opinions vary widely as to which 
department is to have the experienced and expensive ser- 
vant. Speaking in a general way, every maid represents 
an additional sixty or seventy pounds a year, and every 
man another seventy or eighty. These sums cover all 
expenses connected with a servant, including wages. It 
is generally worth while to increase wages to keep a good 
servant, and few things are more extravagant than chang- 
ing servants ; but no one gets what he wants by offering 
wages above the average. If for an exceptional case 
wages are raised, always go back on changing the servant 
to the sum you originally gave. In the eighth volume of 
Mr; Charles Booth's wonderful book, ' The Life and 
Labour of the People in London,' there is a chapter on 
domestic indoor servants which gives considerable in- 
formation, and which, I think, aU young householders 
would do well to read. It is with no small surprise one 
realises how very Umited in number, as compared with 
population, are the people who can afford to keep any 
servants at all. Mr. Booth says, ' With three servants  
a cook, parlourmaid, and housemaid a household is com- 
plete in all its functions ; all else is only a development 
of this theme.' Most of my young women friends will 
be surprised to hear that he gives the lady's-maid no place 
at all, and of course she is the easiest servant to suppress 
without altering the style of living or inconveniencing 
the husband in any way. A large class of people who 
keep three servants, even if they increase them to four, 



I40 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

add a kitchenmaid, or an up-and-down girl, rather than a 
lady's-maid. I am inclined to think that in early years 
of married life a lady's-maid, besides being a great com- 
fort, partly pays for herself by the saving of dressmakers' 
biUs, and turning old things into new. It is fancy things 
made at home that really pay, not petticoats and under- 
linen. The lady's-maid, too, must undertake the mending 
of house linen, an important duty, as very few housemaids 
are to be trusted to do any fine needlework at all ; though 
if one afternoon a week is set apart under the lady's- 
maid's superintendence the housemaid would probably 
be quite capable of sewing on buttons and doing necessary 
repairs both to house linen and the husband's under- 
clothes. A woman who is obliged to have all her things 
made out vrill find the allowance of lOOZ. a year insuffi- 
cient, if she is to be well dressed. It would mean buying 
ready-made shop clothes or going to inferior dressmakers. 
The beauty of dress is not so much what it costs, as the 
individual representation of the wearer's mind and taste. 
No one, putting aside the very best dressmakers, can carry 
this out so well as an intelligent maid at home. This 
also applies to the dressing of children. There is perhaps 
no time in a woman's life when she can be so well dressed 
on what is now called ' a small allowance ' as in the early 
years of her married life. She has her trousseau to work 
from, and if she is sensible even in London she will go 
little into society beyond dining out: it should be her 
object to reduce the number of entertainments for which 
different dresses are required, it being much more difficult 
and expensive to dress suitably than smartly. London 
clothes, luckily, do quite well for Saturdays and Sundays 
in the country ; though they are most inappropriate for 
real country life. 

In a small establishment the only servant who is likely 
to be hard-worked, and therefore deserving of special 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 141 

consideration, is the single-handed cook. I am all in 
favour of beginning life with a young cook who has been 
kitchen-maid in a good kitchen, and who is willing to let 
even her inexperienced mistress be housekeeper, regulat- 
ing expenditure and diminishing dining-room luxuries, as 
what can perfectly be done without is what swells the 
weekly books. There is no economy in stinting the daily 
food, either for the dining-room or the servants. Servants 
who come to a certain class of master and mistress look 
upon good feeding as their due just as much as sheets to 
sleep in or the wages which are handed to them quarterly. 
A lower class of modern servant clings to having her 
wages paid monthly. This request should be yielded to 
as little as possible, as it tends to make saving more diffi- 
cult, and saving is specially desirable for domestic ser- 
vants, who, with unaccustomed luxury, have much in 
their daily life which undermines their moral sense. One 
of the best ways of easing the cook in her work is the 
foreign method of servants having their meals after they 
come out of the dining-room. Servants' breakfast must 
either be before or at the same time as the dining-room. 
Luncheon at 1.30, and sent out as quickly as possible, 
gives the servants their dinner. If the master's dinner is 
after 8 o'clock it comes very hard on the servants, as it 
makes their supper so late. Eeducing the number of 
courses (by which I mean having the food brought up at 
the same time, more in the style, though mercifully re- 
duced in quantity, of the suppers of our great-grand- 
fathers) is conducive to health, an actual economy, and 
gives the cook less to dish up and wash up. A foreign 
fashion introduced of late, and becoming almost universal 
in England, is the serving coffee after luncheon, which 
servants now copy by having tea after their dinner. 
Both really injure digestion, but tea is far the most un- 
wholesome, and chemically turns meat into lumps of iron, 



142 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the justification, though they don't realise why, of the 
male hatred of ' high tea ' ; consequently, this habit of tea 
.after dinner will only increase the almost universal 
dyspepsia. The teetotalling propaganda has much to 
answer for, so difficult is it in life not to fall from Scylla 
into Charybdis, and now tea is adding its poison to the 
alcohol which has so fatally undermined the health of our 
towns and villages. A friend of mine told me the other 
day that the doctor said that half his patients on her large 
estate in the North of England were due to excessive tea 
drinMng. This is owing, as in Ireland where the mad- 
houses are half fiUed by tea-drinkers, to the stewing of 
the tea leaves. Low diet makes the poison much more 
active : this obliges non-meat eaters, to the great surprise 
even of themselves, to renounce tea-drinking altogether, 
even when the leaves are quickly infused. Keeping ser- 
vants up at night makes early rising an impossibility. 
The young couple must decide which they prefer. The 
lady must study books, go to stores to learn quality of 
goods and their prices, and not be ashamed to ask the 
advice of her contemporaries, which is generally more 
valuable from those that are poorer, than from those that 
are richer, than herself. 

A short experience will teach us that, broadly speak- 
ing, our friends are divided into two classes  those who 
complain much of their poverty and the expense of every- 
thing, and those who apparently live in the lap of luxury, 
stinting neither themselves nor their servants, and who 
yet maintain that their books are lower than seems 
possible from any reasonable calculation. This may be 
the result of some different method of keeping accounts, 
or that the house is run by some very experienced house- 
keeper, cook or man-servant, or governess, who gets 
the uttermost farthing out of every bargain. And the 
economy is further magnified by the lady herself, who, 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 143 

in giving a sketch of her ordinary expenditure, fre- 
quently omits some important item. Such friends are 
apt to send us home in a very depressed state of mind, 
which is not vyithout use, for it rouses us out of our own 
carelessness. In the case of a cook without a kitchen- 
maid an ordinary dinner cannot be well served, even for 
a small party, without some outside assistance, and I think 
it would be better in London to try to find a girl who 
lives at home, and who would be glad to make money and 
be willing to come in on certain occasions, than the usual 
old and experienced charwoman, who takes her own line, 
instead of submitting to the training of the young cook. 
Many young girls on leaving the Board schools might be 
quite willing to do some work which does not oblige them 
to leave their homes. All assistance of this kind is a 
growing difficulty ; the bridging of a gap between what 
are called the respectable poor, and the class just below 
them, still remains a curiously unsolved problem. We 
are always hearing of people so poor that they must be 
supported by charity, whose children are now educated 
in the national schools in a way that should fit them to 
become under-servants and supply an ever-increasing 
demand throughout the country, and yet it is more 
difficult to get under-servants than ever. The expense of 
occasional outside assistance in the kitchen will be very 
inconsiderable, and if the young couple frequently dine 
out the cook will have many evenings to herself. The 
cook and the man-servant should not both be out at the 
same time. In the kind of household I am attempting to 
describe it is certainly in the food department that with 
care the greatest saving can be made without discomfort 
or parsimony. The young housekeeper must fesl that 
this depends on herself, and need not feel ashamed to 
take to heart the words of Socrates : ' I am distinguished 
from others and superior to others by this character only, 



144 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

that I am conscious of my own ignorance,' and so 
naturally to be aware of our own lack of knowledge is the 
first step towards a better state of things. A constant 
acquiring of knowledge is the one thing that redeems 
housekeeping from being intolerably uninteresting ; with- 
out this its daily monotony is very trying to many 
characters. I heard the other day of a lady who said she 
was getting rid of her cook for no fault, but merely 
because she was so tired of seeing the same face every 
day. I do not believe that sort of feeling would come 
over anyone who tried daily to teach her cook some- 
thing. 

Let every young housekeeper do her best to simplify 
life. It will only add to her powers of hospitality, which 
should always be without competition  nothing should be 
done with the idea of surpassing others. The great use 
of stores and wholesale shops is the knowledge they give 
of the market price of goods, and, as a matter of fact, 
often when things are cheapest they are best, as they are 
then plentiful and in their prime. Never buy anything 
out of season, is one of the best rules, and on the whole I 
think it makes the best living. Season in London does 
not apply to what grows in our gardens. There is, of 
course, a season for imported goods, such as cranberries, 
oranges, or the beans from Madeira, and these things 
vary considerably in price from week to week. Never 
forget one of my favourite precepts, that if luxuries are 
bought they should be of the very best, and come from 
the very best shops. This applies especially to wine, 
which can only be got good through the thought and 
knowledge of the host, not forgetting that bad wine is by 
no means always cheap wine. Mowers have become a 
somewhat wasteful luxury in London. I see no reason 
why a table should not be made to look quite as pretty 
with plate and china, without any flowers at all, or say 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 145 

one Japanese arrangement, which means trouble and 
taste, not expense. I remember, some years ago, think- 
ing how beautiful a flower decoration was on a dinner- 
table, and on expressing my admiration to my young 
hostess, she said, ' I am so glad you like them. They 
were so cheap. I do not think the whole lot cost more 
than 51. ! ' 

To return to the household. By far the easiest 
servant to secure is a housemaid. This by no means 
implies that she knows her work. Even trained house- 
maids are sometimes wrongly trained, and the mistress 
of the house is often very incapable of teaching even the 
simplest rules of how to keep a house well aired and yet 
clean ; the London housemaid's idea is to keep it clean 
by shutting the windows. The right way is to keep 
windows open day and night, and dust certain pieces of 
furniture several times a day. It is both economical and 
clean to make an arrangement with the laundress to do 
the maids' washing at so much a week a head, instead 
of giving 'washing money' to the servants themselves. 
I also think it of great importance that the beer money, 
instead of being paid weekly, should be added to the 
wages and paid quarterly. If masters and mistresses 
only realised the number of young servants who have 
been taught to drink by being tempted to help themselves 
to the brandy and whisky on the cold grey mornings when 
they come to their work, masters and mistresses would 
be more careful to lock away these things before they go 
to bed ; as, alas ! even those who believe that taking 
spirits before going to bed is very injurious to health, are 
forced by the laws of hospitality to produce the decanters 
before the departure of their guests. 

Nothing oils the machinery of the household such as 
I have been describing so much as the introduction of a 
very young footman or boy, and in case of the man- 

L 



146 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

servant being a soldier servant it becomes almost a neces- 
sity, for he has his master's uniforms to attend to, and is 
often called away by various duties into the country. 
The boy cleans knives and boots, carries coal, which is 
injurious heavy work for women ; sleeps in the pantry if 
the man-servant is married, which often means a better 
class of servant. The boy's help also enables the house- 
maid to keep entirely to her owa work all day, very 
desirable in London, instead of being called down con- 
stantly to answer the door. Once more referring to the 
list of expenditure for 1,800Z. a year, the items marked 
No. III. will be thought by many to be over-estimated at 
1001. a year, but this is certainly not too much, taking 
one year with another, if the house, which is so con- 
stantly the case in London, has to be painted outside 
every three years. Others may think 60Z. a year too 
heavy a charge for coal, but this must include wood for 
lighting fires, no inconsiderable item in a London house. 
20Z. a year for keeping up the stock of linen is rather 
under than over what I should deem necessary, unless 
the young menage is very much better set up than is 
usually the case in England. My estimate for living in 
London leaves us with the very narrow margin of 1501. a 
year, but my calculations were upset by finding on 
inquiry that the rent of even small houses in good locali- 
ties south of the Park are so much higher than I expected. 
Some years ago excellent houses were to be had on the 
north side for 125Z. a year. After all, everything I have 
said resolves itself into what applies to every income  i.e., 
to pretend to yourself that you have less than you have 
got, and then live at that rate, and you will always be 
rich. This is the honest and comfortable way of living, 
but it does not perhaps always appear worldly wise, as 
experience shows us that feckless and extravagant people 
generally get paid for, somehow, and very often at the 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 147 

expense of those who are careful. It will always be so 
more or less, and is only the old story of the Prodigal and 
the son who stays at home. 

Living in the country on an income of 1,800Z. a year 
changes the expenditure in many ways ; in some more 
expensive, and in others cheaper. Shall we not throw 
into the balance all the unbuyable luxuries the country 
gives us ? Sun and light, air and cleanliness inside and 
outside the house, winter hoar-frosts and summer's 
radiant colours, flowers growing at their own sweet will, 
the song of birds and the ceaseless interest of insect hf e. 
' Life is sweet, brother, there's day and night, brother, 
both sweet things ; sun, moon and stars, all sweet things ; 
there's likewise a wind on the heath '  so says old George 
Borrow in ' Lavengro,' and few men's writings can take 
us into the country as his do. The ' wind on the heath,' 
what is it not worth ? Keats, too, speaks of it in his own 
gentle way : 

To one who has been long in city pent, 

'Tis very sweet to look into the fair 

And open face of heaven,  to breathe a prayer 
Full in the smile of the blue firmament. 
Who is more happy, when, with heart's content. 

Fatigued he sinks into some pleasant lair 

Of wavy grass, and reads a debonair 
And gentle tale of love and languishment, 
Returning home at evening, with an ear 

Catching the notes of Philomel  an eye 
Watching the sailing cloudlet's bright career, 

He mourns that day so soon has glided by ; 
E'en like the passage of an angel's tear 

That falls through the clear ether silently. 

For the young, the energetic, and the ambitious, towns 
are best at first, and they can gravitate towards the 
country as they grow older. This surely is one of the 
greatest inducements for saving, and in no sense is it a 
mean or lowering object. "We will begin now with our 

l2 



148 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

changed table of expenditure for life in the country. The 
most important reduction will be in the house-rent. 

TABLE COUNTBY 

 s. d. 

I. Bent, rates and taxes .... 180 

II. Housekeeping (living, washing, lighting) 450 

III. Bepairs, insurance, cleaning, painting . 100 

IV. Coal 80 

V. Dress (man and woman) . . . 180 

VI. Wages, including beer (four servants) . 130 

VII. Wine 50 

VIII. Stamps, newspapers, stationery . . 30 

IX. Doctor, dentist, accidents, journeys . 100 

X. New house linen 20 

XI. Charities 40 



1,860 



This table shows considerable reduction, and, if saving 
is not very necessary, a pony, carriage, and groom can be 
added, besides the obligatory garden, which, well done, 
including wages and all expenses, must be counted at 

150Z. a year : so the table now stands :  

 s. d. 

Carried forward 1,360 

Garden 150 

Pony, carriage, groom 130 

1,640 

This does not include the initial cost of buying the 
pony and carriage and setting up the stable. 

With these luxuries the margin is as narrow as the 
London one. Any careful housekeeper will find it easier 
to make reductions in the country, though it will probably 
be at the expense of having friends to. stay, which is one 
of the pleasures of living in the country, miniipised by the 
fact that it often interferes with your pursuits, care of 
poultry, garden, &c., as very naturally the friend who 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 149 

takes the trouble to come and see you exacts your un- 
divided attention. One of the expenses of country 
hospitality is not only the laundry bill, but the wear and 
tear caused to good Unen from always being in the wash- 
tub. I confess to often feeling considerable sympathy 
with the landlady of olden times who felt it such a pity 
to send sheets to the wash, and gave orders to damp them 
a little and iron them out. 

Furnishing in the country can be done even more 
simply and sensibly than in London. If washing house 
linen is more, cleaning of curtains and chintzes, &c., is 
infinitely less ; three months of London making things 
much dirtier than a year in the country. The great 
secret of sensible and yet pretty furnishing is observation 
and keeping your eyes open. People as a rule notice 
nothing, and come into a house and garden almost as if they 
were blind, and it is curious to observe how the awaken- 
ing comes when they are going to furnish for themselves. 
This selfish impetus should not be necessary. The want 
of training of sight, scent, and hearing are among the great 
deficiencies of civilised education, and I fancy this defect 
has been keenly felt in South Africa. The newspapers 
have commented upon this subject from time to time, and 
I noted from one the other day that ' as a matter of 
scientific fact there is little difference in the powers of 
vision of different races. The difference lies in the 
faculty of detection, and this is a matter of training and 
constant practice. Two men have equally good sight, 
but one, by reason of the necessity of his daily life, will be 
able to detect an unusual object, whilst the other will be 
entirely unable to recognise anything abnormal. This 
being so, it is all the more necessary that the training of 
the eye should form a very important part of a soldier's 
education in the art of war. Scouting and judging of 
distances will have to be reckoned with in any practical 



ISO A THIRD POT-POURRI 

scheme of army reform.' This is no doubt perfectly true, 
but the training of the eye and the quickening of the 
powers of observation should begin with both sexes from 
the very earliest age. And I am convinced that no one can 
manage a house and garden well unless these faculties 
are highly developed. 

Poultry keeping in the country is a pleasure and an 
interest, but it hardly pays unless eggs are sold in the 
winter and chickens in the early spring. If the garden is 
carefully and knowingly stocked to supply the wants of 
every month in the year, the saving in the weekly books 
is considerable, as nothing ought to be bought except 
potatoes, and the plentiful supply of vegetables for 
many months in the year considerably reduces the 
butcher's book. Everyone who has space in the country 
should keep pigs ; nothing so prevents waste or actually 
pays better. Buying two young ones twice a year  once in 
January, selling them in May, and buying again two more 
in May, giving them nothing till weU on in October but 
green vegetable garden refuse and the wash-tub. This 
tub must be kept carefully clean  that is to say, no meat 
or tea-leaves or coffee-grouts. It is quite a common 
cook's trick to throw into the pig-tub the heads and 
insides of game or poultry ; this is quite wrong, and will 
easily produce diseased pigs. In October acorns and 
chestnuts are good for them, but they make the meat hard 
unless the pigs are fed on barley-meal for quite three 
weeks before they are killed ; part must be sold and part 
preserved for home consumption. Curing hams from a 
good receipt, with a careful cook, not only thoroughly 
pays, but produces far better hams than those usually 
bought. 

A garden makes a very great saving in the weekly 
books and enables a family to live well with much less 
meat. A leg of mutton is a much more economical joint 



EIGHTEEN HUNDRED A YEAR 151 

than a shoulder or a neck; but for a small family it 
generally means so much cold meat. The following 
method of dealing with a leg of mutton, out of one of my 
old books, may be suggestive to some :  

First day.  Cut off the knuckle, boil it slowly, cover 
it with caper sauce ; serve with mashed turnips and 
carrots. 

Second day.  Cut a steak off the large end and broil 
it ; serve with maltre-d'hotel butter and fried potatoes 
or onions. 

Third day.  Cut some cutlets off the side near the 
knuckle, breadcrumb, and fry ; serve with brown sauce. 
Pur^e of greens or pur6e of chestnuts. Beetroot hot or 
cold. 

Fourth day.  Bone and stuff the fillet, which is to be 
roasted (put the bone into the liquor that boiled the 
knuckle) ; serve with the roast-meat, jelly, jam or apple 
sauce, mashed potatoes, white beans and salad. 

Fifth day.  Hash part of the remainder in a good 
brown sauce made with the reduced liquor from bone, 
thicken with burnt flour, and add minced oHves, gherkins, 
or mushrooms ; mashed potatoes. 

Sixth day.  The remainder minced in shells or small 
pots, breadcrumb, and brown in the oven; serve with 
cold potatoes fried up, macaroni and sultanas, or rice. 



152 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



FEBEUABY 

NOTES FROM NINE MONTHS OF A SCEAPPY JOUENAIi 

1901-1902 

Forcing out branches  Amygdalus Dtwidiana  Early spring flowers 
under glass  Bulbous irises  Epimediums in pots  Letter to 
Westminster on railway carriages and tuberculosis  Congress on 
tuberculosis in 1901. 

February 20ife.  I left home some days ago. A few 
snowdrops and a few green blades of daffodils were 
coming through the ground : that was all. Spring 
seemed very far away, but it was not really so. For a 
short time one must help nature, and have faith. During 
the last three years I have considerably developed the 
practice of forcing cut blossoming branches in water, in 
the little hothouse. Even in December if the weather is 
wet and bad, the Jasminum midiflorum is far more 
effective and flowers more in a mass, if treated in this way, 
than left on the plant. I saw a year or two ago at one of 
the Drill Hall shows the Amygdalus Davidiana, which is 
a Chinese early-flowering shrub and exceedingly lovely. 
I bought one which has grown satisfactorily. It can be 
cut in January, and the bright brown stems, covered with 
buds, flower from one end to the other, after cutting and 
putting into water in the stove. It is a plant I thoroughly 
recommend to anybody living in the country in winter or 
having flowers sent up to London. Prv/nus Pissardii, 
which here the birds strip of buds, the common pink 



FEBRUARY 153 

almond, Forsythia suspensa, all do excellently cut 
and brought on in this way, by which I mean, they do 
very much better than if left to flower out of doors. All 
stalks must be peeled. The blackthorn, Prunus spinosa, 
and its double variety also answer if picked in the same 
way a little later on in the year. The Drill Hall ex- 
hibitions, interesting as they are all the year round, 
always attract me most in the spring, as the plants are 
better adapted at that season than any other to the kind 
of miniature pot-cultivation required for shows. Here 
everybody is able to see what these plants ought to be 
when grown in perfection, not in heat, but under glass 
which saves them from wind and weather. AU those 
who try to grow fine Christmas roses in light soils know 
weU how difficult it is, whereas the imaginative writer 
who speaks of gardens from the poetical point of view 
rather than the practical, alludes to them in a lordly kind 
of way as ' flourishing ' of their own accord in mixed 
borders or even in woods and shrubberies. As a matter of 
fact, though they hate being disturbed, I have found 
strong nourishment when their leaves are growing and 
protection from the weather in any but very exceptional 
winters, absolutely necessary for producing even a moderate 
success. I have never seen them growing in their natural 
state on Alpine slopes, as M. Correvon so charmingly 
describes them in his poems ' Pleurs et Montagues ' : 

LA ROSE DE NOEL. 

Sur les flanes escarpfis du riant Salvatore 

Et sous I'^pre frimas 
De I'hiver, j'ai trouv6 la neigeuse Hellebore 

S'^talaut sous mes pas. 

Sa fleur oherohait abri sous le sombre feuillage 

Bronz^ par les antans, 
Et dans son p&le 6clat on pressentait le gage 

Des beaux jours du printemps. 



1 54 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Oh 1 rose de Noel qui fleuris sous la glace 

Pendant les jours mauvais, 
Dis-mol comment tu fais pour demeurer vivace 

Sous les brouillards pais. 

Dis-moi d'oii tu repus la douee quietude 

Que je lis sur ton front, 
Dis-moi qui t'a donn la ferme certitude 

Que les beaux jours viendront. 

Je voudrais oomme toi garder I'toie sereine 

Dans les jours de malheur, 
Et quand survient le deuil et la lutte et la peine 

Toujours croire au bonheur. 

Paie soleil d'hiver qui fleuris I'HelUbore 

Au matin de Noel, 
Viens chasser mes brouillards et puisse ton anrore 

Toujours luire en mon ciel. 

The loveliest things at the February and March 
Drill Hall shows, are the small early bulbous irises. 
They are most interesting plants, more so than orchids I 
think, but I must own they do not last nearly so long, 
either cut or on the plant. It is the great merit of 
orchids, even those kinds that are easy to grow, that on 
the plant and off it their flower branches last so long. 
An excellent way to support the flower in the pot is a 
small cane, split open at the top, holding the branch, and 
stuck in the earth of the pot. I am now going to try 
growing some of the small bulbous irises. They should 
be planted in pots or pans in loamy soil, no manure, and 
treated exactly like hyacinths or narcissi, covered with 
cocoanut-fibre in a cold frame, matted at night to keep 
out the frost, and then brought into the greenhouse early 
in February and carefully watered, to be induced to 
flower. I. reticulata and I. ^ersica Heldreichii are the 
best, I am told, but there are several varieties, and all are 
pretty. Almost the greatest vrinter excitement of our 
gardens is the beautiful I. stylosa. People who manage 



FEBRUARY 155 

them well seem very successful with them from December 
to April, but, like most irises, they seem to do better if 
close to some other plant, which means, I suppose, dry- 
ness through the summer. They will grow well on the 
sunny side of a yew hedge, but never flower well till the 
second or third year. The f oUage is thick and untidy, and 
one has to look for the flowers or one may miss them, 
and for the house they are best picked in the bud. I am 
going to try the little Snake's-head of Italy, I. tuberosa, 
in pans. It seems too dry for it here out of doors. 

In these days of horticultural crocuses I do not 
think the original type plants are cultivated nearly 
enough in our gardens. Early in March this year, and 
it was a late bad spring, they were most beautiful at Kew. 
C. etruscus, G. hiflorus, G. chrysanthus were the names 
on the labels. I see G. Imperati and G. calvigatus, for a 
cold frame, are recommended in ' English Flower Garden.' 

Epimedium ruhrum and E. tnacranthvm make charm- 
ing greenhouse plants in early spring, potted up in 
September (I imagine) and kept in a frame. The little 
dwarf Narcissus Bulbocodium and N. cyclamineus look 
charming in pots and pans. All these species seem 
much more interesting than a large number of ordinary 
hyacinths, double or single. 

Mr. James Ehoades sent me this little poem the other 
day, saying that he should have dedicated it to me had 
he known me sooner. It appeared in the ' Westminster 
Gazette,' June 1899 : 

Are flowers the very thoughts of God 

Made visible to bless ? 
If so it be, happy ye 

Who such a faith confess, 
As, led by April, blossom-crowned, 

Ye roam o'er vale and hill. 
With every here a cowslip found. 

And there a dafiodil ! 



iS6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Are the birds' songs but jets of joy 

From the Eternal Bliss ? 
If it be true, happy few 

With such a faith as this, 
As, thrilled by many a feathered throat, 

Ye roam o'er hills and vales, 
With every now the cuckoo's note, 

And then the nightingale's ! 

Travelling to London the other day by rail, third 
class, the extreme dirt of the carriage recalled to my mind 
a paragraph I had seen in the ' Westminster Gazette,' and 
made me write the following letter to the Editor. I 
republish it here because it seems to me that the subject 
cannot too often be brought before the public, who are 
still alarmingly ignorant of and careless as to the in- 
fectiousness of tuberculosis. 

'SiE,  I noticed in your issue of December 23 a 
short paragraph bringing to our notice how much room 
there still was for improvement in the methods that could 
be adopted for the prevention of the spread of the 
tubercles which cause consumption. The ignorance of 
the general public on the subject, even the educated 
public, is the only excuse that can be offered for the 
constant neglect of the most ordinary sanitary pre- 
cautions. I live in what might be called a distant 
suburb, and often travel backwards and forwards to 
London in a third-class carriage; so do a number of 
young people of both sexes, and so do rough workmen 
who know no better and who expectorate freely on the 
floor of the carriage. Many of these may be gravely ill 
from tubercles without being the least aware of it, or of 
the danger to which their spitting may expose their 
fellow-travellers in all sorts of accidental ways. Both old 
and young generally insist on all the windows being closed 
in winter. Spitting can only gradually be put a stop to, 



FEBRUARY 157 

as it is done by a class who do not even understand how 
dirty it is, and who consider they have a right to do it if 
they like. 

' The proper cleansing of third-class carriages depends 
on the railway companies, and as it is done now it would 
be considered quite insufficient for a cattle-truck. A dirty 
broom is inserted and the surface dirt partly swept into a 
dust-pan. This enables what is left to dry the quicker, 
increasing the real danger, for the infection only spreads 
when the expectoration becomes dust. We have heard 
much abuse of the fashionable long skirts in the streets 
of London, but seated in a carriage no woman's dress, be 
it ever so short, can help touching the floor. A poor 
woman will probably dry her skirt at the kitchen fire and 
brush it either there or in her bedroom ; the maid of a 
rich woman is likely to do exactly the same ; and in this 
way thousands of grains of poison may be spread in the 
house, and the boy or girl just leaving childhood behind, is 
the accidental victim of the mother's journey. Surely it is 
an imperative duty to clean and disinfect carriages, and 
it seems to me directors should have felt guilty of a very 
heavy responsibility, which they did not thoroughly 
understand, when they refused to allow the National 
Association for the Prevention of Consumption to put up, 
free of expense to the companies, an intelligent notice in 
the railway carriages about the dangers of expectoration. 
A better way of educating the public I cannot imagine, 
while giving offence to none, though certainly necessi- 
tating a more intelligent way of keeping the carriages 
clean. A notice put up in the booking office is absolutely 
useless, as no one has time to read it there. Much the 
same may be said of the long-delayed notice in our post- 
offices, where it is generally hung in an out-of-the-way 
comer with postal directions about mail days to all the 
ends of the earth. I trust greater knowledge may do 



iS8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

away with this conservative prejudice which dislikes 
nothing so much on most health subjects as truth and 
light; 

It is rather curiously typical of the national attitude 
towards important legislation on health subjects, that, 
although the King has taken such lively interest in the 
Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, and done all 
that a Sovereign could do to bring the subject to public 
notice, assisted by the most influential people in the land, 
yet that railway directors, heads of firms, and that hope- 
lessly immovable body, the general public, should take so 
little alarm and pay so little attention to all that has been 
put before them. Last July (1901) the press for many 
days teemed with accounts of that very remarkable 
meeting of medical and scientific men, the Congress on 
Tuberculosis. I attended one or two of the meetings, and 
it was my privilege to be there the day Professor Koch 
made his famous statement on the difference between the 
tubercle in man and the tubercle in cattle, and stated 
his belief that the two things were not interchange- 
able. How the scientific world will decide about this 
in the future we do not yet know. The great interest 
to me, and one of a peculiarly dramatic kind, was 
to be overlooking a large hall crowded with people 
well versed in the subject, who were quietly told 
in very broken English a fact which they had not 
expected to hear. The greatest oratory would, perhaps, 
hardly have called forth so evident a thrill through the 
whole audience, though courtesy necessitated the sup- 
pression of either surprise or opposition. Apparently, 
from all statistics, England though, perhaps, the most 
afflicted with this terrible scourge, is yet the most back- 
ward in sanitary precautions. M. Brouardel gave some 
interesting statistics as to what is being done in France 



FEBRUARY 159 

He delivered his lecture in his own language with all the 
charm and crispness of his nationality. All the lectures 
delivered at this Congress are, I believe, still to be got 
from the Secretary of the Society in Hanover Square. 

As with so many other improvements in general 
health, the future rests not so much with the medical 
profession as with the general public, but they must 
understand before they can act. How few people believe 
that common colds without inflammation ought to be 
treated like consumption with an open-air cure, not only 
for the good of the patient but also for the benefit of 
other people, as fresh air is the great destroyer of in- 
fection. In the case of having to lie up for an accident 
or an operation, the same thing applies ; if the patient 
lies day and night by an open window the difference to 
general health on recovery is hardly believable compared 
with having been shut up in the ordinary sick-room with 
the vrindows only opened once a day for ten minutes. 



i6o A THIRD POT-POURRI 



MABCH 

Valescure  Tree heath and briar-wood pipes  Fragrant herbs and 
thyme carpet  Aloes and agaves  Cork trees  Frejus Ruins of 
the TuUeries : De I'Orme and BuHant  Meissonier's picture of 
the burnt Tuileries  Cannes  Eucalyptus trees^-La Mortola  
Arrival at Florence Turban ranunculus  Mine da Fiesole  
Letter about Florence. 

Having the chance last year of letting my house to a 
friend for March and April, I was tempted to do that 
which I had always declared I would never do  viz., go 
to the South of Prance at the time when everybody else 
goes there. On March 1 we started, a party of four 
ladies, for the Grand Hotel, Valescure, arriving at 
the St.-Eaphael station after the usual day and night 
journey. We had left great cold behind us, and found 
the weather grey and mild. But we were told it had 
been very cold, and it certainly was soon bitterly cold 
again. Snow was on all the hills, the almond-blossoms 
were brown, and the shrub we call mimosa, really yellow 
acacia, looked pinched and unable to bloom. Our hotel 
being situated on the side of a hill with a beautiful open 
view of plain, mountain, and sea, surrounded by delightful 
pine woods, had a great charm of its own, and for those 
who have no objection to hotel-life I cannot imagine a 
more satisfactory resting place in fine spring weather. 
But I dislike hotels of all kinds, and it was singularly 
unlucky, as I hoped to live outside all day, that the 
mistral blew hard during the whole ten days I was at 



MARCH i6i 

Valescure, and the weather was colourless, though dry. 
On the other side of St.-Eaphael, down by the sea, there 
is another hotel, the Grand H6tel Boulouris, built on a 
perfect site for those who like being near the sea, and 
even more completely solitary than the one at Valescure. 
I gathered that it was not so well heated as the Valescure 
hotel. This I think an advantage, for though I like fires 
in the rooms, I hate hot passages, as they always make 
people afraid to open the windows. 

All down to the shor^ and up in the woods by Bou- 
louris were magnificent tall plants of what I thought was 
Mediterranean heath : the flowers were only half open 
and injured by frost. I suppose most people know that 
from the roots of this tree heath are made the favourite 
wooden pipes known as briar-wood pipes. The name 
briar is a corruption of the French word bruydre, meaning 
heath. The collecting of these roots seems to be a trade 
wherever the plant grows, and the ' Encyclopaedia Britan- 
nica ' says that ' in Italy they are taken to Leghorn where 
the roots are shaped into blocks, each suitable for a pipe, 
the cutting of the wood so as to avoid waste requiring  
considerable skill. These blocks are simmered in a vat 
for twelve hours, whicli gives them the much-appreciated 
yellowish-brown hue of a good briar-root. So prepared, 
the blocks are exported for boring and finishing to 
St. -Claude (Jura), in France, and to Nuremberg, the two 
rival centres of the wooden-pipe trade.' In Moggridge's 
' Flora of Mentone,' he refers to this and other European 
heaths as follows : ' Erica multiflora abounds near 
Toulon and Hyferes, but from the Esterelles mountains 
to Genoa I only know of three small patches of this 
pretty plant, all of which are near Nice, one round the 
tower of St.-Hospice, and the others at Bellet in the 
valley of Magnan. . . . Erica mediterranea h never 
found on the shores of the Mediterranean, Iraii 'grows in 

M 



i62 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

South-Western France, Western Spain and Ireland. . . . 
The English often call Erica arborea (Linn.) the 
"Mediterranean Heath." This is a mistake. ... It 
abounds along the coast frotn Marseilles to Genoa, and 
though usually cut down, it is occasionally allowed to 
take its natural course when it becomes a small tree 
8 to 10 feet high. At Cannes, the wood is used for 
turning, and of it are made the briar-wood pipes which 
are imported into England. Erica arborea and Erica 
scoparia are to be found growing together, but the former 
flowers in February or March, and is quite out of blow 
before E. scoparia first expands its greenish flowers in 
the end of April. Even when out of blossom, the tree 
heath may always be distinguished by its hairy branches, 
... It is also found in the Canary Islands, Madeira, 
Portugal, and the Pyrenees. E. scoparia endures a 
varied temperature, but is more confined in its distribu- 
tion, being found only in Northern and Southern France, 
Spain, Italy, Corsica, Sardinia, and Dalmatia.' 

How curious it is this distribution of plants, especially 
when the spreading and flourishing seem to depend not 
entirely on temperature ! Temperature being the ordi- 
nary cause of the stopping of vegetation towards the 
north, the nature of the soil must, I suppose, be the 
reason in this case for such fantastic skipping of whole 
districts. 

At Valescure, the woods and open spaces are covered 
vnth heaths that have been cut down, and many low- 
growing sweet-smelling herbs. The dryness, however, 
combined with the bitter cold winds we were having, held 
back the scents, and one walked on thyme and sage and 
other sweet-smelhng herbs without even perceiving it, 
and brushed through myrtle and bay without their giving 
one anything of their fragrance. In a resigned tone we 
said to each other, ' March is March everywhere, even 



MARCH 163 

on the Mediterranean shores,' and I secretly wondered 
why I had left my own little greenhouse full of sweetness 
and spring flowers for the euphemistically called ' Sunny 
South.' I know a place in England where nature's 
sweet-smelling carpet is imitated by planting a wood path 
with garden thyme instead of turfing it. It is kept low 
and somewhat even by perpetual clipping, and it is a 
pretty idea that the scent is given forth in summer by the 
present fashion of women's trailing skirts. This seems 
to be a rare exception to the well-known evils of the 
present long dresses. It is well for all sensible women 
never to forget the story of the German professor who 
sent his wife and daughter out for a walk through the 
town, and on their return let them see through his 
microscope the vitality of the microbes they had brought 
back with the dust. Dry sunshine is necessary for the 
sweet smelling of thyme, and many other herbs, whereas 
flowers generally smell sweeter for dampness in the air. 

In my youth what I called aloes I now know to be 
agaves. Agaves come from South America, and die 
when they have flowered, whereas the aloes come from 
South Africa and do not die after flowering. These 
agaves used to grow wild and uncultivated on the tops of 
walls, thickly crowded together  mothers, children, and 
grandchildren. The offsets were of all sizes, and the 
largest plants only occasionally flowered as the last 
supreme effort, probably when the nourishment from 
some well-cultivated neighbouring field drained down on 
to the wall top. Now these agaves are, in a way, culti- 
vated. That is to say, they are taken up and divided and 
planted along the roads as we do with our Saxifraga 
pyramidalis when we want to make them flower better 
on our rockeries. This causes the much more frequent 
blooming of the larger plants by the side of the roads, 
and does away with the tradition that they only bloomed 

m8 



i64 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

once in a hundred years. But the death of the plant is 
much more pathetic and apparent than it used to be. 
Alone it throws up its enormous flower stem, unsupported 
by all the young growth which, when left to nature, 
would be around it. It prematurely falls over and is out 
off with its seeds scarcely ripened and the spot is empty, 
no young plants being there to hold it up and to flourish 
round the decaying stem. Anybody wishing to grow 
agaves in pots for ornamental use had better take off the 
young growths every year as this immensely increases 
the rapid development of the principal plant. 

There are fine old specimens about Valescure of the 
cork-tree, Quercus suber. They have a quaint picturesque- 
ness all their own from the removing of the bark once in 
about six years for the making of cork, which is one of the 
old industries of the country. This treatment, that would 
kill all other trees, does these no harm. ' Chambers's 
Encyclopaedia ' gives the following details about cork- 
trees:  'Spain and Portugal chiefly supply the world 
with cork, and in these countries the tree is often planted 
for the sake of the cork. . . . The acorns are eatable, 
and resemble chestnuts in taste. The bark in trees or 
branches from three to five years old acquires a fungous 
appearance, new layers of cellular tissue being formed, 
and the outer parts cracking from distension, until they 
are finally thrown off in large flakes, when a new forma- 
tion of the same kind takes place. Cork intended for the 
market is generally stripped off a year or two before it 
would naturally come away, and the process is repeated 
at intervals of six or eight years. The bark of the young 
trees and branches is either useless or of very inferior 
quality ; it is only after the third peeling that good cork 
is produced. The removal of the cork, being not the 
removal of the whole bark, but only of external layers of 
spongy cellular tissue, all or greater part of which has 



MARCH 165 

ceased to have any true vitality, and has become an 
incumbrance to the tree, is so far from being injurious, 
that when done with proper care, it rather promotes the 
health of the tree, which continues to yield crops of cork 
for almost 150 years. . . . Besides the use of cork for 
stopping bottles, casks, &c., it is much used, on account of 
its lightness, for floats of nets, swimming-belts, &c. ; and 
on account of its impermeability to water, and its being a 
slow conductor of heat, inner soles of shoes are made of 
it. All these uses are mentioned by Pliny ; but the 
general employment of corks for glass bottles appears to 
date only from the fifteenth century.' The process of trees 
casting their bark can be seen every autumn in London 
from the plane-trees on the Embankment or the Parks. 
This is the reason why plane-trees flourish in cities where 
other forest trees die. In these days cork carpet is most 
useful and made from the refuse cork for protection 
against cold and damp from stone or brick floors. I 
think, as with ordinary oil-cloth, it would probably pro- 
duce dry rot on wooden floors. 

My friends knew Valescure well, and were always 
taking me to spots where, in ordinary years, the wild 
flowers grew  iris, anemones, and many others. I had 
to console myself by looking at books, and when I came 
home I bought Moggridge's ' Contributions to the Flora 
of Mentone ; the Winter Mora of the Eiviera from Mar- 
seilles to Genoa.' The 'winter' I had had, but the 
' flora ' was denied me. The book is a charming one for 
anyone spending some time along that coast. The illus- 
trations, though not up to the level of those in old books 
(it was published in 1871), are far superior to many 
botanical coloured illustrations of a later date. I know 
two novels which treat of this part of the world : ' The 
Individualist ' by Mallock, and one of the stories in 
Bourget's ' Homme d' Affaires.' 



i66 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Fr6jus can be seen from the hotel windows. The 
Eoman remains give a great interest to the countryside, 
and had I remained longer I should certainly have bought 
a book called 'The Eomans on the Eiviera,' by W. H. 
Bullock Hall (Macmillan, 1898). Eoman ruins are always 
very attractive to me. Those about Pr^jus are of a late 
date, and not unlike the specimens found in England, 
having evidently been built for utility, and because Pr6]"us 
was a seaport in those days. Now the sea has receded 
for several miles. 

One garden I did see which had an interest all its own, 
not for its flowers, which were not out, but for the fact that 
Miolan Garvalho, manager of the Paris Op6ra-Comique 
during the Second Empire, had built this villa, and 
brought to the garden many fragments from the ruins of 
the Tuileries after the burning in the time of the Commune. 
They were dotted about the garden vsdthout very much 
purpose, and the tall, white, beautifully-carved stones 
looked rather sad, I thought. So classical are they that 
many people who know no better mistake the garden for a 
villa of the Lower Eoman Empire, so pagan are the ruins 
and so picturesque. I particularly liked the Avenue where 
a lion by Cain looked disdainfully down upon the tourists. 
These remains seemed out of place in this garden, and 
accentuated to me the everlasting regret I have always 
felt that the great and rich French Eepublic did not 
have the courage, in spite of their depressed condition 
after their reverses, to rebuild the beautiful fire-scarred 
ruin of Catherine de Medicis' palace and use it for the 
chief of their State, with all its historical recollections 
behind it, including among these the wild despair of the 
destructive Communards. I believe many people have 
thought that the Tuileries gardens looked much better 
without the tall palace. That may be ; but the Elys6e, 
which is now the official residence of the President, is 



MARCH 167 

certainly not a sufficiently large and handsome palace for 
the head of the State in a country like France. The 
fragments, of ruin in this Eiviera garden were full of 
carving and ornamentation, and one wondered to whose 
hand they belonged of the two builders of the Tuileries, 
De rOrme or Bullant. Mrs. Mark Pattison, in her 
' Eenaissance of Art in Prance,' says that, at the death of 
De rOrme, Bullant was called upon by Catherine de 
Medicis to carry on the construction of the Tuileries 
(1570). ' But it must be remembered that when De TOrme 
died he had nearly completed the centre pavilion with 
its crowning dome, as well as the two wings to right and 
left. It is difficult to say precisely what was contributed 
by Bullant, but most probably the whole or a part of the 
pavilion, which originally terminated these two wings on 
the north and south. In their erection he followed, we 
must suppose, the plans left by De I'Orme, for in the 
main the two pavilions were of a piece with the rest of 
the building. The Ionic order, the " ordre f^minin," 
specially affected by De I'Orme, ranged below ; and above, 
along the first floor, ran the Corinthian. The proportions 
and character of the general features he left unaltered, 
but in the decoration and adjustment of parts, Bullant 
took a certain license. ... To his eyes the polite elegance 
of De I'Orme's work, the refined inspiration of Lescot's 
design as expressed in the neighbouring courts of the 
Louvre, seemed wanting in fervour and meagre in enrich- 
ment. De I'Orme had panelled his surfaces with delicate 
pilasters ; Bullant detached along the front innumerable 
columns, and niched between them royal coats-of-arms. 
De rOrme had pointed blank spaces here and there by 
the application of a highly-outlined frame, a touch of 
ornament, a scutcheon faintly profiled. Bullant cut 
bravely and unsparingly broad sweeps of decorative line 
in high relief. The ornament which encircled every 



i68 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

blazoned niche was burdened to the utmost with elaborate 
details. Wreaths garlanded the sides of the windows : 
crowns filled the spaces above them ; crowns, surmounted 
with points of fleur-de-lis, were again repeated at the 
summit of intermediate shields, uplifted by the out- 
stretched arms of accompanying figures. 

' Yet this luxurious superabundance of ornament never 
degenerated into vulgar profusion. Exquisite delicacy of 
sight and touch gave truth of accord to all the parts, and 
traces of brilUant execution not long ago revealed the 
same rare quality of light and happy touch which still 
enlivens the gracious courts of Ecouen. Until the hour 
of the Commune brought fire upon their walls, these two 
pavilions stood in grace scarcely impaired by time or 
restoration. The alterations which took place during the 
reign of Louis XIV. resulted in a complete refashioning 
at the hands of Le Veau and Dorbay of the centre portion, 
and the two wings completed by De I'Orme. But the two 
pavilions raised by Bullant suffered only the loss of the 
mansard roof, which was replaced by a more convenient 
attic, and the addition of some ill-calculated ornaments 
carved upon the shafts of columns originally plain. A 
sun- and moon-dial, one such as those described in the 
treatise "De I'Horlogiographie," which has been affixed to 
a blank side-wall facing south, necessarily disappeared in 
contact with the extensions of the Louvre executed by 
Henry IV., but the rest remained even as Bullant had 
left it, the effect of the graceful Ionic order prevented 
somewhat, indeed, but not destroyed by the neighbouring 
presence of the towering columns of Du Cerceau's addi- 
tions. Now there remain only such rare fragments of 
columns and pilasters as might be gathered by the hand.' 
The fragments now exist only in this Vailescure garden. 

I happened to be in Paris soon after Meissonier's 
death, and had the privilege of visiting his studio. His 



MARCH 169 

method of woiking from small clay models rather than 
from nature or memory explains much that is remarkable 
in the style of his pictures. But what makes me recall 
this visit now is that I saw there an exceedingly interest- 
ing sketch of the ruined Tuileries. It was an unusually 
large water-colour representing the Salle des Mar6chaux 
after the fire as seen from the Tuileries gardens, with 
Napoleon's battles still engraven on the cornice, bright 
blue sky above, and the car and horses on the top of the 
Arc du Carrousel appearing above a heap of ruins. Madame 
Meissonier has since given this valuable historical record 
to the Luxembourg. 

At the end of about ten days I left my kind friends at 
Valescure and moved on to Cannes, where I had not been 
for many years. The whole place was changed beyond 
recognition ; the old olives are being cut down as not 
profitable, and new buildings rise in all directions. The 
yellow-flowering acacia (Acacia dealbata) has sown itself 
everywhere. It began by being the pride of Cannes 
gardens, and is now much encouraged by the peasants 
for the exportation of its flowering branches for sale in 
northern cities. To me it is a beautiful thing in the hand, 
but singularly unbecoming to the colour of the landscape. 
Of all the new plant introductions since my childhood 
along the Mediterranean coast, the one that seems to me 
to have taken good hold, and to be most suitable both in 
growth and colouring, is the Australian eucalyptus. This 
in a kind of way may take the place of the disappearing 
olives. It is bluer in colour, and the growth is even more 
weirdly picturesque. I often wondered how several trees 
of it would look grouped together ; for the present one 
only sees single standards, some of them very tall. The 
Etwalyptus Gunnii in my garden, which I mentioned in a 
former book, has continued to stand our winter climate, 
and flourishes only slightly protected by other shrubs- 



170 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

I did not mention that I grew it originally from seed ; 
many things adapt themselves better to a strange soil if 
grown from seed on the spot. 

The orange gardens at Cannes have ceased to exist as 
they were in my day, when, being highly cultivated and 
manured, there grew beneath the trees carpets of Neapolitan 
violets, 'Violettes de Parme,' as they are called. Now 
everything is sacrificed to the imitation of English lawns, 
and in these are planted, very inappropriately, palms and 
bamboos, aloes and agaves, all dotted about, and producing 
a most unfortunate and ugly effect. Prom a gardener's 
point of view this is absolutely incorrect, for the grass 
requires much watering, whereas the poor aloes and agaves 
need a dry, stony soil in order to flourish and gain their 
beautiful blue bloom. 

On the whole, the gardens that I saw at Cannes dis- 
appointed me dreadfully ; but then I must confess it was 
a very backward year. Even the favourite of our English 
gardeners, the ' Old Glory,' or, as some put it, ' the Glory 
to die John,' was hardly in leaf. 

As a happy instance of what the unlettered can make 
of a botanical name I have been told by a friend, who 
actually heard it, that as two old women were parting by 
a cottage-gate one said to the other, admiring her large 
laurustinus in full bloom, ' What a fine plant you have 
there ! ' ' Yes,' said the other, ' and such a beautiful name 
as it's got ! ' The first one, looking a little astonished and 
ashamed of her ignorance, said, ' And what is it ? ' ' Oh, 
don't you know ? It's called " The Lord sustine (sustain) 
us " ! ' 

In gardens where tiny streams ran through them, 
quantities of the lovely Iris stylosa were in flower. But 
beyond this there was little to attract attention. Not 
nearly enough care is given in England to this beautiful 
winter flower. Very large clumps are required, and with 



MARCH 171 

room to spread, all buds come out well in water. The 
only violet I saw in cultivation was the large single kind 
with long stalks and little smeU. 

On March 18 a German friend came all the way from 
Erankfort to go with me to see Mr. Hanbury's garden at 
La Mortola. The morniag dawned with heavy, driving 
clouds, and by eight o'clock it was raining in torrents. 
She sent to ask what I intended to do. My answer was 
the irritatingly priggish one (which I should never have 
dared send to a man) that I never allowed weather to 
interfere with my plans. So we started for Mentone by 
rail, and then, after driving for over an hour in ceaseless 
rain, we arrived late for luncheon. Our longed-for treat 
of seeing this wonderful garden had to be enjoyed under 
umbrellas and holding up dripping petticoats as we 
climbed up and down the steps, the whole garden being 
on the slope of a steep hill. In spite of these unfavour- 
able conditions, it far outstripped in interest any I had 
seen, and gave wonderEul life to the charming and in- 
structive book I mentioned before, ' Eiviera Notes,' which 
is dedicated to ' Commendatore Thomas Hanbury, of La 
Mortola, Italy." I do not know if this book has been re- 
printed, but I sincerely hope so for the benefit of aU who 
can avail themselves of the privilege, so kindly granted, 
of seeing Mr. Hanbury's rare botanical collection. Every- 
thing in it is arranged in the manner best suited to the 
growth of the individual plants, coming as they do from 
all parts of the world and willing to flourish on his sunny 
rockeries. The garden is full of beautiful memories of the 
old, uncultivated Italian podsre, and at the base, between 
the garden and the sea, runs the original, narrow, paved 
road made by the Eomans, it is said, in the year 13 B.C., 
and called Via Augusta. The ordinary Cannes visitor is 
apt to be disappointed, I am told, not to find this garden 
the usual effect of turf and spring-bedding. The field of 



172 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

anemones that was in bloom the day I was there is far more 
beautiful than any bed of flowers that one can imagine. 
Of course, they had originally been planted, but their 
growth and general effect of colour in the field grass gave 
the appearance of wildness. There is still in the centre 
of the garden a most stately avenue of Gwpressus semper- 
virens, the pyramidal cypress. It forms a beautiful fea- 
ture in the landscape, and the people of the place say it 
recalls a long-forgotten cemetery, as the name ' La Mor- 
tola ' is supposed to mean ' a place of burial.' The 
cypress-trees are sharing the fate of the olives and are 
disappearing from the fields and gardens along this coast. 
They are claimed by the church as being trees of mourn- 
ing, and the peasants beheve them to be unlucky round 
their dwellings and appropriate only to burial-grounds. 
I am very sorry for this, as they are a feature associated 
with all that seemed most paintable in one's youth, with 
their tall dark spikes against sunset skies. We are always 
trying to grow them in England, where they don't flourish, 
or to imitate them with shrubs of much less beautiful 
growth, such as Cupresstis macrocarpa and Irish yews. 

My friend and I moved on to join the rest of our party 
at Florence, where we arrived many hours after our time. 
The railway officials may have feared some danger from 
flooded torrents, as the train went very slowly. The 
weather was extremely bad and very cold, and the idea of 
going to live up on any of the hills outside Florence 
did not smile upon my party at all, but I confess that, to 
me, much of the charm of Florence disappears when I 
am boxed up in the centre of the town. It ended in our 
establishing ourselves in one of the hotels on the Lung 
Arno, and during the three weeks I remained here, we 
hardly had a fine day and only one that was really warm. 

Among the first things I noticed were pots full of 
beautiful turban ranunculus. They never seem to be 



MARCH 



173 



grown in pots at home, which is a pity, as their colours 
are so good. "We had a happy time and did lots of sight- 
seeing, but I said enough about Florence in my last book. 
Towards the end of our stay, my son joined our party. 
He had never been in Florence before, and one of his first 
questions was : ' Where is the statue of David, begun by 
Mino da Fiesole and finished by Michael Angelo ? ' I 
was immensely surprised, as I had no idea that he knew 
anything at all about Mino da Fiesole. He then quoted 
from memory the following poem by Owen Meredith : 

LOVE'S LABOUR LOST 

In the old Piazza at Florence a statue of David stands, 
'Tis the masterful work of Michael Angelo's marvellous art, 
Yet a failure nevertheless ; for it came to his master's hands, 
Not a virgin block intact, but already rough-hewn in part. 

And what Mino da Fiesole did to it, Angelo could not undo. 

So the work was but half his own. It is finish'd, yet incomplete. 

As that statue to Michael Angelo hundreds of years ago. 

So are you at this moment to me : an achievement, and yet a defeat ! 

'Tis that others have been before us, of whose touch you retain the 

trace. 
You are half my work, half theirs, thro' your spirit and flesh disperst 
Is the mark of a love not mine, that my own love cannot efface, 
or you were not virgin marble when you came to my hands at first. 

It is one of the many changes which annoy those 
who knew Florence in its old days, that the David has been 
removed from the place which Michael Angelo chose for 
it. But, once it was found necessary to have a hideous 
wooden shed over this statue to protect it from the weather, 
it really was much better to put it indoors, and the David 
gives immense dignity to the noble hall in the Belle Arti, 
where it now stands in a splendid light. 

About the modern alterations in Florence, a friend of 
mine, who had not been there for years, writes : ' I go to 



174 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the galleries and churches and find changes everywhere. 
Like all old folk, I am disposed to say, " Changes for the 
worse '' ; but this would be unreasonable  some are for the 
better. The great, and to me distressing, change is in the 
aspect of the city, the loss of its tall mediaeval walls and the 
" improvement " (?) of its chief streets, which now have 
horrid shop-fronts. The place is no longer in sympathy 
with the great edifices which stand as if they had come to 
call ! As to the galleries, I suppose I must admit im- 
provement, though the character of the Medici collections 
is gone, except in the Tribuna, which has been mercifully 
spared in spite of its very bad light. I had some difficulty 
in finding the Madonna del Calamajo, and that famous 
one of Lippi with the naughty boy angel. But when I 
did find them I confessed that I had for the first time 
seen them in a good light, and in a bad light it is not 
seeing at all. ... I am angry with the Italian Govern- 
ment for transporting statues, &c., and thus taking their 
unique character from the streets of Florence. Every- 
thing is sacrificed to the idea of a " Museo " with cata- 
logues and numbers and staring foreigners ! The object 
of these works is lost and ignored when thus removed, 
and modern horrors of poor Garibaldi who was picturesque, 
and V. Emmanuel, and above all that stout, podgy Manin, 
are everywhere. If artistic merit meant other merit, old 
Cosimo would beat all these moderns as he sits on his 
bronze horse, mercifully not yet inside a Museo. But two 
things are great gain. One is the superb portraits of the 
Portinari family in Hugo Van der Goes' great " Adoration." 
Sina Polco got it done ; it has been in the Spedale and 
hardly two years in the gallery. The other gain is the fine 
Botticelli of " Spring " which I never saw properly long 
ago. It was dirty, hung high and in an impossible light.' 



175 



APRIL 

Arrival at Naples  Museum  English Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals at Naples  Slaughter-houses in England- 
Art objects from Pompeii sometimes echoes of modern Japan 
 Baise  Coleridge and Harrison on Gibbon  South of Italy 
less affected by barbaric invasions than other parts  Aquarium 
 Goats  Dr. Munthe on the housing of the poor  Mrs. 
Jameson's picnic  Pompeii : smaUness of the houses  Mr. 
Eolfe on Pompeiian pins and matches  Cenotaphs and war 
memorials  Pompeiian gardens as models for London  Sorrento 
and Amalfi  Garibaldi on cremation  'Aurora Leigh.' 

About the middle of April my son and I went on to 
Naples, and the rest of the party went home. We did 
shopping and sight-seeing all the morning of the day we 
left Florence, saw our friends off in the afternoon, came 
back and packed, left by rail at six o'clock in the evening, 
changed into a sleeping-car at Eome at midnight, and 
reached Naples at seven the next morning. We took 
a carriage and drove three miles to an hotel high on the 
hUl to the north-west of the town, where we had great 
difficulty in getting a front room. The back rooms were 
close against the rocky sides of the hill, the consolation 
being that the rook was magnificently clothed by a very 
fine old wistaria in full flower. The view from the front 
rooms in the early morning light was certainly most 
glorious. Our first day was almost our only fine one. 
Though well on in April, the weather was very cold, and 
after the first day the view was so veiled that we were 
only able to see Vesuvius twice. One of these times, as the 



176 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

clouds rolled by, it was snow-capped and lighted from foot 
to summit by the setting sun  bright crimson-red at the 
top, graduating down to hazy purple, all the base bathed 
in mist, the town standing out, yellow and red, in front 
of it, and the smoke of the mountain rising up pale grey 
against a coal-black storm-cloud. This was the one really 
beautiful colour effect that I saw during my eight days at 
Naples. The blue bay and purple Ischia never existed 
for us. When we saw the island at all its volcanic peaks 
were only silhouetted in a deeper tone against the grey 
sky. On the whole I was disappointed with Naples ; but 
this is frequently the case on first visiting for a short 
time a place that one has heard of all one's life and 
thought one knew from pictures and descriptions. I was 
disappointed in the one-sidedness of its bay, which curves 
boldly to the east, but is cut off, to the exclusion of all 
coast view, by the rocky feet of the high hills to the west. 
These hide the sunsets, and prevent any distant effect on 
that side of the town. In all other directions the suburbs 
are huge, and getting out of modern Naples is almost like 
getting out of London. 

To return to our first day. In spite of our night 
journey, we got a carriage and made at once for that 
marvellous museum which I had longed all my life to 
see. It is rich with every kind of beautiful object, in 
which the traveller suddenly finds himself face to face 
with the lost life of ancient Greece. The Greek invasion 
of Southern Italy seems to have been some time later 
than the building of Pa3stum, of which the date has been 
fixed with comparative certainty at about 650 B.C. I had 
never been told of one small instance of conservatism 
which I noticed in Naples. It is probably to be found all 
over Southern Italy ; anyhow, the same thing is to be 
seen at Brindisi, so that it is known to many people who 
travel for business and not for pleasure, and who may 



APRIL 177 

never have visited any other Italian town but that one, 
The horses are quite differently harnessed from any- 
where else. They have no bit in their mouths, and are 
guided by a tight bandage  with, I believe, nails in it  
over their noses. This and many other cruelties to 
animals are very apparent in Southern Italy ; and I was 
amused to see, by the prominent advertising of the 
English Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 
that, with the usual characteristic of an BngHsh settle- 
ment in a foreign town, they were keenly alive to the 
faults of the people who surround them, while we at 
home allow the continuance of the most frightful abuses, 
content to be kind to our dogs and horses. I cannot 
understand how this Society rests on its oars while the 
laws at home respecting slaughter-houses remain in- 
adequate, and even these are evaded, not only in our huge 
London, but in every village and town in the land. The 
animals in these slaughter-houses are allowed to get into 
a state of frenzied terror before being killed, as they are 
not protected against the appalling sights, smells, and 
sounds which result from the slaughtering of their com- 
panions. This state of fear produced in them before being 
killed has a most injurious effect on the quality of the 
meat. The curious thing is that the only agitation against 
these abuses comes from the despised vegetarian, for 
sentimental reasons, his own health being unaffected by 
them, whereas to the meat-eater there are materially 
harmful results in the fact that animals are slain while in 
a state of absolute panic. There is, moreover, no proper 
inspection  at any rate, in country districts  to ensure 
against animals being sold for meat in spite of their being 
actually diseased. Very little improvement can be ex- 
pected while the butcher has to bear the whole loss of a 
diseased carcase. I heard the other day, first-hand from 
one of my friends, a tale which gives one cause to ponder. 

N 



178 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

In a consumptive sanatorium the patients who were 
forced by the doctor to eat kidney pudding were all taken 
more or less ill, as was also the doctor. The cook was 
questioned about the kidneys. She promptly answered, as 
if it was nothing very unusual, that several of them had 
stones in them, ' But I cut 'em out before cooking them ' ! 
My friend, having a natural dislike to ' innards,' had 
absolutely refused to eat the pudding, and her immunity 
from sickness led to the inquiry. 

Much as I had looked forward to the Naples Museum, 
it far surpassed all my expectations. It was Garibaldi, 
when dictator in 1860, who proclaimed the museum and 
the territory devoted to the excavations to be the property 
of the nation. Our time in Naples was so short that, as 
we had just come from Florence, we resolved .to avoid the 
picture gallery altogether, with its wealth of mediaeval 
paintings, and give our whole time to the Greek and 
Eoman art treasures to be found in the other parts of the 
museum. Good statues one has seen elsewhere, but the 
bronze objects used in daily life in Pompeii and Hercu- 
laneum, such as lamps, braziers, pots, vases, jugs, beds, 
&c., were an absolute revelation to me. One's astonish- 
ment is heightened when one realises that Pompeii was 
merely a seaside summer resort, about the size of, let us 
say. Worthing. The bronze braziers, beautiful as they 
are, must have afforded little heat to the inhabitants in 
the cold spring months, as most of them are so tall  some 
nearly six feet high. I suppose it is not known what 
was burnt in these braziers ; they may have had some 
artificial fuel, as is used in Japan to this day. The 
lamps are of endless variety of design, sometimes 
grotesque, sometimes quite plain, but all beautiful in 
proportion and balance. Placed on low tripod stands, 
they reminded me in form and general appearance of 
some of the best Japanese stands and vases for flowers. 



APRIL 179 

Did the Greeks get it from the Bast, this wonderful 
feeling of balance, or did Japan gain from India a reflec- 
tion of Greek civilisation ? Balance plays so great a part 
and gives so great a charm to many things. This is well 
illustrated by a tiny bronze statuette of Victory in one 
of the glass oases. The extended wings support her, and 
though one arm is gone, the sense of security is perfect, 
and there is no fear that she will slip from the globe 
beneath her foot. We spent two hours the first morning 
and two hours another morning in this paradise of trea- 
sures, but that was only sufficient to whet the appetite. 
All modern travelling is spoilt by hurry and want of 
time. One travels further and sees less, thanks to the 
rapid modes of locomotion. We returned to our little 
carriage with the bitless ponies, and, having lunched in 
the town, we resolved, with modern energy and want 
of faith that the weather would remain as fine as it was 
then, to drive at once to Baiae. The delighted coach- 
man never let out that the distance was fifteen miles. 
I think if we had known this we should have postponed 
the expedition to another day. But I was very glad we 
went then, for I believe we should never have done it 
otherwise, as the weather did get worse, and we should 
have had no time. 

To go to Baiee you drive through a tunnel which pierces 
the western range of hills, and emerge on to a beautiful 
open sunset space. The road is everywhere studded with 
Eoman ruins. We visited, by order of the coachman, sul- 
phur springs and eruptive holes along the road, and spent a 
delightful hour and a half at Baise itself trying to discrimi- 
nate what were temples, villas, or amphitheatres. I found 
that my ignorance was complete with regard to all classic 
history or the development of its civilisation as shown in 
architecture. When in my youth I read Gibbon's ' History 
of the Decline and Pall of the Eoman Empire ' it had 

n3 



i8o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

dawned even upon my inexperienced mind that the in- 
struction he conveyed was of an unsatisfactory kind, and 
in no way enlightened the reader as to the various 
influences of race, religion, or art, nor as to the evolution 
of one era out of another. It was, therefore, no small 
consolation to me to find in a little volume of Coleridge's 
' Table Talk ' which I happened to have in my travelUng- 
bag, his opinion as to the uninstructive superficiality of 
that immortal work. It may comfort others who have, 
and still more those who have not, read that history, so 
I copy it here :  

' The difference between the composition of a history in 
modern and ancient times is very great ; still there are 
certain principles upon which a history of a modern 
period may be written, neither sacrificing all truth and 
reahty, like Gibbon, nor descending into mere biography 
and anecdote. 

' Gibbon's style is detestable, but his style is not the 
worst thing about him. His history has proved an 
effectual bar to all real familiarity with the temper and 
habits of Imperial Eome. Few persons read the original 
authorities, even those which are classical ; and certainly 
no distinct knowledge of the actual state of the empire 
can be obtained from Gibbon's rhetorical sketches. He 
takes notice of nothing but what may produce an effect ; 
he skips on from eminence to eminence, without ever 
taking you through the valleys between ; in fact, his work 
is little else but a disguised collection of all the splendid 
anecdotes which he could find in any book concerning 
any persons or nations from the Antonines to the capture 
of Constantinople. When I read a chapter in Gibbon, I 
seem to be looking through a luminous haze or fog : 
figures come and go, I know not how or why, all larger 
than life, or distorted or discoloured ; nothing is real, 
vivid, true ; all is scenical, and, as it were, exhibited by 



APRIL 181 

candlelight. And then to call it a " History of the Decline 
and Fall of the Eoman Empire " ! Was there ever a 
greater misnomer ? I protest I do not remember a single 
philosophical attempt made throughout the work to 
fathom the ultimate causes of the decline or fall of that 
empire. How miserably deficient is the narrative of the 
important reign of Justinian ! And that poor scepticism, 
which Gibbon mistook for Socratic philosophy, had led 
him to misstate and mistake the character and influence 
of Christianity in a way which even an avowed infidel or 
atheist would not and could not have done. Gibbon was 
a man of immense reading ; but he had no philosophy ; 
aijd he never fully understood the principle upon which 
the best of the old historians wrote. He attempted to 
imitate their artificial construction of the whole work  their 
dramatic ordonnance of the parts  without seeing that their 
histories were intended more as documents illustrative of 
the truths of political philosophy than as mere chronicles 
of events. The true key to the declension of the Eoman 
Empire  which is not to be found in all Gibbon's immense 
work  may be stated in two words  the imperial 
character overlaying, and finally destroying, the national 
character. Eome under Trajan was an empire without a 
nation.' 

This last sentence may be not without wise application 
to the England of to-day. On my return home I referred 
to that excellent book of lectures by Mr. Frederic 
Harrison on ' The Meaning of History ' (Macmillan, 
1894), to read what he said about the ' Decline and Fall,' 
and it is so supremely 'interesting and encouraging to see 
what different views great men take that I must quote 
what he says from the chapter called ' Some Great Books 
of History ' :  

'It is no personal paradox, but the judgment of all 
competent men, that the " Decline and Pall " of Gibbon is 



i82 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the most perfect historical composition that exists in 
any language ; at once scrupulously faithful in its facts ; 
consummate in its literary art ; and comprehensive in 
analysis of the forces affecting society over a very long 
and crowded epoch. In eight moderate volumes, of 
which every sentence is compacted of learning and 
brimful of thought, and yet every page is as fascinating 
as romance, this great historian has condensed the history 
of the civilised world over the vast period of fourteen 
centuries  linking the ancient world to the modern, the 
Eastern world to the Western, and marshalling in one 
magnificent panorama the contrasts, the relations, and the 
analogies of all. If Gibbon has not the monumental 
simplicity of Thucydides, or the profound insight of 
Tacitus, he has performed a feat which neither has 
attempted. "Survey mankind," says our poet, "from 
China to Peru ! " And our historian surveys mankind 
from Britain to Tartary, from the Sahara to Siberia, and 
weaves for one-third of aU recorded time the epic of the 
human race. 

' Half the hours we waste over desultory memoirs of 
very minor personages and long-drawn biographies of 
mere mutes on the mighty stage of our world, would 
enable us all to know our " Decline and Fall," the most 
masterly survey of an immense epoch ever elaborated by 
the brain of man. There is an old saying that over the 
portal of Plato's Academy it was written, " Let no one 
enter here till he is master of geometry." So we might 
imagine the ideal School of History to have graven on its 
gates, " Let none enter here tiU he has mastered Gibbon." 
Those who find his eight crowded volumes beyond their 
compass might at least know his famous first three 
chapters, the survey of the Eoman Empire down to the 
age of the Antonines; his seventeenth chapter on Con- 
stantine and the establishment of Christianity ; the reign 



APRIL 183 

of Theodosius (chaps. 32-34) ; the Conversion of the 
Barbarians (chap. 37) ; the Kingdom of Theodorio 
(chap. 39) ; the reign of Justinian (chaps. 40, 41, 42) ; 
with the two famous chapters on Eoman Law (chaps. 43, 
44). If we add others, we may take the career of 
Charlemagne (chap. 49) ; of Mahomet (chaps. 50, 51) ; the 
Crusades (chaps. 58, 59), which are not equal to the first- 
mentioned ; the rise of the Turks (chaps. 64, 65) ; the 
last Siege of Constantinople (chap. 68) ; and the last 
chapters on the City of Eome (69, 70, 71).' 

It seems ridiculous, but to me there was more life and 
realism in the pages of Sienkiewicz's novel, ' Quo Vadis ' 
than in any chapter of Gibbon. Nowadays, it is the 
fashion to defend the character of the worst Eoman 
emperors, making out, what is probably quite true, that 
they were not as black as they were painted. But Sien- 
kiewicz's object is not to exonerate Nero; on the con- 
trary, his line is a prejudiced one against the old world 
in favour of the new, and offends many people with its 
dogmatic tone. 

As is usual with me when I get home, I find out all 
sorts of books that would have been a great help had I 
taken them with me. It is so different reading books in 
the atmosphere of the locality to which they refer, com- 
pared vrith merely seeking for general information. There 
are many books of this kind in Bohn's Classical Library, 
and the ' Lives of the Twelve Csesars,' by C. Suetonius 
Tranquillus, translated by Alexander Thompson, M.D., is 
a classic which would vivify the old world to a great 
many. This account of these emperors by a con- 
temporary  Suetonius was the son of a Eoman knight 
who commanded a legion  seems to bring the old world 
as near to us as do Pliny's Letters, many of which were 
addressed to this same Suetonius, with whom he lived in 
the closest friendship. Lately, Macmillan has republished 



i84 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

in the ' Golden Treasury Series ' Cicero's two famous 
essays on Old Age and Eriendship. It is a new English 
translation, by E. S. Shuckburgh. In the introduction he 
kindly tells us that these essays were written while Cicero 
in his old age (63) was travelling about with his secre- 
taries. He says, ' With the palace of fame so laboriously 
raised tumbling about his ears, Cicero found consolation 
in two things  literature and philosophy. While moving 
from villa to villa on that enchanting coast ' (which was 
the coast about Naples) ' he was incessantly reading and 
writing ; keeping his staff of literary slaves, or freedmen, 
so hard at work that they longed for the holiday to be over, 
and to return to the less fatiguing duties of city life.' 

Our return journey from Baiae was in the cool twilight, 
when our little ponies took us back to our hotel at 
Naples. I had had a pretty hard thirty-six hours, and 
reserved to myself the right of having milk and bread in 
my room instead of going to the table-d'hote. I woke 
the next morning as fresh as usual. 

Walking about Naples is full of interest ; for though 
the principal streets are like those of many other con- 
tinental towns, this only shows up the remarkable contrast 
of the side streets and alleys, so narrow, so small, so pic- 
turesque, with their strip of blue sky above, the shops 
windowless  only large black holes in the wall. The 
goods displayed are half of them inside and half tumbling 
out on to the old cobbled roadway with the gutter running 
down the middle of it. So much in the Naples of to-day 
seems like Pompeii brought to life again. The very 
method of driving suggests a chariot behind the coach- 
man instead of a fly. Everything seems to make one 
realise that the dark ages of barbaric destruction left 
Southern Italy comparatively untouched. Perhaps as a 
natural consequence of this, art, having lingered and 
clung in every direction to the traditions of the past, 



APRIL i8s 

the Eenaissanee was here without life or originality, and 
the pictorial art which grew up in Naples in the middle 
ages perraeated gradually from the North. This is 
interestingly shown by the couple of pages in Kugler's 
' Handbook of Painting ' which he finds sufficient to 
describe ' the school of Naples.' The chief interest of 
this ' school,' as he calls it, is that many of the pictures 
are original works by Flemish painters which served as 
models to the Neapolitan artists. Later they were 
affected by the Spanish school. 

Oh ! we had so little time for everything. What is a 
week in Naples for seeing all one wants to see, even in 
the most superficial way ? The aquarium is, I believe, 
one of the best in Europe, not only for superiority of 
arrangement and lighting, but for the scientific interest of 
the exhibits. With a little friendliness to the custodian,, 
he shows off for one's benefit some of the peculiarities of 
the inhabitants of the sea by feeding them. For me 
aquariums have a great fascination, though I have to 
harden myself against a feeling of extreme depression 
aroused by the cruelties of nature as there displayed. 

Walking home in the evening, we met one of the 
flocks of goats that are driven about the better parts of the 
town to be milked at the house doors. Seeing goats in 
the streets of Naples first gave me the idea, which I work 
out earlier in the book, of what an immense benefit the 
keeping of goats might be in England. 

I tried to find out where Lady Hamilton and Sir 
William lived in the Nelson time. Her letters in that 
most curious book by J. C. Jeaffreson, ' Lady Hamilton and 
Lord Nelson,' were generally written from what Mr. 
Jeaffreson calls ' her villa in Caserta.' The few people 
I was able to ask seemed never to have heard of the 
Hamiltons, or even of Nelson. But I saw no educated 
Italians. They would doubtless know all about it, for I 



1 86 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

fear hate lives longer than anything, and they will per- 
haps never forgive. the terrible story which is recalled 
with great historical precision in the introduction to 
' The Autobiography of Giuseppe Garibaldi,' finished by his 
friend Jesse White Mario. This book ranks to-day as 
almost an old one, having been published in 1899. It 
gives the Italian version of what I suppose is now 
universally recognised as Nelson's great crime, in helping 
the King and Queen of Naples to forsake their country, 
and despoiling it of its treasure and jewels, at the time of 
the French invasion in 1799. No anecdote in history 
sticks so much to its locality as that of the murder of the 
noble Admiral Garacciolo, who, when condemned on board 
the British flag-ship for not obeying the orders of his dis- 
loyal King, was hanged at his own yard-arm, having been 
refused the only favour he asked after his trial, which 
was to be shot. No one can look at the Bay of Naples 
without remembering how the Italian admiral's body,, 
in spite of its heavily shotted shroud, rose to the 
surface and floated under the windows of the King's 
cabin on board the English admiral's flag-ship. Not 
content with this, we must never forget that the English 
banner waved over Naples in those terrible times when 
the early martyrs of Italian liberty and thirty thousand 
prisoners suffered inhuman cruelties, which Mario says 
' defy description and surpass belief.' 

The day we went to Pompeii was perversely unfavour- 
able  grey, thick, and very warm. We thought we should 
be superior and do things in old-fashioned style by driving 
there instead of going by rail. This almost anyone could 
have told us was a great mistake. The rail is infinitely 
the better, though in fine weather I should think it would 
be possible to go by water  for those who like it. We 
drove through miles and miles of continuous slums, broken 
here and there by a handsome old villa. All picturesque- 



APRIL 187 

ness of costume has disappeared  no lazzaronis, no red 
caps, no eating of macaroni in the streets. The street 
often runs close to the sea, but the double row of houses 
hides everything. Murray says the drive is interesting if 
you have time to visit the towns at the foot of Vesuvius ; 
but we had not, and we slightly resented his not having 
warned us against the badness of the road and the dreari- 
ness of the drive, though he does say that those who are 
pressed for time had better go by rail. In this I entirely 
agree. All along the drive I kept thinking of Dr. Axel 
Munthe's wonderful ' Letters from a Mourning City,' 
written at the time of the cholera epidemic in 1884. I 
have often heard Naples described as the hot-bed of every 
vice. But in making that no doubt true accusation, how 
few remember the sanitary condition of the place, which 
is worse and more crowded than in any other city of 
Europe ! Munthe gives the following description of the 
hygiene of Naples in 1885, and it is a great consolation 
to be told, as I was, that with the sacrifice of much of 
the picturesque, there is also a great improvement now in 
the sanitary housing of the poor. Munthe says : ' The 
laws of hygiene teach us how close a connection exists 
between the sanitary conditions of a locality and the 
density of its population. The history of the Neapolitan 
epidemic furnishes us with an example of this law con- 
cerning density of population. Upon a surface of eight 
square kilometres (amount of surface that has been built 
over), there dwell no less than 461,962 human beings. 
And according to the official statistics no less than 
128,804 of these people inhabit underground dwelhngs 
and cellars. But there is something worse than these 
hassi and sotto terrani ; another step down the shelving 
ladder of society and we come to a still more wretched 
form of habitation  to the fondaci. You have often 
heard me speak of these places as the scenes of the most 



i88 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

appalling misery out here. There are eighty-six fondaci 
in Naples at the present moment; formerly they were 
still more numerous, but more modern constructions have 
done away with a good many. ... A third sort of dwell- 
ing place consists of the so-called locande, where lodgers 
are received for the night at two and three soldi a head. 
I have even seen locandi where they are received for one 
soldi a head, but there the people sit and lean their arms 
and heads against a rope that is stretched across the 
room from one wall to another, not a bad idea for accom- 
modating a crowd.' Dr. Munthe refers in such kindly 
words to the superstition which means so much to 
Italians and is often only an irritation to northern minds, 
that I must make one other quotation :  

' . . . And those who sneered at their superstitions 
and forbad their processions, what had they to offer them 
in exchange for their obscure but rock-like faith? Ah 
yes, sanitary rules, veritable sarcasms on their poverty, 
printed advertisements, which most of them were unable 
to read and none of them were able to understand, recom- 
mending them to live in airy rooms, to avoid vegetables, 
and take to meat, to disinfect constantly, either with 
carbolic acid or with " corrosive sublimate,'' the most 
effective microbe antidote according to Dr. Koch. . . . 
And what has the obtuse brain of a lazzarone to do with 
Koch and microbes?  he whose thoughts have never 
crossed the bay beyond which the whole of the remain- 
ing world is " Barbaria " to him ; he who knows a host 
of Saints' days, a few prayers that he has been taught as 
a child, the names of a dozen fish he has seen jumping 
in the nets at Mergellina ; he who can play at morra and 
sing Santa Lucia, and that is about all ! How is he to 
manage to " air the room "  he who lives with ten or 
twelve others in one of those fondaci, into which the 
light of day has never been known to penetrate, where 



APRIL 189 

one of us is unable to remain for more than a moment 
without going out to take a breath of fresh air ? And he 
is, forsooth, to choose his food ; he whose expenses at the 
best of times never exceed one or two soldi a day ; he 
who never in his life has had tjie chance of tasting meat, 
and whom you may perhaps see standing in front of the 
baker's shop, watching with the expression of a hungry 
animal in his eyes the piece of bread which you have just 
given your dog, and then fighting over the remaining 
crumbs with a crowd of others such as himself. 

' And as to disinfection ! What does he know about 
that, he who, alas ! shows so little inclination to master 
the first great rule of disinfection, the popular antiseptic 
which consists in sometimes dipping one's hands and 
face in water. . . . Just give a thought to all this, and 
then it will no longer strike you as so wonderful that 
these poor people should believe more in the censer's 
clouds than in the sulphur's fumes, and more in holy 
water than in a ten per cent, solution of carbolic acid.' 

I felt thrilled on arriving at Pompeii, which all my 
life I had so longed to see ; but the dust, the dirt, the 
crowd of tourists at the little hotel where we had to 
breakfast were most destructive of all the higher emotions. 
The old world faded away, and the degradedness of what 
is called civilisation was terribly to the fore. But in this 
motley crowd my son and I were really alone-  a fact 
which contrasted favourably with my recollection of Mrs. 
Jameson's description in her ' Diary of an Ennui6e ' of a 
fashionable society picnic. How much happier and how 
much more real is the enjoyment of anything we see with 
one chosen companion than with a host of even intimate 
acquaintances ? Writing on March 30, 1824, Mrs. Jame- 
son says : ' Yesterday we dined al fresco in the Boboli 
Gardens ; and though our party was rather too large, 
it was well assorted, and the day went off admirably 



I go A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The queen of our feast was in high good humour, and 
irresistible in charms. . . . Everybody played their part 
well, each by a tacit convention sacrificing to the amour 
propre of the rest. Every individual really occupied with 
his own particular rdle, but all apparently happy and 
mutually pleased. Vanity and selfishness, indifference 
and ennui, were veiled under a general mask of good 
humour and good breeding, and the flowery" bonds of 
politeness and gallantry held together those who knew 
no common tie of thought or interest ; and when parted 
(as they soon will be, north, south, east, and west) will 
probably never meet again in this world; and whether 
they do or not, who thinks or cares ? ' 

We finished our very indifferent breakfast as quickly 
as possible, engaged a guide  which is absolutely essential 
if one only has time for a single visit  and got a chaise- 
d-porteur and two strong porters to carry me about. The 
entrance to the town is now arranged with a turnstile, 
and everything you pass is knovsm and explained to you 
by the guides, who seem to exercise their monotonous 
duties with great civiUty. Although it is absolutely right 
of the Italian Government to preserve their treasures 
against the modern inroad of tourists from all over the 
world, I think there must have been immensely greater 
charm in visiting Pompeii in the old free days when 
everybody could poke about and wonder and muse as 
he liked. Shelley certainly could not have said to-day 
as he did in 1820 in the ' Ode to Naples '  

I stood within the city disinterr'd ; 
And heard the autumnal leaves like light footfalls 
Of spirits passing through the streets ; and heard 
The mountain's slumbrous voice at intervals 
Thrill through those roofless halls. 

In those happy days before the Italian Government 
undertook the guardianship of the treasures at Pompeii, 



APRIL 



191 



it almost seems that anybody could dig, buy, or rob at 
his own discretion. Even so late as Mrs. Jameson's 
day (1824), she tells how a little imp of a lazzarone 
clawed away the dust and dirt to show her a most 
beautiful aerial figure with floating drapery, representing 
either Fame or Victory. He quickly covered it up again 
that the other workmen might not see, and grinningly 
appealed for a few pence as his reward. Bulwer is, some 
say, little read now by the young ; but I expect as long 
as the English language is spoken his ' Last Days of 
Pompeii ' will remain to tourists at Naples what George 
Eliot's ' Eomola ' is to visitors at Florence. I wonder if 
it is more true to the spirit of those classic days than 
' Eomolo ' is to the middle ages, though George Eliot 
is none the less interesting from being modern  not 
mediaeval  in feeling. 

The general characteristic of the Pompeiian buildings 
is their extreme smallness, and the houses must have been 
what we should think very cramped and uncomfortable, 
even in a seaside lodging, to-day. A wish for shade and 
dread of sunshine seem to have been the first considera- 
tions rather than warmth or ease. A cortile, or cloister, 
generally surrounded the little garden or yard in the 
middle of the houses. It was here that the Pompeiians 
evidently spent their days. In one of these I saw fixed 
tables placed in two or three different directions so as to 
be suitable for use at various hours of the day. One often 
wonders whether the climate of Italy is colder now, or if 
the people are much more chilly than they used to be 
from want of health. It is only in my lifetime that 
warming houses in Italy has been considered at all neces- 
sary, and certainly 150 years ago the clothes that women 
wore even in England were strangely insufficient compared 
with the furs and wraps which people hardly ever put 
away now. 



192 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There has been such immense improvement of late in 
the art of excavation, that now it can be done without in- 
juring even the most delicate wall-decorations. So good 
have some of these proved that the houses are being roofed 
over in order to preserve them. This will make the future 
excavations much more interesting, as the treasures can 
now be left on the spot instead of carrying them off to the 
museum. The mural decorations were evidently not the 
work of great painters, like the frescoes of mediaeval Italy. 
They are without much variety, they have no gradation, 
and are painted in a conventionally fantastic style rather 
than in the realistic or poetical. In fact, they rank as the 
upholsterer's purely decorative art. But, given this fact, 
the wonder is that so high an artistic level was attained, 
and they prove that the ordinary ' decorator ' of the day 
was essentially an artist in his own particular line. The 
patterns on the walls, even when only stencilled, are well 
drawn and in excellent taste. In spite, however, of their 
charm of a miniature kind in these little empty rooms, I 
do not think the decorations displayed on the black or red 
walls of Pompeii would bear imitation in our northern 
houses. The rooms evidently must have been compara- 
tively devoid of furniture, which made the wall-painting 
their chief ornament ; as in Japan to this day, one hang- 
ing picture and one flower arrangement are thought suffi- 
cient decoration. 

I only record one or two of my personal impressions, 
as Pompeii must appeal to everyone in his own especial 
way. I think people going to Pompeii would do well to 
get and read before they go there a book by our Consul at 
Naples, Mr. Eustace Neville Eolfe, called ' Pompeii, Popu- 
lar and Practical : an easy book on a difficult subject.' 
This it essentially is. I did not see it till after I got back. 
As a specimen of the kind of interesting information he 
gives, I quote this one paragraph : ' It is unsafe to argue 



APRIL 193 

that the Pompeiians did not have things, because we have 
only recently invented them. The safety-pin, which is 
quite a modern invention, was in common use in Pompeii. 
Wire rope, which we look upon as a new discovery, was 
known in those days, and a very fine specimen of it may 
be seen in the Naples Museum. Martial speaks of sulphur 
matches, which in our English kitchens replaced the old- 
fashioned tinder-box scarcely fifty years ago, and the sur- 
gical instruments found in Pompeii were lost to science 
for centuries and reinvented in our day almost in their 
original form.' In various other directions besides these 
Mr. Rolfe alludes to, it is clear that our civilisation has 
not yet reached the level of the Greek long before the 
existence of Pompeii. In a chapter on the ' Street of the 
Tombs,' he has what was to me a very suggestive passage. 
In commenting upon these tombs, he says : ' We must 
not pass over the Cenotaph of Calventius Quietus, because 
Cenotaphs represent an interesting phase of the post- 
humous honours paid to the deceased by the Eomans. 
The word signifies " an empty tomb," and such buildings 
were habitually erected to people who had passed away 
without having burial rites. Thus if a man were drowned 
at sea or killed in battle, a tomb was erected for him at 
home in the belief that this would give his spirit rest, and 
a safe transit across the Styx. The idea is pathetic, and 
is frequently made use of by the poets, sometimes by 
making the unburied corpse reappear, sometimes, as in 
Horace's well-known ode, by making the spirit beg the 
passing stranger to cast a handful of sand upon the un- 
buried corpse, in token that rites of some kind had been 
performed upon it, so that the wandering soul might have 
rest.' This idea may seem heathenish to some, but surely 
there is a dignity in the principle of honouring at home 
those who die in the service of their country, no matter 
where or from what cause. I think the soldier's grave 

o 



194 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

should be left to nature, as the sailor is buried at sea, and 
it has seemed to me lately, with my mind constantly 
dwelling on the sadnesses of the South African War, a great 
mistake, though a very natural one, to try to make the 
perishable imperishable by societies for the preservation of 
soldiers' graves on the veldt. Even in ordinary church- 
yards are we not too often reminded of a fact which Sir 
Henry Taylor puts into his ' Philip Van Artevelde ' ? 

Fain and grief are transitory things no less than joy, 
j And though they leave us not the man we were, 

Yet they do leave us. 

The ideal way, I think, of honouring the dead and keep- 
ing their memory alive would be to have, let us say, in 
each postal district of the place from which they came, a 
stone raised on which would be vreitten the names and 
dates of those, from a general to the youngest private, 
who have been killed or died in any war. The feeling is 
almost a bitter one that those who die in what are more 
or less ' fashionable ' wars, such as the Crimean, or the 
recent great Boer war, should be more honoured and their 
resting-places more cared for than those who have laid 
down their life in the swamps of West Africa or the China 
rice-fields. 

' At Pompeii there is an attempt, in one or two instances, 
to restore the gardens. It seems to me the old gardens, 
tiny as they were, are very good models of what town 
gardens should be with the aid of pavements, brick paths, 
tesselated pavements or mosaics, and constant renewal of 
the actual plants, never trying to imitate the large spaces 
of the country where things can be left to grow on from 
year to year and where growth and size become a pride 
and delight. I think in small gardens everything should 
be kept very decorative, but very miniature. The difficulty 
of flowering plants in London is the height of the houses. 



APRIL 195 

which, in some circumstances, excludes nearly all sun- 
shine. Nothing can stand this but ferns and ivy, but a 
very charming, dainty little garden might be made vsrith 
various coloured ivies, euonymus, holly, privet, &c., provided 
they were much pruned or even continually renewed. In 
fact, like many other things, London gardens depend on 
elbow grease  that is to say, a great deal of work, atten- 
tion, washing, &c. There is much opening for individual 
development in this direction. In a suggestive article 
which has much interested me, by Mr. Whitmore, in the 
' National Eeview ' for July, 1902, he condemns me for 
my objection to evergreens in London, and I quite see his 
point of view as regards their use. But it must be in an 
entirely different way from what has been generally done 
in London suburbs, where the evergreens are left untended 
from year to year till everything is black, except the new 
shoot for a short time in the spring. I immensely like his 
recommendation that no fair-sized London garden need be 
without its blossoming fruit-trees. He praises mulberries 
a little more than I think they deserve for towns, except in 
eases of people having to live in London through the 
autumn, as their leaf comes out so very late in the spring, 
and they have no blossom to speak of. In these gardens 
of miniature evergreens which I am picturing to myself, 
colour might be introduced by buying the flowering plants 
in pots as they come into season. In fact, the whole treat- 
ment of the garden should be as nearly as possible that 
of an ornamented terrace, tubs, vases, pots, anything that 
there is room for, and the instant removal of anything un- 
healthy or which reminds one in any way of the injury to 
plant life of London smoke and climate. A clean well- 
paved yard with one healthy plant gives me more pleasure 
than a broad border with badly grown, unhealthy shrubs or 
unsatisfactory herbaceous plants. People who are inclined 
not to spend much money on their little yard or garden 

o 2 



196 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

should confine their expenditure to the original paving 
and a good hose. Then two or three plants, when they 
can afford to purchase them, will always look satisfactory. 
The visitor ought to be able to say, ' How pretty your 
little yard is ! ' instead of the rather bashful owner's 
apology, ' It's not bad for London.' We must never forget 
that in London all cleanliness is artificial and is only 
attained by giving the matter a great deal of attention. 

On leaving Pompeii, we were tempted to send our 
carriage back empty and return to Naples by rail, but we 
decided to go home as we came, slums and all, and 
naturally found it less tedious, as WB knew what to 
expect. 

One more delightful day to record, which alas ! did not 
include the much-wished-for visit to Psestum. We went 
by train to Castelamare, then drove again along the eastern 
side of the Bay, to Sorrento, and part of this way was 
actually in the country. Had it not drizzled it would have 
been an enjoyable as well as a beautiful drive. The great 
hotel at Sorrento where we spent the night looked gloomy 
and damp, the rooms being well shaded and adapted in 
every way to keep off the brilliant afternoon sunshine. 
Capri was invisible, and I had to fall back again on my 
recollections of Eobert Lytton's little poem to imagine 
how Sorrento could look on a fine spring afternoon. He 
sent me this poem in a letter from Sorrento ; it was after- 
wards published in the volume called 'After Paradise; 
or. Legends of Exile.' 

SORRENTO REVISITED 
(1885) 

On the lizarded wall and the gold-orb'd tree 

Spring's splendour again is shining ; 
But the glow of its gladness awakes in me 

Only a vast repining. 



APRIL T97 

To Sorrento, asleep on the soft blue breast 
Of the sea that she loves, and dreaming. 

Lone Capri uplifts an ethereal crest 
In the luminous azure gleaming. 

And the Sirens are singing again from the shore. 

'Tis the song that they sang to Ulysses ; 
But the sound of a song that is sung no more 

My soul in their music misses. 

We went to bed early, with gloomy forebodings about 
the weather for the following day. We woke the next 
morning to find that, without being all we could desire, it 
was very much better than the day before. Our little 
carriage came early to the door, and the quiet solitude of 
the long and beautiful drive lately made along the rock- 
bound coast was as great an enjoyment as any day spent 
this spring in Italy. Here I first noticed the extreme 
beauty of flowering kales. They flower in England 
when left to do so in somewhat untidy cottage gardens, 
but this happens so much later than in Italy that they get 
swamped amongst more showy spring flowers. I instantly 
sent my gardener a postcard to preserve, so that they 
might bloom, some of the winter kales in my garden. 
Since then they have always been allowed to flower, and 
make most beautiful pale yellow starry bunches to put 
in water or send to London. They remain in perfection 
in the garden for over a fortnight. 

As we drove on, away from fields and gardens for 
about two miles, the whole of the foot of a sloping hill 
was covered with extra tall white asphodels {Asphodehis 
ramosus). I never before saw them so tall or so fine. I 
longed to get out and pick some, but my companion said : 
' Oh, there'll be plenty more.' Once the two miles were 
over, we never saw another during the whole day. The 
slope of the hill, with its gentle moisture, protected from 
east wind, probably exactly suited the plant, which, to my 



198 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

mind, is not grown nearly enough in England in large 
open places, by sheltered streams, or by the sides of woods. 
I have had a plant or two in my garden for many years, 
but I have no space for the fine effects of massing plants 
of one kind together which are so striking in well-managed 
wild gardening, or what is called ' wild gardening.' To 
get a considerable quantity these asphodels must be grown 
from seed. 

If anything could teach one the real value of pro- 
tecting plants and vegetables, so little done in England, it 
.would be travelling in Italy in the spring. The extra- 
iOrdinary industry displayed by these poor peasant owners 
over the lemon crops alone is a lesson never to be for- 
gotten. Miles and miles of terraces, most difficult to 
reach, are covered over vrith rough protection made with 
poles, branches, and rough grass, woven together in the 
place of straw. Under this hangs the beautiful yellow 
fruit, only protected on the sides where cold winds from 
the sea might injure it. 

Soon after twelve we arrived at Amalfi, where we spent 
two or three hours. We lunched at the old Capucine 
Convent, now an hotel; it is too well known to travellers 
in Italy to need praise from me. Amongst all its many 
beauties and interests nothing seems more worthy of 
notice to the gardener than the world-famed, vine-clad 
Pergola, which is illustrated in the second edition of Mr. 
Eobinson's ' EngKsh Flower Garden.' It is an inadequate 
representation, and this no doubt is the reason that Mr. 
Eobinson has omitted it from later editions. But how 
different is the sight of the real thing from any illustra- 
tration or any description. The Pergola is in two parts, 
the old and the new. The old, as is so often the case, is 
infinitely the more beautiful, the more practical, and, 
needless to say, the more lasting. It is built cornice- 
like along the side of the | hill. As you stand at the hotel 



APRIL 199 

door and look down its long gallery of round columns, 
snowy white, built of I don't know what, and plastered 
over, you see a strong wall about four and a half feet 
high on the left or hill side. This is wedged between the 
columns, looking as if it were threaded through them, 
to prevent the falling stones or slight landslips from 
the hill above injuring the broad Pergola path, along 
which the monks used to enjoy their daily winter walk in 
the sun. On the top of this wall, where the gentle 
summer moistures are caught as they drip from the hill, 
is a bed of cultivated soil containing all kinds of flowers. 
On the right or precipice side of the path, the artificial 
construction is for the reverse object and supports the 
long walk itself. The wall stretches for some way down 
the surface of the rock, but rises only about three feet 
above the level of the path, for the safety of those who 
wander by moonlight, and to prevent any weakening or 
slipping away of the level footway. On this side, a broad 
flower bed, nearly three feet wide, is placed within the 
wall and consists of a border of earth raised terrace-like 
about a foot above the path. Here there is shelter from 
the winds, and Madonna lilies and irises bask in the sun. 
The roofing is of sapling trees  stems gnarled and rough- 
hewn. These are placed, beam like, across the pillar-tops, 
securely wedged by a deep rut in the plaster, and extend- 
ing boldly for several feet beyond the column. The 
length-way beams are tied haphazard, now under, now 
over, these cross-bars, and overlap at the joins to give 
strength. They are laid over and tied to the cross-bars 
only on the inner side of the columns, leaving these un- 
connected (except with the opposite side), like an avenu^ 
of stpne trees. The vines are planted in the beds within 
the ,walls. Now that I am trying to describe it, I regret 
very much that I took no measurements, as this was the 
most beautifully proportioned Pergola I have ever seen. 



200 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Photographs of it, however, are easily obtainable, and it is 
a model which would help anybody to understand how 
beautiful Pergolas can be. In the newer part, though the 
walls are solidly built as the situation renders necessary, 
the supports are only made of rough saplings, round 
Vehich the vines are twisted and tied. This part is more 
helpful than the older one for the arrangement of beds 
and the general planting of a Pergola on flat ground. 
The cliff is much less precipitous, so that the walls are 
lower and the flowers hang over the path from beds out- 
side, where the vines are also planted. 

All over the cliff was growing in great beauty the 
spiraea called by tourists ' Italian may ' {Spirfsa japonica, 
known as S. callosa). Pour or five hours' more driving 
brought us to La Cava station, and we returned to Naples 
by rail. 

I had time to see only one garden at Naples. It lay 
under the shade of the western hills, and was a very 
beautifully wooded, tangled dell, more a shrubbery run 
wild than a garden, and it sadly wanted pruning. I was 
told that Garibaldi had lived and died at the villa belong- 
ing to this garden, down close by the sea. But this can 
only have been partially true. He may have lived there, 
but he died on June 2, 1882, in the Island of Caprera. 
It was his earnestly expressed wish to be cremated, but 
this neither his widow nor anyone about him had the 
courage to carry out. It is stated in his biography that, 
after being told by Captain Roberts of the burning of 
Shelley and Williams, Garibaldi said : ' It is the right 
thing, and it is beautiful and a healthy thing also ; you 
defy worms and corruption, you do not contaminate the 
air of the living. Only the priests oppose it ; it would 
hurt their trade.' I think this puts the matter well, 
though of course the sentimental reason against crema- 
tion is not alluded to, neither is there any acknowledg- 



APRIL 20I 

ment of the rather trivial objection that cremation renders 
the exhuming of bodies impossible in cases of supposed 
murder. This seems to me a very small evil compared with 
the daily contamination of earth, air, and water for the living. 
Moreover, from the sentimental point of view, there is an 
almost unthinkable horribleness in the crowded ceme- 
teries near towns, so different from the quiet resting-place 
under an old yew-tree in the pure country air, where in 
youth we most of us think we should like our bones to be 
at peace when our end comes. Sir Henry Thompson, the 
well-known surgeon, who has been the great promoter of 
cremation in England, was telling me only the other day 
how very, very slow is the progress it makes in our own 
or any other country. To its advocates this is incredible  
it seems so obviously the most sensible form of burial. 
Every year Sir Henry Thompson publishes the statistics 
of cremation in the ' Lancet.' This year his article 
appeared in the issue of July 5 (1902), and is very in- 
teresting reading to those who care for the subject. 

A'pril 23ri.  Our return journey from Naples was by 
the German Lloyd steamer, and our finest two days were 
the day we went on board and the day we got off at 
Genoa. In old times, if one went from Leghorn to 
Genoa by sea, it was by an Italian steamer. To-day the 
fine ships along that coast are German. You get out of 
the little boat that takes you from the Italian shore to the 
steamer, and you feel almost as if you were in a great 
hotel in Germany. I have travelled so little by sea that 
I immensely enjoyed the sight of the Bay of Naples and 
all the little scenes surrounding a big steamer, boys 
diving for coppers, &c. Buildings, or the work of man 
like Stonehenge, or the Mont St. Michel, are exceedingly 
like their pictures, photographs, drawings, or paintings; 
but Nature  in this instance Vesuvius  was far more 
beautiful than any portrait of it ever conveyed to my 



202 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

mind. Steaming along the coast was enchanting, and I 
enjoyed it to the Ml, with the sea so calm that the large 
vessel was absolutely steady. All the fine afternoon till 
it grew dark we sat on deck and enjoyed the beauties of 
the shores and islands. My mind flew back to Marion's 
description in ' Aurora Leigh ' :  

.... I could hear my own soul speak. 

And had my friend,  for Nature comes sometimes 

And says, ' I am ambassador for God.' 

I felt the wind soft from the land of Souls ; 

The old miraculous mountains heaved in sight. 

One straining past another along the shore. 

The way of grand dull Odyssean ghosts, 

Athirst to drink the cool blue wine of seas 

And stare on voyagers. 

Very few young people nowadays seem to read ' Aurora 
Leigh.' This is not surprising, as the cause of women as 
preached by Mrs. Browning has been more than accepted 
for some years. But I was interested to see, in a syllabus 
sent to me the other day by a suburban club for women's 
lectures to women, that one lecture was entitled : ' What 
do the women of to-day owe to " Aurora Leigh " ? ' 

Genoa was bathed in golden, bright, twinkUng sun- 
shine, and oh ! the regret of toiling up to the hot station 
to take the train for the north. 



203 



MAX 

Apology for more gardening notes Journey to Ireland  New English 
Art Club  A modern landscape recalling Claude at his best  
Spring in the West of Ireland  Glorification of flat garden by old 
yuccas  Persian ranunculus  Want of thinning out and pruning a 
universal fault  An East Coast garden  Cultivation of Hydrangea 
paniculata' The Wild Geese '  Gardening letter from German 
friend  Two good spring plants  A sundial  Floating bouquets 
 The May horticultural show. 

The number of excellent gardening books that have been 
written of late almost makes one ashamed to write any- 
further on the subject. But perhaps the personal experi- 
ence of any one individual has always a certain interest 
for amateurs who are really fond of gardening. Not long 
ago, when listening to a discussion about these gardening 
books and their superabundant number, I heard one man 
remark, with rather a sad voice, for he had great posses- 
sions : ' No one ever seems to write with a view to helping 
people who have large gardens and woods.' So it came 
into my mind that I might write a few notes about large 
places I have visited during the last two years, and that, 
perhaps, any information I had gleaned as to any indi- 
vidual plants which I particularly noticed as doing well 
either at home or abroad, might be of some service to 
those who had gardens of no matter what size. 

I have divided my notes into months, because garden- 
ing hints are so much simplified by taking the diary form , 
and in this way I can condense two years' experiences into 



204 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

one. I have omitted the three winter months of November, 
December and January ; for, though all months are equally 
important at home, one gains but little knowledge in 
winter from seeing the gardens of others. One's own 
garden is never dull in the worst weather because one can 
always picture what will be, and one can always think 
over the errors of the past, as useful in gardening as in 
other things, so long as it is not merely regretting the 
past, but determining to do better. Maeterlinck says 
somewhere that ' we are so constituted that nothing takes 
us further or leads us higher than the leaps made by our 
own errors.' If this is true of life, it is doubly true of 
gardening, and winter is a time for planning and 
reflection. 

This late spring saw me journeying to Ireland instead 
of Italy, as I did last year. The day I left home I break- 
fasted, as usual, at eight ; I then gardened, wrote letters, 
finished up the usual home-leaving business, and gave 
orders. At twelve I dressed and caught the one o'clock 
train to London, ate my bread and fruit travelling-luncheon 
in the train, deposited my maid and luggage at my son's flat, 
went to see a friend, and then visited two picture galleries. - 
On my return to the flat I wrote several notes, rested and 
read for an hour, and dined at eight, on cheese, bread, salad, 
and fruit. I travelled by night mail to Dublin with the 
usual interrupted sleep of that journey. At nine the next 
morning in the train I had some hot milk and bread and 
butter, though sorely tempted to fall to excellent slices 
of grilled fresh salmon, which everyone around me was 
enjoying. I arrived at my destination at 12.50, and after 
a cold bath and a change of clothes I felt as Uttle tired as 
if I had been at home and spent the night in bed. I 
merely give these uninteresting details to prove that, after 
nine or ten years of diet, my health and strength are better, 
not worse, than those of most people of my age, or even 



MAY 205 

many much younger. This in no spirit of self-glorification, 
but for the sake of the cause which, I maintain, makes 
people stronger and more able to work, not less so. That 
is the whole point. 

Before I go on with my Irish visits I must say a few 
words about one of the galleries I mentioned above, as it 
was the first visit I had ever paid to an exhibition of the 
New English Art Club. It interested me much, as it 
seems to represent to the young artist of to-day the very 
same kind of rebound that the earlypre-Eaphaelite brother- 
hood did to those interested in the new art in my youth, 
or, on broader lines, what the eighteenth century was to 
the seventeenth. So far as I could judge by this one 
exhibition, the school is a revolt against what is generally 
called colour, a determination to follow some special set 
of tones, and to arrive at a certain harmony and charm by 
pitching all bright pure colour, especially green, out of 
the paint-box. Is realism to be ignored in favour of a 
kind of cinquecento Titianesque harmony of tones ? Very 
decorative, very charming, as far as it goes, but only very 
exceptionally true to nature, because one so seldom sees 
those warm, blue-green and rich brown-yellow fore- 
grounds in nature, and then only for a short time after a 
damp sunset. Does it not lead to mannerism to follow 
one special set of tones to express all moods of Nature ? 
The critics say the tendency of this club is towards a 
' soberer tonality ' ; certainly this struck me most forcibly, 
for there seemed hardly a picture in the room with any of 
what I should call real colour in it. This school appa- 
rently seems to think that colour is tone, gradation, and 
values, and so it can be, but only every now and then. 
Perhaps the very reserve of these pictures would make 
them pleasanter to live with than what some of us would 
think better pictures in a gayer key. My chief interest in 
them is to try to discover the tendency of this school 



2o6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and its meaning. Titian's landscapes were almost always 
conventional backgrounds to figures. If we aim at a 
continuity of tone in painting, are we not limiting far 
too much the endless diversity of nature ? Are we to go 
back to Claude and Poussin, or the Early English water- 
colourists? But the New English Art Club has ideas 
and objects that make one think, and I shall always now 
try to go and see their exhibitions. One picture, to my 
mind, illumined the whole collection ; the subject exactly 
suited the school. It was by Mr. Eoger Pry, and was 
called ' A Baroque Pa9ade '  a quaint Italian palace, with 
figures on the top, all grey, standing up, mysterious and 
dark, against a most beautifully toned and graduated 
evening sky, streaked in all directions with delicate grey 
after-sunset clouds. The landscape stretched away to 
blue grey distance on the left, and there were indications 
of walled gardens, and orange-trees, perhaps, on the right. 
The picture caught just that moment before darkness 
comes, when one says, while gazing at nature, 'How 
beautiful ! ' knowing that in a moment it will be gone. 
I had just this feeUng about the picture, yet knowing it 
would not fade. It is a long time since I have enjoyed a 
painted landscape so much, and it is certainly no reproach 
that, in a mysterious way, though in no sense an imitation, 
it recalled the most beautiful Claude I ever saw. 

To return to my time in Ireland, which was very short, 
I paid a visit to a large, beautiful place not far from the 
West Coast. The weather was cold and wet and, even in 
the West, hardly a fortnight in advance of Surrey, but 
nothing could spoil the spring loveliness of the green 
grass, and the green woods, and the cowslips! Such 
cowslips ! I had forgotten what cowslips could be till 
I saw them luxuriating in the moist Irish meadows 
with stalks a foot long. The garden was a large, 
flat, wind-swept, formal one, designed, I suppose, in the 



MAY 207 

middle of the last century, with the ordinary spring 
bedding, wallflowers, anemones, tulips, and forget-me- 
nots. But the formality was redeemed, almost glorified, 
even so early in the year as May, by the unusualness of a 
great number of old spreading yuccas. I never saw them 
grown in this way before, with huge stems and young 
ones increasing all around. They were not either Y. 
gloriosa or Y. filamcntosa, but Y. pcndula Or rceurva. It 
is a magnificent plant when old and established, and par- 
ticularly adapted for the middle of beds, for the growth is 
picturesque and yet symmetrical. The lower leaves sweep 
the ground and the central ones point upwards as straight 
as a needle, and they flower more frequently than the 
other kinds. In this particular garden, when this host of 
yuccas are in flower, it must be a rare and beautiful sight. 
The whole thing can hardly have been planned, but was 
evidently produced by one of those accidents of gardening 
where Dame Nature takes the matter boldly in hand. 
And how beautiful are these accidents in any old garden ! 
In this case it was leaving the yuccas alone to increase as 
they liked, yet feeding them well, that had produced the 
wonderful result. 

In a sheltered corner, by a wall, was a very fine plant 
of Erica mediterranea. This heath grows wild on the 
West Coast of Ireland, and is supposed to have been 
brought by the Spaniards, as it is a native of the South- 
West of Europe. My friends gave me a good plant of it, 
and I hope to induce it to grow in Surrey. Careful 
pruning after flowering, for all kinds of hardy heaths, 
seems the way to keep them healthy, especially in gardens 
where dryness prevents their growing freely. I am full 
of hope that there is going to be an increased cultivation 
in good gardens of the hardy ericas. There was a fair 
number of them exhibited at the Drill Hall. The ' Garden ' 
of June 28, 1902, had an excellent article on the hardy 



2o8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

heaths. In the later editions of Mr. Eobinson's ' English 
Flower Garden,' he says, under Beica (Heath) : ' Beautiful 
shrubs, of which the kinds that are wild in Europe are 
very precious for gardens. We should take more hints 
from our own wild plants, and bring the hardy heaths of 
Britain as an artistic element into the flower garden. 
Why we should have such things as the alternanthera 
grown with care and cost in hothouses, and then put out 
in summer to make our flower gardens ridiculous, while 
neglecting such lovely hardy things as our own heaths 
and their many pretty varieties, is a thing that would 
require some explaining. But very many people do not 
know how happy these heaths are as garden plants, and 
how deUghtfuUy they mark the seasons, and for the most 
part at a time when people leave town. A singularly 
pretty heath garden is that of Sir P. Currie at Hawley. 
In front of his house he has kept, instead of a lawn, a 
piece of the heath land of the district almost in a natural 
state, save for a little levelling of old pits. In such places 
the native heaths of Surrey and Hampshire sow them- 
selves, and nothing can be more beautiful. Where, as in 
many country places, these heaths abound, there is no 
occasion to cultivate them, although we cultivate nothing 
prettier ; but certain varieties of these heaths are charm- 
ing, and deserve a place in the garden or wild garden. 
In places large enough for bold heath gardens it would 
be charming to plant them, but a small place is often 
large enough for a few beds of hardy heaths. Once 
established they need very little attention. To some it 
may be necessary to state that most of our hardy heaths 
break into delightful forms, white and various coloured. 
The common heather has many charming varieties, also 
the Scotch heath. These forms are quite as free as the 
wild sorts, and give delightful variety in a heath garden, 
which need not by any means be a rocky or pretentious 



MAY 209 

affair, but quite simple ; for heaths are best on the nearly 
level ground. Though they grow best, perhaps, in peat 
bogs and waste places, it would be a mistake to suppose 
that only such soils can grow heaths well, because we see 
them in Sussex in soils quite unlike those on which they 
thrive in Hampshire, though certainly on heaths they 
seem to form their own soil by decay of the stems and 
leaves for many years. If rocky banks or large rock- 
gardens already exist, choice heaths form often their very 
best adornment, but such things are by no means neces- 
sary. Some of the best and most successful beds we 
have seen were on the level ground, as in the late Sir 
William Beaumont's garden in Surrey.' Then follows 
in Mr. Bobinson's book a long list of varieties of heaths. 
At any rate in Surrey, why should we not have all the 
hardy heaths in our gardens ? They are lovely plants, 
and, like many other things, not difficult to manage when 
one knows about them, and very easy to propagate if the 
little green tips are pinched off and put uhder a hand- 
glass in sandy soil and in shade in July or August. 
They are very much strengthened and improved by being 
clipped back after flowering, some in autumn, some in 
spring. I bought a good many a few years ago, but, 
through my own fault and the dry seasons, they nearly 
all died. What they really like is pure air and a moist 
bottom, but with care one gets over many difficulties ; 
besides, these conditions are quite natural to many 
gardens and woods. E. australis and E. mediterranea 
and the Irish variety, I used to think, were none of them 
quite hardy ; but E. mediterranea grows at Kew, which 
is damper and colder than many parts of Surrey. It 
flowers from March to May ; the typical plant is rosy -red, 
and there is also a white-flowered variety. Then there 
is E. mediterranea hybrida. It is the earliest of all the 
heaths to flower. The hardiest of the taller ericas is 



2IO A THIRD POT-POURRI 

E. carnea. E. scoparia is not so pretty as some, but the 
species is quite hardy. At the Drill Hall I saw and took 
note of E. cinerea, which has many varieties. E. vulgans 
flore-pleno is a double version of the heather of our 
moors, of which several varieties  alba  are very pretty. 
E. vagans grows wild in Europe. E. Tetralix is another 
wild variety. 

All these ought to be much encouraged in some kinds 
of gardens, and especially so in heathy districts. I be- 
lieve it is best to plant in spring. They are not easy 
to transplant, ' but they are worth any trouble. Mr. 
Barr told me he had lately made a good collection of the 
hardy heaths, and he sells them in pots. 

To return to the garden in Ireland, in the kitchen 
garden was a fine and most successful bed of Persian 
ranunculus, planted in six inches of very light leafy soil. 
I have never succeeded well with ranunculus, though I 
have often tried to, so I said to myself, ' Here is a chance,' 
and I had a long talk vnth the gardener about them. 
He happened to be a Surrey man, and was most friendly. 
He told me he found it better not to plant the little 
tubers of ranunculus before the end of February or 
beginning of March, either in pots in a frame or out of 
doors, and that it was essential to very carefully open 
out the little roots and spread them in the soft soil, to 
keep them in the full sun, and well water them with 
care. With this kind of planting they grow straight 
away, and receive no chill or check, as they may do if 
planted earlier. I shall certainly try this method. He 
thought the Persian ranunculus did the best. For table 
decoration, this gardener had a most successful quantity 
of Gladiolus elegantissima (Veitch). Prettier things of 
the kind cannot be seen. Instead of flowers all up one 
side they flower both sides of the green stem, and are 
white with a red-purple stain. He said, with care, grow- 



MAY 211 

ing on their leaves after flowering and then drying the 
bulb well in the sun, he kept them from year to year and 
increased them. They should be potted up in October. 
Diosma ericoides and D. capitata are lovely greenhouse 
plants, but in my experience difficult to grow in crowded 
greenhouses. 

In every large place I go to, I find the same fault  
want of pruning. I do not mean cutting back, that is 
done only too much, along walks especially ; but cutting 
away, sacrificing great whole shrubs rather than let one 
thing grow into the other, which makes hard green walls, 
instead of showing off the growth of individual healthy 
plants. The difficulty is that, in the case of evergreens, 
severe thinning and cutting out must be done in spring 
when owners are often away, and very few gardeners 
dare take the responsibility of doing this by themselves. 
All gardeners are also very busy in spring, and so the 
beautiful shrubberies go on choking each other from one 
year's end to another. A thin wood and a thin well- 
ordered shrubbery, turfed underneath, though only mown 
twice a year, is an undeniably beautiful thing. Probably 
it is so striking because it is so very rare. A straight 
line cut through a wood is lovely at all times, but doubly 
so if the edges are well cleared out and the strong pillars 
(stems) spring straight from rough grass or bare brown 
earth, as is the case with fir and beech. Few things will 
grow under these, but the ground is warm and dry from 
the fallen leaves or fir spines of scores of years. 

Prom the wild West Coast I went back eastward to a 
garden of another kind, beautiful to a degree from the 
highest cultivation of years and much money admirably 
spent  for money alone never makes a perfect garden. 
Here, near the house, tall old yew hedges were glowing 
almost a red brown from the splendid strength of their 
spring shoot, and last year's clipping, but they would 

r2 



212 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

never grow and colour like that in dry Surrey. These 
yew-protected courts held all the usual glories of spring 
bedding, well sheltered from spring winds, and at the 
end of a long walk was an effect of blue as gorgeous as 
a purple Apennine  a fine old plant of Geanothus azureus, 
unpruned, and a mass of bloom from top to bottom and 
hanging forward on a tall garden wall  a very beautiful 
effect, and one I have never seen here, as the early 
flowering kinds of Geanothus are apt to get killed by 
spring drought if not pruned back hard early in April. 
C. rigidus is another beautiful early flowerer. G. Gloire 
de Versailles does here as a shrub, and should be treated 
exactly like the most beautiful August flowering plant 
there is when well cultivated, the Hydrangea paniculata. 
Both these do admirably on the borders of damp woods 
or shrubberies if not too much robbed or in too full sun. 
All they require is not to be choked at their growing 
time, and well pruned  indeed, cut down to within a foot 
of the ground in April. The spring pruning and, in May, 
mulching round the roots with leaf mould and well- 
rotted manure are all they require. As time goes on, this 
gives them almost a mound to stand on, which their 
branches gloriously cover. The ceanothus will stand a 
dryer place and more sun than the hydrangea, which 
does not mind partial shade and a north aspect. 

In this same garden a magnificent effect had been 
gained by turning a large old walled kitchen garden into a 
flower garden, preserving the old picturesque apple and 
pear trees for the sake of their blossoms in spring and as 
supports for various creepers in summer. It had all the 
picturesqueness of a large, half wild Italian garden, and 
aU the beauty of each plant being healthy in itself, which 
I have never seen anywhere so good as in the best of 
our United Kingdom gardens. The retaining of pic- 
turesqueness can never be a certainty except where the 



MAY 213 

gardener and the master or mistress work satisfactorily 
together, as is eminently the case in this garden. At 
this particular time of year, this wall garden is reached 
by a walk cut through a field of young grass, full of 
beautiful long-stalked single tulips. There had been broad 
sweeps of fine daffodils, but they were nearly over. In 
the garden were some very fine autumn-sown calendulas 
 marigolds we used to call them  a Veitch improvement 
appropriately called ' Orange King ' and ' Lemon Queen.' 
I am never tired of fine marigolds ; they flower in spring, 
as well as autumn, only when the circumstances are favour- 
able and the climate mild. 

Ireland, with its beautiful ruins, its churches, its 
high civilisation in the Middle Ages, its later decay and 
misery, its connection with Spain, its mixed population, 
its poverty, its apparent content, its seething discontent, 
its hopeless emigration, its unsolved problems  all these 
things, when I am there, so rouse the keenest interest 
in me that I feel I shall never think of anything else 
again ; but alas ! new impressions stamp out the old. 
Oh, that statesmen and patriots would agree with Presi- 
dent Eoosevelt, who said the other day, ' Insistence on the 
impossible means delay in achieving the possible.' 

Immediately on my return I came across Miss Emily 
Lawless's lately published volume of poems, ' The Wild 
Geese.' That which is perhaps the most serious of all 
the phases of Irish diflficulties, enduring even till to-day 
in the form of emigration, is so pathetically shown in the 
following poem, that I rejoice in being allowed to copy it 
here. The book cannot be fully understood and appre- 
ciated by English people without the careful reading of 
Mr. Stopford Brooke's admirable preface, not only because 
of its historical teaching and explanation of the title of 
the book  and who, thinking of Ireland, can afford for 
one moment to forget its history?  but because of his 



214 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

most appreciative explanation of the various poems. Of 
' Clare Coast ' and the one I have selected, Mr. Stopford 
Brooke writes : ' Then began, as I have said, the great 
exodus of the Irish, and " Clare Coast " is the voice of a 
handful of veterans who, sent over to collect money or 
recruits, are leaving Clare with new exiles for the coast 
of France. Those who speak are "war-battered dogs," 
and their cry reveals the temper and the soul of the Irish 
Brigade. It is close to the reality. "The Choice" has 
the same fruitful motive, but modified by the singer's 
love for a woman, and by the offer made to him of high 
place and prosperity by the Irish Government if he would 
give up his religion and his patriotism  an offer made to 
the leaders of the Wild Geese, and rejected by them all. 
And the second part of the poem records the sick long- 
ing he has to see again his land, and his sweetheart, 
whom he has left for ever. It, too, is close to reality.' 
Mr. Stopford Brooke explains that the Wild Geese was the 
name given to those self-exiled Irish soldiers who fought 
as mercenaries for foreign nations. The Irish now fight 
our battles and fight well. I wonder how many of them 
still silently cry as they fall, ' Oh ! that this was for 
Ireland ! ' Apart from politics, I recommend this book 
to all those with a love of poetry and feelings for 
another's woe. 

THE CHOICE 



I who speak to you abide, with my choice on either side, 

With my fortune all to win and all to wear. 
Shall I take this proffered gain ? Shall I keep the loss and pain, 
With my own to live and bear ? 

For the choice is open now, I must either stand or bow, 

Secure this beckoning sunshine or else accept the rain. 
Must be banished with my own, or my race and faith disown ? 
Share the loss or snatch the gain ? 



MAY 215 

Shall I pay the needed toll, just the purchase of a soul, 

Heart and lips, faith and promises to sever ? 
Six centuries of strain, six centuries of pain, 
Six centuries cry ' never.' 

Then let who will abide, for me the Fates decide. 

One road, and only one, for me they show. 
There is room enough out there, room to pray and room to dare, 
Room out yonder  and I go 1 



II 

Heart of my heart ; I sicken to be with you. 
Heart of my heart, my only love and care. 
Little I'd reck if ill or well you used me. 
Heart of my heart ; if I were only there. 

Heart of my heart ; I faint ; I pine to see you. 
Christ, how I hate this alien sea and shore I 
Gaily this night I'd sell my soul to see you. 
Heart of my heart  whom I shall see no more. 



I cannot resist the pleasure of quoting one more poem 
which gives the picture from the point of view of those 
who are left behind :  

AN EXILE'S MOTHER 

There's famine in the land, its grip is tightening still ; 
There's trouble, black and bitter, on every side I glance. 
There are dead upon the roadside, and dead upon the hill. 
But my Jamie's safe and well away in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

The sea sobs to the grey shore, the grey shore to the sea. 
Men meet and greet, and part again as in some evil trance, 
There's a bitter blight upon us, as plain as plain can be, 
But my Jamie's safe and well away in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-olf, gay and gallant land of France. 



2i6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Oh not for all the coined gold that ever I coald name 

Would I bring you back, my Jamie, from your song, and feast, 

and dance, 
Would I bring you to the hunger, the weariness and shame. 
Would I bring you back to Clare out of France, 

Happy France, 
From the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 

I'm no great sleeper now, for the nights are cruel cold, 
And if there be a bit or sup 'tis by some friendly chance, 
But I keep my old heart warm, and I keep my courage bold 
By thinking of my Jamie safe in France, 

Happy France, 
In the far-off, gay and gallant land of France. 



On my return from Ireland, I found a somewhat dis- 
consolate letter from my German friend who is a great 
gardener. She seems to have forgotten while she was 
writing that in many parts of England, too, the soil is heavy 
and cold. As a rule, in the centre of Europe the spring 
comes late, as she says, but when it does come it stays ; 
while with us there are often glorious warm April days 
which bring everything on, and May frosts which cut off in 
a single night the azaleas in full bloom. All climates and 
all soils have their trials, and it is in fighting these whims of 
nature that the real interest of gardening consists How 
dull it would be if all seasons were aUke, and still more so 
if aU soils were the same and all climates temperate ! As 
it is, everything makes a difference : a little clay, a mound of 
earth, a piece of wall, a shelter, a little hole which collects 
the water and so doubles the rainfall, and so on  endless 
lessons, as my friend says, to teach patience and one sort 
of philosophy  namely, not the resignation which says, ' a 
visitation of Providence,' but the strength to begin again, 
and the wits to find out what has been done wrong and 
caused the failure. For those who dwell on soils in 
some respects unkindly, I insert the letter, as I think 



MAY 217 

we gain strength from the difficulties and experiences of 
others, which is only perhaps a more amiable way of say- 
ing, ' There is something in the misfortunes of our best 
friends that is not altogether disagreeable to us.' 

' Looking back upon, perhaps, the most barbarous 
and death-dealing spring-time in all my garden memories, 
along a very grey line of disappointments and failures, 
sowings of annuals repeatedly killed by cold and wet 
during this April and May, tender and half-hardy bedding 
things shrivelled and checked by frosts and torn by 
raging gales, there are very few bright lights to uplift the 
desponding amateur's heart and teach philosophy and 
patience. Years of apparent " love's labour lost " are 
suddenly crowned by a few of those haphazard successes 
by which nature seems to teach us the double lesson 
never to despair while we can strive, and never to forget 
that we are blind gropers in the dark. In my case, the 
object lesson is taught by a few humble little Alpines. 
You shall have the upshot of it at once, prefacing it by 
the fact, which must always be borne in mind, that, alas ! 
none of my experiences can be of use to you or any 
EngKsh friends, as everything that does well in your 
warm sand dies with me, and what will grow in my cold 
soil  limeless and slaty as it is  would probably suffer 
and die from dryness at the roots in yom's. 

' My chief joy has been the growth and bloom of that 
little gem Campanula rwpestris. Tiny wee plants of this 
were sent me by Mr. Leichtlin of Baden-Baden. At first 
they filled me with apprehension, for with their thick 
woolly leaves and prostrate growth, and their fragile 
branches, emerging from a woody root-stock not half an 
inch from the ground, they seemed to me doomed to die 
in my heavy, wet, impermeable soil. But I knew how to 
manage the new arrival, thanks to my experience with 
another child of many anxieties, the Camypaimla pulla 



2i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

which I had tried in vain to grow for six years. This year 
it is full of growth, and has thrown up a dozen or more of 
its lovely, graceful, and delicate deep violet bells, as a result 
of planting it last year in a half shady nook of my little 
rock garden, in almost pure gravel mixed with a little leaf 
mould and sand. I planted it very firmly, and every bit 
of earth between its httle crowns I entirely covered with 
small flat stones. The Campanula rupestris was given a 
little deeply-dug rock-pocket, in a rather more sunny 
and sloping place than the C. pulla. It had a little lime 
rubble mixed with the gravel, and I carefully avoided 
bringing the traiUng wooUy shoots into contact with the 
soil, laying a flat stone under each. The bloom was 
perfectly lovely, and I think by far the best and most 
interesting among the dwarf trailing species. The flowers 
are about an inch long, very constricted in the throat and 
deeply cut at the edges. The colour is a most delicate 
pale lilac with darker stripes going from the constricted 
part up the chalice. It seeds profusely, but the seed is 
not ripe yet, and I watch anxiously to see whether' it will 
be fit to use, as it is the only way to propagate it. The 
little side-growths off the woody centre do strike in sandy 
soil in a cold frame, but they never make good strong 
plants. Another little success, after some trouble, has 
been the Adenophora Potanini, a crotchety thing at all 
times and horribly anxious not to be moved. It is 
perhaps not as good as the best platycodon, but desirable 
from the point of view of variety in the rockery's com- 
pound tribe. I have also had a fine batch of Liatris 
spicata, which I look upon with anxious eyes, as I lost all 
the Liatris scariosa last year, and fear my soil is too 
heavy, cold, and water-logged in winter for either of them. 
Bather a pretty group at the top of my rocks was formed 
by the Sidalcea Candida, a charming little stiff white 
mallow not over a foot in height, several tufts of 



MAY 219 

Geranium argenieum, and a lovely, loose-hanging, white 
variety, of which, alas ! I do not know the name. To 
complete the list of my little consolations in adversity, 
let me tell you that the Bamondia pyrenaica threw up 
such masses of their lovely flower stalks that the rosettes 
of leaves were well-nigh hidden. I have a new variety of 
this plant from Mr. Leiehtlin with almost pure white 
flowers. I will go no further for fear of ending this with 
a wail, for the failures have far and away outnumbered 
the successes, and it has chiefly been to raise my flagging 
courage that I have apparently been praising what is my 
severest lesson in humility.' 

May 26.  My home-coming was further welcomed by 
two new flowers in my garden which gave me great 
satisfaction, and which, if given the cultivation they 
require, do exceedingly well in our light sandy Surrey 
soil. One is a plant praised in gardening books and 
mentioned in catalogues, but which I have hardly ever 
seen growing in English gardens. I brought my first 
from Germany. There it grew in a rock garden in 
heavy, cold soil, facing north. This is conclusive evidence 
of its extreme hardiness. It is described in early and 
late editions of Mr. Eobinson's ' English Mower Garden,' 
and figured in the second edition under the name of 
Phlox divaricata. The Germans add to this name 
canadensis. But in all the editions the colour is in- 
correctly described, as far as my flower is concerned, as 
'lilac-purple,' which many amateur gardeners would 
decide with a shudder meant ' magenta.' In Nicholson's 
' Dictionary of Gardening,' a most useful book, the colour 
is given as ' pale lilac or blueish.' This, though nearer 
the truth, gives no idea of its beauty. The corymb of 
flowers stands up from a bed of dark leaves on a stalk 
about a foot high. Its colour is a beautiful, real pale 
china-blue, more like the blue of the half-hardy Cape 



2 20 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Plumbago capensis than of any other flower I know. 
When picked it has the great merit of lasting well in 
water. I attribute its rare appearance in gardens to two 
causes, one that it wants dividing  gently pulUng apart 
and planting out in half -shade every year after flowering 
 and replanting in October in a sunny spot where it is 
to flower, and the second is that, if left alone, the leaves 
are eaten during the summer by some unfindable insect, 
after which it dwindles and is worthless as a garden flower. 
So far as I can ascertain, slugs are its great enemy, and 
they seem very partial to its leaves. 

The other flower is also a favourite with me and a 
great horticultural success. We all agree that, as a rule, 
single flowers are prettier than double, but the Arahis 
alpina flore-pleno is a very pretty flower. In appearance 
it resembles a miniature white ten-weeks stock. It is 
easy of increase from cuttings in June, which should be 
replanted in the autumn in full sun. It flowers more or 
less all through the summer, and though it grows quicker 
and stronger, perhaps, in good soil, it flowers more freely 
in poor dry situations. 

After waiting for years to find a sundial to my taste 
and suitable for the centre of my green-paths (see ' Pot- 
Pourri from a Surrey Garden '), I happened to hear 
that a man in Kensington sold balusters from the old 
Kew Bridge, built in 1783 and demolished in 1889. 
I purchased one of these on the top of which was 
placed the face of a sundial, and I have felt it to be 
an immense improvement to the garden at all times 
of year. It is sunk into a small, square, stone base, 
and in spring a few yellow crocuses grow among the 
grass at its feet. It speaks for itself, and no motto sur- 
rounds it. 

Mr. George Alison published in the ' Westminster 
Gazette ' this charming, and to me original, version 



MAY 221 

of the least morbid feeling about a sundial and dark 
days :  

Serene he stands among the flowers, 

And only marks life's sunny hours. 

For him dark days do not exist  

The brazen-faced old optimist ! 

I derive great pleasure at all times of year from a 
way of arranging flowers of my own invention which I 
call floating bouquets. I have the largest size of Green & 
Nephews' ' Munstead Glass ' bowl, the one without a 
stand. This is filled with clear water to the very brim, 
on which various flowers are floated throughout the year. 
If in winter flowers are scarce, a bit of greenhouse fern 
or autumn leaf may be added, but it is of great import- 
ance not to cover the water all over; a corner should 
be left which reflects light as in a pond. The flower- 
fancier may exercise endless inventiveness in this kind of 
arrangement. Most people, I find, like it ; others think 
it absolutely ugly; for many plants it is practically 
useful, as they live thus in water, whereas, if cut vrith 
long stalks, they droop their heads immediately. This 
is the case with Christmas roses, and still more so with 
the later hellebores, which are such a joy about Easter 
time; their soft greens and velvety plum colours look 
lovely so arranged and picked short, the buds being left 
on the plant to come out later. These flowers, if picked 
in the ordinary way, even when the stalk-ends are split, 
fade immediately in water. The forced Niphetos and 
Mar6chal Niel roses look most satisfactory so arranged ; 
indeed, all the tea roses and China roses on this dry soil 
are apt to hang their heads if the stalks only are in the 
water ; floating, they rejoice in the cool water and show 
all their full beauty looking straight up at you. Bunches 
of blue Plumbago capensis do better so than in any other 
way, also P. rosea, the pretty winter-flowering hot- 



222 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

house species ; it is the same with clematis, &c. Each 
flower-lover can find out endless new combinations, and 
which flowers flourish best on the bosom of the clear 
water. 

May IQth.  I went as usual to see the Horticultural 
Show, which was more hopelessly crowded than ever. 
I suppose future generations will have large cool 
halls for these much-prized shows, instead of hot, 
crowded airless tents, which are as bad for flowers as 
for human beings. I did not notice much that was 
new. I think it such a misfortune that this great show 
is always at the same time of year. Some pure white 
plants of Verbascum phmniceum were very lovely, a 
Buhus deliciosus and a Hydrangea stellata (Veitch). 
Hydrangeas are useful plants for people with small 
gardens and greenhouses, as they are nearly hardy and 
so easy to propagate. Tulipa persica was new to me ; 
it had several flowers borne on branching stems, inside 
brilliant yellow, outside golden bronze ; also T. pulchella, 
with small glowing crimson flowers. How I do like 
going back to the type plants ! they are so far more 
interesting, and lovelier too as a rule, than the others. 

What I enjoyed beyond all in that day in London at 
the end of May was that peace  ' coming peace '  was 
in the air. Blessed peace ! Everyone seemed to believe 
in it. Will Mr. Laurence Housman, if he sees this book, 
forgive me for quoting his poem, which came out at 
about that time in some paper  I think the ' Spectator,' 
but am not sure ? 

THE WINNERS 

We stand one with the men that died ; 
Whatever the goal, vie have these beside. 
Living or dead, we are comrades all,  
Our battles are won by the men that fall I 



MAY 223 

He who died quick with his face to the foe 
In the heart of a friend must needs die slow : 
Over hia grave shall be heard the call,  
The battle is won by the men that fall ! 

For the dead man leaves you a work to do : 
Your heart's so full you fight like two ! 
And the dead man's aim is the best of all,  
The battle is won by the men that fall ! 

Oh ! lads, dear lads, you were loyal and true, 
The worst of the fight was borne by you ; 
So the word shall go to cottage and hall,  
Our battles are won by the men that fall ! 

When peace dawns over the country side. 
Our thanks shall be to the lads that died ; 
Oh ! quiet hearts, can they hear us tell 
How peace was won by the men that fell ? 



224 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



JUNE 

Cuttings of double gorse and ericas  A gorse hedge  Gerarde on 
Solomon's seal  Preserving tulip bulbs after flowering  Dic- 
tamnus fraxinella in Wiltshire  The globe artichoke as food for 
man and goats  Peace  Glasnevin  Mr. Linden's garden at 
Brussels  Old wistaria and bignonias grown as shrubs  How to 
tell a good soil  Mr. G. F. Wilson's wild garden  How to grow 
Portugal laurels in boxes  Tamarisks and sea-buckthorns grown 
inland  The beauties of Polygcmum compacjum London and the 
24th of June  The Bose Show at Holland House. 

June 1st.  I forgot to say last month that the best 
time to strike double and single gorse, and some of the 
ericas, is at the end of May. The little young shoots 
should be pinched out and planted in sand under a bell 
glass in the shade. In six months, or the following 
spring, they can be moved. It answers better to buy 
double gorse than single, which can be grown from seed, 
because the double is sent out in pots, and in this way a 
year or two is gained. A double gorse hedge requires 
nothing but a little cutting back, and an occasional 
mulching if the summer is very dry. When well grown 
a double gorse hedge is one of the loveliest and most 
effective I know, and quite impassable to man or 
beast. There is one in this neighbourhood that is such 
a glory in May that even cyclists stop to look at it. I am 
afraid I cannot say the same of motorists. It is best to 
plant the young gorse in a groove on a raised mound of 
earth, first of all because it protects the growth of its tender 
years from being trodden on, and secondly, the nature of 



JUNE 335 

the plant with its weight of flower causes its branches 
to fall downwards, thus increasing the beauty of its 
wondrous glow. Even well-struck cuttings, if in an ex- 
posed position, where they do best ultimately, want a 
little care  such as mulching, or covering with bracken 
or straw  the first winter or two. Slightly nipping 
back in spring helps the growth of all young shrubs. In 
the case of laurustinus, large and small branches may 
be cut out with immense advantage. Of course, this 
does not mean cutting back in the gardener's hedge 
sense, as that would remove all the bloom for the coming 
year, while thinning out immensely improves the next 
year's flowering. This applies to all spring shrubs, 
lilacs, wistarias, spiraeas, &c. In a corner of my 
kitchen garden I keep a space for Solomon's seals, digging 
ihem up for forcing as they are required. Gerarde in his 
' Herbal ' has a delightful allusion to this plant ; he says 
that Solomon's seal is good for 'bruises gotten by 
women's wilfulness in falling against their husbands' 
fists.' 

June 2nd.  I find it very difficult to preserve tulip 
bulbs when they are taken up out of beds in order to 
admit of planting for the summer. The best way is to 
take them up and put them, with their leaves still on them 
into a pail of water for half an hour, and then lay them 
in a shady open trench ; cover them up and water, mark 
the place, and when ripe and dry, dig them up and put 
them in boxes for autumn planting. To my mind the 
most attractive are the type, or species, tulips. They 
are beautiful both in form and colour, but they like warm 
sunny situations, a rich loamy soil and to be left un- 
disturbed for years. That is the great difficulty in small 
gardens, as it means a great dry patch all the summer, 
and no turning over of the earth for other plants I saw 
last year, at Wisley, T. Unifolia, a bright scarlet, and, as 



226 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the catalogues truly say, ' magnificent ' ; but at present 
it seems to be scarce, for even in the cheaper Dutch 
catalogues it is marked 3s. a bulb, which I consider very 
expensive. 

One of the June plants which gives me the greatest 
pleasure, and which I strongly recommend for increase 
in both small and large gardens, is Dictamnus fraxinella. 
The white variety, D. f. alba, is much the most beautiful, 
I think. It is a slow grower, and at one time I despaired 
of making it do well. Now it is quite satisfactory. 
Last June, in a schoolmaster's house in Wiltshire, the 
whole of a large dinner-table was decorated with this 
handsome sweet-scented flower, and the blooms were the 
finest I had ever seen. As I sat down next my host I 
thought to myself, ' Now I am going to find out the real 
secret of cultivating the white dictamnus.' His answer 
to my inquiry was, ' I really don't know ; I think it was 
here when I came twenty years ago. We will ask the 
gardener to-morrow.' This I accordingly did, and he 
said it had never been moved. He increased it by sowing 
the seed directly it was ripe  the seed must be watched 
or it quickly disappears, either by being eaten by birds, 
or through falling out, bursting open in the hot July sun ; 
but he said the quicker way of increasing it is by taking off 
pieces in the spring without disturbing the parent plant. 
Both of these methods I tried on my return home, and 
both answered. The moved pieces look healthy this 
year, though they have not flowered, and I have a fine 
crop of young seedlings. This is one of the many plants 
worth growing, but with which quick effects are not 
attained and patience is required. 

For years I failed in what I call the satisfactory 
cultivation of a favourite vegetable  the globe artichoke. 
Of course, I grew them, but they were few and hard. 
Many people said, ' Oh, they don't do in this light soil.' 



JUNE 227 

I never like that answer, as the merit of a light soil is 
that it can always be made, I have now mastered the 
cultivation through the kind assistance of a French neigh- 
bour. The seeds came from Vilmorin, in Paris, and if 
sown in heat in January, and planted out in May and 
well watered, they will produce some artichokes the first 
autumn. The good plants are then selected and marked, 
or the bad ones pulled out, for the seedlings vary con- 
siderably even with the best seed. They require slightly 
protecting in winter with straw or bracken, and in March 
pieces are taken off the best plants, leaving only about 
three shoots on the parent plant, without disturbing it. 
The holes must be filled in, and the plants mulched round 
with good manure. The pieces taken off are planted in a 
row in good soil, and these produce a succession crop of 
artichokes in the autumn, the main plants bearing their 
crop in June and July. In dry soils and hot weather 
copious watering is essential. Another great charm of the 
globe artichoke to me is that its leaves are so beautiful 
and goats are very fond of them. 

On Monday, the 4th of June, I came down and 
opened the papers in the ordinary casual way, and there 
in big letters was the long-expected and scarcely-to-be- 
believed-in news that peace was declared. It had been 
known in London on the Sunday, but no echo had 
reached us here. A large crowd went to cheer the King 
at Buckingham Palace ; but, on the whole, the great nevrs 
seems to have been taken soberly and quietly, very different 
from the reception given to good news during the war, 
when the London populace seemed to rejoice with savage 
rage and almost the lust of conquest. "What the news 
must have meant in many homes one can well imagine. 
Here it could only accentuate for a time one huge personal 
sorrow and regret, so then I tried to think what Peace 
with a big P meant to the covmtry at large  the coming 

<J2 



228 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

back to happy homes, both rich and poor, of those that 
were left  and then to realise what it meant out there on 
the ruined and devastated veldt. However much one may 
blame the obstinacy and ignorance of the Boers in not 
understanding the temper of this country, and in not 
reaUsing that the struggle for their freedom was useless 
and hopeless, one could not help pitying the contrast, and 
it was a relief at any rate to feel that now pity and 
sympathy were possible without the perpetual and silly 
reproach of being called a pro-Boer. It recalled to me 
the end of the Crimean war, and yet what a strange and 
different war this has been !  in a sense more like the 
conquest of Scotland and Ireland hundreds of years ago, 
and yet in another sense unique and modern. And, with 
all its failures, the effort certainly was towards making war 
more humane ; for I suppose never before in the world's 
history have wives and children been sent into an 
enemy's lines for protection from famine and death as 
they were sent into ours. Living as I do so much alone, 
I have been struck by the amount of barbaric and sen- 
timental superstition still afloat in the popular mind. 
The daily newspapers rang with the fact that a little 
pigeon had got into St. Paul's, and was noticed as 
an omen during the thanksgiving service for peace. 
A popular poet wrote of it :  

When suddenly lifting my eyes 
To the glooms half discovered above, 

I marked with a start of surprise 
The white wings of a hovering dove. 

Blest messenger come to your home I 
It is peace, blessed peace once again ! 

And thou, spirit inefiable, come ! 
As at Pentecost, come and remain ! 

How little we know what the future of this peace will 
be, and what the gain will be to England or South Africa 1 



JUNE 229 

The best hope, and perhaps the most beautiful of possi- 
bilities, was expressed anonymously in the following lines 
in the ' Spectator ' :  

THE SETTLERS 

(A FOEECASI ON THE DeOLABATION OF PeAOE) 

How green the earth, how blue the sky, 

How quiet now the days that pass. 
Here, where the British settlers lie 

Beneath their cloaks of grass ! 

Here ancient Peace resumes her ground, 
And rich from toil stand hill and plain ; 

Men reap and store : but they sleep sound, 
The men who saved the grain. 

Hard to the plough their hands they put, 

And whereso'er the soil had need 
The furrow drove : and underfoot 

They sowed themselves for seed. 

Ah ! not like him whose hand made yield 

The brazen kine with fiery breath. 
And over all the Colchian field 

Strewed far the seeds of death. 

Till, as day sank, awoke to war 

The seedlings of the dragon's teeth; 

And Death ran multiplied once more 
Across the hideous heath. 

But rich in flocks be all these farms. 

And fruitful all the fields that hide 
Brave eyes that loved the light, and arms 

That never clasped a bride. 

Oh, willing hearts turned quick to clay. 
Young lovers holding death in scorn. 

Out of the lives you cast away 
The coming race is born. 

June IQth.  I think all garden lovers should visit, 
whenever they can, either at home or abroad, botanical 



230 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

gardens or the larger nurserymen's gardens. Glasnevin, 
near Dublin, is one of the most interesting botanical 
gardens I have ever seen, old and established, and planted 
in the truest botanical style  viz., picturesquely, and V7ith 
the earth in parts thrown up into the mounds so essential 
for giving different aspects to plants. I vras told by 
friends who visited Bruges this year for, alas ! I did not 
go myself  that when tired of the wonderful art exhibition 
there, they found the nursery gardens round the town 
full of attractions and interest. At Brussels, Linden's 
garden has a very good show of orchids and Congo plants. 
The most remarkable feature in the methods of foreign 
nurserymen is the extraordinarily clean and clever way 
in which things are grown. At Mr. Linden's, orchids are 
only watered once a week ovnng to his system of saucers, 
which enables the plants to get their moisture in the 
nearest possible approach to their natural circumstances. 
Each pot rests on a little porous stand rising from the 
centre of a saucer, the space round remaining full of 
water. There is, of course, no hole in the saucers, which 
helps to keep the houses clean and free from the drip 
which makes the wood and ground of ordinary hothouses 
so damp, and helps to harbour all the pests. The floors 
of these Belgian greenhouses were covered with finely- 
chipped grey limestone. This description, which was 
given me by a friend, makes me long for some practical 
invention that would save the great trouble of the dripping 
of our own greenhouses in winter. It is most destructive 
and extravagant. If ordinary saucers are used for such 
plants, say, as carnations and pelargoniums, or indeed 
anything but water-loving plants, the result is damping 
off and general ill-health. I think zinc trays of various 
lengths and widths filled with shingle, or in some cases 
coeoanut fibre, as for bulbs which want more moisture, 
might solve the drip difficulty and enable shelves to be 



JUNE 231 

placed one above the other without injury, which is 
now impossible. 

In my neighbourhood, Messrs. Waterer's garden near 
Woking has been established over 100 years, and, quite 
apart from their principal business, which is that of rhodo- 
dendrons and azaleas, there are at these nurseries an 
immense number of interesting specimen plants well 
grown in a peculiar way. For those who are young enough, 
and who have large places, it would be of great instruction 
and interest to observe what planting for posterity means, 
though few people care to do that now. At Messrs. 
"Waterer's they have wistarias and Bignonia radicans 
{B. grandiflora is the handsomer plant, and does best 
on a house) grown as shrubs, first supported on poles, 
but gradually grown, carefully pruned and twisted about, 
till they form self-supporting and most picturesque groups. 
In any private garden wistarias need never be cut down, 
as the old branches can be laid along the ground, and 
flourish equally well quite a long way off. I know an 
old plant in this neighbourhood that was so saved, and 
which now covers luxuriantly a new pergola. The suckers 
of wistaria are also easily layered in the summer, then cut 
off, and potted up and forced in a cool house in spring. 
The early horticultural shows this year had lilac and 
white wistaria so grown, and also the common laburnum 
as a standard, and very pretty they look in large con- 
servatories. 

It is impossible to give advice about a garden till one 
has seen it, and thoroughly taken in its aspects, its soil, 
its surroundings, and its natural advantages. I should 
love to begin garden-making all again, and to my mind 
perfection would be a woody slope, with a south and west 
aspect, protected from the north and east, and with a 
really good soil. ' What does a good soil mean ? ' I am 
asked. This can easily be judged by the wild flora of 



232 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the neighbourhood. Woods where primroses and blue 
hyacinths grow well are not bad ; but think of the woods 
in Somersetshire or near Petersfield where the wild orchid 
flourishes, the butterfly and bee orchid and the white 
helleborine, not to mention the more ordinary lilac kinds ! 
The herb-paris tribe, with their quaint growth, Solomon's 
seal, wUd garlic, forget-me-not, and violets, all of them 
grow in these districts, and later on they are choked and 
covered by stronger-growing things like campions, cen- 
taureas, and euphorbias, hiding the spring carpet of bloom. 
What a picture this is compared with the dry commons and 
miniature flora of Surrey. Unfortunately the soil where 
vegetation flourishes is one apparently less well adapted 
for the health of man, though if the air is bracing and 
people healthy, a rich soil will be considered not unwhole- 
some in the future. The combination of good soil and 
fair aspect is perhaps rare, but I know two gardens in 
Surrey with these advantages. One is partly terraced 
and arranged in the most interesting manner down the 
side of the hill, and more or less divided into the four 
quarters of the world, Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, 
by planting the shrubs, trees, and flowers of each division 
as far as possible together. I had heard of a garden of 
this kind in Scotland, but had never before seen one. 
When it is a little older, it will be as beautiful as it is 
now interesting and instructive. The other garden was 
planted by Messrs. Backhouse, of York, and is down a 
sunny slope with large rocks and very informal terracing, 
and nooks and corners made by throwing up mounds and 
hillocks. Many plants vrill not grow at all if exposed to 
the summer sun all day long, and the breaking up of 
even a flat piece of ground in small gardens in this way 
is an immense advantage and improvement. All down 
one side of this garden was an artificial streamlet made 
with rocks and pools for various moisture-loving plants. 



JUNE 233 

In making a new place, this very attractive feature would 
not be difficult if the house were built on the top of the 
hill, and the roof-water collected in a large tank. If the 
water were allowed first to flow down the hill of itself to 
show what its natural course would be, all stiffness would 
be avoided and blocking would be made easy ; and with 
the natural rainfall encouraged into the channel a very 
small dribble from the tank would maintain it. 

The garden which of all others I most value and 
admire, and from which I have learnt most of what I 
know, is that of Mr. G. P. Wilson at Wisley. Alas ! he 
died this spring, and one wonders what will become of it 
now that the directing spirit is gone. I believe it was 
twenty-five years ago that Mr. Wilson first began with 
about six acres to turn rough ground, part field, part wood, 
into what is generally called ' a wild garden." Here I first 
learnt what could be done by thinning out a wood, 
digging ponds, and throwing up the soil into mounds. 
The drawback to this type of garden, which I watched 
with interest, was that it seemed to be a necessity to take 
in more and more fresh ground year by year, and now 
there must be fourteen or sixteen acres under cultivation. 
The plants and shrubs, as they spread and flourished, 
were left alone to grow at their wild will, and new spaces 
were planted with other specimens. It is partly wood, 
partly slopes facing north, and partly flat ground, mere 
ordinary fields, and it immediately strikes even a casual 
observer how much better many things do in the partial 
shade of the cleared-out oak-wood than in the open. 
This is in a great measure owing to the protection afforded 
in spring by the tall trees. Bamboos, for instance, planted 
in this wood flourish amazingly, as do auratwm lilies, 
pernettias, all the tenderer heaths, andromedas, rhodo- 
dendrons, azaleas. Hydrangea panictilata, &c., all of 
which were finer specimens than I have seen anywhere 



234 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

else. Needless to say, there are no laurels or any of the 
commoner coarse-growing shrubs. No one must think 
this kind of gardening easy, for it depends on endless and 
intelligent hand- weeding. The plants must be kept clear, 
or they never flourish. When Mr. Wilson made a bed 
in his wood and filled it with the soil best adapted to the 
plants he was going to put in, the place was always 
marked by rough stones from the field. That meant it 
would be kept perfectly clean till the plant grew strong 
enough to need no further care. At no time of year can 
anyone visit this garden without finding flourishing 
specimens of plants he has probably never seen before. 

Experience teaches that a mound thrown up in windy 
exposed places, and planted with hedges or shrubs, is a 
far better breaker of the force of the wind than the highest 
and most expensive wall ; for in a gale the wind hits the 
top of the wall and dashes down on the other side, while 
the waving branches of shrubs break and soften its 
devastating progress  a wind-swept garden being, perhaps, 
the most hopeless and disappointing to the gardener. In 
Italy the garden walls are delightfully varied  high to the 
north, low to the south, broken in various places to suit 
different plants, tiled on the top here and there for pro- 
tection, ramped on the top if the ground faUs  in this way 
the picturesqueness of garden walls and their individuality 
as regards each place are immensely increased. 

In all wild gardening there is much difficulty in keeping 
down not only weeds and strong-growing plants, but 
destructive animals like rabbits, hares, rats, and mice, 
which are the most injurious, while pheasants sometimes 
manage to do a good deal of harm. Very useful little 
shelters are made at Wisley by surrounding the small bed, 
till the plants get hold, with a band, about a foot high, of 
perforated zinc. Some people will think this sounds very 
hideous, but, to a real gardener, the sense of protection to 



JUNE 235 

the young plant does away with the very slight disfigure- 
ment such a shelter makes in the wild growth of a wood. 

Wild gardening requires much more knowledge than 
any other kind, and is almost unknown professionally. I 
have never seen planting well done, from an artist's point 
of view, when left to even the best firms. At Wisley 
there are large quantities of the Japanese iris (I. EcBmpferi), 
grown in artificially made ditches in the open field, or on 
the dry slopes of the ponds, not quite close to the water, 
as Kampferi does not like damp, especially in winter, 
though it is glad of lots of water at the flowering time in 
summer. The ideal situation for it would be a dry ditch 
in full sun that could be partially flooded in summer. 

The general impression seems to be that bamboos 
want a lot of sun ; they are, on the contrary, perfect wood 
plants, if a space is cleared for them. Mr. Wilson was 
making a big collection of many kinds in his wood, and 
they are flourishing luxuriantly. 

To come back to smaller plants, the Cape montbretias 
do excellently in woods, blooming, as they do, in the dull 
August time. There are eight or ten varieties of epi- 
mediums ; planted together in a bed in a wood, they look 
charming with their early spring growth, but, like every- 
thing else, they must be kept weeded. In autumn their 
leaves turn a good colour. 

Messrs. V. V. Gauntlet & Co. (Japanese Nurseries, 
Eedruth) send out on application, and for inspection only, 
the most charming books, illustrated by Japanese flower- 
painters, of various Japanese plants  lilies, Japanese 
pseonies, irises, maples, magnolias, camellias, &o. The 
choice of Japanese Iris Kcempferi is particularly ample. 
All the prices are marked in plain figures. 

One of the gardening subjects I have oftenest thought 
out is what I should advise if anyone I cared very much 
about inherited a large house and a large, ready-made, 



236 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

formal garden, with empty beds in winter, and filled in 
summer with bright-coloured half-hardy plants. The 
formal garden, to my mind, is certainly adapted to the 
formal house, though it often shares its ugliness. In the 
case of very beautiful old places I think what looks best 
is either turf right up to the house, especially if the fine 
timber has been spared, such as yews, cedars, oaks, 
beeches, mulberries, &c., or if there is a garden round the 
house, it should be in small proportions, paved, and planted 
with roses, lavender, rosemary, carnations, &c., in large 
masses. The actual gardens for the picking of flowers 
should be near the house, and yet apart from it. Given 
space enough, my idea of perfection for those who live in 
their place all the year round would be to have various 
gardens, of which some would be at rest and others in full 
beauty ; say, a bulb garden, an iris garden, a garden for 
early and late annuals, perennial borders connecting some 
of these together, a double avenue of Michaelmas daisies, 
another of lavender and China roses, and a straight walk 
or terrace with a formal imitation of the way orange-trees 
are grown in Italy. The best I ever saw of this last kind 
of thing was in a large Hertfordshire place last year : the 
trees were Portugal laurels, apparently growing out of 
square boxes such as the orange -trees are grown in 
at Hampton Court. My surprise was great at finding 
the Portugal laurels had thick stems and were perfectly 
healthy. On examination, I found the boxes rested on 
the ground and the trees had been allowed to root 
through. The effect was excellent, and equally decorative 
in winter and summer. Laurels pine in boxes from dry- 
ness, and bays die in boxes from frost in winter if not 
housed. I have never before seen this effort at Italian 
gardening so successfully carried out in England. To 
put it in a few words, the only possible solution for decora- 
tive gardening near large houses is formal design with 



JUNE 237 

informal planting and growth. Everything else can only 
be decided by the accidents of the situation. 

As I said about Ireland, so I feel about almost every 
large place I have ever seen ; pruning, taking out of laurels, 
cutting out broad vistas in the woods, as they radiate from 
the house, wide spaces with shrubs and trees allowed to 
feather to the ground ; all this seems to me what the 
gardens of most big places really require. I have only 
known one place where the owner had the courage to 
root out every laurel, both common and Portugal, within 
half a mile of his house, replacing them with all sorts of 
unusual decorative shrubs. (See splendid list in ' Century 
Book of Gardening,' p. 423.) When actually growing in 
woods, the effect of laurels left entirely alone and un- 
pruned, except to take out dead wood, is, I think, exceed- 
ingly good, especially if they are kept in groups, and for 
the delectation of their owners in winter rather than 
summer. The slight protection of the trees saves them 
from the shabby appearance in spring so often caused by 
frost and wind in the open. Also I have seen one of the 
new kinds of large-leaved laurels, judiciously pruned, 
look almost as handsome as a magnolia nailed to the wall 
of a house or bam. In itself the laurel flower is very 
beautiful when seen close, but this is impossible when the 
shrubs are pruned, as they generally are, so as to flower 
only on the top. Bay-trees, which are hurt by frost even 
more than laurels, would do well in fairly moist woods. 

It is curious that the tamarisk is always considered a 
seaside plant. Certainly it does very well there, but it 
does equally well inland if properly pruned. It is a 
picturesque grower and an amusing plant to play with, as 
it can be treated in all kinds of ways  as a hedge, in a 
group, cut down every year, or planted far apart from 
other things, and encouraged to grow old, when its effect 
is unique amongst shrubs. I only know one example of 



238 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

really old tamarisks, and these are supposed to have been 
brought from the Bast and planted by Lady Mary Wortley 
Montagu. The strong black stems and branches are very 
angular in growth, recalling Japanese plants, and their 
feathery tops wave delightfully against sky or distance. 
There is a kind not generally grown, which does well in 
my garden, and its cloud-like pink blossom appears in the 
autumn. Another kind which I first saw at Aix, T. parvi- 
flora, flowers in May, in tiny pink blossoms all along the 
branches before the leaves appear. This, too, I find well 
worth growing. 

Sea-buckthorn thrives to perfection in inland places. 
At Kew they plant it near the pond, where it fruits well 
and gives a golden glow to the whole group of shrubs in 
early spring. Mine does not fruit, thus proving to me 
that the plant needs moisture. 

The spiraeas are innumerable in kind, and make 
beautiful, easily-cultivated ornaments for open shrub- 
beries and borders of woods. I think the reason one so 
seldom sees these shrubs is that they look shabby and 
untidy unless the old wood is cut out once a year. They 
seem to me to require nothing else, and yet it is never 
done, and gardeners seem to prefer doing without them 
altogether or to put them in a border where they are 
unsuitable. If a little ground is cleared round them, they 
send up endless suckers, which should be taken off in 
spring if a fine specimen is desired. In this respect the 
treatment is exactly the same as with all the polygonums, 
though these are herbaceous plants, not shrubs. P. com- 
pactum is one of the smaller varieties, but most desirable, 
for if planted on a bank in full sun and thinned out in 
spring, the wings of its seeds are more beautiful than its 
flowers  a lovely rosy pink at the point of every branch. 
P. molle should never be forgotten, as its large white 
flowers in October are very valuable and effective 



JUNE 239 

June 19th.  Not quite hardy bulbs are more mys- 
terious in their wilfulness than almost any other plants I 
grow. You seem to treat them exactly the same, but 
the least little thing must affect them, for you get unex- 
pectedly different results. This is perhaps the reason 
why so few gardeners grow them. The year before last 
I had a dozen or more of Omithogalum arabicum, and 
they all flowered most beautifully. They were well 
worth growing, and have the usual merit of their tribe 
that every one flowers in water, and this kind has a 
distinct aromatic odour which is rare with ornithogalums. 
It is not quite hardy, and must be grown in a pot. It 
is a lovely plant with its pale cream petals and jet black 
eye. It is cheap to buy, and with a little care in the 
drying off ought to go on from year to year. This year I 
had a dozen new bulbs ; only two of them flowered, and 
those not very well. After a great deal of pumping, the 
gardener told me he thought the reason of this failure 
was that they came from Holland in a slightly growing 
state and were potted up later than usual. So it resolved 
itself into the fault being mine, as I had ordered the bulbs 
late. These plants are often seen now in London shops. 
They want a little protection, but no heat except the 
sun in spring. My 0. nutans continues to flourish most 
satisfactorily in the grass, and it is a pretty thing ! 

I think tliose who have big places and pieces of water 
ought not to neglect planting the taxodium or deciduous 
cypress. It is such a beautiful tree, and in favour- 
able circumstances must grow fairly quickly. Perhaps 
it does not live long in this country, for I think there 
used to be many more about in my youth than I see 
now. I suppose it was a fashion when it first came from 
America, where it grows best in the swamps of the 
Southern States. It must have been introduced before 
1640, as Parkinson mentions it and says : ' Its seed was 



240 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

brought by Master Tradescant from Virginia and sown 
here, and doe spring very bravely.' It is not a true 
cypress, of course, but a separate genus. 

I have been singularly unsuccessful with the Bomneya 
Goulteri, having lost it two or three times over. Humi- 
liating confession ! I am now trying it again, and it 
promises well. The finest I know in this light Surrey 
soil is growing under a west wall and is slightly shaded 
to the south by shrubs. It is a very fine specimen, throw- 
ing up suckers in all directions, as if it would say, ' See 
how easy I am to grow ! ' It requires a little protection 
in winter with bracken, straw, or dry leaves. I killed 
mine last year by stupidly ordering that ashes should 
be put round it. Besides its beauty and uncommonness 
 for one does not often see it  the buds come out in 
water  a great merit. Gaura Lindheimeri is a perennial, 
but I have never succeeded in keeping it here over more 
than one winter. I think it is a plant well worth treat- 
ing as a half-hardy annual sown early in January every 
year, and planted out thickly in a sheltered place in full 
sun. It is very attractive, and is much grown in the 
gardens in Paris. 

Tuesday, June 2i.th.  I was persuaded to go to London, 
like most of the world, with the idea of seeing the Corona- 
tion. The day was foggy, hot, and heavy, and the tired- 
looking crowds were already trapesing through the streets 
as I drove from "Waterloo about mid-day. The tawdry 
decorations, the streets and thoroughfares blocked with 
stands, the side streets shut off by dangerous barriers 
such as I had never seen before, gave me an ominous 
feeling of wonder as to what was goiag to happen. 
I think London never looks so bad and so depressingly 
like a mean but gigantic village as on these festive 
occasions. Grosvenor Square was a mass of workmen 
decorating handsomely and with feverish haste, and when 



JUNE 241 

the news of the King's illness burst on the town like an 
unexpected blast from some evil genius, the almost magic 
arrest of all movement produced an effect which, in its 
own pecuUar way, was one of the most remarkable ex- 
periences I have ever had. The contrast was so striking 
between cause and effect. The sickness of one man is, 
as a rule, so small an event, but in this case multitudes 
were instantly stupefied by the fact. By the evening the 
whole world was sympathetically affected by the sorrow 
and disappointment that had fallen upon London, and 
the proposed coronation was only celebrated on a few 
ships at sea, and in the islands of the Hebrides. It was, 
to many of us, rather a revelation of the methods of 
conducting weekly papers, that though the news of the 
King's illness was known on Tuesday, several of the 
weekly newspapers published loyal paragraphs about the 
Coronation, including detailed descriptions of facts which 
had never taken place. 

I carried out my programme of the afternoon, which 
was to go with a friend to the great Eose Show at 
Holland House. As a show it was disappointing, for the 
season was a late one, and the roses were hardly out, and 
hung their heads in the intense heat. The crowd was 
gloomy and with bated breath spoke of but one topic. 
The beautiful building and gardens of Holland House 
remain a unique remnant of the many handsome houses 
and grounds that used to constitute the suburbs of 
London. Holland House, in spite of the black smoke- 
veil cast over it, is still one of the most splendid of the 
Jacobean dwellings. It was built by the well-known 
John Thorpe for Sir Walter Cope in 1607. Poor man ! 
He had no son, and it went to his daughter and heiress. 
She married a smart Cavalier who lost his head in 1649, 
and Fairfax's soldiers were quartered in his hall. The 
after history of the house, with all its Whig associations, 

B 



242 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

in the time of the third Lord Holland, have been so much 
written about and are so well known that they need no 
repetition here. Even in my youth I can remember the 
huge 'breakfasts,' as they were called (really garden- 
parties), when many of the celebrities still haunted the 
place. In a delightful alcove behind the house there 
remains the inscription vn-itten by the late Lord HoUand : 
' Here Eogers sat, and here for ever dwell with me those 
pleasures that he sang so well.' I fear poor Eogers 
would hardly be much known now but for the lovely 
Tmner and Stothard illustrations which adorn his books. 
The gardens have been much enlarged and improved 
by the present owners. I was anxious to see the several 
acres which used to be pasture and have been lately 
added to the grounds, and I must confess it was with a 
feeling of astonishment that I saw what can be done 
with care and cultivation in what is now virtually London 
itself. One had to look at the stems of the few remain- 
ing old trees to realise what was the amount of soot in 
the air, and what an atmosphere the gardener had to 
contend against. The roses looked as healthy as at Kew, 
and the Penzance briars and free-growing climbing roses 
ramped about as if they really believed they were in the 
country. The most interesting part of the new garden 
was an imitation of a Japanese garden. This is a 
very distinct feature which could easily be adopted 
where both money and water were plentiful and where 
the ground sloped gently. It was partly a small rock- 
garden, partly turf, and then a series of pools cleverly 
cemented and connected by an artificial rill which fed 
the various basins, some large and some smaU. In these 
were different varieties of aquatic plants, especially the 
new water-hKes {NymphcBa). It all looked very charm- 
ing, and on the whole this was the best arrangement I 
have ever seen for growing aquatic plants. In a small 



JUNE 243 

way it could be imitated with tubs hidden by little 
rockeries, and placed one below the other with connect- 
ing tubes, also hidden. The whole of Holland House 
garden is a most interesting lesson as to what can be 
done in poor old London. 

This week of the King's illness was the only really 
hot one we have had this summer, and during it the 
whole air was full of the most gloomy prognostications, 
the gloomiest emanating from the medical profession, and 
from certain headquarters of spiritualistic prophecy, all 
of which, as we know, happily came to nothing. 

A volume came out this summer called ' A Little 
Book of Life and Death,' selected and arranged by Eliza- 
beth Waterhouse, with a frontispiece from a painting by 
Mr. G. P. Watts. To those friends who liked so much 
the verses which were not mine in my other books I 
recommend this selection, for I think it so good as to be 
almost original. It is partly prose and partly verse, and 
from the former I take the following to give a taste of its 
general quality : ' We are evidently in the midst of a 
process, and the slowness of God's processes in the 
material world prepares us, or ought to prepare us, for 
something analogous in the moral world ; so that at least 
we may be allowed to trust that He who has taken un- 
told ages for the formation of a bit of old red sandstone 
may not be limited to threescore years and ten for the 
perfecting of a human spirit.'  Thomas Erskine of Lin- 
lathen. 



r2 



244 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



JULY 

An account of lately bought gardening books  A lost poem by Milton 
 Vegetable gardens and rotation of crops  How to easily cata- 
logue a garden  More half-hardy plants suitable for large pots  
Carnations at Mr. Douglas'  Spanish rush-broom. 

Juhj 1st.  As at the end of the eighteenth century, 
amidst wars and revolutions of all kinds, botanists and 
gardeners and flower-painters went quietly on their way, so 
it has been now, and since I published my ' Second Pot- 
Pourri ' a great number of excellent gardening books have 
come out, and, as time goes quickly and fashions alter, I 
think it may not be uninteresting that I should give a slight 
sketch of the books I have thought it worth my while to buy 
in the last three years. In 1900 Miss Gertrude Jekyll 
brought out her second book, ' Home and Garden.' Her 
account of her home is most charming, and never did bird 
build a more appropriate nest, and, as the Italians say, ' Ad 
ogni uccello suo nido h caro.' Like her first volume this 
one is excellently illustrated from photographs taken by 
herself, which are very superior to the ordinary run of 
photographic illustration. I feel sure that all Miss Jekyll's 
books will be referred to again and again long after the 
mass of present garden literature is of no more value 
than autumn leaves. Next came out with indefatigable 
energy from her pen ' Wall and Water Garden ' ; here the 
illustrations from photographs begin to fall off and become 
commonplace. They are evidently not taken by herself, 
and have none of the individual charm so noticeable in 
the earlier books. The letterpress, on the contrary, is, I 



JULY 245 

think, more useful, original, and instructive than perhaps 
any of the others. Her advice about cutting up flat 
ground by low walls, uncemented and with earth in be- 
tween, is, I believe, entirely Miss Jekyll's own idea and 
is most useful and beautifying. In wet heavy soils where 
there are no stones, these walls could be made with clinkers, 
or spoilt bricks, as they absorb the moisture, whereas stones 
keep it in. I think anyone who casually looked at Miss 
Jekyll's books when they first came out, will be surprised 
on going back to them to find how much instruction there 
is in them for all sorts of gardens  villa gardens, wood 
gardens, field gardens, terrace gardens, and water gardens. 
For those about to make a new garden, the ' Wall and 
Water Garden ' is most essential. I think tanks, both 
big and little, especially oblong and square, are the most 
beautiful additions to a garden. Unless carefully 
watched the builders always place the waste pipe too 
low down. What is really desirable is that the water 
should be level with the edge, whether it be stone or 
brick or merely grass, or, as in the case of dew-ponds on 
the top of a chalk hill, the ground should slope gently 
into the water. Last year came ' LiUes for English 
Gardens, A Guide for Amateurs ' ; ' Country Life Library, 
1901.' Most ot these lily notes appeared in the ' Garden,' 
Miss Jekyll being at that time co-editor of the paper. 
I myself have made no progress in lily -growing in the last 
three years. The lilies I buy flower and flourish for one 
year or two, but the summers of late have been hot and 
unfavourable. In spite of trying every kind of cultivation 
and receipt the Lilium candidvmi is generally more or less 
diseased with me, and the heads of bloom are not really 
fine. The Lilium croceii/m lasted two or three years, but 
now most of them have died off. I have one little white 
Martagon lily which comes up faithfully year after year. 
Lilium Hansoni was originally brought to me straight 



246 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

from Japan. It flourishes very well, and stands re-plant- 
ing and even dividing. That it has done well in this light 
soil through these last hot dry summers, flowering every 
year, should be noted as I have rarely seen it in other 
gardens. It blooms in June, and has bright green whorled 
leaves up its stalk and an orange flower slightly spotted 
with dark brown. Miss Jekyll says it is a lily that should 
be more known and grown. All the other lilies which 
were brought me from Japan at the same time some years 
ago have dwindled and finally disappeared. The late 
frosts this spring destroyed hundreds of auratums in Mr. 
Wilson's garden at Wisley. I think we may gather from 
Miss Jekyll's book that a lily garden means very frequent 
buying of bulbs. They are certainly more worth the 
money than many other plants, and in a woody dell near 
a house there is no more delicious effect than large clumps 
of well-grown lilies protected from cold winds and late 
frosts by refined and not too strong-growing shrubs and a 
certain number of overhanging trees. But half shade and 
moisture they must have, even if this is only procured by 
increasing the rainfall from planting them in a dell into 
which the sides drain. In this situation, and with the 
natural support of shrubs, I have seen TropcBolum specio- 
sum flowering luxuriantly. 

Last of all this year comes ' Eoses for English Gardens,' 
by Miss Jekyll and Mr. Edward Morley. I was much 
disappointed with the illustrations of this book. I do not 
think roses growing or cut lend themselves to photo- 
graphy, but ' Eoses coming over a "Wall ' facing page 60 is 
a lovely exception. I had intended to make a fresh list 
of the roses which have done well here, but all Miss 
Jekyll's advice is so admirable that those who care for 
their rose gardens will be sure to have the book. 

' Chemistry of the Garden : a Primer for Amateurs,' 
by Herbert Cousins.  This is a first-rate little book 



JULY 247 

published by Macmillan in 1899, price 9d. Everyone 
should possess it. It is full of helpful, plain instruction 
as regards soils, manures, chemical requirements of plants 
and vegetables, and excellent directions for reducing 
blights and diseases that attack gardens. 

' Small Gardens, and How to Make the Most of Them,' 
by Violet Biddel, another little 9d. book, familiar and 
chatty in style, and modern in feeling, names many plants 
which would otherwise be forgotten, and hints at many 
methods for gaining beauty of form and colour in small 
spaces. Best of all it preaches originaUty ; for any 
garden, however small, which is the individual expression 
of its owner is of interest to every other gardener, who 
thereby sees variety. 

' Flowers and Gardens,' by Mr. Forbes Watson.  This 
book, which I waited for for years, was republished in 
1901, and prefaced very gracefully by Canon EUacombe. 
It will always be loved and cherished by those who are 
fond of flowers. It curiously recalls some of Buskin's 
writing. Forbes Watson approached his subject from a 
somewhat unusual standpoint ; he was a great lover of 
flowers, a student of botany, and had the artistic tempera- 
ment combined with marked religious convictions. We 
can hardly believe from the portrait in the beginning that 
Mr. Watson was only twenty-nine when he died. He 
practically wrote it on his death-bed. We now know who 
was the friend to whom the notes were entrusted when 
the pen fell from the author's hand, and who so well ful- 
filled his trust. The book has great charm, a charm which 
is no doubt due to the way in which it reflects the soul of 
the author, who was one of the old-school doctors with 
strongly-developed taste for natural history. Mr. J. B. 
Paton in his preface says : ' The papers published in this 
little volume were written to solace the languor of the last 
months of life, when a malady, which had crept by slow 



248 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

approaches upon him, broke down his strength, and 
arrested a professional career which had begun but re- 
cently. They betoken a mind gifted with quick, clear, 
and deHcate perception, independency of judgment, and 
unsparing truthfulness. These were my friend's charac- 
teristic gifts. They are dimly mirrored in these pages, 
but more clearly in the memory of those who knew him 
well. To them this little volume will be welcome because 
of him ; to others, perchance, it may be welcome for the 
worth it has, because it tells of the beauty there is in 
God's fairest, frailest handiwork in flowers, and bears 
some trace of the rarer amaranthine beauty of a soul which 
wore the white flower of a blameless life.' 

' Favourite Haunts and Eural Studies in the Vicinity 
of Windsor and Eton,' by Edward Jesse.  I so much like 
Jesse's ' Gleanings from Natural History ' that I bought 
the above-named from a bookseller's catalogue, and did 
not regret it. So much of the old world in the neighbour- 
hood of London is disappearing that this book is of 
especial interest to the antiquary and the garden fancier. 
He mentions many old and exotic trees seldom now to be 
met with, such as tulip-trees, catalpas, Turkey oaks, 
deciduous cypresses, &c.  all these are remains of the 
gardening craze at the end of the eighteenth century. 
The book is illustrated with little old-fashioned prints of 
cottages and churches, amongst them Upton Church, with 
its ' ivy-mantled tower ' of Gray. To those who like a 
chat about things as they were in the middle of the last 
century, I cordially recommend this book. Its out-of-date 
language reads almost like a verse from Genesis which 
gathers the whole firmament into those few words, ' He 
made the stars also.' Jesse reminds us that Gray omitted 
a beautiful stanza from his Elegy, thinking it made too 
long a parenthesis at the end of the poem before the 
epitaph ; but it is well worthy of insertion :  



JULY 249 

There scattered oft, the earliest of the year, 
By hands unseen are showers of violets found ; 
The redbreast loves to build and warble there. 
And little footsteps lightly print the grouBd. 

' Life of the Fields,' by Eichard Jefferies.  This is a 
darling little book by a kind of modern Jesse, full of the 
love of nature and distinguished by that rare spirit of 
unworldliness which, clothed as it is in very different 
form, has made a popular favourite of another book, read 
and deeply cared for by a very different class of reader 
from the one that appreciates Eichard Jefferies. It is the 
peasant and artisan who make a sort of text-book of 
Eobert Blatchf ord's ' Merrie England,' of which the motto 
is, ' Words ought not to be accepted because uttered by 
the lofty, nor rejected because uttered by the lowly.' Its 
teaching may be summed up in the following extract : 
' Love of truth, love of knowledge, love of art, love of 
fame are all stronger motives than love CTf gain, which is 
the only human motive recognized by a system of political 
economy supposed to be founded on human nature.' Let 
all young Englishmen who dread failure read this book. 

Mr. Peter Barr, who has lived for some time in South 
Africa, was kind enough to send me two lectures he deli- 
vered at Sea Point Horticultural Society, Capetown : one 
was on ' The Daffodil,' and the other on ' The Lilies of the 
World.' As very few people here can have seen these lec- 
tures, I give one interesting extract from the lily pamphlet, 
and, in passing, would also recommend the Lily Conference, 
reported in the ' Journal of Horticulture,' December 1901, 
which gives a most comprehensive account of all the 
varieties of lilies now grown. The more I read about 
them the more I feel sure that, like hyacinths, for 
ordinary people they represent a nurseryman's bill, as one 
has to buy afresh every year. But the subject is in- 
teresting enough for a real garden-lover to devote his 



250 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

whole attention to lilies and lilies alone. No doubt the 
climate of the Cape  and Mr. Barr gives a long list with 
historical notes of those most likely to succeed there  
would prove much more favourable than England, 
especially for the Japanese varieties. 

Under 'American Lilies,' Mr. Barr writes as follows :  
' Stilphureum (syn. Wallichianum superbum). When in 
Auckland, New Zealand, 1900, I saw in Mr. Ball's 
garden this really handsome lily, and a noble sight it 
was. Height, 5 to 6 feet, with a coronet of seven long 
white flowers surmounting a sturdy stem. I had a letter 
recently from Mr. Ball, informing me that the Uly this 
year had fifteen flowers. At another garden in Auckland 
I saw the same lily behaving in a similar manner, and 
with a considerable progeny of all sizes. The owner 
expressed a desire to sell some of them, and I undertook 
to sound the lily's praises as I travelled this progressive 
and aggressive wonderful country, " the home of the brave 
and the free of the Southern Hemisphere." I had a letter 
of thanks recently from the owner referred to, informing 
me he had sold well on to 201. worth of the bulbs of 
Lilium sulpMoreum to the persons to whom I had re- 
commended it. Now, this man a few years previously had 
bought a bulb for 5s. 6^. So say no more about the gigantic 
profits of the Capetown Cold Storage Company. Here is 
a record-breaker for you in lilies, and he expects to reap 
an annual revenue from this original investment of 
5s. &d. He let me into the secret of increasing the bulb, 
so pardon my not taking you into my confidence, as I 
promised not to spoil his market by letting others know 
how he worked his diamond mine.' 

The other lecture is even more interesting to the 
general public, as it is on the cultivation of the favourite 
daffodil. It is, of course, addressed to those who live in 
South Africa, but it is full of information of the most 



JULY 251 

fascinating kind for everybody. He says : ' Double 
daffodils, as far as I can make out, originated in a wild 
state, but when, and where, and how, are unsolved 
questions. No one in modern times has added a double 
daffodil to the existing ancient forms ; indeed, I am not 
quite sure that we know as many double daffodils as 
Parkinson cultivated in his garden in Holbom, London. 
Some names of double daffodils have been changed, it is 
true, but a change of name does not make a new flower.' 
Then he goes on to describe the wild double daffodils of 
the world. He gives an interesting account of the 
various people who worked on daffodils, and how he 
himself took up the study of the daffodil early in the 
sixties, working on the older forms known to Parkinson. 
Describing how they came into fashion, he says, ' I do 
not suppose that Oscar Wilde knew anything about 
daffodils, but there is no doubt in my mind that the great 
public are much indebted to him for the revolution in 
taste caused by his lectures on aesthetic colours. He 
broke down the prejudice to yellow. The artists followed 
him, and the public followed the artists.' Both lectures 
teem with interest, and I have no doubt they could be 
procured at Barr & Sons', King Street, Covent Garden ; 
for if the demand was sufficient, Mr. Barr would probably 
reprint them. 

I always think books devoted to one kind of plant 
very interesting. I bought last year ' The Clematis as a 
Garden Flower,' by Thomas Moore and George Jackson, 
of the Woking Nursery, 1872. At that time the clematis 
was very fashionable, now it is not grown enough or 
given the attention it deserves. In Messrs. Jackman's 
catalogue for 1902, they give an excellent description of 
how clematis should be cultivated. They also mention 
that the book I have just named has been republished, 
no doubt with newer information, for the price of 2s. 6d. 



252 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The suggestions as to the various uses to which the types 
of clematis may be applied would be very useful to the 
amateur. I mention, elsewhere, a notSible example I saw 
in Suffolk. I must say the illustrations in my old edition 
are in the worst form of mid-Victorian colour-printing 
and drawing. 

Whenever I see in any old book catalogue a work by 
one of those indefatigable gardeners, Mr. and Mrs. Loudon, 
I always buy it. The last one I got is by Mrs. Loudon, 
and is called the ' Lady's Country Companion, or how to 
enjoy a country life rationally.' It is choke-full of in- 
formation, also full of her bad taste in garden planting, 
has excellent teaching about bread and biscuit making, 
cream cheeses, &c. Her experience of goats seems to 
have been narrow, as was natural in the days before rail- 
ways had drained the milk-supply of the country for the 
big towns, and also before the breeds of goats had been 
improved by foreign blood. We find them gentle, 
affectionate, and highly intelligent animals. Her in- 
formation is so often picturesque as well as enlightening. 
For instance, she says of cabbages : ' The cabbage tribe 
is very much improved by cultivation, but the plants 
contained in it require a great deal of manure and 
frequent watering to make them succulent and good. It 
seems strange that such different plants as broccoli, 
cauliflowers, cabbages, Scotch greens, and savoys should 
all spring not only from one genus, but from one species, 
Brassica oleracea, which is, in fact, a British plant, and 
which, I have no doubt, you have seen growing on the 
cliffs of Dover, though you have no idea that a tall 
straggling plant with alternate leaves and very pretty 
flowers could be the wild cabbage.' 

' The Century Book of Gardening : a comprehensive 
work for every Lover of the Garden ' (George Newnes, 
Limited).  This is a true title, and I think the book will 



JULY 253 

prove most useful, helpful, and suggestive to anyone 
wishing to learn quickly and easily about gardening. 
I bound my copy in two volumes, as its bulk and weight 
are an objection. The photographic pictures, as usual, 
exaggerate size and distance, but they give a good im- 
pression of many gardens and help people to know what 
they want. The two long lists (one of shrubs and trees 
at p. 387, the other of herbaceous plants at p. 69) alone 
make the book worth possessing, and for those too idle 
to make their own lists as I recommend, marking these 
lists would be a way of cataloguing their garden. 

After resisting the temptation for some years, I pur- 
chased the ' Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening : a 
Practical and Scientific Encyclopaedia of Horticulture for 
Gardeners and Botanists,' edited by Geo. Nicholson, A.L.S. 
 My copy is in eight volumes, which makes it easier to 
handle, but it is extraordinary how puzzling the alphabet 
can be when one wants lo refer to a book of this kind. It 
is an endless joy to me, and no evening can be dull or 
lonely with one of these volumes to look at under one's 
lamp. 

'The Eomance of Wild Mowers,' by Edward Step, 
1899, was strongly recommended to me, and I got it. 
The appropriateness of the title strikes me every time I 
look into its fascinating pages, which have indeed much of 
the romantic lure which makes a reader forget everything 
else  even hunger  while the mind is held by a favourite 
book. 

I have been reading lately, with profound interest, the 
little ' M6moire ' of Grant Allen, which came out in 1900, 
when I had not the courage to send for it, because I 
wished so terribly that I could have sent it to my son, who 
had always been fond of Grant Allen's writings. It is a 
very genuine, weU-told account of a most interesting 
character. To all who know bis work, even partially like 



254 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

myself, Grant Allen is a personality, and his biographer 
quotes, with regard to him, the story of Henry III. and 
Montaigne. ' I like your essays,' said the King. ' Then, 
Sire, you'll like me. I am my essays.' So might Grant 
Allen have replied. My son and I knew nothing whatever 
of the man, and of his fiction I still know nothing, but in 
his other writings he brought home to the ignorant in a 
wonderful and charming manner his own long and deep 
study of the natural sciences. A letter of his from 
Jamaica ought to be deeply interesting to all Englishmen 
who have to deal with the great difficulty of how natives 
can be justly ruled. I am always being told this is done 
better by Englishmen than men of any other nation. But 
have we not also made huge mistakes, and have we not 
much to learn in the matter of just application of laws 
which cannot be equal between white men and black ? 
He is interesting, too, about the much-vaunted flora of the 
tropics. 'The fruits of which one hears so much are 
stringy and insipid ; the flowers don't grow ; and the 
"tropical vegetation" is a pure myth.' This may be 
slightly exaggerated, but I have always suspected some- 
thing of the kind. He says, further, ' The tropics are the 
norma of nature  the way things mostly are and always 
have been. They represent to us the common condition 
of the whole world during by far the greater part of its 
entire existence ; not only are they still, in the strictest 
sense, the biological headquarters, they are also the 
standard or central type by which we must explain all the 
rest of nature both in man and beast, in plant and animal.' 
All Allen's life seems to have been hampered by bad 
health and poverty, but the latter probably made him all 
he was. And when he was dying his last words to his 
son were ; ' I want no memorial over my remains ; tell 
those who care for anything that I may have done to buy 
a copy of " Force and Energy." ' 



JULY 255 

The whole of this ' M6moire ' to me is extraordinarily 
touching, interesting, and inspiring. To have so little 
time left in which to learn is the true sadness of old age. 
On the first page, in Grant Allen's lovely little miniature 
writing, is the following : ' I don't know that any phrase 
or quotation has ever been of much use to me in life, but 
the two passages most frequently on my lips are probably 
these : What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole 
world and lose his own soul ? and 

To live by law, 
Acting the law we live by without fear ; 
And, because right is right, to follow right. 
Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence. 

Tennyson.' 

I never saw Grant Allen, but Mr. Clodd's book makes 
me intensely wish I had known him, and I think the book 
is what such a book should be, ' a faithful portrait of a 
most fascinating personality.' 

July 10th.  In that very charming work, by Mr. Eider 
Haggard, the ' Parmer's Year Book for 1898, with illustra- 
tions by G. Leon Little,' he gives an interesting anecdote 
which touches indirectly on my favourite subject of diet. 
Under date September 8th, when speaking of the obscure 
causes of sunstroke, he says, ' Here is a curious instance 
of the power of an English sun. In a Norfolk village with 
which I am acquainted, lived a man, a retired soldier, 
who, when serving in India, had married a native woman 
and brought her home to England. This woman, while 
working in the fields at harvest-time, was struck by the 
sun and died. Certainly it seems strange that she, who 
had passed her youth beneath its terrific rays, should have 
fallen a victim to them here in foggy Britain.' It is strange, 
but may not the cause have been the great change in the 
woman's food? To pass suddenly in mid-life to an 
English labourer's diet from the Indian peasant's food of 



2s6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

rice and vegetables and fruit, would be likely to set up an 
unwholesome condition of the blood which would result 
in mischief. And are not our own people who take much 
alcohol much more affected by sun than other people ? 
I use the word charming, to describe Mr. Haggard's book, 
for two reasons ; first, because it is rare to have a book on 
such a subject from a cultured point of view, and secondly, 
because it is equally rare in these days to have a cheap 
book illustrated from an artist's sketches. In this in- 
stance the illustrations are often very good indeed  ^truth- 
ful, well-drawn, with a human touch, especially in ' The 
Dead Foal,' but, personally, I wish they had been repro- 
duced in black and white instead of brown. They are 
all, to my mind, very superior to the usual machine-made 
reproductions which make the book illustrations of to-day 
so tedious, though I quite own that now and then, at 
long intervals, the photographer, by the happy selection 
of his subject, raises himself almost to the level of an 
artist. A most conspicuous example of this is to be seen 
in Sir Harry Johnstone's important new book about the 
Uganda Protectorate in East Africa. Early in the first 
volume there is a picture called ' An Andorobo drinking 
as primitive man drank,' which in its grace of limb, free- 
dom of action, and extraordinarily lovely balance is, to 
my mind, fit to shake hands with some of the best of the 
world's statues ! I wonder, by the by, if in nature the 
bow was held in the left hand, or whether it appears in 
reproduction reversed as on the lens ? Anyhow, the 
picture is a marvellous representation of its subject. 

July 12th. In an old 'Pall Mall Gazette' I have 
found an account of a lost poem, by John Milton, which 
an Irish correspondent sent to the paper as a literary 
curiosity. As it is not included in any of the later editions 
of the poet's work, and as I am always impressed by the 
excellence of much in the daily papers which, from their 



JULY 257 

ephemeral nature, must needs be soon forgotten, I include 

it here on the chance of introducing it to a few more 

people :  

I am old and blind, 

Men point at me as smitten by God's frown, 
ASicted and deserted of my mind. 

Yet am I not oast down. 

I am weak  yet strong 1 

I murmur not that I no longer see. 
Poor, old, and helpless, I the more belong, 

Father supreme, to Thee ! 

Merciful One ! 

When men are furthest, then Thou art most near ; 
When friends pass by, my weakness shun, 
Thy chariot I hear. 

Thy glorious face 

Is leaning towards me, and its holy light 
Shines in upon my lonely dwelling-place ; 

And there is no more night. 

On my bended knee 

I recognise Thy purpose clearly shown. 
My vision Thou hast dimmed that I may see 

Thyself Thyself alone I 

1 have naught to fear ; 

This darkness is the shadow of Thy wing. 
Beneath it I am almost sacred  here 
Can come no evil thing. 

Oh 1 I seem to stand 

Trembling, where foot of mortal ne'er hath been ; 
Wrapped in the radiance of Thy wondrous hand. 

Which eye hath never seen. 

Visions come and go ! 

Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng : 
From angel lips I seem to hear the flow 

Of soft and holy song. 

It is nothing now, 

When Heaven is opening on my sightless eyes, 
When airs from Paradise refresh my brow. 

That earth in darkness lies. 

S 



258 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

In a purer clime, 

My being fills with rapture ; waves of thought 
EoU in upon my spirit ; strains sublime 

Break over me, unsought. 

Give me now my lyre 1 

I feel the stirrings of a gift divine ; 
Within my bosom glows unearthly fire, 

Lit by no skill of mine. John Milton. 

The tone of sublime joyfulness in this poem reminds 
me of the well-known lines on ' The Celestial Surgeon,' by 
E. L. Stevenson :  

If I have faltered more or less 
In my great task of happiness ; 
If I have moved among my race 
And shown no glorious morning face ; 
If beams from happy human eyes 
Have moved me not ; if morning skies, 
Books, and my food, and summer rain 
Knocked at my suUen heart in vain :  
Lord, Thy most pointed pleasure take. 
And stab my spirit broad awake ; 
Or, Lord, if too obdurate I, 
Choose Thou, before that spirit die, 
A piercing pain, a killing sin, 
And to my dead heart run them in ! 

It is now nearly twenty years since Mr. Eobinson 
wrote his preface to the English edition of Mons. Vil- 
morin's 'Vegetable Garden,' an invaluable book in every 
way, now out of print. I mentioned it before, but return 
to it here because, although I have been about a good 
deal, I have never seen a kitchen garden, old or new, 
planted and managed as Mr. Eobinson recommends, and 
which seems to me admirable for anyone making a new 
vegetable garden. For the sake of those who have not 
the book, I quote the following : ' One point deserves 
the serious consideration of every owner of a garden, and 
that is the "muddle" method of planting the kitchen 



JULY 259 

garden with fruit trees and bushes, and so cutting up the 
surface with walks, edgings, &c., that the very aim of the 
garden is missed. It is quite a mistake to grow fruit- 
trees over the kitchen-garden surface. We cannot grow 
vegetables well under them, and in attempting to do so 
we destroy the roots of the trees. This induces canker 
and other troubles, and is the main cause of our poor 
garden-fruit culture. One-fourth of the space entirely 
given to vegetables, divested of walks, large hedges, old 
frame grounds, old walls, rubbish, and other impediments, 
would give a far better supply. Such a spot well culti- 
vated would be a pleasure to see. It is not merely the 
ugliness and the loss of the mixed garden which we have 
to deplore, but the troubles of the unfortunate gardener 
who has to look after such a garden in addition to other 
work. How is he to succeed with many things so hope- 
lessly mixed up? Put the fruit-trees in one part  the 
higher ground, if any  and the remaining part devoted to 
vegetables, cultivating the ground in the best way, and 
having it always a fertile green vegetable garden. The 
vegetables, too, would be more wholesome from continual 
good light and air, for shade from ragged and profitless 
trees and bushes and hedges is one of the evils of this 
hopeless kind of garden. The broken crops, too (for the 
most part sickly patches) are not such as one can be 
proud of. Separation of the two things, complete and 
final, is the true remedy. There should not be the root 
of a fruit-tree in the way of a vegetable-grower.' 

I agree with every word of this, but many of us have 
bought or inherited old gardens planted on the wrong 
system, and then it must be a compromise. The greatest 
difficulty is that under-gardeners will dig with a spade, 
and so cut the roots of the fruit-trees, which greatly 
injures them when they are young, and perhaps already 
making too little growth. I think fruit-trees, when once 

S2 



26o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

established, for this reason do best with the ground under 
them turfed, so long as there is a bare circle round the 
tree so that it can be manured, and mulched, in dry hot 
weather. Years ago Mr. Eobinson advised me to sow 
pips of apples and pears, and one of these seedling pear- 
trees has fruited well this year and looks stronger and 
healthier than any other tree in the garden. In size 
and flavour the fruit also surpasses all the rest. 

I have always found great difficulty in growing rasp- 
berries here. Every now and then, in a wet year, I get a 
certain number, but then they are more or less spoilt by 
the excess of rain. I am more and more convinced that, 
as with roses, they want better treatment than I have 
ever given them. In heavy soils, mulching with lawn- 
mowings is sufficient. Here, that is no use. I am sure 
they want heavily mulching with strong manure three 
times a year  in the early winter, at flowering time, and 
at fruiting time ; though, perhaps, at the fruiting time, 
liquid manure would be best. In spite of what Professor 
Owen used to say when asked why he did not protect his 
fruit, ' They are the salaries of my orchestra, the wages 
of my choir,' I have wire-netted in a portion of my 
kitchen garden for the protection of the small fruit. 

A kind neighbour and very clever gardener has written 
out for me a rotation of crops in the kitchen garden. 
Farmers pay great attention to this, but in smallish 
gardens it is often too much neglected. 

' Divide garden into five equal parts or sections. In 
No. 5 perennials should be grown, such as asparagus, 
globe artichokes, herbs, strawberries, &c. . . . and no 
rotation applied. 

' In the four remaining parts or sections the rotation 
of crops should be as follows the first year :  

'First Part, or Section A. Generally such plants 
whose produce is stalks, leaves, or floivers. But cabbages^ 



JULY 



261 



endive, lettuce, cauliflower, spinach, and (exceptionally) 
early potatoes, celery, and celeriao. 

' This section requires very heavy manuring, applied as 
follows before or during winter :  

'The soil to be dug straight down, and the soil 
scattered on the manure, which must be laid on the inclined 
surface of what has been dug. (See diagram.) 




' The spade must be inserted as upright as possible, 
and be driven in entirely till the foot is level with the soil 
to be dug. The soil thus dug will show only soil on the 
surface, but below the surface each layer of manure will 
occupy an inclined surface, and these inclined layers will 
overlap so that any plant put in will surely reach the 
manure at a depth varying from one (a) to six (b) 
inches. 

' Second Part, or Section B.  Such plants as are 
cultivated for their roots : Carrots, onions, turnips, sal- 
sify, scorzonera, chicory. The soil, having been prepared 
as above the previous year, will be found full of rich 
decomposed mould. It should then be trenched, taking 
care that the upper spit is not mixed with the lower spit. 
It will then require no additional manure, root crops being 
best without it. 

' Third Part, or Section C Such plants as are culti- 
vated for their seeds: Peas and beans. For these any 



262 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

addition of artificial manure or ashes may be applied 
(mulching after the bloom has commenced is recom- 
mended, not before). 

'Fourth Part, or Section D.  To receive odds and 
ends : Seed beds or hotbeds ; gourds or marrows grown 
on specially prepared places for their culture ; also the 
reserve of flowers for autumn bedding. As the fourth 
section will become first section and grow A in the 
following year, the heavy manuring and the planting of 
biennials (broccoli) should here be anticipated. 

' Each of the four parts of the garden will receive 
the proper culture for A, B, C, and D in regular rotation. 
Thus the first section, which grows A the first year, will 
grow B the second year, C the third year, D the fourth 
year, and A again the fifth year, and so on.' 

July 15th.  An excellent way, which I regret not 
having followed, for keeping the lists of all you have in 
your garden  a plan as useful as it is instructive  is to 
get what are called visiting-books, with the alphabet 
marked on the pages down the side. It is better to have 
two of these books  one for shrubs, which would include 
fruit-trees, the other for perennials and annuals of all 
kinds and greenhouse plants. The very earnest student 
might add a vegetable book, with remarks as regards 
success or failure of experiments. 

July 18th.  I have continued to experiment with the 
cultivation of plants in large pots. The Pelargonium 
' Pretty Polly ' is shown to full advantage grown in this 
way, and its name is appropriate, for it is very pretty. 
Any of the hardier zonal pelargoniums are satisfactory. 
One of my favourites is ' William Gladstone,' a beautiful 
rose-pink. A great improvement in the last few years 
has been made in these zonal pelargoniums. Mr. Cannell 
has a very fine collection, but in writing for them it is 
desirable to note that none should be sent with that 



JULY 263 

peculiar blue shade, verging on magenta, which kills all 
the other colours. None of the tenderer pelargoniums, 
though they live well out of doors in the summer, show 
to perfection, except under glass. Of these ' Enid ' is one 
of the best for flowering all the winter. Even out of doors, 
I think, the ivy-leaved ones do best against a wall if left in 
ordinary six-inch pots with only moderate watering and 
feeding. Inside, in this way, if the greenhouse is sunny 
they are smothered with blossoms and not too much 
leaved. They simply spend their hfe in flowering. ' Lord 
Derby,' which one can only describe as a salmon-scarlet 
with a large silver-splashed eye, is a very good one. This 
reminds me of the old, well-known catalogue description 
of a verbena  ' " Lady B."  a good bedder with straggling 
habits.' ' Lady Mary Fox ' is another of the old-fashioned 
pelargoniums that grows prettily in a large pot, and 
' Lucrece ' is one of the best pink zonals. Of my recent 
discoveries in large plants for these pots I think Cassia 
corymbosa is one of the most effective. It is of shrubby 
growth, with handsome yeUow flowers, which continue 
till the frost comes. The plants can be housed in any 
rough place where actual frost is excluded. Its fault is 
that it has that rather tiresome tendency to go to bed 
very early, and when your friends come to tea its leaves 
droop and the petals turn back, and it looks shabby; 
but the sun of next morning makes it triumphant and 
bold. I can quite recommend it. 

July 28th.  I went to-day to pay a visit to Mr. 
Douglas, the weU-knov7n carnation-grower at Great 
Bookham. It is always so interesting to see a large 
number of plants of one kind grown to the greatest per- 
fection. His carnations were lovely, and many were his 
own seedlings. Once potted up, he never waters them 
with anything but plain water. I am sure success or the 
contrary must much depend on careful watering. He 



264 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

layers all his carnations in their own pots in the glass- 
houses, gives them quantities of air and sun, and never 
puts any out of doors at all. They root quickly, and by 
keeping his plants in his sunny, low greenhouses, their 
seeds ripen. 

This wet July has made Ligustrum sinense florihundum 
flower profusely, and when it does so I think it is the best 
of all the privets. It should face north, or be in partial 
shade. 

In one of my many happy visits to the Bast Coast in 
July, I came across, in quite a small garden on a high 
bank facing south-west, against a bright blue sky, one of 
the most beautiful results of cultivation I ever saw in any 
garden. It was the Spanish sweet-smelling rush-broom 
{Spartium junceum), one sheet of golden bloom. It is one 
of the clearest and brightest of all the yellow flowers, and 
keeps for days in water, retaining all its colour at night. 
I instantly asked how it had been treated, and found the 
bank had been well planted with a few young plants far 
apart eight or nine years ago, and that the only cultiva- 
tion it had had was cutting back hard with shears every 
year late in the summer, after it had done flowering, not 
allowing the seeds to ripen. Certainly the result was 
most satisfactory and well worth any one trying, whether 
near the sea or away from it. Even individual plants do 
far better and are hardier if well cut back. I used to lose 
them in winter, now I do not. This rush-broom planted 
on the southern side of the double gorse hedge before 
mentioned would carry on the band of golden blossom 
later into the year. Genista tinctoria planted in a very 
dry place on a wall and cut back hard becomes almost a 
dwarf plant, but flowers in great profusion. I think 
nothing so amusing as success or failure in varying the 
cultivation of certain plants, particularly in small gardens. 

I think the cimicifugas much better worth growing 



JULY 26 s 

than seems to be the general opinion, for I seldom see 
them. I have both G. racemosa and G. japonica in the 
middle of a large herbaceous bed. They flower at quite 
different times, require no staking, and, being well fed, 
attract considerable attention in my garden. The tall 
thalictrums, T.flavwn and T. aqmlegifolium, I have placed 
near them, and the two together make a very pretty quiet 
background for brighter flowers. I have a specimen of 
sanguisorba which grows like a cimioifuga. Most people 
think them both spiraeas. Sanguisorbas do excellently by 
rivers or ponds, and have a charming growth. 

Bartonia aster aides is an autumn flowering plant that 
appears to ordinary people to be a Michaelmas daisy, but 
its leaf and its habit are quite different. It does best not 
divided, likes a dry sunny place, is more refined and 
graceful, and lasts longer in water than any of the asters 
I know. 

One of the handsomest of the shrubs as a single 
specimen, or in front of other shrubs, is the Chinese 
Guelder rose {Viburnum placatvm). Pruning back after 
flowering, and an occasional mulching, is all it requires. 
Its flowers are most striking in spring, and its foliage 
tints beautifully in autumn. 



266 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



AUGUST 

Cultivation of various plants  Outdoor fig culture  Bhubarb in 
France  Effects of Nicotiana sylvestris alba  Potatoes in 
succession  Colonial branch of Swanley Horticultural College 
for Women  ' Animal life '  Letter about monkey's food  
Hampton Court garden and the old railing  The motor and 
Bramshill  Building a house  Eose planting  Cooking receipts 
 Autumn work in a German country-house kitchen  House- 
hold receipts. 

August 1st.  I have this year thoroughly conquered the 
difficulty of growing and flowering the single Datura 
cornigera{BrugniansiaKnighti). It is beautifully figured 
in the sixth edition of the ' English Flower Garden.' 
This picture would convince anyone how well worth 
growing it is. In a windy and exposed situation it is no 
use trying to grow it. What I do with it is this : It is 
kept all the winter with other half-hardy plants in a pot ; 
in the spring all the lower suckers are taken off and the 
stem is bared. If you want to increase your plant, you 
leave two or three shoots at the bottom of the plant 
earthing them up, and in the autumn you take them off. 
When you have potted up in the spring it is well, if you 
have room, to leave the plant growing on in a cool green- 
house. It is planted out at the end of May. If the head 
is too thick, a little judicious pruning improves its 
shape. The hole must be well dug and well manured, 
the earth left as a cup round the plant, liquid manured 
later on as the flower-buds form, and copiously watered 



AUGUST 267 

in dry weather. By this method I believe anyone can 
have this plant growing and flowering during the whole 
summer in a way that any gardener would feel proud of. 
The sweet Italian double datura I use as a wall plant in 
a large pot, and have a plant so old that a large knob has 
formed just above the ground, which, I suppose, is 
Nature's way of retaining moisture in its unnatural 
condition of being left in a pot. I have another of these 
double daturas planted in a bed in my greenhouse, and 
cutting it hard back once or twice a year makes it also 
flower twice. In the cultivation of cannas, too, I have 
made great progress. The common kind have luxuriant 
foliage, but the flower is poor. Two years ago I bought 
twelve good ones from Mr. Cannell. Before the frost comes 
they are taken up and put under the shelter of some 
shrub with dry earth thrown over their roots. This 
makes them die down naturally. They are then put into 
a box with dry earth and wintered in the cellar. In 
January they begin to show signs of growth ; they are 
best then taken up and very much divided and put into 
separate small pots. Some should be kept and potted on 
for greenhouse use, the others planted out in rich soil at 
the beginning of June. The great object is that they 
should be good-sized plants ready to flower at the end of 
June. Some heat may be used short of making the 
plants weak. The better sort of cannas never show to 
advantage if they flower too late. A canna called 
' Alphonse Bouvier ' makes a most splendid pot plant on 
my wall. It stands plenty of liquid manure when in good 
growing condition. Most plants stand high feeding when 
they are at their strongest and making their flowers. 
Over-manuring constantly Mils young plants. 

We keep our dahhas also in the cellar. They, too, 
form better plants for a good deal of dividing when 
planted out. The shoots should be thinned out as they 



268 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

grow, and all the lower leaves removed in June or July. 
This immensely increases their flowering capabilities. 

(Enothera taraxacifolia has been a most useful plant 
here this wet summer. We have to treat it as an annual, 
as it does not stand our winters. The vagaries of seasons 
have to be much taken into account. All my dry-soil, 
sun-loving plants, which generally do so well here, have 
utterly failed this peculiar season. Another Cape perennial 
which has done splendidly this year is Venidiv/m cal- 
endulaceum. It is of dwarf spreading growth and the 
most showy, orange, marigold-like blooms. Cuttings 
can be taken in August and kept in a greenhouse through 
the winter, but I think growing from seed in a hotbed in 
spring is the better way. 

Francoa ramosa, when grown for the greenhouse, 
should be potted on and not divided. Its wealth of 
bloom, if this point is observed, makes it a handsome 
plant for a greenhouse. 

Many people say to me, ' Do you get figs off your 
trees ? ' I answer, ' Yes, since I have known how to treat 
them.' There is no difQculty in growing good figs out 
of doors, provided  first, you have a wall with south 
aspect. Second, select the right sort of fig, such as (in 
mild situations) 'BourjassotteGrise,' 'St. John,' 'Osborn's 
Prolific,' and 'Brown Turkey'. It is of no use to try 
' Castle Kennedy,' ' Negro Largo,' or many others. Third, 
if the shoots grow more than 18 inches long, the ground 
is too rich ; in this case, cut the roots freely and pinch the 
points of the roots. Fourth, no shoots must be shaded ; 
if they are, you may get figs, but you do not deserve them. 
The first frost will destroy the unripe figs. I always 
pick mine off. This information was given me by a man 
who is a most successful fig-grower. It is better to prune 
figs in the spring because some of the shoots may "be 
damaged by frost if done in autumn. 



AUGUST 269 

Two or three years ago, visiting in a French country 
house in August, to my surprise, the most excellent 
rhubarb tart was served hot for the English guests ! I 
immediately thought, ' Oh ! a new and refined kind which 
tastes just like plums; how wonderful these French 
are ! ' On inquiry, I found the plants had come from 
England, and that, the family being away, the French 
gardener had been bored by their enormous growth and 
had cut them down in May. Their new green growth 
made this delicious autumn variety. I recommend it to 
all, as it comes in most usefully when the small fruit is 
over. The plants must not be forced or cut for eating 
till May. 

August Zrd.  In a beautiful old garden close to the 
Thames, I saw a simple but really lovely effect of garden 
planting. In a small, inner, walled garden were some 
old yews, sombre and dark, and in front, instead of the 
ordinary mixed border or the eternal autumn yellows, 
was an enormous bed entirely planted  and very well 
done, not too close together  with Nicotiana syl/vestris 
alba. Its beautiful long white flowers stood out against 
the dark background, and in the pale evening light the 
effect was magical. One great advantage of this plant 
over the old Nicotiana affinis, is that it does not close by 
day, but, in spite of this, affinis is the best for small 
gardens. The other must be massed and have such a lot 
of room to look really well. Gardeners are rather afraid 
of it, as some years it fails and only goes to leaf. I think 
this is greatly owing to treating it too well in the way of 
rich soil. 

Against autumn and deciduous trees and shrubs in 
the front of park-like scenery, nothing looks so handsome 
as very large clumps of yellow flowers shading up to 
orange, letting montbretias be the highest touch towards 
the red. The endless varieties of perennial sunflowers  



270 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

helianthus and harpaliums, rudbeckias, &c.  make these 
easy and successful, and they can be varied and improved 
year by year, as they are all the better for replanting late 
in each autumn. Mr. Eobinson gives such a splendid 
list of the varieties of these sunflowers that I nesd not 
repeat. The great thing to note is the variety in their 
heights. Lately, a double rudbeckia, ' Golden Glow,' has 
been added to these yellow autumn flowers and is most 
effective and useful. In the latest of autumn sunshine 
these yellow flowers look beautiful against autumn 
leaves. 

For mixed borders, a low-growing white phlox  ' La 
Eeine '  is a very good one, I find. If cut down, it flowers 
again in autumn. 

All the hardy statices (sea lavender) do well in this 
light soil and, had they more space than I can give them, 
would form a beautiful patch of blue-grey colour in this 
bad month for bloom. They are easily increased, as they 
are what is called root-plants. You dig them up in- 
tending to move them ; probably, the bit you left behind 
produces a finer spray of flower than the large root you 
take away. That means that every piece of root will 
grow if in a sunny, dry situation. 

For those who like unshowy plants with various 
charms of their own, the hardy euphorbias (spurges) are 
a fascinating family to cultivate. The well-known Cape 
spurge {E. Lathyris) is a plant with a distinct habit and 
considerable beauty of foliage and demeanour when well 
grown. It sows itself in this garden, and I merely pull 
up those that are not wanted. E. pilosa and E. amyg- 
daloides are very attractive in spring from their yellow 
flowers, which look like leaves when little else is in 
bloom. 

I have grown for years Veratrum nigrum merely for 
the pleasure of the growth of its handsome, green, crinkled 



AUGUST 271 

leaves in spring, and this wet summer brought me the 
surprise of seeing it throw up its unusual tall flower-spike 
with numberless blackish purple blossoms. There is a 
white variety which I shall now feel encouraged to get. 
They are handsome alpines, rarely seen, for they do not 
thrive in a dry rockery. Cineraria maritima, that distinc- 
tive perennial with grey leaves, I used to lose year after 
year, when I first lived here. Then it struck me to plant 
it on the southern side of a moisture-absorbing shrub, and 
ever since it has flourished year by year, and is one of the 
joys of late autumn. 

I think most gardeners plant their spring potatoes all 
at once ; I find it a great advantage to plant a few rows 
every month up to the beginning of August, as this 
continues much longer the delicacy so prized by many 
people of little waxy new potatoes. Seakale beet is a 
vegetable which does not seem to be generally known. 
I have grown it for some years, and, though it is not 
extraordinary in any way, it makes a pretty dish as 
described in receipts. 

One of the things that my readers never seem to have 
forgiven me was my condemnation of the Virginia 
creeper and the Ampelopsis Veitchii in my first books. 
They never seem to understand that it had nothing to do 
with dislike of the lovely plant, but with the way it was 
misused, and I am as convinced as ever that, like ivy, it 
does spoil beautiful brickwork. This year I have been 
haunted by someone quoting me as an authority as to 
when the Virginia creeper was first grown on London 
houses. When I put it as late as 1841, it was a great 
misstatement. J. C. Loudon, in his ' Arboretum et 
Fruticetum Britannicum,' published in 1838, says, ' The 
Virginia creepers grow freely in the smoke of cities 
and in London, and it was introduced into England in 
1629.' 



272 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

I have lately received papers with regard to establish- 
ing a Colonial branch of the Horticultural College at 
Swanley, Kent. This with a special view to the im- 
mediate demand for competent women in South Africa, 
in which country there is a present deficiency of 70,000 
Englishwomen. The proposal seems to me well worthy 
the consideration of those interested in emigration 
questions. The Horticultural College, in its women's 
branch, seems to have been suffering considerably from 
want of funds. 

Last month came out a new periodical called ' Animal 
Life.' I spent a delightful five minutes in front of it at a 
railway bookstall. It begins with a picture of Sir Harry 
Johnstone's new animal, the Okapi. I am sure many  
especially young people  are pining to see this new 
creature : the stuffed specimen is at the Natural History 
Museum at South Kensington. The first article is by 
Professor Garner and called ' Monkey Land,' with such 
pictures of monkeys ! I said to myself, ' I must buy this 
new magazine. First numbers are always the best.' It 
was only Id. The next number had an article on the 
great apes, by Sir Harry Johnstone. That finished me, 
so now I take it in. I wrote to Sir Harry to ask for a few 
more details about the food of the apes in Africa. He very 
kindly answered as follows : ' About apes. They are to 
me a profoundly interesting subject. I look upon them 
as quite half human. Their food consists of the fruit of 
several species of Amomum (a plant allied to ginger and 
to the banana) ; of the core or heart of some palms or of 
other trees ; of mushrooms (most abundant and succulent 
in the great forest) ; of the plums of the parinarium-tree, 
and the fruits of many other forest trees ; of roots (in 
the case of the chimpanzees, of young birds, rats, beetle 
grubs, and other animal food) ; and, finally, of plunder 
from the forest negroes' plantations. The great apes are 



AUGUST 273 

mainly vegetable feeders, but certain chimpanzees readily 
devour flesh.' 

The amomum (from a, not, and momos, impurity; 
in reference to the quality of counteracting poison) re- 
ferred to here is described in the ' Dictionary of Garden- 
ing ' as a stove herbaceous perennial, chiefly aromatic, 
and formerly used in embalming. I wonder whether the 
fact of the chimpanzees' taste for flesh points to a 
possibility of their evolving through a meat-eating phase 
into humanity ? Sir Harry Johnstone calls them the most 
human of all the apes. 

August 9th.  I find in my note-book of last year that 
I went to Hampton Court and never saw its gardens in 
such great perfection. It was as beautiful as could be, 
bathed in soft golden sunlight, not foggy or misty, as, alas ! 
it so often is from smoke, but with clear pearly distances. 
The flowers were really gorgeous, and one saw in per- 
fection the modern kind of bedding. The last of the 
carpet beds have disappeared. In not one bed could the 
earth be seen, no pains and no expense having been 
spared. A lovely arrangement of red and white bouvardias 
scented the cool, moist air, and everything had as much 
water as it wanted. I have never seen a more successful 
public garden. I heard afterwards that all this meant a 
new gardener, and I note it now as an encouragement to 
those who are depressed by failure in their own gardens, 
for this year, the weather being unfavourable, the whole 
thing was utterly different. The herbaceous borders had 
gone to leaf and many of the beds had failed. The 
restoration of the old iron railing, near the river, at the 
end of William and Mary's garden, is a great public 
benefit. It appears that this railing had been carted 
about to various places, some reaching as far as Edin- 
burgh, to save the expense of buying handsome gates 
for public or Crown property. Its restoration to its old 



274 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

foundation does much credit to Lord Bsher's mainage- 
ment during his term of office as First Commissioner of 
Works. 

This year, for a short time, we had a motor-car, and I 
could not help thinking that my agonising fears on first 
driving in it must have been exactly what our grand- 
parents felt when they first used railways. When I meet 
these things along the road  which, alas ! I do very often  
what with their dangerous pace, their horrible dust, not to 
mention the smell that poisons the country air, the only 
expression that comes to my lips is, ' Beastly things, how 
I hate them ! ' But when you are in one all is changed. 
There is a sense of power and independence, and almost 
an exultant feeling of rushing through the air and cover- 
ing long distances without effort. This is, I confess, an 
enjoyable experience. Besides, there is the great pleasure 
of enlarging one's area, and of seeing in comfort places 
and towns one could only reach before by two drives and 
a railway journey. The distant visit I enjoyed most was 
to Brams Hill, the famous Jacobean house in Hampshire. 
Such a lovely place and house, quite unspoilt by restoring 
and changing! It is close to Kingsley's old home at 
Eversley, and is so admirably described by Lucas Malet 
in her novel, ' Sir Eichard Calmady,' that I felt the thrill 
of a human history when shown the hall where Sir 
Eichard's father died, and the panelled bedroom where 
the agonised mother pressed the naked baby to her 
bosom after making her terrible discovery of its de- 
formity. Eocking herself to and fro in a paroxysm of 
rebellious grief, she cried, ' God is unjust ! He takes 
pleasure in fooling us. God is unjust.' From the 
white-panelled old bedroom on the first floor one 
walked straight into a large sitting-room, from the 
vnndows of which one could see the broad lawn, with the 
summer woods sloping away behind it, where Lady 



AUGUST 275 

Calmady's brother shot the horse. No one could have 
chosen a more perfect background for such a story. The 
house was, I beheve, built by the same architect who 
built Holland House, and was intended for the residence 
of Henry, Prince of Wales, son of James I., who died 
young. Its position is my ideal one, and Kingsley says 
of it, ' It stands high, looking out far and wide over the 
rich lowland country from its eyrie of dark pines.' The 
guide-book says, ' The Scotch firs in this park are among 
the oldest and finest in England.' I suppose Scotch firs 
were the fashion when Scotland's king came to rule over 
England. We were pressed to return by the kind owners 
of Brams Hill, and I should much have liked to do so, for 
one never could tire of its beauties, of the old treasures 
it contains, and of the unprofaned air of antiquity which 
surrounds it. But, alas ! the motor departed with 
its owner, and I have had to go back to my ten-mile 
radius. 

On the homeward journey we passed a large open 
space planted with rows and rows of oak-trees, which was 
done by the Government at the time of the Napoleonic 
wars, in a panic that there would be no oak left in 
England wherewith to buUd ships. Though a hundred 
years old they are still quite small, and as the exact date 
of their planting is known, these straight alleys will be of 
interest to future generations. After driving through the 
glorious old nature-planted woods of Brams Hill, it was 
curious to note the contrast in this dry carrying-out of an 
officially ordered planting. Even to the future genera- 
tions who see these oaks in their old age, they will never 
recall a wood such as, in its wild beauty, suggested the 
French proverb which Miss Una Van Artevelt Taylor 
adopts in the following poem  one of a charming series 
written by her for the ' Westminster Gazette ' :  



I 2 



276 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

NOUS N'IBONS PLUS AU BOIS, LES LAUBIEBS 
SONT COUPES 

The path is there  the hedge of high hornbeams, 

Grey-stemmed, brown-leaved, and then the gate, and then 
The little wood we called the Wood of Dreams : 
That wood our hearts will never find again. 
Noils n'wons plus au hois, for well we know 
Les lauriers sont cowpis, long, long, long ago. 

In that green place the woodland sunlight streams 

On windflowers white, aod every April day 
Paints bluer violets. But our fair-faced Dreams 
As shadows came, as ghosts have passed away. 
Nous ri' irons plus au bois ; nor here nor there 
Our dreams abide, and all the wood is bare. 

The path is there  the sudden silver gleams 

Of birch-boughs through the dusk. New eyes will see 
June foxgloves blossom ; to the Wood of Dreams 
New dreamers and new dreams will come  but we  
Nous n'irons plus au bois, ah no, ah no ; 
Les lauriers sont coupes  even, even so. 

I heard the other day of an American couple visiting 
one of the most beautiful and typical of our south-country 
places, with broad, soft, velvety green lawns. They 
were wild with astonishment and admiration. At last 
the wife exclaimed, ' Oh ! Jack, however do they get 
these lawns here ? I can't understand it. We can't do 
it.' Her husband replied, ' Well, my dear, I guess we 
can't have the two centuries of movring which these 
places have had ; that may have something to do with it.' 
He was, in a sense, right : some of our old places have 
had over three centuries of mowing. But the climate, 
too, is answerable for a great deal. The cold winters, 
even of the centre of Europe, entirely prevent grass from 
growing as it does with us. We could get a better lawn 
in three years than they could ever have. There is no 
doubt that the British Isles have a quite wonderful 



AUGUST 277 

climate for gardening, though it is little suited for sitting 
out, which many people seem to think is the chief use of 
a garden. 

As I am always planning and planting imaginary 
gardens, or thinking how I should alter the gardens of 
my friends, so I am always building imaginary houses. 
Nothing I see satisfies my ideas of what a modern 
' health house ' should be  that is to say, a house which 
is not only a home, but a model-dwelling for acquiring 
the highest degree of physical health compatible with our 
modern life. In small houses and great houses, in 
villadom and in hall, the first thought seems to be that 
the outside of the house should be pretty, or ornamental, 
or picturesque. Now, no one admires beauty more than 
I do, but the first law I should lay down to myself would 
be that the inside of the house, both as regards comfort 
and health, should come before any structural external 
beauty. I do not deny that every house must be adapted 
to its owner, and, of new houses, the one that fulfils this 
best of any that I know is the one which Miss Jekyll lives 
in, which she describes in her first two books. My 
house would of course have to be quite different. The 
outside appearances would have to be very simple and 
very plain. White walls with a red-tiled roof for modest 
houses such as I am speaking of seem to me most suited 
to the English climate. My house should be low, only 
two storeys, but covering a good deal of ground. Beauti- 
ful brick chimneys, and many of them for the sake of 
having my fireplaces in the part of the room best suited 
to its requirements, would be the principal additional out- 
side expense. By beautiful chimneys, I mean such as 
stand out good in form against a clear sky, Uke those 
which were built to farmhouses three hundred years ago. 
The roof over the windows might have eaves, but there 
must be no eaves where creepers are to be grown. Eaves 



278 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were used before gutters were invented to carry the rain- 
water from the roof and away from the walls. In those 
days, the drip fell on the roots of the plants; now there is 
no drip, so the plants must receive the rain as it falls if 
they are to be healthy. The absence of eaves being ugly, 
the difficulty might perhaps be solved by having a 
slightly perforated gutter which would allow enough water 
through for the needs of the plants below, but would 
carry off the bulk of the rain-water, but I fear this would 
make the walls damp. But could my little white house 
ever be pretty, whether it cost much or little, seeing that 
it would have to be nearly all windows  enormous 
windows, tall and broad? I hear most people saying 
' How frightful  and how uncomfortable ! ' It is not only 
a matter of air, as that can be got more or less by small 
windows if intelligently placed and made to open easily, 
but to catch all the sun possible in our sunless climate. 
In the sitting-rooms the windows must be in part glass 
doors reaching to the ground ; for to live in the country 
and not be able to watch nature, the birds pecking, the 
flowers growing, &c., when sitting in a room, seems to 
me a great drawback. Not only must it be possible 

for me  

While safe beneath the roof, 

To hear with drowsy ear the plash of rain, 

but I must see it : I must also, without getting up from 
my employment, be able to see the great storm-clouds 
roll up from the horizon, and the sun rise and set  all 
this with firm big windows that do not rattle in the wind 
and that a child or an invahd could open or shut easily. 
What have I ever seen that comes nearest to these ideas ? 
All old English cottages have small windows, and the 
tall windows of the beautiful old Jacobean houses are 
generally very narrow, and the leaded panes do not open 
enough. Perhaps some of the Georgian houses built 



AUGUST 279 

quite at the end of the eighteenth century, full of the 
recollection of their simple Dutch origin, are most like 
what I want, but even these have not enough window 
space for me. I think I should like my drawing-room 
something like the old Queen Anne orangeries, only not of 
course nearly so high or large, and the morning-room 
might have circular windows like some of the old Brighton 
houses. The woodwork would have to be strong, and 
there comes in either initial expense or endless painting. 
I am even Philistine enough now and then to like a large 
pane of plate glass over a fireplace let into the wall, like 
a window without a frame, provided the view is good. 
The flue is led up on each side. 

For ordinary windows, twelve by nine inch panes do 
very well for not too heavy a framework. For exposed 
situations, where windows opening to the ground are 
liable to catch the full force of the west wind, a plan by 
which the heavy plate-glass door slides back in a strong 
iron groove, top and bottom, with a handle inside and 
outside of the framework to move it easily, is far the 
most serviceable and convenient that I have ever seen. 
In bedrooms where the whole of one side of a wall is 
window, there may be a window-seat across, but then the 
glass should come down to within a foot of the seat ; but I 
think shelves under the seat with sliding doors are better 
and more useful than the customary lockers. Doors that 
are cut in half like old cottage and stable doors have 
been too little used of late. 

My dining-room should always face west, and I think 
it a great objection to have the fireplace in the middle 
or at the window-end of a dining-room. It should be at 
the far end, on one side, so that no one has to sit with 
back to the fire ; the table being as near as possible to 
the window. I should never allow hot-air pipes in any 
house of mine, though a stove or large fireplace in the 



28o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

middle of the house is almost essential for keeping it dry. 
I do not hke the usual central hall as a sitting-room, 
because I do not come into the country to sit within 
prison walls, and these halls are generally lighted from 
the top, or from some dark courtyard shut out by opaque 
glass, or the windows are so high up there is no seeing 
out of them. To come in on a fine afternoon, with the 
views perhaps at their very best, to have tea in a darkened 
room, seems to be a non-appreoiation of the best the 
country has to give us. Here, again, I know most people 
will disagree with me. I have heard these halls more 
praised than anything else in modern architecture. 

I suppose it would be difficult to manage, but I think 
the best bedrooms ought to have small balconies to 
facilitate air-baths night and morning, or even for sleep- 
ing outside in fine weather. The modern fashion of 
roofed alcoves vnth open sides and glass to the north 
makes very delightful open-air rooms. Paved yards, too, 
are full of capabilities for sitting out, or for miniature 
pot-gardening. What I like best is sitting in my own 
room with all the windows and doors wide open. This is 
what most people dread as a full draught, but I have 
never found any harm from it. Perhaps a safer plan in 
bedrooms is to have two windows high up towards the 
ceiling, both of which are kept open, as a single window 
in a room, however wide open, does not properly venti- 
late it, because it creates no draught. 

I think the rich man has yet to arise who will build a 
house and furnish it well and in good taste according to 
the ideas, inventions, and manufactures of his own day, 
or perhaps twenty years before. A gUmmer of the 
beautiful uses that might be made, for instance, of glass 
and iron was to be seen in the Petit Palais of the French 
Exhibition of 1900. Imitation of old things is in no sense 
true evolution. 



AUGUST 281 

In the building of houses I think the greatest care and 
thought are necessary in order to prevent the builders 
from throwing out the earth of the foundations in a way 
that produces a flat space in front of the house. Given 
that the house is on the slope of a hill, or even on the 
flat, I would rather throw up the earth into a large mound 
on the north or north-east and plant this with any kind 
of shrub liked by the owner, than in any way make a 
terrace in front of the house. Even in the case of making 
terraces, they should be laid out after the house is built, 
and are far prettier if they slope away from the house 
than if they give the appearance of the house being in a 
hole. Having decided where the foundation earth is to 
go, and how it is to be planted in a manner that will 
cause the greatest protection with the least exclusion of 
view, one must try to make up one's mind what one 
really wants most. I came here to a ready-made 
villa garden which I knew could never be really beauti- 
ful or ^picturesque ; therefore I decided that what I 
wanted was to grow the greatest number of plants and 
flowers for picking and giving away which could be grown 
healthily in a small space. This can only be done by 
growing an immense variety of plants, as constant suc- 
cession is the only method by which I could gain my 
object. One must always reckon that in certain years 
whole families of flowers fail altogether, so that, besides 
the seasons, one has to provide for wet and dry years. 

The beautiful combinations of flower effects which 
come in all gardens as if by chance, come to me also, 
though sometimes, I confess, by design ; but if I were to 
build my imaginary house it would be on an uncultivated 
piece of ground  say, wood, common, or field and then 
I think my object would be to keep the character of the 
ground as it was. In some ways the flat field would 
be the most difficult to manage, and then an effect of 



28z A THIRD POT-POURRI 

wildness would have to be given by breaking up the 
ground and making miniature mountains and valleys. 
In a small space this would be impossible, so that a 
small cottage garden must be straight in design, a 
mixture of flowering shrubs and herbaceous plants. 
The kitchen garden and the orchard would be kept 
apart, as I said before. Endless small hedges would 
have a charming effect on flat ground  spring beds 
divided by well-clipped hedges of Bibes sanguinea ; the 
Japanese loniceras, which flower three times as well 
if grown on short railings of bamboo-sticks instead of 
against a house and pruned twice a year ; the Penzance 
sweet-briars  in fact, the combinations for cutting up 
flat ground are innumerable and would occur to any 
good gardener. Long lavender-bordered walks would 
also look very well. I was told this year that the spike- 
nard of the Bible was made from oil of lavender. This 
may have been an adulteration of the ancients ! for Anne 
Pratt says it was made from the spikenard-grass, nardus. 
She adds : ' When an army rides over the plains of 
Persia, covered with this tall grass, an almost overpower- 
ing sweetness, arising from its stems and roots, fills the 
surrounding air. The ointment which takes its name 
from this grass was used among the rich Jews at their 
baths and public feasts. ... Its value among the 
ancients may be inferred from the mention made by 
Horace, that the quantity contained in a small box of 
precious stone was regarded as equal in worth to a large 
vessel of wine.' 

I mentioned before the difficulties of wood-gardening. 
The heather and gorse ground which I mean when I say 
' common,' is so beautiful in itself and so easily enriched 
by plants that require little but what they find, that it 
would be undesirable in any way to spoil its nature, and 
all plants that would not grow without moisture would 



AUGUST 283 

have to be relegated to the kitchen garden. Even there 
it would be better to keep the varieties for each season 
apart, as no real gardener minds large bare places where 
plants are resting, any more than a mother minds her 
children being asleep. The toil and trouble of a garden 
close to the house is that its beauty is expected to be 
perennial and successive through every month in the 
year. This is of course impossible, but even striving for 
it entails immense care and labour if no month is to be 
without outdoor flowers. 

Everybody tries to grow roses, and in many soils they 
succeed without trouble ; but for the best I ever saw in the 
first year of planting, the bed was made in a way worth 
recording. The earth was dug out two feet deep and 
replaced by carefully prepared soils, but instead of mixing 
them all together, or laying the clay at the bottom as is 
usually done, the three soils were laid diagonally one on 
top of the other, clay, richly-manured loam, and the top 
spit. In this way the roots of the freshly planted roses 
found that which they required, at different levels. 

August 26th.  My experience in cooking has been 
very different from what it used to be, for I seldom go 
out, and my own food at home is of the very simplest. 
Cookery books of all kinds have become so inexpensive 
that I shall content myself vrith naming just a few books 
which have come to my knowledge of late, and only give 
in addition such simple cooking hints as experience has 
recently taught me, and which concern health rather 
than gastronomy ; and some still cheaper receipts will 
be found in the chapter called ' Wholesome Pood at 3s. 
a Week.' 

The opposition to simpler foods and the dislike to 
the simple receipts I now give are so widespread that my 
old sympathy with the other side of the question makes 
me give the following little newspaper story of an 



284 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

American Judge's opinion of vegetarianism : ' The Courts 
have granted a divorce to a wife in Cleveland, Ohio, 
whose husband was not only a vegetarian himself, but 
insisted on her following the same rigime. She was not 
aware of his dietetic eccentricity until after marriage, 
but she soon found she would have to eat vegetarian 
dishes or go without eating altogether. At last she 
packed her trunks and went off. The Judge ruled that 
in denying his wife the food which to her was a neces- 
sity of life he was guilty of neglect.' 

' Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen, or How to Cook 
Vegetables,' by Janet Boss. (Dent & Co., 1899.) There 
are now innumerable vegetarian cookery books, but I find 
this one most useful, perhaps because it is rather a 
nation's cooking of vegetables than a vegetarian cookery 
book. It is by the same Mrs. Eoss of Poggio Gherardo, 
Florence, who sells such excellent olive oil made on her 
own estate. I used to think much change was very 
essential in housekeeping. ' I now think if people are 
well they like things best dressed most days alike, or 
nearly so, with only the change the seasons bring. 

' Hilda's Diary of a Cape Housekeeper ' is a book every- 
one going to the Cape should get, as it would be very 
useful. It gives many hints besides cooking receipts, 
and an account of the Cape climate every month in the 
year. 

Her former book, ' Hilda's Where Is It of Eeceipts,' 
was much appreciated. (Chapman & Hall.) 

A good little book for humble households is to be got 
for one penny, from the School of Cookery, Colquitt 
Street, Liverpool. It is cheap cooking, but not vege- 
tarian. 

An excellent Veg-etable Soup. Take two carrots, 

two onions, two turnips, a little spinach, lettuce, endive, 
and sorrel. Tie up together a sprig of every sort of herb 



AUGUST 285 

you have in the garden. Boil all in water. When the 
hard vegetables are cooked, take out the sweet herbs, rub 
the whole through a fine sieve, make it not too thick by 
adding the water the vegetables were boiled in, add a 
little butter, pepper, and salt, and serve hot. 

Cheese Salad.  For a small luncheon dish, cheese 
salad can be quickly made by putting thinly-sliced or 
grated cheese in the middle of the dish, surrounding it 
with lettuce, endive, or cress, and covering all with a 
good salad dressing. 

Globe Artichokes may be economically treated by 
boiling in the usual way, taking out the choke without 
disturbing the leaves, making a purie of the bottom with 
butter, pepper, and salt, and serving it hot on fried toast 
cut into rounds. The leaves are kept together and served 
cold the next day standing upright in the dish in a little 
mixed oil, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Watercress 
cooked exactly like spinach makes a useful early spring 
green vegetable. Landcress and chervil mixed, cooked 
in the same way, make an equally good autumn puree. 

To Keep a Cake Fresh put an apple with it in the 
storing tin. This keeps it soft for several days on the 
same principle as the well-known receipt for keeping 
tobacco moist by enclosing a few potato peelings in the 
jar vnth it. 

Chocolate Toast.  Take some pieces of the very 
best French chocolate, melt it in a little hot water to the 
thickness of gooseberry-fool. Pour this hot on rounds of 
fried toast. 

A New Jam, and the very best I ever tasted, is made 
of morella cherries mixed with raspberries. 

Onions and Sauce.  Peel little onions, and boil 
them tender. Make a sauce apart of butter and flour 
cooked a light brown coffee colour, and mixed with water. 
Stir the onions into this, and serve. Another way is to 



286 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

fry the small onions in butter till a nice brown, then 
braise till tender, and serve hot. 

Chou Braise.  Take a nice spring cabbage, split it, and 
wash in salt and water ; put it in a saucepan of boiling 
water for ten minutes. Take it up, drain well on a sieve, 
put it in a casserole pot for one hour to braise with a 
little butter, and pepper and salt to taste, but no stock 
or water. 

Chou a la Creme is made when cabbages have come 
to their full maturity, and are hard of heart and large of 
circumference. Boil till quite tender, chop roughly, and 
then pass through a hair sieve ; add thick cream fairly 
liberally, and serve ' piping hot ' and well seasoned, with 
golden-brown strips of fried bread leaning up against the 
cabbage all round. 

Pommes h. la Caramel. Pour large apples, i lb. 
lump sugar, 2 oz. butter, half a cup cold water. Make a 
caramel of the sugar, water, and butter by boiling care- 
fully till it is like a thick brown cream ; flavour it by 
putting in the peelings and pips of the apples. Pass the 
syrup through a sieve, and put it into a saucepan with 
the apples whole or quartered. Stand on the stove to 
simmer for one hour, when the apples should be nice and 
soft, and look a golden brown floating in the syrup, which 
is nearly reduced to a jelly. 

Gnocchi.  Bring ^ pint milk to boiling point, and 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of semolina, 2 oz. grated cheese, 
1 oz. butter, a little onion. Boil for fifteen minutes in 
double pan, or constantly stirring, turn out, and when cold 
make up into cakes, which flour, and fry a golden brown. 

Puree of Potatoes. Boil in salted water, drain well, 
put back on the fire in stewpan with butter and cream, 
and stir till there are no lumps, and it is about as thick 
as bread sauce. It must not boil. 

Green Sauee.  Taking a handful of parsley and one 



AUGUST 287 

of chervil, and some leaves of tarragon, scald with hot 
water, put into a mortar ; do the same with a few leaves 
of spinach, add two gherkins and two spoonfuls of capers ; 
pound all together with a piece of fresh butter, then 
pass the whole through a fine sieve ; mix this into white 
bechamel (see ' Dainty Dishes ') sauce at the last moment. 
Stir and warm up  must not boil. Pour this over the 
vegetable the moment before serving. Boiled fish, 
poached eggs, turnips, carrots, branches of seakale, beet, 
oxalis, Jerusalem artichokes, celeriac, waxy potatoes, are 
all good with this sauce. 

Macaroni and Portugal Onion, Soak some 

macaroni in a little milk : cut some very thin slices off a 
Spanish onion. Cook the onion a little first, then add 
the macaroni, and boil till tender. Drain off any milk 
left, and serve dry. 

Apple Meringue.  Stew some apples as for apple 
sauce; when very hot stir in the yolks of one or two 
eggs. Whip the whites and throw over the apple ; brown 
in the oven or in front of the fire. 

French Way of Cooking" Endive. Boil the leaves 
in lots of salt and water, just as you would spinach or 
cabbage. When tender, pour the whole thing into a 
large sieve, and when the hot water has run off put 
under a tap, and let the cold water run over it in quan- 
tities. This applies to all green vegetables boiled in 
salt water  cabbage, sorrel, cos lettuce, cabbage lettuce, 
&c. Then put the endive on a chopping-board, or, if 
required very smooth, pass through a fine hair sieve; 
in both these cases return it to the fire after having 
first put a pat of butter to dissolve with one spoonful 
of Vienna flour. Do not put the vegetables in before 
the butter- and flour are well amalgamated. When this 
is achieved, stir the vegetable well up with the butter 
and flour ; let it simmer another fifteen minutes, add a 



288 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

little cream or even milk quite at the last moment to 
make it soft and pretty. It must not be thicker than a 
thin puree. 

Waxy potatoes, if wanted plain, are best first boiled, 
and then put in the oven to roast on a tin without fat or 
butter. 

Cut raw well-bleached winter chicory leaves as thin 
as possible, and mix with hot beetroot for a winter 
salad. 

Seakale Beet (Cotes de blettes), large ribbed 

leaves.  Cut the white ribs in lengths, like a finger and 
as thick as a little finger, boil in a little salt and water 
till tender, having left them in floured water while 
peeling, which keeps them white. Dress with a white 
bechamel. The green parts of the leaves are passed 
through a fine sieve and dressed exactly like spinach. 
For serving you put the white ribs with their sauce in the 
centre and the green all round. 

Potato Salad.  Boil the potatoes in their skins at 
least two hours before dinner. Cut them in slices a 
quarter of an inch thick, put them in a china bowl with 
one or two soup ladles of hot broth or vegetable stock, 
and let them soak and remain tepid till dinner-time. 
They should so absorb the broth that they look dry. When 
served mix with a thin mayonnaise sauce, and surround 
with young lettuces previously dressed with oil and 
vinegar. They can be dressed with beetroot, cucumber, 
tomatoes, or herrings. 

Milk Soup.  Cut one onion into small pieces, put 
them in a saucepan with some butter, let it fry until it is 
chestnut colour, then add the milk. Let it boil for some 
minutes, then pass it through a strainer and serve. Pry 
well in butter small pieces of bread and serve separately. 

To Bottle Fruit. Put clean cold water into the 
bottles, and sink them in hot water till the water boils in 



AUGUST 289 

the bottles ; cover up top and let it get cold. Put the 
fruit fresh picked into a hot oven for a few minutes, take 
out and cover up till cold. Then drop it into the water 
in bottles; no sugar, nothing; cork and seal down at 
once. 

Barley Water.  4 oz. pearl barley, 2 quarts water. 
Thoroughly wash the barley, add the water and boil till 
reduced to 1 quart. Strain through hair sieve (previously 
scalded) and press through some of the barley to thicken. 
Time to reduce three or four hours. 

Semolina Pudding*.  Boil some milk and sugar to 
taste (best rather sweet), sprinkle in some semolina to 
thicken it, flavour with vanilla if liked. Leave it to cook 
slowly by the fire till as dry as bread-sauce. Then butter 
a pie-dish well with fresh butter and pour in the mixture. 
Bake in an oven till thoroughly brown. 

Sauce Sevillane (enough for two or three people).  
The grated rinds of one orange and one lemon, the juice 
of both, two dessert-spoonfuls of red currant jelly, a little 
cayenne pepper or not. Mix together, and pass through a 
hair sieve. Serve cold in a sauceboat. Good with cold 
meat, or tomatoes cut in slices. Heated, with the addition 
of a tablespoonful of port wine, it is good with roast duck. 

Boiled Cheese. Take a piece of the best EngUsh 
Cheddar, not Canadian, and melt it. Add a tablespoonful 
of white sauce made with 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour and ^ 
gill milk, all well cooked. Serve in dish with lamp under 
it. Eat with dry toast. 

Chestnuts as a Sweet. Peel and boil some large 
sweet chestnuts in water. Prepare a syrup apart, and 
drop in the chestnuts as it boils, and let them get cold 
together. Serve with or without whipped cream. 

Stewed Figs.  Many children are fond of stewed 
figs, but I think they will be found better for everybody 
if, instead of being stewed, they are steeped overnight in 

u 



290 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

enough cold soft water to cover them. A few drops of 
fresh lemon-]'uiee is a grateful addition to grown-up palates 

How to Make a Dry CUTFy.  These directions are 
for 1 lb. meat, raw preferred, cold will do. Cut two 
onions and one apple in thin slices from top to bottom, fry 
them in a good lot of butter in a china-lined frypan till 
they are golden brown, drain them quite dry from the 
butter, and put them into a Nottingham jar (the round, 
flat shape with lid is the best). Put the butter back into 
the frypan, cut your meat into large dice (no fat or skin), 
fry the meat till it is brown, drain it from the butter, and 
put it into the jar with the apple and onions. 

Put the butter back into the frypan, mix one dessert- 
spoonful of Mrs. Atkinson's curry powder smoothly with 
it, and add two tablespoonfuls of stock ; boil it for 
half a minute, and then empty into the jar with the other 
things, and stir well with a wooden spoon kept on purpose. 
Stand it on the hob and let it simmer slowly for six hours, 
stirring occasionally. The great secret is the slow 
cooking. Should it get too dry, add a little more stock or 
milk. Taste the curry, as some meat absorbs more 
powder than others ; if not flavoured strongly enough, add 
a little more powder just before serving. A little fine- 
grated cocoa-nut added is a great improvement. Serve 
with rice and chutney. 

The above curry powder and chutney are to be got 
wholesale at 13 Church Street, Windsor, or retail at any 
of the London stores. I never eat these things myself 
now, but I am told this kind is exceedingly good, and I 
give the receipt for the many who hke curried vegetables. 

Dkl Bhkt (Indian breakfast dish).  Get from the 
chemist ^ lb. ground turmeric, ^ lb. roasted and ground 
coriander seed. Mix and keep in a bottle. 

Soak a pint of lentilfi in cold water overnight. In the 
morning shred two or three onions, brown them in 



AUGUST 291 

clarified butter, and add a tablespoonfnl of the mixed 
powder. Strain the water off the lentils, and put them in 
a saucepan with some stock or milk, and the browned 
onions, &c. Put on the lid and simmer gently till the 
lentils are quite soft. If they get at all dry, add a little 
more stock or milk. Serve with a separate dish of boiled 
rice as for curry. The cooked Dal can be kept in a 
basin, and warmed up when required. Pepper and salt 
may be added if liked. The Dil should be about the con- 
sistency of thinnish porridge. 

Partridge, Grouse, or Young: Chickens, k la 

Cr^me.  Half roast a grouse or partridge in butter in a 
saut6 pan, with an onion cut in quarters, then take the 
bird and put it in a little casserole. In the saut^ pan, 
where the bird has been cooking, put a liqueur glass of 
vinegar and reduce to half, add ^ pint of cream, and boil 
with salt and pepper and a little cayenne. Strain it 
over the bird in the casserole, cook slowly for ten minutes 
in the cream, and serve. 

Fig Pudding.  6 oz. of chopped suet, 6 oz. of figs 
cut in small squares, 6 oz. of breadcrumbs, 3 oz. of brown 
sugar, two eggs, little milk, pinch of salt ; mix all together, 
put into a buttered mould, and boil 2^ hours. Serve with 
any sweet sauce hot. 

Sabajone (a Venetian sweet dish).  Make some 
sponge cake and toast it dry and crisp in a slow oven ; 
cut it into convenient pieces, allowing two for each 
person, and spread thickly with good quince marmalade 
or jelly. Take ten lumps of white sugar, and about two 
tablespoonfuls of water to dissolve them. Whisk eight 
yolks of eggs in a bain marie, and then add to them the 
boiling dissolved sugar syrup. Whisk all hard for ten 
minutes or longer in a bain marie in a pan of hot water. 
Have the hot cake pieces nicely arranged in a silve?- dish 
for choice, or a white china one, and pour over the frothy 

u2 



292 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

sauce just before serving. Sponge rusks will do instead 
of sponge cake, and a little liqueur or wine can be 
sprinkled over them before adding the sauce, and this 
improves the sweet ; but do not let them be too damp and 
soft  they should be crisp under the froth. 

The best Ging'erbread I know.  1 lb. flour, 1 lb. 
black treacle, one dessert-spoonful of ground ginger, one 
dessert-spoonful mixed spice, ^ lb. brown sugar, ^ lb. 
fresh butter, \ pint milk, ^ teaspoonful carbonate soda, 
four eggs, a little finely-chopped citron peel. Mix all the 
dry ingredients together, warm the milk, and dissolve 
the butter in it ; beat up the eggs, then add the milk and 
treacle. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a square cake 
tin, not very deep, or flat sautd pan. The mixture should 
be quite a running consistency before baking ; add a little 
milk if necessary. This is a moist, black gingerbread. 

Cold Lemon Souffle.  An economical and excellent 
sweet. Take the yolks of three eggs, the juice of three 
lemons, and grated rind of two. Add ^ lb. loaf sugar, 
about a tablespoon of gelatine dissolved in milk. Stir 
all together over the fire till it thickens. Whip ^ pint of 
cream and beat the whites of the three eggs up stifle, and 
stir in gently to the custard mixture. Pour into the souflB6 
dish or deep china dish, and sprinkle with grated crumbs 
and sugar, or with chocolate powder, or, for choice, with 
some chopped pistachio nut, and serve. If in summer 
stand in ice. 

To Cure two Tongues at a Time. These are 
much better than bought ones. 2 lbs. common salt. If lb. 
black treacle, 1 lb. bay salt, J lb. saltpetre. The salts finely 
pounded and mixed with the treacle. Eub two large 
fresh ox-tongues with the mixture, and turn them every 
day for four weeks or three and a half weeks, letting them 
lie in the pickle. Send them to the nearest curer to be 
smoked for two days. This last is not indispensable, but 



AUGUST 293 

improves them. When cured boil with plenty of vege- 
tables, herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns ; garnish with 
home-made glaze and chopped aspic. 

Cats' Tongfues.  A good French ice or dessert 
biscuit. 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. pastry flour, mixed vrith 
cream to a soft paste, adding, perhaps, a little milk and 
flavouring with vanilla or lemon. Put in a forcing-bag 
and force out on to greased baking-sheets in rounds or 
oblongs. Bake in a quick oven, serve fresh. 




Orangeade as made in Paris. Cut the rind of 

two oranges and two lemons very thin, place in a jug, 
pour in 1 pint of boiling water, add very little ginger (to 
taste). Squeeze six lemons and six oranges, add the 
juice of these and a syphon of soda-water. Strain, ice, 
and serve. Blood oranges, when procurable, are best, 
and two or three drops of cochineal improves the colour. 

The best Orange Jelly I know.  ^ lb. loaf sugar, 
sixteen or eighteen oranges, two lemons, 1 oz. gelatine. 
Boil the sugar to a syrup, pour it, boiling hot, on the 
thinly-pared rind of two oranges, squeeze the juice of all 
the oranges and lemons, pass through a fine sieve. Add 
the dissolved gelatine and syrup and a few drops of 
cochineal ; ice, and serve. This may not be stiff enough 
to serve in a shape, but it is much nicer than when 
stiffened with more gelatine. 

Sand-Torte (a very good light foreign cake).  Clarify 
1 lb. fresh butter; when cold beat it to a cream, add 
12 oz. white sugar, 1 lb. potato flour passed through a 
sieve, four whole eggs and the yolks of two more, the 



294 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

best of one lemon and a few drops of lemon or vanilla 
essence. Beat the whole for at least one hour, and until 
it makes bubbles. Bake in flat round or square, shallow 
mould, buttered and finely breadcrumbed, in a moderate 
oven. Dust over with fine white sugar  icing sugar, for 
choice  before serving. 

Cold Chocolate in Glasses, as in Paris. Quantity 
for about six custard glasses. Take 6 oz. of good choco- 
late, not less than 2s. per lb. Dissolve it in hot water in 
a clean copper over the fire  just enough water to melt it 
to a paste. Add a teacupful of milk, and let it boil up. 
Pour the mixture on to five yolks of eggs beaten up, and 
put it all on the fire again, stirring it till it just boils. 
Take off quickly and leave it to cool, or in summer stand 
it on ice. 

Bread.  People are constantly saying to me, ' One of 
the chief difficulties of your diet is the good bread you 
recommend. The cooks say they have no time to make it, 
many members of the family won't eat it, the bakers won't 
change their methods, and the mill is either far ofif or the 
flour is all ground by the new method of china rollers, 
which is especially designed to make the flour very white.' 
My answer is that all these drawbacks are easily over- 
come by a little trouble and conciliation. When the cook 
finds that the bread-making is less trouble than cake- 
making (see Eeceiptb), and that her mistress cares more 
about it than about made dishes, she soon falls in with 
her ideas. Millers I have found most obliging, and even 
interested in the matter. Our own old water-mills here 
at Cobham, by the Mole side, have been lately bought by 
Henry Moore & Son, of Leatherhead, and on being 
written to they would send to any part of the kingdom 
the various flours I use, and also the fresh bran (see 
receipt for Bran Tea), which is not easy to get in London. 
I asked them for a specimen of English wheat ground 



AUGUST 295 

through stones, and received a most civil answer, in which 
they say they also send a gallon of wholemeal with the bran 
taken out, adding : ' We hardly agree with this ourselves, 
as we think it much better with the bran left in.' This is 
not the first instance I have had that millers themselves 
appreciate the value of bran in wheat meal. Unfortu- 
nately, many modern digestions cannot stand whole meal 
with the bran left in, and for these it is better that they 
should have the bran sifted out either by the miUer or at 
home, in which ease they can get the phosphates of the 
bran by using it for bran tea. 

I have heard of another mill at Dorking, kept by 
Mr. Atlee, where the wheat is ground in the same way 
with the old-fashioned stones. 

My letter from Mr. Moore concludes : ' If we can do 
anything in the way of experimenting for you, we shall be 
very pleased to do so.' Thus proving that millers who 
have to grind to please the bakers, whose flour cannot be 
too white, are equally ready to please private customers 
when they have the chance. 

For those living in London it may be a convenience 
to know that at the Haymarket Stores they can get the 
finest wheat meal, ground by the well-known Great Barton 
Mills of Mr. Scott, of Ipswich; also at Bax & Sons, 
35 Bishopsgate Street Without, E.G. When the bread- 
making at home is an insuperable difficulty, a good deal 
can be done by a little love-making to the baker. He is, 
naturally, anxious to please his customers, and will soon 
make wholesomer bread if he finds the public really 
demands it. People who have once had pure wheaten 
bread from a baker will often get him to send it to them 
wherever they go. The poor in their own way are very 
particular about bread, often getting it from a more 
distant village, in the belief that the whiter and puffier it 
is, the better it is. 



296 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Directions for Preparing Good Unleavened 
Graham Bread (according to Louis Kuhne). Take 
5^ lbs. of unbolted wheat meal (Graham flour), or the un- 
bolted flour of any other grain (in tropical regions maize 
meal with wheat meal or rice grits, &o.), in a pan, pour 
over it about 1^ quart (2 wine quarts) of cold water, and 
mix it thoroughly. I consider cold water preferable to 
warm, as experience shows that warm water sets the 
bread in fermentation more readily than cold, and this 
may render the bread somewhat lighter, but less nutritious 
and pleasant to the taste. Now divide the dough into 
three or four equal parts, mould a loaf of each, lay each 
upon a dry tile (not brick) sprinkled with Graham flour, 
wet the loaves well on the top with water, and place each 
with its tile upon an empty flower-pot in the quick stove 
oven or brick oven. No other articles or pots should 
stand in the oven at the same time. The heat in the 
oven must be kept up by a steady fire, and should not be 
immediately intense. In half an hour, during which the 
oven must not be opened, turn the front side of the loaves 
to the back. A quarter of an hour later see whether the 
upper crust is well and firmly baked, and then turn the 
loaves over, as they are usually still soft on the lower side. 
The loaves must now bake until they sound quite hollow 
when tapped in the middle with the finger ; this usually 
takes half an hour longer. One may then feel sure that 
the bread is well baked and the crust not too hard. 

Directions for Preparing Graham Gruel. To 
obtain a plate of gruel stir up a heaping tablespoonful 
of Graham flour with a little cold water till a liquid pap 
is formed. Pour this into boiling water, and let it boil 
some minutes, stirring continually. Salt very sparingly, 
or not at all. This gruel tastes very good when sprinkled 
over with raisins. (From Louis Kuhne's ' New Science of 
Healing.') 



AUGUST 297 

A Perfect Baby Food.  Cut tUok slices of Graham, 
or whole meal, or white home-made bread, and bake them 
to hard rusks in a slow oven. Break up the rusks and 
put them into a jar, a Gourmet boiler, or an earthenware - 
lined milk-saucepan with cold distilled water enough to 
make into a thick jelly when cooked. Stew slowly for 
three to four hours, and strain through scalded muslin or 
very fine hair sieve. Mix with warm milk as required. 

The rusks may be made twice a week and stored in air- 
tight tins, but the jelly must be freshly made each morning. 

This food, by the long and thorough cooking of the 
cereal, contains all the elements necessary for the forma- 
tion of strong and healthy flesh and bone tissue, good 
blood, hair, nails, teeth, skin, &c.  in short, everything 
required to keep an infant in the best possible condition. 
The Graham or unleavened bread is by far the best, as 
yeast or powder raised breads are likely to upset a child's 
digestion. Neither constipation nor diarrhoea need be 
feared on this food. It is valuable also for invalids and 
the old. 

On the very important subject of bread Mr. Albert 
Broadbent, E.E.H.S., read an admirable paper last 
autumn at the annual meeting of the Vegetarian Society, 
in which he referred to certain remarkable statements 
made by Mr. T. G. Eeed at the meetings of the British 
Dental Association to the effect that modern bread causes 
the destruction of tooth tissue, and that wherever roller 
mills are in operation carious teeth are found instead of 
sound ones. Mr. Broadbent did not think it was neces- 
sary to return to the old stone mills, if we take care not to 
disturb the natural balance of the wheat berry consti- 
tuents by separating out the starch and making our bread 
of that to the exclusion of other valuable parts. He went 
on to say, ' Wherever we find a race of men retaining 
primitive milling customs, or living on uncorrupted 



298 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

grain food, we find their teeth strong, and there is an 
absence of decay. Mr. Albert Carter, surgeon dentist, 
related, in " Natural Food " some few years ago, some 
investigations he had made in this connection. He 
found the natives of Punjab and North- West Provinces  
whether Hindoos, Sikhs, Punjabees, Afghans, or Goor- 
khas  had splendid teeth. He went to the banks of the 
Ganges and examined the Brahmin skulls. He failed to 
find one showing general dental decay, such as he was 
acquainted with at home. In Ceylon he found that, 
while the native Cingalese had good teeth, the children 
of European parents had dreadfully bad teeth. In 
Australia it was the same ; the aborigines had splendid 
teeth, while the Melbourne dentists were hard at work 
repairing disease in the Colonial-born portion of the 
population. Edwin Cox, Licentiate in Dental Surgery, 
E.C.S., in " Degeneracy and Preservation of the Teeth," 
ascribes teeth degeneracy to the use of white bread. 
This is undoubtedly a serious and important subject, and 
must continue so while we consume more bread than any 
other one food. Bread should be of the very best kinds 
available, and when it is made from the best kinds of 
wheat it forms an almost perfect food. For many years 
I have observed the beneficial results that have followed 
the use of good whole meal bread; with it there is 
scarcely any toothache or neuralgia, and constipation is 
scarcely possible. The teeth are made stronger and less 
tender, owing to the proper supply of lime and phosphates 
contained in whole meal.' 

The following poem is by Mr. A. J. Munby, a con- 
temporary and well-known Surrey poet, and belonging to 
the days that are gone. I read with great pleasure one 
day this spring this spirited description of a class that has 
almost disappeared; brass cans and lively ponies rush 
now along our lanes :  



AUGUST 299 



THE MILKWOMAN 

She was tall and strong, and she walk'd along 

With a firm substantial tread, 
Like one who knows that wherever she goes 

She is earning her daily bread. 

Her frock was print, and there was not a hint 

In the whole of her simple dress 
Of that milliner's touch which adds so much 

To a lady's comeliness. 

Yet she is aware that her face is fair ; 

But she also understands 
That the best of her charms are her stout red arms 

And her strong hard-working hands. 

' It's them,' says she, ' as has work'd for me. 

Wherever my work has been ; 
And as for my face, why it's no disgrace, 

For I reckon it's always clean. 

' Well, there's Jack, I know, he bothers me so  

But what do I care for him ? 
I'U ha' nothing to say to a lad that's gay. 

So long as I've life and limb I 

' Such chaps may do for a wench like you, 

As is fond of an easy life ; 
But if I get a man, I shall do what I can 

For to make him a working wife.' 

She smiled as she spoke, and she settled her yoke 

On the back of her shoulders broad. 
And she stoop'd to her pails by the area rails, 

And hamess'd herself to her load. 

Then she went on her beat through bustling street 

With a step like a martial man's ; 
A step that suits her iron-shod boots. 

And the weight of her clanking cans. 

For her cans and she had the bulk of three. 

And deftly as she might steer, 
'Twas the silent might of her strength and her height 

That kept the pathway clear. 



300 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There were many who eyed her stately stride, 
As she moved through the yielding crowd, 

With her hands on her hips, and a smile on her lips, 
And a look both calm and proud. 

But none, or few, of the gazers knew 

The worth of her humble trade ; 
And beauty alone may never atone 

For the lot of a milkman's maid. 

They could not see what was clear to me  

That the loftiest lady there 
Might envy the part in Dame Nature's heart 

Which is owned by Kitty Clare. 

When first people begin strict diet they are very apt 
to think they wiU die without change. It has been a 
great humiliation to me to find how much more easily 
the young take to living on nothing but bread, fruit, 
potatoes, vegetables, and cheese than their elders do. 
A contemporary said to me in such a sad voice the other 
day, 'Is it not distressing to find out how one pines 
sometimes for some of the old foods, which at the time 
we ate them we hardly knew how much we enjoyed ? ' 
I earnestly caution people against not only bought 
breads, but also bought biscuits. I am sure that they 
are not the same help to health as things made at 
home, and biscuit-making, which by universal consent is 
now left entirely to manufacturers and bakers, takes even 
less time than boiling potatoes ; for a skilful cook can 
make and bake a piling plate of biscuits or wafers in 
fifteen minutes. The exception to my mind is Lemanns> 
28 St. Swithin's Lane ; especially his thick captains. 

One's great wish when practising diet is not to make 
the cook feel she is no longer wanted, but that her skill 
can be adapted to all sorts of new requirements. In 
staying away at a friend's house lately the cook was quite 
miserable because she felt she had nothing to do for me. 



AUGUST 301 

In another house I was unfortunately half-poisoned by 
the home-made bread being ruined by much salt, and the 
vegetables tasted as if steeped in brine. 

From a German friend I received in late autumn last 
year a list of vyhat the work had lately been in her 
Mtohen. The winter climate is so severe in mid-Germany 
that nothing can be left in the ground and storing away 
from frost is very difficult. Everything is so easily 
brought to our shores all the year round now that we 
have almost forgotten the old days when preserving went 
on in our own country houses. Now most people say it 
is cheaper to buy ; so it may be, but it is not so good. 
My friend complains that she cannot get twice-ground 
whole-meal flour in Germany, and she adds that she can- 
not get bread-making done at home, as her cook has such 
heaps and heaps of preserving to do. My answer would 
be that her family and her household would be in far 
better health with good sound bread to eat and much less 
preserved fruit and vegetables. She asks : ' Would you 
like to hear all we do ? ' and then gives the following 
list : Thirty or thirty-five tins of strawberry compote, 
two dozen marmalade and jams in pots (this does not 
mean orange marmalade, which would be out of season) ; 
ditto clear fruit juice to drink with water, also thick juice 
to use for puddings, sauces ; cherry compotes in tins, ditto 
stoned in glass pots ; marmalades and jams, half-fermented 
juice to drink with water, fifty or more pounds of apri- 
cots dried in oven for winter, servants' compotes, mira- 
belles, the same as above. Cucumbers, two barrels, 
filled and preserved in salt; cucumbers, small green, 
pickled in vinegar ; mushrooms dried in oven and pressed 
in tins, ten quarts of tarragon vinegar for winter use, three 
dozen tins of flageolet beans, three dozen tins of shelled 
and preserved green beans, two barrels cut beans pre- 
served in salt; choucroute, one barrelful preserved in 



302 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

salt ; blue plums peeled and preserved in bottles, ditto not 
peeled, preserved in vinegar and sugar ; tomatoes pre- 
served whole in tins to use for  garniture,' artichoke 
bottoms the same way, and many bottles of tomato 
'pm&&. A good deal of this kind of luxury it seems to me 
desirable to reduce as much as possible, but of course 
everything depends on the size of the household. 

I must not fail to mention one of the most useful 
articles for domestic purposes that has come out to my 
knowledge in the last few years  a powdered soap in 
tins, not expensive, to be bought at Harrod's Stores, or 
others, and called Sapon. Its especial use is for the 
washing of all nursery woollen things, Shetland shawls, 
under-clothing, blankets, &c. Everyone I have recom- 
mended it to has been delighted with it. 

Another very charming but expensive luxury has been 
imported from France by Messrs. Goode & Co., of the 
china shop in Audley Street, and if I were going to begin 
life again I should certainly have it  copper stewpans of 
all sizes lined with silver beaten into the copper, in the 
old Sheffield-plate manner, before it is made up, and so 
thick that nothing will wear it off. This saves all the 
bother and expense of re-tinning, and the risk to health of 
copper pans being neglected, and not tinned soon enough. 
The price is not at all prohibitive, considering the goodness 
of the pans. 

For Drying: Flowers. Take cottonwool and tissue 
paper. Lay the wool on the flower and the fine paper 
over it, and put this between the pages of any old folios 
or books. Tie a string round the books to keep all in 
place, and put them under an impromptu press of a board 
with a stone or weight on it, in the sun if possible, or even 
near the fire. The cotton wool absorbs the moisture and 
the heat dries the flower quickly. The wool prevents the 
delicate petals from being crushed, and so the character 
of the flower is preserved. 



AUGUST 303 

Corns.  So many people who refuse to believe that 
one of the minor merits of the simpler foods as ordered 
by Dr. Haig is the cure of corns, still suffer from these 
inconveniences, that I think the following letter too good 
to lose :  

Sir,  I trust it may not be beneath the dignity of the 
' Westminster Gazette ' to permit a humble country doctor 
to add his little seasonable mite to the gaiety of nations. 
The one fatal word which is the title of this letter repre- 
sents the most common, perhaps, of the small ills of life. 
Once upon a time ' an old wife ' in the village of Caris- 
brooke said this to me (and her endearment of address 
would have been above suspicion had my readers seen 
her), ' My dear, you may know a lot about Anna Tummy ' 
(I thought this, at first, some hideous gastric surname, 
but I realised almost at once that it was an orthoepic 
liberty only), ' but you dunno nothin' about " karns "  I 
do.' Well, I happened to know that this good lady had 
a reputation in the country-side for the relief of the hard 
variety of these elementary drawbacks to easy labour. 
On her death-bed she told me her secret. Here are her 
ipsissima verba, and Heaven forbid that I should lessen 
the force of her teaching by any grammatical paraphrase. 
She said, ' You takes beeswax and you deeps it hot right 
on the karn and covers 'un ; then you puts on a bit o' 
swealed rag and lets 'un set for four days. Then you 
pulls 'un out after you've a-soaked your foot in water hot 
enough for you to bear. And when 'e's out you'll see a 
big hole where he was.' Now, I don't the least care if a 
' thousand and one gems ' of correspondence reach you 
saying the remedy is old. So is the Bible old, but very 
few people know much about it ! 

Your obedient Servant, 

Geoege W. E. Dabbs, M.D. 

Shanklin, I.W. : December 18. 



304 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Chilblains.  Far the best cure for chilblains is a very 
simple one. Eub the feet twice a day, when well warmed 
by a fire, with some soft soap. Chilblains are half a gouty 
symptom, and no doubt the magic is the strong alkali in 
the soap. 

Personal.  The following suggestion is worth know- 
ing for anybody who has a bilious headache and is obliged 
to make a speech, or any great effort. Put a whole tin of 
Colman's mustard into a large hot bath, stay in it ten or 
fifteen minutes, lie down after it for half an hour. The 
brain will then be far clearer and better than in ordinary 
health. This is a remedy only to be used for an emer- 
gency. It is, of course, rather a severe trial for the 
circulation, but less likely to be injurious than the drugs 
which are so often taken for headaches. 



305 



SEPTEMBER 

Visit to Northamptonshire  Peterboro', Fotheringhay, and Kirby Hall 
 Iris in pans for spring flowering A last year's autumn letter 
from Germany  Kew and the smoke curse  Pruning back of 
shrubby plants to imitate sub-tropical gardening  Japanese 
anemones in shade  Sunflower seeds as a possible farming 
industry. 

September 1st.  Last year I went to stay in Northamp- 
tonshire. On my way down, having an hour at Peterboro' 
station, I visited its magnificent old cathedral  the largest 
and most important Norman building that I have ever 
seen. I know nothing really about architecture, but I 
suppose it must have been built just at the Transition 
period, for all the arches are round, except just across the 
nave, where they are slightly pointed, probably the better 
to carry the weight of the tower. The whole effect of the 
church is most remarkably simple and dignified. When 
I got home, I looked it up, and found that Peterboro' 
Cathedral took more than half a century to build  from 
1118 to 1193. The eastern aisle, which is Perpendicular, 
was begun in 1438 and not finished till 1528. Katharine 
of Arragon was buried there, and her remains are there to 
this day. Peterboro' stands on the old North road, but 
though I remember that my mother, in speaking to us as 
children of her many journeys from London to Newcastle, 
often talked of York Cathedral, I do not remember her 
ever having mentioned Peterboro'. This perhaps means 
that, although an important place, they only changed 



3o6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

horses there in the old posting days ; just as we now, in 
trains, pass the most interesting places, only staying three 
minutes at the railway station. During my visit to North- 
amptonshire, I stayed in a most beautiful old Jacobean 
house, not much spoilt and well maintained. My kind 
hostess drove me about to see the sights of her neigh- 
bourhood, and we went first to the village of Fotheringhay. 
The name remains, though the castle has ceased to exist 
where Mary Queen of Scots ended her days. The village 
has evidently shrunk in importance ; the church is very 
large, and alone retains a certain old-world magnificence. 
A farmhouse is pointed out as being one in which the 
soldiers were lodged during the time of the trial. We 
walked a short distance down narrow lanes, between 
farm-buildings, to see the site of the old castle. Even 
when we have read of a certain place in a novel, and 
afterwards visit it, the scene becomes alive with the 
imaginary characters of the book and the whole story is at 
once a reality, as I mentioned before when I visited Brams 
Hill. How much more is this the case when we stand 
on a spot where the prominent figures in history lived, 
and looked with their eyes on what we now see to-day ! 
The general effect of nature never changes ; a stream 
winds as it has always wound, and the long shadows of 
evening are cast by the sun in the same manner at the same 
time of year as they were cast three hundred years ago. 
I had this feeling at its highest pitch when visiting 
Fotheringhay last autumn. All trace of the castle is 
absolutely obliterated, except for a huge grass-grovm 
mound, verily a grave. Standing on the mound, it is 
possible to trace the double moats which surrounded 
Mary's last prison, and one huge mass of conglomerate 
stone lies on the surface of the field below. The land- 
scape is very fair  a lovely, winding river crossed by a 
stone bridge of a more recent date than the one erected 



SEPTEMBER 307 

by order of Elizabeth after her stay at Fotheriaghay and 
which fell into ruin. The broad green meadows, the 
cattle grazing, everything is just as it might have been 
when Mary arrived, full of forebodings, in September 1586. 
As the meadows flooded, the fogs of autumn arose and 
surrounded her, her case became more hopeless, and, 
crippled with rheumatism, she began to lose heart, poor 
thing ! In February came the cruel end, just after her forty- 
fifth birthday. The story told in so many history books 
that her son James razed the castle to the ground seems 
to be a fiction ; for, although his fihal affection caused him 
to move her body to Westminster Abbey from Peterboro' 
Cathedral, where she had first been buried, it did not 
extend to the destruction of the castle, as there are 
documents to show it was standing and in good repair 
after his death. Its owner, Sir Eobert Cotton, removed 
the woodwork of the hall, where Mary was executed, to 
Connington Hall, in Huntingdonshire, where it still exists. 
Froude gives many interesting details of Mary Queen of 
Scots' last days, but I think it is clear he never visited 
the place himself, as his description is not quite correct. 
He says that the village was nearer the river than the 
castle was ; this is not the case. He leaves out the 
second ' h ' in Fotheringhay, and caUs the river ' Nen ' 
instead of ' Nene.' Froude, though so notoriously Pro- 
testant in his views, gives Mary a splendid testimony 
when he says : ' In point of form and grace, Mary 
Stuart had the advantage of her rival everywhere. 
Elizabeth, vnth a general desire to do right, could con- 
descend to poor and mean manoeuvres. Mary Stuart 
carried herself, in the midst of her crimes, with a 
majesty that would have become the noblest of sove- 
reigns.' Froude, in the twelfth volume of his history, 
gives a most interesting description of Mary's dress on 
the scaffold. It must have been prepared beforehand 



3o8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

and required much thought. True woman to the very 
end, she made the most of her last opportunity of creating 
an effect. Proude says : ' The lawn veil was lifted care- 
fully off not to disturb the hair, and was hung upon 
the rail. The black robe was next removed. Below it 
was a petticoat of crimson velvet. The black jacket 
followed, and under the jacket was a body of crimson 
satin. One of her ladies handed her a pair of crimson 
sleeves, with which she hastily covered her arms ; and 
thus she stood on the black scaffold with the black 
figures all around her, blood-red from head to foot.' 
Froude describes how, when she placed her crucifix on a 
chair, it was seized by one of the executioners. He was 
made at once to replace it, and everything she had worn 
was burnt at the huge hall fire before the spectators left 
the room, every precaution being taken to prevent the 
keeping of relics. This adds immense interest to the 
fact that, in the year (about) 1830, an old man digging in 
the castle grounds found Mary's ring bearing her initials 
and Darnley's tied with a true-lover's knot. This ring is 
now to be seen in the Waterton collection at the South Ken- 
sington Museum. The supposed explanation of the find- 
ing of this ring is that it dropped unperceived from Mary's 
finger at the time of her execution and was swept up and 
thrown into the moat with the bloody sawdust. The 
moats are dry now, but in winter the Nene still floods the 
lowlands. It is said that many medicinal plants are still 
found about the castle grounds, and a peculiar thistle is 
known locally as ' Queen Mary's Tears.' 

Another of the places in the neighbourhood which I 
went to see was the well-known Kirby Hall, the fairest 
and most Italian of Elizabethan houses. It has shared, 
in these latter days, the fate of Fotheringhay in the time 
of Charles I. The owners, I suppose, finding it expensive 
to keep in repair, removed all the valuables, including the 



SEPTEMBER 309 

panelling and ohimneypieoes, and allowed this beautiful 
Elizabethan gem to fall into decay. Oh, the pity of it ! 
In Jones's ' Views of the Seats, Mansions and Castles of 
England,' published in 1830, he gives two views of Kirby 
Hall, taken, in my opinion, from the least beautiful sides, 
and in no way doing the house justice. But these prints 
represent the house as well-roofed and showing no signs 
of ruin. No doubt fifty years ago a comparatively small 
sum would have kept it weather-tight and preserved 
it. Now thousands of pounds would hardly restore it. 
This magnificent pile of buildings was founded by one of 
Elizabeth's favourites. Sir Christopher Hatton. The 
guide-books attribute the early part of the building to that 
somewhat mythical genius, John Thome, who gets the 
credit of having designed all the best houses in England 
for about a hundred years. However much he may have 
been consulted about the planning of this house, it is 
very different and far more remote and Italian in style 
than either Holland House or Bram's Hill. A later 
owner called in Inigo Jones to ' modernise and improve ' 
it. Sir Christopher Hatton died a bachelor before Eliza- 
beth, in 1591, and was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. 

I wonder in what the wealth of England consisted in 
Tudor times that enabled people to build such splendid 
residences. In Suffolk, I am told, there were rich 
clothiers and woollen merchants. Perhaps it was the 
same in Northamptonshire, where the pastures are very 
rich. Or shall we dare to think that the money was 
mostly ground out of the wretched peasantry of the 
country ? I noticed, driving about in Northamptonshire, 
several large old pigeon-houses like those that existed in 
Erance, and which were part cause of the Great Eevolu- 
tion. The pigeons fed on the grain sown by the peasants, 
and the peasants were paid in kind by gifts of these same 
pigeons. 



3IO A THIRD POT-POURRI 

September 10th.  I have in flower a Cape bulb called 
eueomis, which is seldom seen, but which I think very 
handsome and well worth growing. There are three or 
four kinds ; the one I have is, I believe, called E. UTidulata. 
I have had it unmoved for several years, so it is quite 
hardy. The flower spikes are about two feet long, and the 
upper half densely arranged in a cylindrical manner. The 
flowers are not showy, but theyilook exceedingly well picked 
and arranged in a vase alone or with some spikes of 
Lobelia cardinaUs. 

I have flowered this year for the first time a most 
attractive little rockery plant, with quite a weak-looking 
body and a fine big showy campanula-like flower. It is 
called Cyananthus lobatus. It should be grown on a damp 
rockwork ; this I have not got, but as we have only had 
one fine dry week this year it did not matter, and the 
plant evidently thought it was in a damp spot. 

August, or early in September, is the time to plant in 
pans, just like hyacinths, the small bulbous irises. They 
thoroughly repay growing, and should be planted and put 
in a frame under cocoanut fibre all the winter, and only 
be brought into the greenhouse just before flowering. 
Iris reticulata is the best, as it is very pretty and very 
sweet. I. Bakeriana is another excellent one. 

September 17th.  I copy here a letter lately received 
from my German friend. Our gardens are a constant 
interest to each of us, as what does easily and well with 
her does badly with me, and she is then quite jealous of 
the sun-dried little successes of my light soil. 

' We are nearly drowned, and to hear you talk of a 
dry garden sounds like distant myths of El Dorado. For 
a solid fortnight now we have had sheets of water, day 
and night, and everything is decaying and reduced to 
pulp ; one's very bones creep with the damp and feel 
mildewed. It is impossible to work the soil or to go 



SEPTEMBER 311 

on the grass without wearing indiarubber boots, like 
waders. You ought to see it once like this to convince 
you of the numerous difficulties of my gardening  the 
parching, cutting east winds and droughts all this spring 
and summer, and then those indescribable masses of water 
that rot and spoil everything, so that when the frost does 
come everything is so saturated and water-logged it starts 
the roots and bulbs from the soil, the water turning to 
solid ice. What makes it a worse grievance than other 
years is the fact of its beginning a month or six weeks in 
advance of the usual time, and thus ruining the whole of 
my painfully -built-up scheme of a pretty September 
garden. The terrible havoc of last year's winter, and the 
heavy snows and frosts of the latter half of March, had 
so effectually ruined all prospects of a good spring garden 
that I set to in April and May, so as at least to ensure a 
good display for the summer and autumn. And, with all 
due humility, I believe I had succeeded ; but now it is 
all battered and beaten into jam, and one could almost 
long for snow to cover it up mercifully. These are the 
woes of strong heavy soils, where things grow luxuriantly 
and drought does but Uttle harm, but where rains do 
untold damage, and a wet autumn means destruction to 
all tender things and disaster among the bulbs. Yet even 
so calamitous a month of September bears some lessons  
one of them not to delay the gathering of seeds of the 
best annuals, the other to push forward planting and 
transplanting of perennials, so as to get them well esta- 
blished in the first days of the month. This exceptional 
year proves that the usual rule of counting upon the 
whole of September for all the transplanting and re- 
planting is not a safe one. For the first time this year, 
driven by necessity and by the rows and rows of corpses 
which I discovered on coming out to Cronberg in April, I 
have really had a good show of annuals and half-bardies. 



312 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The single branching larkspurs have been quite lovely, 
both in pots on the terrace and in big masses by themselves 
in the little paved flower-garden. There were lavender- 
coloured ones, and a batch of quite lovely bright pink 
coral ones, besides the usual tall white kind and the 
different shades of blue. I had never yet got them to 
thrive in my stiff soil, and I was determined to have them, 
so I deliberately took out eighteen inches of my soil in 
more than half the flower-garden, only leaving those beds 
that were to grow dahlias, asters, pyrethrums, and Michael- 
mas daisies, and replaced the soil by fine compost made of 
sand, road-scrapings, turfy loam, and a very little decayed 
manure. All the annuals sown in February and March 
in pans, or in the soil of a cold frame, were pricked out 
into this good light soil at the end of April, and some were 
sown in place as late as the first week in May. The 
latter were portulaoas, a few patches of Nemesia strumosa, 
Convolvulus minor, Viscaria oculata, and the lovely sky- 
blue viscaria. A large square bed of Nigella damascena, 
sown in a mixture with Omphalodes linifolia and well 
thinned (it makes a perfect mixture and is most satis- 
factory), two big beds of salpiglossis of the largest strain 
(Haage & Schmidt at Erfurt), and smaller patches of the 
dwarf orange-coloured esohscholtzia, as well as the pink 
and white, both very pretty. Large patches of Shirley 
poppies and tall French double ones severely thinned out, 
the giant Machet mignonette, and the pretty bright red 
Stuttgart variety, then the lovely but very ephemeral 
Phacelia campanularia and the beautiful Bartonia aurea, 
the charming Linaria bipartita and L. Cymbalaria, the 
delightful tribe of Chinese fringed pinks, the purple corn- 
flowers; all these did beautifully sown in place, and 
would have lasted until frost if they had not been 
battered and smashed by these terrible weeks of deluge. 
The frame-raised annuals were the single delphiniums, 



SEPTEMBER 313 

the rhodanthes and aorocliniums, the tall self-eoloured 
antirrhimims ; these last I can never grow except as 
annuals, nor can I the white, the bright yellow and bright 
red, and very dark red, nearly black  the Chrysanthemum 
carinatum, the tall, beautiful Cosmos hvpirmatus, Gommelina 
cmlestis  which began to flower six weeks after sowing, 
when it was only two inches high, and is now still in full 
lovely bloom and two feet high, and a gorgeous gentian 
blue  the annual Lupirms Hartwegi and poh/phylhis, the 
whole tribe of tall and dwarf orange and pale yellow 
autumn marigolds (tagetes), and the best strains of 
scabious, a large patch of very big-flowered pale lilac, 
exactly like S. caucasica, being excessively useful, besides 
the bright coral pink, the self -white, and the ruby-coloured 
ones. My paved flower-garden was all arranged on the 
principle of a market garden, each kind in a bed, or half a 
bed, by itself, with the exception of two mixed ones, one 
of which I kept nearly entirely blue with lupins, Phacelia 
viscida, Viscaria oculata ccerulea, the Swan-Eiver daisy, 
single-branching larkspur, Gommelina ccelestis, cornflowers, 
nigellas, dark -blue salpiglossis, dark heliotrope, and 
on the edges tufts of dark violas, broken by patches of 
mignonette and the above-mentioned precious Omphalodes 
linifolia as the only exceptions to the general blueness. 
That bed was lovely ; it was about fifteen yards long by 
two and a half yards wide. I forgot to mention tufts of 
the dark-blue Salvia Horminum, and a tuft or two of 
lovely self-sown Veronica Hendersoni, with long blue 
spikes. The Swan-Eiver daisy above named is properly 
called Brachycome iberidifolia, and is lovely. The other 
bed, where I had several annuals mixed and not one kind 
planted alone, was a long narrow bed  only five feet wide 
and about twenty long  and here I planted all the shades 
of orange and terra-cotta zinnias, the white single larkspur 
of the tallest sort, the yellow antirrhinums, and the white 



314 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

feathery " Comet " aster, and then a large batch of brown, 
yellow, and orange HeUchrysum macranthum (both these 
and the single zinnias have been very large and fine and 
satisfactory, and last so wonderfnlly in antunm and defy 
rain and drought and every fatality of weather) ; also a 
very pretty pink rudbeckia, about two feet high, with a 
lovely mahogany-coloured inside and broad zone all 
round. I found it in flower in a friend's garden in 
Hesse, and gathered some seed.' (It is not an annual, 
I think. Same as Echinacea purpti/rea.  M. T. E.) ' I 
forgot to mention among the annuals I have used 
largely for fringing and fiUing up the edges of my beds 
of dark-red hybrid perpetual roses is a good strain of 
tiny pink petunias, and Phlox Drummondii in all the 
shades of red, from salmon-pink to nearly black, barring 
all magenta, yellowish, or white. They did beautifully 
and are so pretty and luxuriant now ; also the fringed 
Dianthus Heddemgi and the Visca/ria oculata carddnalis. 
By keeping to tones of red or pink-red, I reaUy got rather 
a nice harmony of colour low-growing in the bed among 
the hybrid perpetuals ; but, alas ! in spite of the book, 
" Chemistry in the Garden," T have again had mildew and 
rust, though the latter, perhaps, to a lesser degree than other 
years, owing to painting the plants with brimstone early 
in March and frequent syringings in the growing season 
with the mixture that book recommends. But the cutting, 
horrible east winds we have here, and the changes from 
very hot to almost freezing which are so common in spring 
and after August, will, I am afraid, always be a terrible evil 
to fight against amongst my roses. To fill the gaps created 
by the winter frost among my rose-beds (especially tea 
roses), I had quantities of self-raised little plants on their 
own roots (cuttings), but they are small and make no show 
yet, so I introduced patches of an early-flowering and 
quite lovely outdoor chrysanthemum, apricot coloured 



SEPTEMBER 315 

with a touch of pink ; it is called " Gustave Grunewald," 
and flowers from August profusely. It has all the 
characteristics of a Japanese chrysanthemum, and not 
the ordinary quite hardy out-of-door flowering kinds. 
When the weather becomes too rough, and the lovely pink 
chrysanthemum flowers become spoilt, I take up all the 
plants and pot them, and they continue to flower well 
into October when the others come on.' (Any rose- 
grower would say, ' No wonder her roses don't do, if, for 
the sake of effect, she plants so many things among 
them.' M. T. B.) 

' Now to tell you about my half -hardies ; the number 
of them is of course very great, and the labour of potting 
and housing increased tenfold to what it is in England, 
from the extreme cold we have, which makes it impossible 
to leave out of doors any sort or kind of veronica, or 
Verbena citriadora, rosemary, cistus, hydrangea, Lobelia 
cardinaUs, tritomas, Campanula pyramidalis, or the better 
sort of carnations. The few just named mean hundreds 
of little pots to be got through the winter, if I am to have 
anything like an adequate supply for next year. The 
pentstemons and best snapdragons, too, I keep in pots, 
then a few large plants of the glorious red salvia and the 
other salvia with large pink blooms, the white Paris 
daisy large and small leaved, the yellow marguerite, the 
calceolarias brown and yellow, the pretty blue Agathea 
carulea, the best kinds of bright pink verbenas to be kept 
to make cuttings from in the spring, and the best double 
fringed petunias, then all the Gape pelargoniums, the 
tuberous begonias, of which we raised a big batch from 
seed, and had some really splendid shades and sizes. 
I used these largely to produce patches of bright colour in 
the autumn garden and to fill up places from which the 
early flowering phloxes, tulips, English irises, hesperis, 
Aster aVpimis, and Campanula persiccefolia had been 



3i6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

removed to the reserve garden after flowering. . These 
gaps were filled by red salvias broken by scarlet tuberous 
begonias, by Paris marguerites with yellow and white 
begonias in between, or by the tall pink salvia which is so 
lovely with the Sedum spectabile as a groundwork. All 
in all this terrible winter, and the havoc among my roses 
and herbaceous perennials, have taught me a lot ; as usual 
necessity being the key to success. I had lost all my fox- 
gloves, tritomas. Anemone japonica, all the finer sorts of 
hypericums, nearly all English and Spanish irises, the 
Spanish squill, and numberless small and pretty alpines 
and other dwarf plants. And so, to save what could be, 
I had to put all my energy on to raising a sufficient stock 
and variety of annuals, and make much use of half-hardy 
and sub-tropical plants from seeds and cuttings; my 
cannas, castor-oil plants,, red and green-leaved Indian 
hemp  solanums, caladiums, and the three kinds of 
nicotiana, mixed with batches of gladiolus, montbretia, 
amaranthus, and choice cactus dahlias, made a huge 
tropical-looking bed of most decorative effect. All were 
put out the second half of May, some on a trampled 
foundation of manure to help rapid growth. The tall 
daturas made a lovely clump close by, sunk, and planted 
out in the grass, the base of the clump hid by polygonum 
and Desmodium penduliflorum. My sweet-peas, the 
earliest, were raised in the greenhouse, sown in February 
in pots and planted out in April ; the second batch in a 
cold frame in pots and planted out late in May ; the third 
batch sown in place and just a little thinned, watered and 
manured. They are still now in full beauty  September 
20  but I never get them as tall or the blooms quite as 
large as the best English ones. Still they are good Eck- 
ford varieties, and I do not grumble, for, no doubt, I shall 
learn by and by. My greatest pleasure among all my 
annuals has been the thorough success of Nemesia strumosa, 



SEPTEMBER 317 

1 
sown in three or four different little patches, in pots, in 
boxes, and out of doors; some pricked out into sandy 
soil and sunny places, some pricked off into boxes or 
large shallow pans, where they bloomed and seeded 
profusely. The biggest plants and profusest bloomers were 
those sown in place. They began to bloom the end of July, 
and are still lovely, and have yielded masses of cut blooms 
and good seed too, though it takes a lot of gathering. 

' A paling, topped by a little red-brick roof, has been 
prettily overgrown vyith a lovely new (to me) creeper 
called Solanum Wendlandi, tender, and to be treated like 
Plumbago capensis. It has large clusters of lovely 
lavender or mauvy-blue flowers, is a strong grower and 
covers a large space in one summer. It was very pretty 
growing alongside of a mass of good snow-white ever- 
lasting pea, with Plumbago capensis, and a mass of 
different shades of heliotrope at the foot of it scenting the 
air at a distance. And now we are on the verge of death 
and decay to all this quickly conjured-up loveliness, and 
the long lottery begins again which always brings sur- 
prises, and will perhaps force us next spring to have even 
more recourse to annuals. The long and short of aU my 
efforts is to conclude that gardening in this climate is not 
really worth the trouble, as it means five months of life 
and seven months of death, and a yearly renewed effort 
to produce and reproduce plants that grow like weeds in 
the blessed chmate of your British Isles.' 

My friend's sad grumble reminds me of two or three 
lines in one of Eobert Lytton's letters : ' Eriendship 
under the chill veil of absence is like a garden covered 
with snow. The roots, the germs, the bulbs all are 
there, but where are the flowers ? ' A garden is never 
without hope. What one thinks is dead springs up strong 
from the root, and what seems to have survived till the 
spring often proves to be dead. 



3i8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

September 19th.  To-day we drove to Kew. A lovely 
day here, but on arriving there we were met by a dark 
smoke fog from London. It is very sad how black 
Eichmond and Kew have got lately, and the plants are 
suffering very much. One does not notice it in the early 
spring, but at this time of year the leaves are black and 
shrivelled, and the glories of autumn will not be for 
them. Oh, why cannot something be done to save us 
from this curse of smoke? The difference during the 
twenty years I have lived here is astonishing. 

I was disappointed with a great deal of the planting 
at Kew; certainly large fat. beds on green grass are very 
unsuggestive and commonplace. The spring garden was 
pretty in general effect, the autumn garden only interesting 
in detail. There were some plants pruned back to form 
interesting sub-tropical-looking foliage, which were far 
stronger and easier of cultivation than the real sub-tropical 
plants often used. They remain where they are planted 
and are merely fed, I suppose, and cut back in spring to 
one shoot. Paulonia imperiaUs filled one bed. The plant 
comes from Japan, and so might be injured sometimes by 
late frosts in spring. The leaves in this bed were huge, 
and would make a very fine effect in any large place where 
there is plenty of room, and when in flower it must be a 
very handsome plant. It does not do on a sandy soil, nor 
on a very cold damp soil. The stag's-hom sumach {Bhv,s 
typhind) was treated in the same way, leaving only one 
shoot to grow. 

The Nicoticma tomentosa alba was quite a failure this 
wet year, and had not one flower, though magnificent 
foliage. I should say it had been put into rather too good 
soil and so had all gone to leaf. There were large beds of 
Clematis Da/vidiana, not effective. It is a beautiful thing, 
and two or three plants put together would make an 
interesting feature in any large garden, but neither form 



SEPTEMBER 319 

nor colour is good enough for a large bed. The white 
double Bosa nigosa made a splendid group on the grass. 
A great many of the shrubs were well pruned back even 
when not in regular beds. The bays are the hardier for 
this, and the Bhus Cotinus, if much pruned back, is a 
different-looking plant. Bhus laciniata is low growing 
and has lovely foliage. Indigofera Gerardiana is another 
plant well worth growing in a clump, and it also wants 
nothing but pruning back hard in early winter. The 
useful tall polygonums at Kew were not nearly so fine as 
my own. I do not know whether this is from the soil 
being colder and heavier than mine or from not doing 
what seems indispensable to their successful growth  
thinning out their shoots in April to five or six. Properly 
treated, both P. sachaUnense and P. cmpidatum are 
superbly decorative, beautiful plants, but I never see 
them what I call properly grown. I saw no montbretias 
planted in the grass, and yet they look most beautiful done 
in that way. Even in a wood, and given moisture, they 
seem to stand a good deal of shade. So do Japanese 
anemones, which look far better planted on the edge of a 
wood, or under some small fruit-trees, than in an ordinary 
border. They hate being disturbed, and look most lovely 
growing of their own accord in the shade ; a little top- 
dressing in spring helps them. They make a great show 
of seeding, but I believe only in one garden in Ireland 
has the seed ever really ripened. The rose ' Caroline 
Testout ' was flowering very well ; it is a good pink rose. 
All the others seemed over; with roses everything 
depends on its being just their best day. 

Perhaps what interested me most in this visit to Kew 
was a cool house where the creepers were admirably 
managed and so well pruned and grown ; they were most 
healthy and covered with bloom. The large conservatories 
of the rich are built far too high, and so the pruning is 



320 A >THIRDj;POT-POURRI^ 

 "'"^ , . 
not done, .and the flowers, poor imprisoned things, stare 

out at the sun through the glass at the top. Here the 
creepers were all planted in the ground inside the conser- 
vatory, so their growth was strong and their flowers 
abundant. Blue plumbago, an abutilon  ' Golden Gem,' 
I think  and that shy flowerer, Hidalgood^Werokalsi, was 
right across the house and covered with its goodjred 
orange blooms. Its foliage and growth are pretty and 
refined as a creeper, but the flowers are very like a single 
dahlia on a thinner stalk. There was an old plant of a 
fuchsia called 'General Eoberts,' that looked very well 
trained against the roof and falling down. That lovely 
thing, the Lonicera sempervirens, was flowering well. I 
never can get it to do very satisfactorily here out of doors. 
In the sun it gets too dry, and in the shade it does not 
flower freely, and becomes blighted ; in this house it was 
seen to perfection. On the shelves there were Solanwm 
Melongenas  egg plants  more curious than pretty, some 
lovely pots of Campanula isophylla variety Mayi, also G. 
Loreyi, both upstanding, and worth growing for variety 
of colour in a greenhouse at this time of year. There 
were many South African plants new to me, but the chief 
interest of all was a large collection of South African 
pelargoniums. Many of these I had never seen, except 
in Andrews' book, ' The Botanist's Eepository,' where a 
great number of these plants are beautifully figured under 
their old name of geraniums  which plants they re- 
semble; but pelargoniums are entirely indigenous to 
the southern hemisphere, while geraniums belong to this 
hemisphere and are all hardy ; which, of course, pelargo- 
niums are not in England, except quite in the South, and 
even there they require some protection. I have amused 
myself for the last few years collecting Cape pelargoniums, 
but they are impossible to buy, and trying to get the roots 
straight from the Cape seems rather hopeless, at least so 



SEPTEMBER 321 

I have found. I have about thirty varieties, which I have 
collected with difficulty from different people, but none 
retain their bulbous roots. The prettiest and most curious 
is one figured in the ninth volume of Curtis' ' Botanical 
Magazine,' called now ' Moulton's Gem,' but by Curtis 
Pelargonium echinatum. I have also a rich dark red 
variety spotted in the same way. Eollinson's ' Unique ' 
is another with a particularly attractive flower. Among 
the sweet-leaved varieties the best is the true old ' Prince 
of Orange.' It is not very easy to get now, and I would 
give cuttings to those who care to write and ask for 
them in August and September. This plant is rather 
tenderer than the generality of these sweet-scented pelar- 
goniums, and does best planted in the ground in a rose- 
house or vine-house and well watered, when it grows into 
a large plant. It can then be cut nearly the whole year 
round. 

I saw last year a gardening tool which I have had 
made and slightly improved upon. It is a navvy's crow- 
bar, to which is added a heavy knob of iron 
worked down to a fine point. It goes well 
into the ground by its own weight, and is 
most useful for planting small plants, on 
rockeries or in full beds, or for bulbs in 
grass. When the instrument is in the 
ground it can be shaken about to make 
quite a large hole. In the bottom of this 
hole is powdered some light soil which the 
weak roots easily penetrate. This dimi- 
nishes the necessity of much watering in 
dry weather. An iron tip put to an ordinary 
dibber makes it more useful than when 
only made of wood. 

I increasingly keep seed gathered from 
the best blooms after marking them carefully. In this 



32 2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

way, I have no doubt, finer plants are secured than from 
the bought seeds. 

Gerbera Jamesoni, a native of the Transvaal, is a 
handsome, glowing scarlet flower. I bought it two 
summers ago and was told it was hardy. I covered it 
with fern, but that was no use, and it died ; so I was re- 
lieved to find they grow it at Kew in a cool greenhouse 
all the year round. I shall certainly buy it again, as it is 
well worth growing in that way. It is, to my mind, quite 
as interesting and as desirable to grow a variety of 
flowers under glass as out in the open, for those who have 
greenhouses at all. How few people, even of those with 
numberless greenhouses, grow the beautiful Cape heaths, 
of which there are such endless varieties ! They are well 
figured and described in Andrews' ' Heathery,' the folio 
volumes of which I have not got, but it is a superb book ; 
date about 180-1. A few of these heaths are grown by 
dealers for the London market, where they are a constant 
bait to those who like flowers in their rooms. But, thus 
imprisoned, they quickly turn yellow and fade and die, as 
they are especially fresh-air-loving plants. And let any- 
one watch, as they walk or drive through London, how 
rare it is, except just in the summer, ever to see an open 
window. Paris is just the same. The house is supposed 
to be aired by the housemaid in the morning  which it 
often is not  and that is the amount of fresh air it gets all 
day. Growing plants are much to be encouraged in living- 
rooms, especially in those of children and invalids, as 
their healthiness or otherwise is a proof of whether the 
air is fresh or not. 

I have always rather snorted at the modern large 
violets, because I cannot succeed with them, and because 
they are so different from the much-loved ones of my 
youth. But I must own that, when grown to perfection, 
in soil of the strength and moisture loved by the cabbage 



SEPTEMBER 323 

tribe, in full sun, the ' Princess of Wales ' is a splendid 
variety, and has a sweet violet smell when first picked. 
I must try again, across the kitchen-garden, in soil as rich 
as I can make it, and then trust to the wet summers we 
are supposed to be going to have. 

I think that, in large places, Michaelmas daisies, grown 
all together in big beds each side of a path, make a lovely 
graduated colour-mass, as Miss Jekyll recommends. But, 
in smaller gardens, I have an idea that they look best as 
individual specimen plants ; the earlier ones planted in 
half-shade and the later ones in full sun. Aster ericoides 
seems to have several varieties. I have a very pretty white 
one which flowers latest of all and looks well in water. 

If the seed of good gladiolus is sown directly it is 
ripe, the plants will flower the second year. 

At page 71 of ' Pot-Pourri from a Surrey Garden,' I 
mention that I hoped to get a white crown imperial. A 
kind lady offered to send me some. On their arrival, and 
when they grew the next year, they turned out to be 
white Martagon lilies. Messrs. Barr & Son have since 
brought to my notice that there is no white variety of the 
fritillaria except F. Meleagris, which is quite a low- 
growing one. 

As an example of how the old English duplicate 
names for a flower often conveyed a strange contrast in 
their meaning  like ' Love-in-the-mist ' and ' The Devil- 
in-the-bush '  I give the foUovnng interesting little anec- 
dote which appeared not long ago in the ' Spectator.' I 
believe the flower alluded to is Amaranthus caudatus, 
often called ' Love-lies-bleeding.' 

' In the current number of the " Cornhill Magazine," 
in an interesting paper entitled " On a Few Conver- 
sationalists," the writer tells an amusing story of Browning, 
and how he received certain flowers from a lady, who, on 
being pressed to give their English names, shyly confessed 

y2 



324 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

they were called "bloody noses." I happened many 
years ago to be staying in a country house when Browning 
told this story in his inimitable way, and he ended with 
the following lines, which I then and there committed to 
memory, and which will, I think, interest your readers :  

" I'll deck my love with posies, 
I'll cover her with roses, 
Should she protest 
I'll do my best 
To give her bloody noses." ' 

In the early days of what was called the aesthetic 
movement sunflowers were much grown in gardens. The 
gardener, however, found it a greedy feeder, and the 
' chaff ' against the ' Greenery -yallery Grosvenor Gallery ' 
school brought it into disfavour; but I still think the 
branching kind grown singly is one of the very hand- 
somest annuals we have, and useful too, as poultry are 
fond of the seed and goats like the leaves. A newspaper 
account the other day set me wondering whether in some 
parts of England farmers could not, with advantage, grow 
the variety named below, which, as is well known, yields 
the seed ; it is eaten as a dessert-nut all over Eussia. 

' The first year of the twentieth century closed with a 
curious sale on the Baltic of a cargo of sunflower seeds, 
which changed hands at 111. 5s. per ton. Though a small 
trade has been done in sunflower seed for close on two 
hundred years, this transaction was the first in which a 
whole cargo  three hundred tons from Odessa  was dealt 
with. In Eussia, where the cultivation of the sunflower 
and the manufacture of oil from its seed is conducted on 
a large scale, the grandiflora is the variety grown. This 
species rises in a slender stalk five feet high, producing one 
monster head, the average yield being as much as fifty 
bushels of seed to the acre. So rich is it in oil that that 
quantity of seed will yield fifty gallons of oil, while the 



SEPTEMBER 325 

refuse of the seed, after this quantity of oil has been 
expressed, weighs 1,500 lbs. when made into cattle cakes. 
Eew people in England who grow the sunflower for 
ornament have any idea of its usefulness. It is among 
neglected crops in which there is money, as is shown by 
the price paid a few days ago. Besides the seed, every 
other portion of the plant can be utilised. The leaves 
furnish an excellent fodder, while in Eussia the stalks are 
prized as fuel, and their ashes, which contain 10 per cent, 
of potash, are readily sold to soapmakers. Naturally, in 
Eussia the chief virtue of the sunflower lies in the oil 
contained in its seed. The oil is of a clear, pale yellow 
colour, almost inodorous and of an agreeable, mild taste, 
so that it is in great request as a table article. Why 
sunflowers are not cultivated on an extensive scale in 
England it is difficult to say. Poultry and cattle like the 
seed either in its natural state or crushed and made into 
cakes. No plant produces such fine honey and wax; 
when the flower is in bloom the bees abound in it.' 



326 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



OCTOBER 

Solomon's love of nature  An old letter  Zola and fresh air  Old 
Harwich inn and curious specimen of Clematis Vitalba  Mesem- 
bryanthemums for cliff gardens  An old monastery fruit-wall  
Three Pergolas  A long-wanted book on trees and shrubs An 
old Suffolk breviary  Stories  Wild flowers for garden culture  
Wellingtonias on a German hillside  Chrysanthemum culture  
Mr. Morley's gift to Cambridge. 

October 1st sees me once more on my dearly loved 
East Coast, with its splendid air, its open skies, its flat 
distances, its boundless seas, and, for me, its kind friends. 
This summer brought me back an old letter written in 
my middle age to a young niece during one of my first 
visits to Suffolk many years ago when out of health. At 
that time I had worldly ambitions, though rather for 
others than myself, and a simple, unartificial rural life 
would have been impossible to me in spite of my strong 
love of Nature. The only vocations which seem to com- 
bine creative work with the simplicity of an unworldly 
life, and yet give scope to great ambition, are those of the 
artist and the author, and as neither of these was for me 
my love of Nature found its main vent in admiration of 
those in whose lives it had played a dominant part. Let 
those who have this love of Nature never crush it, for 
did not the writer of old thus describe the wisdom of 
Solomon ?  ' For he was wiser than all men ; than Ethan 
the Bzrahite, and Heman, and Chalool, and Darda, the 
sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round 



OCTOBER 327 

about. And he spake three thousand proverbs : and his 
songs were a thousand and five. And he spake of trees, 
from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon even unto the 
hyssop that springeth out of the wall : he spake also 
of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of 
fishes.' 1 Kings iv. 31-33. 

The finder of my letter writes : ' I have been all the 
morning in the attic, which is truly an Aladdin's palace 
of riches and surprises. We were choosing books to have 
in our London home, and out of a " Life of Benvenuto 
Cellini " fell this fat human document. We have read it, 
and I send it to you, knowing it will be a thrillingly 
interesting memory to you. We have so loved reading 
it, and I feel tempted to shake all the books in the hopes 
of finding more ! ' 

' Sonthwold, July 23, 1886. 

' - . . About friendship, dear, you can judge, about 
love  don't think me a horrid old thing coming over you 
with that odious thing experience  you must allow me 
to say you cannot judge, either its nature or its power, 
because you have not tried it. It will come some day, 
and you will be the first to admit it is different, and that 
the grasp of the smiling boy is all powerful. 

' I have come across here to-day one of those strange 
stories of life which are more moving than any novel. 
We went to see, M. and I, an old lady, a fisherman's 
widow. She was about seventy, strong and handsome, 
and weather-beaten, very rough at first, and then the 
intelligence, refinement, and talent came out in her talk, 
and you forgot the wild, even dirty exterior. As a girl, 
quite young, she had run away and married a handsome 
fisherman. Her family disowned her and cut her off. 
She was the daughter of a rich Liverpool citizen, brought 
up in every luxury, taught German, French, Italian, draw- 
ing, and natural history. She must have had a wild, 



328 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

strong nature, for she has been very happy. She had 
one son and she dearly loved her husband. She lived 
his life and for years sailed about with him, studying the 
stars and knowing every fish of the sea. Her brother, 

S by name, was a Fellow of the Eoyal Society and 

a great naturalist, and she has beautiful books, something 
like my botanical ones, illustrated by him. She wanted 
to see me because of the Earle name  a well-known one 
in Liverpool. I wisb I had known her sooner, it would 
have interested me, though I have tried here to know no 
one ; I wanted to get away from humanity and its trials 
and temptations. The old lady has six cats, to all of 
which she is devoted. What is strange is that she should 
have kept up her French and been so proud of her intel- 
lectual gifts, yet that she should be content to live in so 
dirty a cottage and be so untidy in her person. She has 
the artistic temperament, and that, I am afraid, left to 
itself, does not care always for cleanliness. All about 
her was eminently picturesque and eminently untidy. 
She has for years written the letters of these villagers, 
and they talk of her, not as one of themselves, but as " a 
real lady." Is it not curious? As M. says, in another 
age she would have been called a witch. Her husband 
has been dead many years, but she talks with pleasure of 
the happiest days of her life, sailing on the wild ocean 
and coasting along the shores in his small open boat, 
and knowing all about the curious live things that 
came up in his nets. I shall probably never see her 
again, but I shall not forget my afternoon with her. . . . 
You must not think from what I said about Zola that 
I like him. I have always hated him, and can seldom 
read him ; only with this book I was agreeably dis- 
appointed, as it has both power and truth. Some of 
the things you say about truths of some kind being put 
into a novel, many people would say of your friend " Tom 



OCTOBER 329 

Jones." There are things in that not much more pleasing 
to me than the butcher's work you describe. Perhaps 
you have forgotten. However, I think in books, as in 
life, even striving at truth has a great charm for me, and 
though gazing at corruption may be sickening, I doubt if 
it is as bad for one as the most beautiful of whitened 
sepulchres. However, you and I often mean the same 
thing, only we express it differently. I certainly do not 
call a doctor a brute for publishing his experience of the 
most horrible diseases and operations. Those who are 
not interested need not read ; to those who are, the beauty 
of the facts effaces entirely the ugliness of the detail. 
And so in the description of the human heart, if the dis- 
ease is possible and true, it has a distinct interest for 
those who study human nature, though it may not be 
beautiful at all. Zola's book deals with that terrible 
question  the very narrow line between genius and mad- 
ness, which is one of the saddest problems of poor 
suffering humanity.' 

As I was copying this old letter into my chapter 
came the news of Zola's death from bad air. The 
pathetic account of so slight a cause having so big a 
result is almost allegorical in its significance ; for con- 
vinced as I have always been that the motive of his work 
was a noble seeking after truth, the work itself was yet 
full of the miasmatic atmosphere which rises from the 
lowest strata of human nature, and I think there is no 
bathos in saying that if he had habitually slept with open 
windows, he would not only have lived longer, but his 
work would have been much more wholesome. The 
French newspapers call it ' that stupid death which sends 
the literature of all countries into mom-ning and is de- 
plored by the whole world.' 

October 9th.  Never till this year have I seen the old 
town of Harwich, my previous acquaintance having been 



330 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

limited to its name, and the shed at the Great Eastern 
Eailway station on the way to the steamboats. In old 
days Harwich was an important place ; the King's pack- 
boats started from the town itself, and the early Georges 
always sailed from here on their joyful visits to their 
beloved Hanover. In the town there still exists a curious 
old posting -inn called by the unusual sign of ' The Three 
Cups,' and the room where Nelson slept is still shown. 
The reason of my visit to the inn was to see one of the 
strangest natural adaptations of luxuriant growth, of a 
kind seldom seen except now and then with an old vine. 
In the comer of the inn-yard is planted a Clematis 
Vitalba (traveller's joy), which I should think may be 
two hundred years old ; the stem is as thick as an old 
apple tree, retaining of course its twisted, rope-like 
character; the long arms, viz., branches, of the plant 
have been carried across the yard in all directions, 
supported in the middle by a strong post. The plant 
grows in a damp corner next the house ; it must have 
been put there and encouraged by some plant-loving 
landlord, and has been carefully trained and pruned ever 
since. The effect is so rare and so charming that it 
might be tried and carried out with advantage in many 
places. It was such a splendid illustration of what I 
consider one of the first rules of gardening  clearly to 
show the hand of man, even to the extent of a certain 
artificiality, and then Nature being allowed to assert her 
sway. Thanks to pruning and care through a century or 
more of growth, this magnificent specimen of a vdld plant 
still owes some of its charm to artifice. Given a sunny 
position, an old wistaria might be trained in the way 
described which is exactly how they are treated in 
Japan. 

Loudon says, ' The first clematis brought to England 
was Clematis Viticella in 1569, Virgin's Bower. During 



OCTOBER 331 

the reign of Queen Elizabeth the name of Virgin's Bower 
might be intended to convey a compliment to that 
sovereign, who, as is well known, liked to be called the 
Virgin Queen.' 

I never now visit seaside gardens except on the East 
Coast, where the houses and gardens are close to the sea, 
but it is interesting to observe there how well experience 
teaches, for the clothing of cliffs under the spray of the 
sea, which at one time seemed impossible, has now 
gradually succeeded. My host told me the other day that 
he had had the greatest difficulty in getting Pinus aus- 
triaca to grow. I immediately said, ' Oh, I am so glad ! 
I hate them.' He answered, ' You are wrong : their 
branching habit and sturdy growth from their youth 
make them endlessly useful to us as a protection. But,' 
he added, ' you will be interested to hear, in confirmation 
of what you have often said, that whereas we lost 
hundreds of transplanted plants bought from nurserymen, 
of our own seedlings we do not lose one in a hundred.' 
I am sure this is sound gardening, and corresponds with 
my experience with pears, already mentioned. Wherever 
a plant is difficult to grow and adapt to any particular 
soil, then grow it yourself from seed. It is a slow process, 
but is best in the end. 

The sand cliffs along this Suffolk shore, the feet of 
which the sea is always licking, and at high tides gradually 
undermining and carrying away, have to be most skilfully 
preserved in both the gardens I know best. The fight 
with the powerful element seems a continual excitement 
to the owners, but to others it appears as a pathetic 
struggle against an irresistible foe which is known to be 
slowly devouring England both on the Bast and West 
coasts. 

One of the most interesting growths on these garden 
terraces, clothing all the artificial rockwork in the most 



332 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

perfect way, is due to various perennial and annual 
mesembryanthemums, which bravely withstand the cold 
and cutting winds. Nothing suits them so well as sand 
and gravel, and they luxuriate and blaze in the sunshine 
and pure air. The large lilac-flowered M. Pomeridianum 
revels in the driest pocket and falls for yards like mer- 
maid's hair over the hot bare surfaces. 

All Gape and Japanese plants can be played with in 
these gardens where the myrtle and fuchsia flower 
abundantly every year. The Cape annuals, Octotis 
graTidis and the orange venidium, also do gloriously, but 
even here the beautiful belladonna lUy wiU not do 
against an ordinary south wall. It must be against a 
greenhouse wall where it gets a little heat from the 
inside pipes, or it comes into bloom too late. In one of 
these gardens where it is well estabhshed and never 
interfered with, it blooms from August to October in a 
right royal manner, with richer pink blooms and browner, 
stronger stems than I have seen inland. All the genis- 
tas, from least to largest, do splendidly if cut back after 
flowering. 

I complained to one of my friend's clever gardeners 
that my pears would go quickly in the middle. He said 
he thought the cure for that was very early picking. 
They have a tendency in hot soils to ripen first in the 
middle. I long ago discovered how desirable it was to 
pick medlars while still hard and let them ripen in the 
fruit house. 

In an old Suffolk rectory garden, once the property 
of the monks, I heard of a fruit wall with this peculiarity : 
small cupboard-like recesses were built into the wall 
between the fruit-trees and cleanly finished with stone 
slabs, and in these the peaches, nectarines, and apricots 
were placed on being picked to ripen in the sun, and yet 
not be exposed as on the tree to rain, flies, wasps, &c. 



OCTOBER 333 

The entrance to the recess was closed temporarily after 
the fruit was in by a curtain of muslin or a piece of 
glass. I have never seen a fruit wall built on these 
lines, but I expect those old monks knew what they were 
about, and easily brought to their table each day such fruit 
as was ripe and ready. 

My Suffolk friends have taken to constructing strong 
wind-resisting Pergolas. In one garden the piers are made 
of rough stones with strong iron girders sunk into cement 
at the top, and they run from north to south, which seems 
to me the best aspect, as in that way the roots on one 
side are in perfect shade, or in full sun according to the 
requirements of the creepers. The other Pergola runs 
east and west, and the columns are built of brick, while 
the top is made out of the curved beams of the sides of 
wrecked vessels thrown up on the beach. What a calm 
sylvan home for the poor storm-tossed beams to come 
to in their old age ! Another Pergola I saw this year 
entirely made of young larch saplings was very pretty, 
though less substantial than the two I have mentioned. 
Alternating with three poles bound together and three 
across the top, there came a single pole and a single one 
across the top, a far prettier arrangement and more 
substantial looking than when the poles are all single. On 
a flat piece of ground it would be an improvement to sink 
the walk and have raised stonework on each side, slightly 
after the manner of the AmaM Pergola referred to in April. 

I think the small-flowered hardy clematises are not 
nearly enough grown on Pergolas, and they are so light in 
their growth that they hardly injure roses or anything else 
they climb on. I mean such kinds as C. paniculata, which 
is even later flowering than G. Flammtila ; but in Jaekman's 
catalogue they are all so well classified and described that 
there is no difficulty in ordering what is wanted. The 
new hybrid types raised from C. coccinea are very pretty, 



334 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

but expensive. I am very fond of two herbaceous cle- 
matises called G. erecta and C. maritima. G. Davidiana 
and G. carulea, too, are beautiful plants well grown. 
They do not like a dry place. None of these are climbers. 
The hardy yellow G. graveolens does well in these sunny, 
wind-swept gardens. It goes on flowering for months, 
the blossoms lasting long after the early ones have 
formed their pretty flufiy seed-tufts. 

In gardens where enlargements are constantly being 
made, it always surprises me to see how much repetition 
goes on. The new beds are generally filled with plants 
that are already flourishing in other parts of the garden. 
I think, if I had a large garden, I would try to keep plants 
apart, and a new bit of ground or a sheltered corner should 
be entirely devoted to new lands that were not in any 
other part of the ground, or to plants which had failed 
elsewhere. It is so rare in EngUsh gardens to find any 
distinctive planting or originality, and I think it must be 
partly due to idleness and laziness, for I can never take 
up any gardening book without seeing thousands of things 
which I still lack. 

October 12th.  I see advertised to-day a book on 
' Trees and Shrubs,' part of the ' Country Life Library,' 
by Mr. Cook, editor of the ' Garden.' I am impatient to 
see this book, as it is one I have been waiting for for years. 
Up to now, there has been no really good one that I know 
of, except the rare old ' Arboretum ' of Loudon. I hope this 
book may supply a very real want, for, as I have repeatedly 
said, the ignorance about the pruning of trees and shrubs 
is very great. It is one of the most important parts of 
good gardening, whether practised in the tiny square of 
ground at the back of a suburban villa containing only 
two or three shrubs, or in the largest pleasure grounds of 
the United Bangdom, and yet bad pruning does more 
harm than none at all. 



OCTOBER 335 

"While correcting my proofs this book has appeared, 
and I am sure will be a disappointment to no one ; it 
supplies a great want, and no garden library can afford to 
be without it. The photographs are many of them 
beautiful. Photography seems to suit the reproducing of 
trees and shrubs as well as it seems to me to do badly 
for roses either growing or as cut blooms. The book is 
suited to gardens and woods of all sizes, and touches on 
aU the varieties of methods and growths for which various 
plants are suitable. The word ' English ' of course 
stands for the British Isles. Towards the end of the 
book there are admirable annotated lists, divided into 
columns under the following heads :  Name  Country or 
Origin and Natural Order  Colour and Season  General 
Eemarks. Another list gives hardy trees and shrubs for 
beauty of foliage and growth. With a careful study of 
this work no one can go wrong or leave out of his planting 
any desirable or beautiful shrub. The tender shrubs 
that only flourish in the south or west have a chapter 
to themselves. In spite, however, of its great merit and 
general usefulness, the book can in no sense compare with 
J. C. Loudon's wonderful ' Arboretum ' which is almost a 
unique example of labour and industry in garden literature. 
While engaged on this work, which took him years and 
caused him to die heavily in debt, Loudon was in the 
habit of visiting all the large places in England, and on 
one occasion wrote to the Duke of Wellington asking for 
leave to inspect his beeches. The duke answered very 
stiffly in the third person to Bloomfield, Bishop of 
London, forwarding a pair of breeches to London house 
for the Bishop's inspection, having mis-read Mr. Loudon's 
wish to see the beautiful beeches at Strathfieldsaye, as 
a request from the Bishop of London to see the breeches 
he had worn at Waterloo ! 

Even in the last ten years, the marvellous increase in 



336 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

the beauty of seaside gardens makes one realise the power 
of man over plant Ufa. This ought to be a great en- 
couragement to everybody in all parts of the world. Give 
plants more or less what they require, and you are sure 
to be amply repaid. 

Crabbe, who lived in Suffolk, and whose botanical 
observations, as Anne Pratt said in a book I had as a 
child, ' had led him to mark the inferiority of the vegetable 
kingdom in the neighbourhood of the sea,' gives the follow- 
ing melancholy picture of the plants of a small town on 
the coast :  

Where thrift and lavender and lad's-love bloom, 
There fed, by food they love, to rankest size. 
Around the dwellings docks and wormwood rise. 
Here the strong mallow strikes her slimy root ; 
Here the dull nightshade hangs her deadly fruit ; 
On hills of dust, the henbane's faded green 
And penoill'd flower of sickly scent, is seen ; 
At the wall's base the fiery nettle springs. 
With fruit globose and fierce with poisoned stings ; 
Above (the growth of many a year) is spread 
The yellow level of the stoneorop's bed ; 
In every chink delights the fern to grow, 
With glossy leaf, and tawny bloom below : 
These with our seaweeds, rolling up and down. 
Form the contracted flora of our town. 

This year an old local book has lately been pubUshed, 
with notes by Lord Francis Hervey. It is called ' Suffolk 
in the XVII. Century : the Breviary of Bobert Bryce, 
1618,' now published for the first time from a manuscript 
in the British Museum. One sentence in his agricultural 
descriptions naturally struck my eye. He says, ' As for 
the goat hee is a stranger with us, hee likes not our fat 
fertile soil, hee comes from our Western parts, where hee 
delights in the hungry feed amongst the- sharp roekes, and 
steep mountains, he is very seldome with us unless some 



OCTOBER 337 

for raritie and pleasure doe entertaine them, or for phi- 
sick's several uses doe maintaine and breed them.' 

I think perhaps few of the crowds of tourists who go 
to Suffolk in summer know the two excellent Uttle old 
books descriptive of the East Coast, which Cassell & Co. 
have repubhshed in their ' National Library ' for the 
modest price of Bd. One is called ' Travels in England 
during the reign of Queen Elizabeth,' by Paul Hentzner ; 
the other is a 'Tour through the Eastern Counties of 
England,' 1722, by Daniel Defoe. Defoe describes how 
in those days the poor turkeys were driven to London by 
the road ' in droves from three hundred to a thousand.' 
I think their legs must have grown harder and their fat 
less in the process. Of Ipswich he says what might be 
said to-day, ' An airy, clean, and weU-governed town, a 
very agreeable and improving company almost of every 
kind. A wonderful plenty of all manner of provisions, 
whether flesh or fish, and very good of the kind.' He 
mentions the decline in the shipping trade even in his 
day. He only casually notices Harwich, from which place 
he sent round his horses and took a boat up the river 
Orwell to Ipsvnch. He mentions that the late Dutch wars 
injured the coal trade. The modern grumble is that the 
harbour is silting up, that there is no money for dredging, 
and that the fish are killed by the sewage of Ipswich, and 
that the river is being choked by a luxuriant weed that 
grows in the sewage. The future man, who invents some- 
thing that solves the sewage question, wet or dry, will 
indeed be a benefactor to human kind. 

I came across an old book last year which I have tried 
to get everywhere and have failed. It is called ' Theory 
and Practice of Landscape Gardening,' by H. Eepton, 
London, 1805. The idea of the illustrations and teaching of 
this book could be adopted by anyone wishing to improve 
a large and woody place. What the author did was this : 



338 A THIRD POTPOURRI 

He drew a faithful sketch of the landscape as it was, with 
every tree and shrub and undulation marked. You lift 
up this drawing, and he shows you how he proposes to 
alter it and how it will look when done. In some cases 
he merely opens out the view by cutting down the trees, 
in others he throws up the ground on one side and lowers it 
on another, so showing up a valley which had been hidden 
before. In another case he dams up a stream and turns 
two or three swampy fields into a large lake. The whole 
book, though old-fashioned and hardly to our modem 
taste, is full of suggestive ideas. It is a pity it is so scarce. 
The non-illustrated edition is useless, and one must get 
the first edition of 1805. 

While staying away from home the other day, a kind 
fellow-guest wrote me out the two following stories, which 
made us laugh, and which I at least had never heard 
before. 

At a rent-audit dinner, the squire noticed that a new 
tenant of his, sitting in the place of honour on his right 
hand, was taking nothing to drink, so he said, 'Well, 
Johnson, this won't do, you are drinking nothing,' &c. 
Johnson replied, ' No, squire ; I never drinks nothing vsdth 
my meals.' ' How's that ? ' said the squire, ' are you a 
teetotaller, or suffering from rheumatism or anything, and 
acting under doctor's orders ? ' ' No, squire, faint that. 
It's this way: if you take a bucket full of watter you 
can't get no taters into it, but if you puts the taters in 
fust it's wonnerful what a lot of watter you can get in 
afterwards.' 

A philanthropic old lady in Exeter, very keen on the 
drink question, got hold of a very bibulous old sailor 
whom everyone had given up as a bad job. He had lost 
a leg and one eye, and used to do odd jobs about the 
market place. He told the old lady that, if he could once 
get a fair start on his own account, he would try to 



OCTOBER 339 

reform, many of the jobs he now did being paid for in 
drink. The old lady, after much thought, purchased for 
him a tray to hang round his neck with a broad strap and 
a supply of nice gingerbread, and she taught him the 
following sentence to repeat at intervals : 

' Will any good kind Christian 
Buy some fine spieey gingerbread 
Off a poor afflicted old man ? ' 

When he had sold a shiUingsworth, he congratulated 
himself on his strength of abstinence, and thought he 
would treat resolution to just one half-pint. This, need- 
less to say, led to two or three more, and when he resumed 
his station on the pavement his cry became a little 
mixed, and in a loud voice he appealed to passers-by 
with: 

' Will any poor afflicted Christian 

Buy some good kind gingerbread 

Off a fine spieey old man ? ' 

Trade became very good, and he again treated resolution, 
with the result that his cry became : 

' Will any fine spieey Christian 
Buy some poor afflicted gingerbread 
Off a good kind old man ? ' 

In return, I told him the following : ' I am told that 
in the Bankruptcy Court the bankrupt is always asked by 
the Judge if he can give any reason for his failure. A 
young man who was being thus examined promptly 
answered, " Oh, yes, quite easily ; fast women and slow 
horses.'' I did not know him, but I heard with regret 
that this poor vntty young fellow died in the war in South 
Africa.' 

The fashion of everyone discussing health  his own 

z3 



340 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

or others'  is so common a one now that the taste some- 
times assumes extraordinary developments, and I have 
been told that, two or three years ago in Paris, cinemato- 
graphs of hospital operations were the fashionable diversion 
at evening parties. A cheek was given to this kind of 
entertainment by one of the guests fainting on recognising 
a friend on the operating table. How history repeats 
itself ! In Ten Brink's latest book on the French Ee- 
volution, he gives a graphic account of Paris dinner- 
tables decorated with toy models of the newly invented 
guillotine, a doll fiUed with red scent representing the 
victim, and ladies dipping their handkerchiefs in the 
sham blood which spurted out as the head fell into 
the basket. 

To wind up with something more human, I give the 
following letter from Major A. C. Hamilton, 6th Dragoon 
Guards, to his mother, who kindly sent it to the press : 
' Barberton, September 26.  I have a little moral story 
which you can publish in a paper if you like vnth names. 
I dined with Van de Post, whom we took here. He was a 
Free State commandant and Speaker of the Volksraad. He 
told me after the engagement at Eamah he found a soldier 
who had been out all night bleeding to death and nearly 
dead. His doctor said, "It is useless to do anything for 
him," and suggested amputating both legs. Van de Post 
looked in his pocket and found a letter from his mother 
to this effect : " Dear George,  I am so anxious about 
you in this terrible war, but I hope you will be always 
merciful to the wounded and respect women, and cause 
as little pain to others as you can, for Christ's sake.  Your 
Mother." He was so touched he wired for his carriage 
and the best doctor, sent the man to his own farm, which 
was near, and he quite recovered. His name was George 
Cowan, Mounted Infantry. It would be nice if his mother 
knew this,' 



OCTOBER 341 

In the ' Spectator ' of October 18, 1902, there was a 
review of ' Ballads of the Boer War ; selected from the 
Haversack of Serjeant J. Smith, by " Coldstreamer." ' 
The article was so sympathetic and appreciative that I 
instantly sent for the book. Although I agree with the 
' Spectator's ' praise, I must say I think that many of the 
poems are better than those selected by the reviewer. 
The one which shows a real imaginative power of a 
certain kind deals with a very dif&cult subject, I should 
have thought  ' The Queen's Chocolate.' It is too long 
to quote entirely, but these verses, taken without the 
beginning and the end, explain themselves :^ 

I never 'ad no track with gals ; 

Soft, stuck-up things, they seems to me 
An' though I'd h'often see my pals 

A-settin' of 'em on their knee, 
It ain't a thing H'l ever done, 
Cos why ? I didn't see the fun. 

Them gals was nice enough, no doubt, 

I ain't a-contradictin' it ; 
I see'd young fellers walking out 

When I was polishiu' my kit, 
An' each 'is bit o' chintz 'ad got ;  
Well, they was welcome to the lot ! 

And, h'as I'm talking, H'l can say,  
Tho' p'raps it sounds a funny thing,  

No woman to this blooming day 
'As give me e'er a brooch or ring ; 

No trunkets, nor the like 0' that, 

Nor yet no ribbon from 'er 'at. 

An' h'ouly one, as I recall, 

In all these weary months 0' war, 
'As sent me h'anythink at all,  

(An' she wont never send no more ; )  
Ah ! what was that, an' '00 was she ? 
I'll tell you if you'll 'ark to me. 



342 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The Queen was driving h'out one day, 
And, 'appening to pass a shop. 

She calls the drive of 'er shay, 
' 'Ere John,' sez she, ' 'ere coachman, stop ! 

You wait a while outside for me, 

H'l wants to buy some sweets,' sez she. 

The shopman, knowin' who she wfere, 
'Urries respeokfnl to the door ; 

' I've thought,' sez she, a-smiling there, 
' As 'ow my soldiers at the war 

Would like a suck o' chooolit. 

So I come in to h'order it ! ' 

' Just send a million boxes round,' 

Sez she, an' quick she writes a cheque  

' I'll pay at once, ten thousand pound, 
You'll find the signature oorreck ; 

That's it, Victo-ri-a, Har. I., 

Take care, the h'ink is 'ardly dry.' 

Then h'out she goes, an' drives away. 
Without the shghtest sort o' fuss ; 

The boxes they comes round next day. 
An' h'off she sends 'em out to h'us ; 

An' that was 'ow I got a bit 

0' Queen Victoria's ohocolit. 

The h'only present, fust an' last. 

As any woman sent to me 
In h'all them weary years as passed 

Since first we sailed acrost the sea ; 
I've never 'ad no gifts before. 
An' so I prizes it the more. 

An' 'ere's my box, as good as new ; 

I 'aven't touched the chocolit. 
Nor yet I ain't a-goin' to do,  

'Cos why ? Because I values it. 
You'd like to buy it, eh ? Good Lor 
Wot sort o' cove d'you take me for ? 



OCTOBER 343 

Suppose a gal, some New Year's Day, 

Sent off a box o' sweets to you ; 
Would you go off an' sell it, eh ? 

Is that the sort o' thing you' A do ? 
Wot would 'er Gracious think ol it. 
If I should seU 'er chocolit ? 

' She'd never know ! ' sez you ? May-be ! 

(Gawd rest 'er soul ! ) Per'aps you're right. 
But stUl I likes to think as she 

Is watching 'ow 'er soldiers iight, 
An' smiling somewheres in the sky 
A-seeing 'ow 'er soldiers die ! 

But, h'if she knows or h'if she don't. 

This blooming chocolit is mine ; 
D'you 'ear ? An' part with it I won't,  

So there !  for all you talk so fine. 
I wouldn't seU it now, you swab, 
For fifty, let alone ten bob ! 

Two pounds, sez you ? You'U make it three ? 

Well you're a; gentleman, H'I'm sure ! 
Don't push your blooming coins on me 1 

You thinks to tempt me 'cos I'm poor ? 
I may be so ; h'it ain't denied ; 
But still I 'as my proper pride. 

No use a-h'arsking me to sell, 

I'd feel a villain if I did 
(So you an' yours can go to 'ell !) 

I wouldn't, not for twenty quid. 
Take back your money, h'every bit 1 
I'm richer,  with my chocolit ! 

October 2Qth.  Cultivating to perfection some of the 
wild flowers of our own country is, I think, a delightful 
thing to do, at least I do it with several plants, such as 
the blue Geranium armenum, one of the handsomest of 
our wild flowers and worthy of both a good place and a 
bad in every garden. The difference in situation will 
make a fortnight's interval in its flowering, for it grows 
both in shade and sun. The wild yellow toadflax 



344 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

(Linaria Gymhalaria) grows poorly in our hedges about 
here, but it always has a place in my garden and flourishes 
exceedingly from July to November. I grow, too, both the 
willow herbs {Epilobmm angustifolium.) The pink one is 
rather a weed, but the white variety (called French because 
it is not a wild English plant) is more restrained in its 
growth, and groups charmingly with the blue geranium. 

The orange hawkweed and the little pale yellow one 
I consider both worthy of the garden. I have not many 
varieties of ferns as the dryness is unsuited to them, but 
of the Welsh Polypody {Polypodnm, cambricwm) I take 
some care as its best time is late autumn when all others 
have turned yellow. 

I have derived immense pleasure from the branching 
larkspurs, the seed of which I brought back from Florence 
two or three years ago. I noticed there that it grew all 
over the place like a weed, as my Oenotheras do here. 
The seed I brought home has grown most satisfactorily, 
and I always save my own seed now. It is certainly 
slightly different from any that I can buy in England, 
which seems more cultivated and inclined to be double, 
causing it to grow a little less freely. In a number of 
the ' Spectator ' some time ago, I saw a letter, to me 
very interesting, by Mr. H. B. Cotterill, from Switzerland. 
I venture to think that those of my readers who did not 
notice it in the ' Spectator ' will be glad to see it : 
' Sir,  In an edition of Milton's " Lycidas," lately pub- 
lished by Messrs. Blackie, I gave what I consider to be 
rather strong grounds for believing the " flower inscribed 
with woe " {i.e., the ancient volkivOos) to be the larkspur 
{Delphinium Ajacis). Correspondents inform me that 
they have examined larkspurs growing in English gardens 
and have been disappointed by not discovering the 
" A.I.A.I." marks. Perhaps you will kindly allow me to 
suggest that possibly the larkspur examined by them was 



OCTOBER 345 

some cultivated variety of the Gonsolida, which grows 
wild in these parts, and on which I myself have also 
failed to find the marks in question. Or possibly there 
may be English varieties of the Ajacis which do not 
possess these marks. I can only say that the larkspur 
commonly to be found in Swiss gardens is the Delphi- 
nivrni Ajacis (a native of Southern Europe, said to be found 
sometimes " escaped " in England), and that I have never 
failed to discover the " A.I.A.I. " or " I.A.I." on its petal. 
I am, Sir, &c., H. B. Cotterill, Clarens, Switzerland.' 

On reading this letter, I rushed out into my garden 
to see whether I could find the markings on my flowers. 
On the petals of the blue variety, the descendant of the 
Italian seed, I found the white letters ' A.I.A.I.'  the cry 
of lamentation in the pagan world  quite plainly marked. 
In the cultivated, or double kinds, raised from seed 
bought in England, all trace of them had disappeared. 
I also grow the red valerian. Its old cottage name was 
' Pretty Betty,' and Chaucer calls it ' Swete-wall.' It 
grows in all sorts of places about the garden. It is one 
of those kinds of plants that like dryness and poor soil, 
but as much sun and air as they can get. It is, I believe, 
quite rare to find it wild in England. I never tire of 
varieties of wallflowers {Gheiranthus), and this year 
Mr. Thompson, of Ipswich  from whom, as I said before, 
I get all my uncommon and non-nurseryman's seeds  
had a long list of these plants in his catalogue. One 
which he called ' Dresden ' is very like the wild wall- 
flowers found on old buildings. It began to bloom here 
early in October and so gives a cheerful promise of spring 
before winter begins. Anne Pratt, in one of her early 
books, says it was regarded by the Troubadours as the 
emblem of faithfulness in adversity because it smiles 
upon the ruin. In Saintine's ' Picciola,' that character- 
making book which I so loved in my childhood, the real 



346 A THIRDPOT-POURRI 

heroine is a wild wallflower. It is a pleasure to me to 
find that, in my old age, the books that I loved most 
between fourteen and eighteen I enjoy now with a 
renewed freshness. Second childhood I suppose. How- 
ever, ' Picoiola '  the ' new book ' when I got it in 1851  
has become, I believe, a schoolroom classic for girls 
learning French. How much worldly wisdom is taught 
from that description of a political prisoner's life ! In my 
enthusiastic youth I thought that imprisonment for a 
righteous cause  for liberty, for the good of the people  
would not have been hard to bear, especially if consoled 
by one fragile little plant. In those days how little I 
knew what imprisonment meant ! A man who has him- 
self experienced it, for what he considered a righteous 
cause, refers to it thus : ' Liberty ! Who that has not 
himself been once imprisoned can appreciate what this 
means ? Who that has not had to look forward with aching 
heart and longing soul for days, months, years, to the time 
when he would once again find himself unfettered, free 
to talk to his fellow-man  at liberty to exercise the rights 
of his nature's manhood, undeterred by prison rules or 
the threat of warders' reports, can realise what that 
heaven-born word implies ? I was liberated once  
unexpectedly set free, after seven and a half years of 
close imprisonment, and I am almost inclined to say that 
the punishment involved in a penal servitude of that 
duration would be worth enduring again to enjoy the 
wild, ecstatic, soul-fiUing happiness of the first day of 
freedom. . . . Everything which meets the gaze of the 
liberated prisoner, every thought of the present and the 
future assumes a brighter hue and wears a more blissful 
meaning from the terrible recollection of the felon 
degradation, the narrow cell, the stinted sunlight, the 
loathsome daily task, the brutal warder, and the weary, 
heart-longing expectancy for the hour of deliverance.' 



OCTOBER M7 

This quotation is from a book published by Mr. 
Michael Davitt, called ' Leaves from a Prison Diary,' 
when he returned to the world after his long confine- 
ment. 

There is another well-known testimony to the suffer- 
ings of prison life in a volume of poems written by Mr. 
WiKred Blunt called ' In Vinculis.' He says in his pre- 
face that these sixteen sonnets were written when actually 
in prison, and he adds : ' They record an episode in the 
writer's life to which, in spite of many austerities and 
some real suffering, he cannot look back otherwise than 
with affection. Imprisonment is a reality of discipline 
most useful to the modern soul, lapped as it is in physical 
sloth and self-indulgence. Like a sickness or a spiritual 
retreat, it purifies and ennobles ; and the soul emerges 
from it stronger and more self-contained. Alas, that these 
influences should so soon lose their power! And yet, 
fall as we may from the higher level, they do not wholly 
perish, but remain for us a wholesome recollection and a 
standard of all that we can imagine best for this life and 
another.' 

To return to my plants. Playing experiments with 
the sowing of flower-seeds is not entirely without danger. 
This year, instead of ordering the handsome, often-grown 
Helichrysum bracteatum incurvum, I thought I would 
order H. Gnaphalium, in spite of the warning of 'fmtidum ' 
added to its name in the catalogue. Words fail me to 
describe how the horrible smell of this plant haunted the 
garden for at least six weeks. It was like the most evil 
of he-goats. Once I picked some, and the garden gloves 
had to be burnt, as they scented the whole hall. My other 
experiment was H. setosum, described as ' new and from 
the Transvaal ' ; described, too, as a half-hardy perennial 
instead of an annual. It is rather a nice little everlasting 
with a pretty growth. 



348 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The pretty maidenhair tree  its Japanese name is 
Ginkgo  grows well in any strong soil in the south of 
England. In Northamptonshire, I saw it grown like an 
old pear-tree on a west wall and, as it had been a good 
deal pruned back, the leaves were large and handsome. 
They turn such a beautiful, clear yellow in autumn, that 
it seemed to me a plant to be recommended for wall 
covering. 

Saxifraga Fortunei is a plant seldom seen. It is per- 
fectly hardy, but, as it does not flower till the end of 
October or November, the delicate plumes of blossom are 
injured by cold rains or frost. The way I grow it is in 
pots sunk outside in shade all the summer and well 
watered. As the buds form they are brought into the 
room or greenhouse. I think few orchids are as pretty, 
or repay one so well for so little care. 

The beautiful Californian Delphinium cardinale I find 
very difficult to grow. I have not before named as a stove 
flower for November and December the pink plumbago. 
Like the half-hardy blue one, it lives well in water if floated. 

October 23rd. 1 have not much increased my little 
collection of orchids, though I have propagated those I 
had. At this time of year the cypripediums are invalu- 
able. Stuck into a small Japanese wedge with a few red 
leaves of the azalea, they form a perfect autumn bouquet, 
and when all Nature is fading away their persistency and 
unfadingness have a peculiar charm. I can add to my list 
Lycaste gigantea: it is in full flower now, and is very 
ornamental in its pot with three long ribbed leaves grace- 
fully curved, and at their foot a bunch of seven or eight 
unusually shaped pale yellow green flowers. This forms 
a naturally growing Japanese combination. I repeat 
what I said before, everybody who has a small stove ought 
to insist on growing a certain number of these easier 
orchids. 



OCTOBER 349 

October 27th.  In a letter to-day from my German 
friend there are two gardening paragraphs, one a great 
example of how we sow and our descendants reap, and 
the other a practical experience which may be useful to 
anyone. ' I must tell you how I went to visit a friend 
half-way between Darmstadt and Heidelberg in the Oden- 
wald. She took me a drive into her hills and woods and 
showed me a whole hillside (north-east) very sheltered 
and entirely planted with wellingtonias, Abies macro- 
carpa, and enormous Thuyas and Thuya Globosas, simply 
lovely and quite unique, I should say, in this part of 
Europe. The welUngtonias that are so hideous as single 
specimens on a lawn were grand in a big mass, and so 
healthy, not one yellow twig  so picturesque, hke huge 
bluish feathers. And think of the variety it made to have 
that hillside of blue in the midst of the black Tannen- 
baums and the golden oaks and beeches in their autumn 
robes ! It was all planted sixty or seventy years ago by 
my friend's father-in-law, Count Berkheim, who was a 
Frenchman, the Berkheims being the oldest feudal family 
of Alsace, and though this one branch is now German, 
they considered themselves French, and talked French in 
the last generation.' 

Her next subject is chrysanthemums. She says : 
' Another thing I have quite made up my mind about is 
that the summer and autumn culture of amateur-grown 
chrysanthemums, as I have seen it practised in nineteen 
out of twenty gardens in England, is not so good as ours. 
Now  October 25th  I have not one yellow, diseased, or 
missing leaf on any single one of my 150 plants. I am 
sure it is entirely due to the plan of sinking the pots well 
and deep into a heavy wet soil, and especially giving them 
only half as much stimulant all the summer, and hardly 
any artificial manure at all ; plenty of hoof-parings and 
bone-dust in the soil at each re-potting, and always a little 



3SO A THIRD POT-POURRI 

very-much-diluted liquid manure from a sink-tank where 
there is plenty of cabbage water. I must tell you that the 
director of the celebrated Palmen Garten, the German 
Kew, came the other day and said he had never seen finer 
plants than ours anywhere, and only wished his were a 
patch on them. I only teU you this because I have always 
felt sorry to see chrysanthemums diseased, and the plants 
so straggling and empty of leaves in most English private 
gardens, for, after all, from October till the new year they 
are the staple material for one's indoor decoration, are 
they not ? ' 

There is a good deal of truth in my friend's remarks, 
and there has been much chrysanthemum disease about 
in England in the last four or five years. I have tried 
sinking the pots, even in this light soil, with great 
benefit. The wet summer has also helped; but I am 
quite sure that the tendency to overfeed cattle, plants, 
and land is one of the dangers in England at this 
moment. 

The cultivation of chrysanthemums is a bother, but at 
the same time we cannot do without them, and I suppose 
as long as gardens last we all shall feel more or less what 
is charmingly told in the following poem from the 
' Westminster Gazette ' :  



CHB TSANTHEMUMS 

We spring from the earth at the winter's birth 

When the ground is bare, 
And we reign supreme, like a passing dream, 

Till the world is fair. 

We brave the gale, and the rain and hail, 

Afraid of none ! 
While our petals blaze like the golden rays 

Of the setting sun. 



OCTOBER 35 1 

From bronze we shade, and to pink we fade, 

As the rosy morn ; 
And our lips are kissed by the dewy mist 

Of the early dawn. 

To mauve we turn and to crimson burn  

Then fiercer glow. 
But our souls delight in our petals white 

As the driven snow. 

Some of the critics of my other books twitted me with 
my admiration of Mr. John Morley, but that admiration 
has been even heightened by his consistent and dignified 
attitude in political life during the last three years. The 
few people whom I have seen during the present week 
had, I found, entirely missed thu letter in which he 
announced his magnificent gift to Cambridge ; and if this 
can happen within sixteen miles of London, I feel it may 
the more easily occur to those abroad, or ill, or temporarily 
debarred from seeing the daily papers. These may be 
grateful to me for giving the full text of the letter here, 
for is it possible to express generosity more graciously 
and interestingly than in these words, which, apart from 
all else, are a model of noble English prose ? 

57 Elm Park Gardens : October 20, 1902. 

My dear Duke op Devonshire,  You may have 
heard some months ago that what I hope will be known 
as the Acton Library passed, by the signal regard of a 
friend, into my hands. 

For some time I played with the fancy of retaining 
it for my ovsm use and delectation. But I am not covetous 
of splendid possessions ; life is very short ; and such a 
collection is fitter for a public and undying institution 
than for any private individual. After due inquiry and 
deliberation, and with the possible reservation of an in- 
considerable portion of quite secondary importance, I 



3S2 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

have decided respectfully to ask the University of Cam- 
bridge, in which you hold the high office of Chancellor, 
to do me the favour of accepting this gift from me. 

The library has none of the treasures that are the 
glory of Chatsworth. Nor is it one of those noble and 
miscellaneous accumulations that have been gathered by 
the chances of time and taste in colleges and other places 
of old foundation. It was collected by Lord Acton to be 
the material for a history of Liberty, the emancipation of 
Conscience from power, and the gradual substitution of 
Freedom for Force in the government of men. That 
guiding object gives to these sixty or seventy thousand 
volumes a unity that I would fain preserve by placing 
them where they can be kept intact and in some degree 
apart. I am led to believe that at Cambridge this desire 
of mine could be complied with. There is no other con- 
dition that I wish to impose. 

In this way, I believe, Cambridge will have the most 
appropriate monument of a man whom, though she thrice 
refused him as a learner, she afterwards welcomed as a 
teacher  one of the most remarkable men of our time, 
extraordinary in his acquisitions, extraordinary in the 
depth and compass of his mind. The books will, in the 
opinion of scholars more competent to judge than I, be a 
valuable instrument of knowledge ; but that is hardly all. 
The very sight of this vast and ordered array in all de- 
partments, tongues, and times, of the history of civilised 
governments, the growth of faiths and institutions, the 
fluctuating movements of human thought, all the 
struggles of churches and creeds, the diverse types of 
great civil and ecclesiastical governors, the diverse ideals 
of States  all this will be to the ardent scholar a power- 
ful stimulus to thought. And it was Acton himself who 
said that the gifts of historical thinking are better than 
historical learning. His books are sure to inspire both, 



OCTOBER 353 

for, multitudinous though they be, they concentrate the 
cardinal problems of modern history. 

I need not say that it will be a lasting pride and 
privilege to, me that my name should, even for a tran- 
sitory moment, be associated in the mind of the Univer- 
sity with the establishment of the Acton Library within 
the precincts of a home so famous. 

Believe me to remain, yours sincerely, 

John Moblby. 

October 28th.  Weekly, now, the troops are coming 
home, and one wonders how they will settle down to the 
tame life here after all they have seen, and felt, and done 
in South Africa. Not the least regrettable influence of 
war is that it is such a bad preparation for peace. Even 
with young ofi&cers, the same thing applies. One has 
to remember that the very natures which do best for 
war  wild, reckless, gallant fellows  whose parents were 
glad and proud that they should volunteer to go out, are 
the very ones to be a considerable puzzle, both to them- 
selves and to their parents, on their return. The world 
has grown so wise and practical lately, one is apt to 
forget that the old-fashioned parents still exist who glory 
in imperialism, blood and thunder, &c., and who may be 
singularly blind with regard to the consequences of war 
as an effect on character. I can quite imagine a young 
gentleman, who joined the Volunteers or Yeomanry to go 
to South Africa, being a sore trial, on his return, to the 
said type of father who would probably scold and stop 
supplies. If, by misfortune, the mother were of another 
old-fashioned type, who with tears in her eyes would pelt 
him with texts, both parents might easily send him flying 
down-hill via music-halls, racecourses, and pawnshops. 

The ethics of war trouble the hearts of so many 
mothers that I must speak of a great book which has 

A A 



354 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

only just come to my knowledge, and which remains 
unknown to many people of the West in spite of the fact 
that it is one of the bibles of the world. It can hardly be 
without interest to a fighting nation that one of the most 
enlightening and inspiring books of the world's literature 
should have been given to a soldier as he stood irresolute 
on the battlefield, palsied in heart by feeling, ' Better 
in this world to eat even the beggar's bread, without 
slaying . . . than by slaughtering ... to enjoy on this 
earth alone blood-stained pleasuxes, lusted after by those 
desiring possessions.' 

To him the Teacher says : ' Thy business is with the 
action only, never with its fruits ; so let not the fruit of 
action be thy motive, nor be thou to inaction attached. 
. . . Surrendering all actions to Me, with thy thoughts 
(resting) on the Supreme Self, from hope and egoism 
freed, and of mental fever cured, engage in battle. . . . 

' Taking as equal pleasure and pain, gain and loss, 
victory and defeat, gird thee for the battle; thus thou 
shalt not incur sin. . . . Therefore, without attachment, 
constantly perform action which is duty, for, performing 
action without attachment, man verily reacheth the 
supreme.' 

There are two excellent translations of the ' Bhagavad 
Gita,' one by Annie Besant, to be had for 6d. in paper 
covers, one by Mohini Chatterji, a large volume full of 
most helpful notes, at 10s. 6d. 

After the publication of my second book, I received 
kind letters and even presents from unknown American 
and Canadian readers. One was an especially pretty 
little drawing of Anemone thalictroides, and some books 
and poems gave me great pleasure. I tried to answer 
and send thanks for everything as it came, but my 
personal sorrow and the black shadow of the war may 
have prevented me at the time from remembering all If 



OCTOBER 355 

there was any omission, I feel sure that in the circum- 
stances it will have been forgiven, and not have been put 
down to ingratitude. If I could write verses, I should 
like to have written these which appeared some time ago 
in the ' Westminster Gazette,' for they express what I so 
often feel  that however far we are from our friends' ideal 
of us, the higher they think of us the more they help us 
to become something better than we are :  

VALE I 

I am not fair, 

But you have thought me so, 

And with a crown I go 
More rich than Beauty's wear. 

I am not brave. 

But fear has made me so, 

And dread lest I forego 
The honour that you gave. 

I am not wise, 

But you loved wisdom so 

That what I did not know 
I learned it in your eyes. 

I am not true, 

But you have trusted so 

That faithfully I go, 
Lest I be false to you. 

If Heaven I win, 

I can no virtue show 

But that you loved me so. 
Will they not let me in ? E. C. 



.iA2 



356 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



THE JOUBNAL OF A TOUB IN THE NOBTH 
OF EUBOPE IN 1825-26 

(BBPBIIIIED from the ' COBNHILL MAGAZINE ') 

I FOUND the other day, when looking through some old 
family papers, a journal written by my father-in-law 
during a tour through Denmark, Sweden, and Eussia in 
1825-26. 

Charles Earle was born in the last days of the pre- 
ceding century, and was consequently in the flower of 
his youth at the time that he writes this journal. He 
seems to have been a young man of a simple, genial 
nature, and in these pages, written only for his own 
amusement, he continually expresses his gratitude for all 
the kindness he received. He was apparently quite 
unruffled by the discomforts and dangers he went through 
by land and water. He narrates several times with the 
utmost simplicity his hairbreadth escapes from carriage 
accidents. In these days an occasional railway accident 
startles us because of the numbers it affects, but the risks 
that our luxurious parents experienced when travelling in 
their soUtary grandeur were far greater than those in- 
curred by any individual in modern travelUng. Charles 
Earle had the good fortune to be in St. Petersburg at the 
time of the death of the Emperor Alexander I. and the 
accession of the handsome and interesting Nicholas I., 
who began his reign by weakening the power of Turkey 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 357 

and helping on the independence of the Greeks, but closed 
it with his ambitions crushed by the alliance of France 
and England with the Turks, and died leaving his peace- 
loving successor Alexander II. to sign the treaty dis- 
astrous to Eussia which closed the campaign in the 
Crimea. I have had immensely to curtail the journal, 
only selecting those passages which seem of some general 
interest. The prophecy at the end, in the light of after- 
events, is distinctly remarkable. 

He begins his journal at Hamburg on July 31, 1825, 
with the following words : ' After having trodden for two 
years in the beaten track of European travellers, and 
after having visited most of the countries south of the 
Baltic, my account of which was stolen from me at 
Warsaw, I have determined, in spite of this misfortune, 
to begin another journal of the tour I am on the eve of 
making through the North of Europe.' 

He leaves Hamburg without regret, and apparently 
finds Liibeck much more interesting. He writes several 
pages in the ordinary handbook style, of which one 
remark may be noticed : 

'I was particularly amused by a picture by Holbein, 
called " Death's Dance," which occupies three walls of a 
chapel in one of the principal churches,' &c., &c. Living 
before the critical age, he simply accepts the attribution 
of this picture. Nowadays we know that the ' Dance of 
Death' was one of the favourite subjects of northern 
mediaeval painters ; and the best critics state that there 
is no authentic record of any ' Death's Dance ' by Hol- 
bein, and throw considerable doubt even on the celebrated 
engravings. 

He left Liibeck on a steamer for Copenhagen with his 
Italian travelling companion, Signor Eossi, and says : 
' On arriving at Copenhagen, I paid my respects to Pro- 
fessor Oi'rsted, to whom Dr. Young had given me a letter 



3S8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

of introduction, and who procured admission for me to the 
fine cabinet of minerals.' 

He constantly mentions visiting museums, and in this 
interest for science there is probably a touch of romance, 
as he was intimately acquainted with Dr. Thomas Young, 
whose wife was the elder sister of the lady whom Charles 
Earle already knew and afterwards married. Thomas 
Young, M.D., was a scientific man of great distinction. 
Among other things, I read that he discovered the law of 
the interference of light, though I know not what that 
means. He also evolved the process of investigation by 
which the received interpretation of hieroglyphics has 
been arrived at. It was he who. deciphered the Eosetta 
Stone in the British Museum, and I believe he is recog- 
nised as one of the most ingenious and original philoso- 
phers of his time. 

' They show the tomb of Hamlet in a garden not far 
from the town. A simple stone marks the spot where he 
was supposed to have been buried. On arriving at 
Elsinor we paid a visit to the castle of Cronenburg, a 
fortress commanding the Sound. It is a Gothic struc- 
ture, and from its lofty tower there is a view of which 
travellers are wont to speak in raptures. In order, how- 
ever, to enjoy the prospect, the permission of the Governor 
is necessary ; no easy matter to obtain, as experience 
proved. After passing along corridors innumerable and 
traversing dirty and deserted apartments, we at length 
found the animal in his lair in the inmost recesses of the 
castle. I had seldom seen, and it would be difficult to 
describe, anything in the shape of a civilised being so 
filthy as the said Governor. His uniform, covered with 
the accumulated grease of years and in tatters, contrasted 
with the numerous orders that glittered on his breast. 
' Nein, mein Herr," was the only answer we could obtain 
to our humble request to be allowed to mount the tower 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 359 

to enjoy the view of the Sound. He assured us the 
responsibility was so great that he dared not incur it. At 
length, however, he yielded to our earnest entreaties ; but 
a dirty, slovenly sentry, to whom he gave the order to 
admit us, declared that he had refused. In vain we 
begged he would return and bring the permission we had 
been promised ; so out errand was after all a fruitless 
one, and we descended in no good humour from this 
impregnable fortress.' In the midst of drastic reducing 
of the journal I keep this little anecdote of the visit to 
Elsinor as characteristic of the want of civilisation at 
that time. 

' August 22nd.  On the way to Carlstadt we had had 
one of our numerous carriage accidents, so were obliged 
to remain a few days in the town for some necessary 
repairs. There being so few resources within the walls, I 
was glad to accept the invitation of some brother sports- 
men to accompany them to a neighbouring island, which 
they said abounded with game. After passing a wretched 
night in a peasant's cottage, walking twelve hours the 
following day, and narrowly escaping from drowning, I 
returned without firing off my gun or exchanging a word 
vrith my friends, who could speak nothing but Swedish. 
The result of the chase was one hare, which, not being 
able to escape from the island, was hunted down by the 
dogs.' 

My father-in-law remained throughout his life the 
keenest of sportsmen. He shot woodcocks in the snow a 
few days before his death at the age of eighty-two. 

' We spent two or three days at Stockholm. The 
streets are for the most part narrow, badly paved and 
very dirty. No capital I have seen contains so few 
good houses as Stockholm.' 

It is rather amusing to note that a modern tourist, 
writing to me while taking this same northern journey, 



36o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

says, on beholding the quays of St. Petersburg, ' I have 
never seen so fine a bit of town ; the only thing at all 
approaching it is Stockholm.' So great a difference has 
grown up in the last fifty years. 

' Whilst at Stockholm I made the acquaintance of a 
Mr. Lloyd, better known as "the Bear-killer." He had just 
returned from an unsuccessful expedition against the 
Eussian bears, who, living under a despotic government, 
are secure from the attacks of the stranger, since no one 
can penetrate into the interior of the country without a 
particular kind of passport. Mr. Lloyd was desirous of 
obtaining a general permission to go where he liked, as in 
Sweden ; but his ideas and those of the Eussian police 
on this subject did not exactly harmonise. Whilst at 
Stockholm he received a letter from the author of a tour 
in Sweden and Lapland, requesting him to pick up as 
many anecdotes as he could for the second edition of his 
work. He showed me his characteristically laconic 
answer : " Dear B.,  Your work already contains so 
many lies that to add to them is not the wish of yours 
truly." 

' October 6th.  We set sail in a packet for the shores 
of Eussia. Our voyage was a prosperous one upon the 
whole, and we sailed with rapidity to Bomarsund and 
that cluster of islands, the navigation of which is often 
attended with so much danger. These islands are barren 
and for the most part uninhabited. A pole with a red 
flag was the pilot from the hidden rocks, which are so 
numerous as to render sailing through the islands by 
night impossible. We accordingly passed our second 
night vmder the lee of the shore, and the following 
morning ran into Abo in good time. Being the bearer of 
despatches for our Ambassador at St. Petersburg, I found 
no difficulty in getting the carriage through the Custom 
House. Abo is a dirty, uninviting place, only famous for 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 361 

the treaty signed there between Russia and Sweden in 
1743. There is no country on the Continent where the 
posts are so well served as in Finland, and, provided you 
have a coachman who understands putting on the harness, 
you never experience a moment's delay. It was our 
intention to have reached Bjorsby the same night, but at 
a wretched village two posts from that town the rain 
descended in torrents. Notwithstanding this, we deter- 
mined to eaury our intentions into effect ; but scarcely 
had we left the post when the peasant ran us off the road, 
vrith the wheels of the carriage in such a position against 
a rock that the least movement from within or without 
would infallibly have overturned it. We fortunately 
succeeded in taking the horses off, and, being guided by a 
light glimmering in a window, we waded through mud 
and water until we arrived at the door of a Finland hut, 
the interior of which baffles all description : those, in fact, 
who have had no experience of these unfrequented 
countries would never believe that Christians could live 
in so swinelike a manner.' 

Apparently things have not much improved, as my 
modern tourist before referred to gives the following 
description of a hut he arrived at while on a bear-shoot- 
ing expedition in Finland :  ' I am vreiting now ih the 
peasant's hut. It consists of one room, of wood, and 
contains the family (ten in number), selves (two), and 
drivers (two). In one corner is the huge stove, in another 
twelve chickens in a cage. There is a table and a bench. 
I don't mention the other animals, though, I am sorry to 
say, I have already made their acquaintance, and am 
bitten from head to foot. There is a baby in a cradle 
that creaks horribly (the cradle, not the baby) and is 
curiously constructed. The baby is put in a basket hung 
on the end of a long sapling which is attached to the 
rafters. Then somebody crosses his legs and kicks it 



362 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

up with his foot, and the spring in the sapling rooks the 
baby to sleep. I hope there is not a cock among the 
chickens in the corner ! , . . We turned in at 8.30 last 
night, and as there was no room on the floor I spread my 
shouba on the bench, and with my tobacco-pouch as 
pillow was soon asleep. Of course nobody undressed, 
and everybody snored wonderfully; and there was a 
cock in the corner ! ' 

The journal continues : ' The Finlander's habitation 
consists of three houses ; one for the summer, one for the 
winter, and the third for a kitchen. These houses are 
joined together; they are of wood and resemble a 
Swedish cottage. On entering the one in question we 
found a large family assembled in the room, a part of 
whom were in bed, and the others preparing for a wedding 
that was to take place the next day. We in vain en- 
treated them to let us have one of the blackcock then 
roasting for our supper. The good lady of the house, 
however, promised us something to eat, showed us into 
the adjoining room, and lighted a fire. The supper then 
arrived, but, in spite of a faim de hup, I could not touch 
it. The Finland peasant, though small in stature, is well 
made, and, being constantly employed in fishing or hunt- 
ing, is more active than his neighbour the Eussian. Their 
language is peculiar to the country, though many of them 
speak Swedish. They use the Gothic character in writ- 
ing ; the sound of the language is indescribably harsh. 
The Finns are still governed by Swedish laws ; there are 
no nobles. In seasons of plenty they eat five times a 
day; yet, from the severity of their climate and the 
sterility of their soil, there are no people so often reduced 
to want. So great, indeed, is the scarcity during long and 
rigorous winters that they are often obliged to mix the 
bark of the fir-tree with their meal. In spite of all these 
disadvantages they are remarkable for their longevity. 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 363 

The circumstance of the necessaries of life being only 
procured by great and constant labour, which con- 
duces so to health, may be the cause of their attaining so 
great an age. The costume of the women is singular 
enough ; they rejoice in immense earrings, usually made 
of glass, as also their necklaces, though the latter are 
often composed of pieces of money strung together. The 
men adopt the dress of the Swedes. Whilst the marriage 
feast was preparing I was in vain endeavouring to sleep 
on the table, awaiting the first ray of Ught, which we 
agreed should be the signal for our departure. I had not 
the good fortune to see the bride during our short stay 
under her mother's hospitable roof, but before we started 
we heard a bustle which ushered in a day of no small 
importance. A large party was already assembled, and 
their clean and smiling faces proclaimed the occasion no 
common one. The bride in Finland is obhged to present 
each guest with three yards of cloth and a pair of stock- 
ings ; the guest immediately gives their value in money, 
which belongs to the bride. 

' October l&th.  As we drew near to St. Petersburg our 
desire to see some part of the celebrated city was pro- 
portionately great ; but, although we took advantage of 
every rising ground, there was nothing to be seen on all 
sides but a plain of boundless extent, Utile cultivated, 
thinly inhabited, and offering a prospect of which there 
are few examples in the vicinity of a large capital. But 
at length the river with its interminable quays burst on 
our view. On reaching the middle of the Neva I ordered 
the postilion to stop, that we might contemplate this mag- 
nificent city. Nothing I have as yet seen can compare 
with the ccmp d'ml this spot presents. Every object that 
the eye ranges over is grand ; the noble river confined in 
its bed of granite, the quays lined with sumptuous palaces 
and extending further than the eye can reach, the 



364 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Admiralty with its gUt steeple  in fact, everything we 
beheld was calculated to make a deep impression on the 
mind.' 

Want of space prevents my giving his further de- 
scriptions of St. Petersburg, the sights he saw and the 
interesting people he met. I must pass on to his account 
of the revolt which broke out at the accession of 
Nicholas I. 

' On December 9 the melancholy tidings of the death 
of the Emperor reached the capital  the news of his 
illness and of his death arrived almost simultaneously. 
Everyone appeared panic-stricken at this distressing 
intelligence, for the Emperor was equally beloved by all 
classes of the community. His fortitude in adversity and 
moderation in prosperity have justly procured for him 
the admiration of the present age, and I only hope his 
example may be followed by the monarchs of succeeding 
ones. 

' The following morning the troops took the oath of 
allegiance to the Grand Duke Gonstantine. Fi:om this 
time until the courier returned from Warsaw on the 25th 
the public mind was a good deal agitated on the subject 
of the successor to the Imperial throne, for it was known 
that Constantine had formally announced his intention of 
abdicating in favour of Nicholas his brother, On the 
morning of the 25th the solemn renunciation of the Grand 
Duke and on the 26th the manifesto of the new Emperor 
were published, and the Imperial Council, the Senators, 
and the Holy Synod took the oath of allegiance to 
Nicholas. At about 11.30 the Colonels of the Horse and 
Chevalier Guards, of the Pr6obajensky Guards, and of six 
other regiments announced that their respective soldiers 
had taken the oath. From the other regiments nothing 
was heard, but this was attributed to the great distance of 
their barracks. At twelve o'clock intolligence was brought 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 365 

to the palace that several officers of the Horse Artillery, 
having manifested some opposition, had been arrested. 

' It vf as at this moment that I passed through the Place 
d'Isaac on my vfay to the English Library. There was a 
vast concourse of people in the square, and the shouting 
was vehement and uninterrupted. Upon asking my laqvms 
de place what they were calling out, he told me that it 
was in favour of the new Emperor. Thinking this very 
natural, I went on towards the Library. I had not been 
seated many minutes when the wife of the librarian rushed 
in, half-dead with alarm, and told me that the soldiers 
were fighting in the streets, and that the police had ordered 
the doors of all public places to be closed. On leaving 
the house I met the librarian, who informed me that 
General Count Miladorovitoh had been shot. I imme- 
diately got into my sledge, and drove towards the scene 
of action, but found all the avenues to the square guarded. 
Not being allowed to pass, I was proceeding to my lodg- 
ings by a circuitous route when I met Count Doernberg, 
who was in search of Lord Strangford. He got into my 
sledge, and we went together to the H6tel de Londres, 
where we found Lord Strangford, who had seen Miladoro- 
vitch fall. We all went back together to the square. It 
was then about one o'clock, and the Moscow Begiment 
had formed a square after having refused to swear the oath 
of allegiance. Upon seeing such a concourse of people 
assembled, the Emperor went out unattended and pene- 
trated into the midst of the mob, by whom he was received 
with enthusiasm. The presence of the military now be- 
came indispensable, and the Emperor, ordering a battalion 
of the Pr^obajensky Eegiment to march to the square, 
put himself at the head of it and marched towards the 
revolted troops. He was determined, however, not to 
have recourse to violent measures until conciliation had 
failed. Shortly after this several regiments made their 



366 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

appearance, as it became necessary to oppose force to 
force. The mob began to be very riotous, and, breaking 
down the palings opposite to the Church of St. Isaac, 
armed themselves with bludgeons, and, surrounding the 
Colonel of the Horse Guards, threatened the life of that 
officer, whose forbearance was beyond all praise. It was 
quite evident that in the present temper both of the revolted 
troops and of the people all conciliatory measures were 
useless, and the Chevalier Guards were ordered to charge. 
They were received by a volley from the rebel square. A 
horse was struck close to the spot where I was standing 
with Prince Schwarfczenberg ; the ball entered the poor 
animal's shoulder, and it was with much difficulty that 
the soldier dragged him from the ranks. Everyone who 
was present must bear testimony to the noble bearing of 
the Emperor upon this trying and melancholy occasion. 
Neither the tumultuous attacks of the mob nor the obsti- 
nate resistance of the revolted troops could shake the re- 
solution he had formed of not using violent measures till 
all others had proved useless. It was not, in fact, until 
the Metropolitan had harangued the soldiers of the Moscow 
Eegiment, and until these had fired several rounds at the 
troops in the square, that he could make up his mind to 
employ a force which would bring matters to a speedy 
conclusion. Such a measure was rendered the more in- 
dispensable as the daylight was fast disappearing. 
Accordingly the cannon were brought up and charged with 
grape. In the hope of intimidating the rebels the first 
shots were fired over their heads, as the marks on the 
wall of the Senate House prove. Seeing this measure 
had not the effect of dispersing them, the next discharge 
was levelled at the square formed by the revolted troops. 
The distance was not more than 100 yards, so that the 
effect of ten guns firing grape on a compact mass may 
readily be imagined. A charge of cavalry immediately 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 367 

followed ; the mob and revolted troops were dispersed in 
every direction and pursued and sabred by the Chevalier 
and Horse Guards. It will never be known how many 
fell on the occasion of this revolt, for the bodies were im- 
mediately put under the ice in the Neva. The son of the 
man from whom I hire my carriage fell a victim to his 
curiosity, and many others narrowly escaped a similar 
fate. The troops that had been engaged during the day 
bivouacked in all the principal streets and squares. The 
most profound tranquillity reigned throughout the city 
that night ; not a sound was heard save a sentry's 
challenge and the soldiers talking round their fires. The 
Cossacks, as they were seated round tlie fires, with their 
long lances and remarkable costume, their horses tethered 
behind them, presented a novel and interesting sight. The 
following morning the troops which had revolted were 
drawn up before the Admiralty, and the colours taken 
from them the previous day were restored to them by the 
Emperor. This was an affecting ceremony. A temporary 
altar had been erected in the snow in the middle of the 
square. Mass was performed by the Metropolitan ; and 
the soldiers, prostrate before their Sovereign, seemed at 
once to implore his forgiveness and to atone for their 
misconduct by a sincere repentance.' 

The following account of the sledge journey to Moscow 
is amusing :  

'January 21st, 1826. We left St. Petersburg for 
Moscow, placing our carriage on a sledge drawn by six 
horses abreast. The cold would have been by no means 
insupportable had it not been for the high wind, which 
was so violent at times as to make us fear the overturn of 
our carriage. The unevenness of the road soon proved 
to me how erroneous were the ideas I had formed of 
sledge-travelUng in Eussia. The bridges too, except on 
the main road, being only temporary and constructed for 



368 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

sledges with one horse, were not wide or strong enough 
to support us. Our peasant coachman continually left 
the main road and took us across country to save a few 
versts, so next night we were upset into a snowdrift, miles 
from help of any kind, and with no moon or stars to show 
us where we were. Our coachman threw himself down 
in the snow and burst into tears, and from this position 
nothing could induce him to stir. We could do nothing 
but await the return of day. The cold was intense, the 
roof of the carriage covered with ice, and our voices even 
appeared to freeze. Making therefore paths on the snow, 
we began to walk briskly up and down to keep up the 
circulation in our benumbed limbs. At length our wretched 
coachman began to listen to the voice of self-preservation, 
though he had been deaf to that of reason, and, rising 
from his bed of snow, mounted one of the horses and 
rode off for assistance. Hour after hour passed, and no 
signs of his return. At last at daybreak we heard bells, 
which proved to be our friend returning with two or three 
miller's horses, whose efforts, combined with our own, 
succeeded in extricating us. 

'0 ye inhabitants of civilised countries, ye dwellers 
amongst hills and vales and verdant fields, think with 
compassion upon those travelling over this dreary waste 
of snow, where there is not a sign of anything animate 
or inanimate except the animals dragging and those driving 
the carriage. To arrive at a relais, which often consisted 
of a solitary hut of wood, was an event that almost 
gladdened the heart, so dreary and desolate was everything 
around us. All the days we spent on the journey, not 
having an appetite for tallow and other Eussian delicacies, 
we were well-nigh starved as well as frozen. 

' At last we saw, to our inexpressible delight, the gilded 
and painted domes and spires of the ancient capital of the 
Czars. But nothing announced the approach to a great 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 369 

city ; not a carriage, nor cart, nor the sign of anything 
living, relieved the dull monotony of the snow-covered 
plain till the Eussian sentry at the gate put out his bar- 
barian hand to receive the passport of civilisation. Inside 
the barrier there was an almost equal degree of desola- 
tion. A street, the end of which no hunian vision could 
reach, and which we, blinded as we were with the snow, 
could hardly see across, led to the more frequented part 
of the town. We passed many palaces, which seemed to 
have parks as pleasure grounds ; and contiguous to these 
habitations of the great were to be seen the miserable 
abodes of the wretched serfs. Never did I behold such 
apparent luxury in contact with such misery.' 

He stayed in Moscow nearly six months, but states 
that this part of his journal had again been lost ! 

He merely says : 

' The hospitahty of the Muscovites was boundless, but 
confined to small family reunions. The day before my 
departure the Princess Z6n6ide Volkousky (La Corinne 
du Nord) provided me with many letters of introduction, 
much valuable information, and a number of maps of the 
Crimea, &c., she had herself made for me. 

' June nth.  At midnight we started for Odessa, and 
after traversing several of the long and melancholy streets 
of this vast city we arrived at the stone bridge from which 
the Kremlin is seen to the greatest advantage. I know 
not whether it was because I beheld it for the last time, 
but I had never before been so struck vyith the singularity 
and magnificence of its gilded towers and antique domes. 
There is a mixture of European and Asiatic architecture 
in all the public edifices of Moscow which certainly gives 
it an interest that ho city I have yet seen possesses. 
The perfect stillness that reigned all around us at the 
moment we took the last long look at the Kremlin, in the 
uncertain light that the moon oast upon every object, 

B B 



370 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

produced a sensation it is difficult to describe. We 
passed through Tula and Batourin, then to Kiew, 
formerly the capital of Eussia. Nothing can exceed its 
filth and wretchedness, but it is of great historical 
interest. 

'Some days after leaving Kiew we came to the 
steppes. The weather being dry and the road good, we 
travelled with rapidity, this being the only circum- 
stance which alleviated the monotony of the journey. 
You see the sun rise and sink below the horizon as when 
at sea.' 

In spite of the immense increase of luxury in travel- 
ling nowadays, the modem tourist still complains bitterly 
of the discomforts attendant on this same journey. My 
correspondent writes in the train on his way from 
Moscow to Sebastopol: 'I left Moscow on Sunday 
morning. They arrange to stop the train for food, so at 
five o'clock I got out at Tula" the Eussian Sheffield," 
says Murray, " and famous for its hardware." To test the 
hardware I ate a cake, and certainly it was hard  harder 
even than the Dover bun  though perhaps not so strong 
in another sense as Eussian eggs are. The tea is so 
weak and the eggs so strong that I sent for the manager 
and advised a better distribution of force, but he did not 
understand. ... I have now been fifty-three hours with- 
out sleep or wash, travelling over boundless steppes 
which I am glad to have seen, and hope never to see 
again ! ' 

The journal continues at Odessa :  

'July 20th.  On our arrival we drove to the Club 
Hotel, the appearance of which was certainly not inviting. 
Every article of furniture was covered with dust, which 
so filled the atmosphere as to render objects on the 
opposite side of the street almost invisible. The streets 
of the city are broad and uniform, and the houses for the 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 371 

most part of one storey. It is evidently a town in its 
infancy ; in fact, the ground on which it now stands was 
a barren steppe thirty years ago.' 

He gives a long and interesting account of his stay in 
the Crimea, where he was the guest of Prince Woronzow. 
How little he could have anticipated when visiting Se- 
bastopol and Balaclava, which he minutely describes, that 
he would one day have two sons fighting the Bussians on 
that dreary plateau ! 

The journal ends at Brody, a town inhabited chiefly 
by Jews, where he was detained through difficulties with 
his passport, and where he put on paper the following 
reflections suggested during his stay in Eussia :  

'The menacing attitude assumed by Eussia towards 
her neighbour Turkey, the revolution now going on at 
Constantinople on account of the suppression of the 
Janissaries, and the known tendency of Muscovite policy, 
will make this country, probably at no very distant period, 
the battlefield of Europe. Every step which Eussia 
makes towards the Dardanelles must be considered as the 
advance of barbarism against civilisation. Whether this 
inroad of the Northern hordes will take place in the life- 
time of anyone now living, who can tell ? But come it 
must, sooner or later. The Eussians even now talk of 
Constantinople as theirs, and sometimes pronounce the 
words Malta and Gibraltar. What they aim at is 
universal dominion in Europe and the annihilation of our 
power in the East. The Imperial Court is increasing its 
influence every day in Germany by the matrimonial 
alliances it is contracting with the different reigning 
families in that country, and at the same time it is con- 
ciliating the leading diplomatists of Europe by munificent 
presents. The boundary of the Empire will soon be 
removed from the Pruth to the Danube; and with the 
mouth of that river in the power of Eussia, Austria is 

bb2 



372 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

annihilated and the commerce of Germany intercepted, 
if not ruined. Some great European convulsion is not 
by any means an impossibility, seeing how restless and 
dissatisfied Erance is under her present government. 
And Eussia, separated as well by her institutions as by 
her geographical position from the contact of liberal 
opinions, will be ready to pounce, as it were, upon Europe, 
torn and distracted by iaternal dissensions. We have 
only to observe the preparations Eussia is everywhere 
making, to be sure what her designs are. I saw fifteen 
sail of the line in the harbour of Sebastopol. What 
enemy can they fear in an inland sea like the Euxine ? 
Is it not manifestly assembled to attack Turkey, just now 
enfeebled by the revolt of the Janissaries and im- 
poverished by a defective administration of her affairs ? 
The Eussians are in no hurry to arm Sebastopol, because 
they have no one to fear ; but English engineers are now 
employed there, and I make no doubt that long before 
any necessity arises that place will be rendered impreg- 
nable. If we turn from the South to the North, what do 
we see going on at Krbnstadt and other fortified towns 
on the Gulf of Finland ? What a fleet is at Kronstadt ! 
I forget how many sail of the line, but quite dispropor- 
tionate to the exigencies of the State in time of peace. 
That the blow is meditated no one can doubt ; all that 
is wanting is a pretext, a favourable opportunity. And 
when the vast resources of the country are organised, 
then the question is : Who is to oppose this inroad of the 
Eussian hordes, this second and perhaps final irruption 
of the Huns ? It is clear Turkey can oppose no effective 
resistance ; her tottering dominions are already falling to 
pieces under the weight of her own intestine disorders. 
Prussia will not  she is so bound to Eussia by ties of 
consanguinity and diplomatic cajolery  and indeed, if 
she were willing, she could not stem the torrent. Austria, 



TOUR IN THE NORTH OF EUROPE 373 

with her heterogeneous and discontented population, has 
too much to do at home to send an army to the banks of 
the Pruth. The Greeks are the co-religionists of Eussia. 
What, then, remains? England and France. But a 
cordial alliance cannot be reckoned upon between two 
countries who have drawn the sword against each other 
for twenty years. As for the Scandinavian Powers, they 
are prostrate at the feet of the great Autocrat. I really, 
therefore, see nothing that can prevent Russia from walk- 
ing across Europe whenever she is so disposed. 

' These somewhat melancholy forebodings were made 
whilst waiting for my passport, and no doubt were in a 
great measure inspired by the wretched place in which I 
then was ! The filth, the degraded aspect of this town, 
with its loathsome miserable population, no words can 
describe, and great indeed was my joy on seeing my 
courier arrive from Lemberg vsdth the passport which 
was to emacipate us from this Jewish city. The rest of 
our journey was through the fertile plains of Moravia, 
and we made a triumphal entry into Vienna on Sep- 
tember 6th. Those only who have been for some time 
in contact with barbarians can duly appreciate the happi- 
ness of once more finding themselves amongst a civilised 
people ' 



374 A THIRD POT-POURRI 



THE LAST LETTEBS OF CAPTAIN SYDNEY 
EABLE, COLDSTBEAM GUABDS 

It is impossible for me to judge whether these simple 
letters of one of the best of sons will be of the smallest 
interest to those who did not know him. A friend offered 
to publish them in a magazine shortly after his death. 
But then I felt I could not stand giving to the public what 
had been written in confidence to his family. Now it is 
different. It was he who encouraged me, when under 
the shadow of another sorrow, to write my second book, 
and it is indeed to his memory, and with absolute confi- 
dence of his approval, that I dedicate my third. In all 
great sorrows one longs to realise that, in spite of external 
appearances, ' Time's effacing fingers ' are not in any way 
really dimming the memory of what is most dear. I am 
in no sense a worthy mother of soldiers. I gave him very 
grudgingly to the army, and he knew quite well all it meant 
to me when his earnest desire to go to South Africa was 
granted, and he was ordered to join one of the earliest 
batches of Staff officers who were sent out. My own view 
of the war at that time was that it had been brought 
about by a mistaken policy, and was not a just war, and 
that he was not vyithout sympathy for my attitude of mind 
is shown by the letters he wrote on board ship. I think 
he knew quite weU as we walked round the garden for 
the last time that we should never meet again. I gave 
him to die for his country not willingly at all, and I publish 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 375 

these characteristic letters, because it is a pleasure to 
myself to see them in print. It is to me the same feeling 
as the preservation of any remembrance, the crystallising, 
and putting as it were Into a glass case, of ' a footprint in 
the sands of time.' As with so many in the early days 
of the war, he had the strongest feeling of his coming 
doom, and when he bade good-bye to his soldier-servant 
at Orange Eiver camp, he said he would never see him 
again. Three of the letters came, of course, after the fatal 
much-dreaded telegram. His last words, written two days 
before he was killed, ' I wish it were all over,' expressed 
a desire that peace might come, not for him by his death 
but in a very different sense. The following Httle notice 
of his short career appeared in the ' Pall Mall Gazette ' of 
December 1, 1899 : 

'A Popular Guabds Officbe.  Captain Sydney Earle, 
of the Coldstreams, killed at the Modder Eiver, was, be- 
sides being one of the best liked and most unafifected 
officers in the Household Brigade, one of the most pro- 
mising of the younger generation of officers in the British 
army. After a brilUant career at the Staff College, he was 
appointed Deputy-Assistant Adjutant-General for instruc- 
tion in the Home District. In this position he conceived 
and initiated an experimental course of instruction for 
Volunteer officers in applied tactics, field engineering, and 
military sketching, and himself conducted the first series 
of classes at Wellington Barracks in the autumn of last 
year. So successful was his scheme that the authorities 
decided to make it a permanent institution in the Home 
District. 

' The handful of Volunteer officers who spent so useful 
and agreeable an eighteen days last year, not only at 
Wellington Barracks but at the Guards' field-days on 
Wimbledon Common, at open-air exercises on the Surrey 
hills, and in studying demolition work at Sandhurst under 



376 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

his guidance, must share the deep regret with which his 
brother officers in the Brigade of the Guards have heard 
of his death on the field of battle. No more genuine man 
or valuable officer served in the brigade. 

' Captain Sydney Earle was the eldest son of Charles 
William Earle of Cobham. He was born in 1865, and 
entered the army when twenty. His father was killed 
two years ago in a bicycle accident.' 

His name was the only one among the junior officers 
of the rank of Captain mentioned in the ' Times ' account 
at the end of 1899 of those who had fallen in the war. 
Will anyone who lived through them ever forget those two 
dark months, the November and December of that year ? 

I offer my sincere sympathy to all those who have 
suffered as I have done, to those who gave more than one 
son, and to those who suffered even more from their loss 
being of an only son, and perhaps an only child, for they 
cannot reaUse the one compensation that can come on the 
death of a child which is that it brightens the eyes of love 
for those that are left. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 377 



STABS 

Stars in the North !  world-iragments, that through space 
^on on aeon ran their darkling race, 
Strike fiery-white against Earth's airy wall, 
And luminous in dissolution jEall. 

Stars in the South !  dim souls, that could not shine. 
While life's dull orbit did their course confine. 
Now, devious hurled on war's opposing breath, 
Flash in a brief magnificence of Death. 

J. Ehoades. 

No. 1 

Monday, 9/10/'99 : ' Braemar Castle ' off Gib. 
Dbab Mothbe,  Never can more auspicious start 
have been made ! Everything has gone well, fine weather, 
perfect ship, and good company. We started soon after 
five, a little after Lionel left, with cheers from a large 
crowd of people. More cheers from a big battleship, the 
'Australia,' I think, lying in Southampton Water. My 

cabin companion is called Captain B of the Army 

Service Corps, and he seems a nice feUow. We have got 
a good roomy cabin on the main deck, port side, just about 
under the saloon and bridge. There are about six or 
seven men I knew before on board, and, of course I have 
already made acquaintance with others. They are almost 
all Army Service Corps, doctors. Army Ordnance Corps, 
and special service (like me). There are just a few going 
out to join their respective regiments. Just before starting 

I received a wire from General T wishing me luck and 

sending messages to Major S and to Miss A , a 

nurse from the London Hospital. She seems a nice 
woman, but has been rather poorly from sea-siekness. 



378 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

There are six or seven army nurses on board ; the only 

other woman is a Mrs. B , wife of an A.S.G. officer ; 

she, I believe, is a native of the Cape (not black). I sit 
at dinner and all meals at the Captain's table. I put my 
own name down for it. There are about eighteen at it, 

headed by Col. G and Prince C V . I sit 

between Major S , a special service officer, and the 

ship's second officer, a good feUow. The food is excellent, 
but I am dieting myself strictly. There has not been 
much in the way of combined amusement started yet, but 
I believe a newspaper has been started, as I have been 
asked to contribute, and I hope to get a game of cricket 
this afternoon. It is feeling a little muggy and warm 
now, but I have not begun to put on summer clothes. I 
feel aches about the back and legs, as I always do at first 
on board ship. We have formed a class for early morning 
' Sandow ' exercises in pyjamas on deck. I attended this 
morning. I have got my name down for a very good bath 
hour  ^viz., 7.30 ; this is the most fashionable and sought 
after time. Don't know what has happened to Davison 
[his soldier servant], haven't seen him for about forty-eight 
hours. There is nothing for him to do, the steward looks 
after me and my clothes. This ship, though new and 
splendid, is a slow one, as she is intended for freight ; she 
only goes thirteen knots an hour, so we shall not get to 
Cape Tovra till about Saturday fortnight  i.e., the 27th or 
28th. I can gather no ideas of what we are going to do. 

Prince C V , though he knows a good many 

things, hasn't the faintest notion. We have most of us 
been given secret books compiled in the Intelligence divi- 
sion on the Boers and the Transvaal. We have just been 
attending a lecture on inoculation for enteric by one of 
the doctors on board. I am not going to be done myself. 
People rarely get it over thirty, and the fact of having had 
typhoid is an additional safeguard. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 379 

Tuesday.  Getting hotter, but I have not begun 
summer clothes or khaki, though I expect to do so to- 
morrow. I have got pains, as I often do on board ship ; 
shoulders, loins, and legs, liver, and rheumatism I suppose ; 
it will be all right probably to-morrow. Mind you let 
me know comments on ' Pot-Pourri ' No. 2, especially any 
unfavourable ones. I like to hear the other side. I have 
written a heap of letters to different people ; they are taken 
back to London and posted, which accounts for the penny 
stamp doing. I see the penny stamp is to return to its 
original red after this year  a good thing too. It will be 
a long time before you hear from me again, and then it 
will only be a tiresome ship letter with no news. I shall 
wire from the Cape any important news. The name of 
place, say ' Kimberley,' would mean I have been ordered 
to Kimberley, the purpose I will try to put in after. Thus 
' police,' ' defence '  to prepare defences ; ' Irregulars,' to 
recruit and drill an irregular force. Those who wish to 
land to-morrow at Las Palmas have been directed to send 
in their names to-day, but nothing has as yet been said 
about uniform. Good-bye, dear mother, let me know all 
you do. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eakle. 

No. 2 

Monday, October 16, 1899 : 'Braemar Castle.' 

Deae Motheb,  I find no mail goes home till three 
or four days after our arrival at Capetown, but still I will 
begin this letter early and jot down things as we go 
along. "When we arrived at Las Palmas we found one of 
the Artillery ships beginning with a Z was in there, though 

she left Liverpool about a week before us. F W 

(E. A.) who was with me at S. C. and who married a Liddell, 
came with another officer alongside of us in a boat. I gave 



38o A THIRD POT-POURRI 

him a shout, and he told us they had had no news since 
the 2nd, and had come for newspapers ; he dashed on 
board and collected a few, and then off again, like a 
shot, which was accounted for by the fact of their ship 
being on the point of starting ; in fact, she was off before 
they left our ship. We heard that seven horses had died 
of pneumonia, that they could not get enough water at 
Canaries, and were going to put in at St. Vincent, in the 
Cape Verde Islands. I hope they will twist somebody's 
tail over that business ; it is time that the idea that any- 
one can swindle the Government in time of war should 
be exploded. It was a bitter blow to us to hear that 
there was no news at Las Palmas ; however, before leav- 
ing, we got an answer to a wire which the gunners had 
sent home to Intelligence Department asking for 31. worth 
of information  it was to the effect that Boers had sent 
an ultimatum, and that mobiUsation had been ordered ; 
the gunners had gone before it arrived, but we were 
very grateful to them. We have not had much incident. 
A man died on Saturday night of pneumonia and was 
buried on Sunday morning. I have never seen a funeral 
at sea before. We have got eight trained nurses on board, 
very nice women indeed ; they only heard the man was ill 
on Saturday. On the Superintendent applying to give 
assistance, she was met with a Sat refusal from the 
Principal Medical Officer. She insisted on seeing the 
man, and saw he was very ill ; but they still refused to 
allow her to nurse him, and he was left to the tender 
mercies of the hospital orderlies. I must say that the 
army doctors make me boil with rage ; they undoubtedly 
killed a man of the Scots Guards this year, by keeping 
him with pneumonia in a tent with a daily range of tem- 
perature of about forty degrees, and in this case on board 
ship, if they had put their miserable jealousies on one 
side and called in the help of a good nurse, I have little 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 381 

doubt the poor man'a life would have been saved, or at 
any rate his death would have been made pleasanter. 
Another Crimean repetition ! I have no doubt they would 
have squashed Florence Nightingale if they could. We 
had a good view of Cape Verde while passing. I have 
seen it before, but I don't like it any better, and have no 
intention of purchasing a villa there. I have forgotten to 
say that I had intended to go on shore at Las Palmas with 

S (see below), but on seeing the place all glare, sand, 

and dust, we decided that we should be better on board. 
Those who did go on shore seem only to have exchanged 
a very good luncheon for a very bad one, and to have 
spent about a sovereign to achieve the result. It seems to 
me, as far as I know of them, that we have never had 
an expedition with such good commanders or such an 
efficient Staff. Things ought to go smoothly and well when 
the army corps gets out, provided the contractors have 
done their work as regards transports and provisions. 
The sending out of Army Service Corps and Army 
Ordnance Corps to make preparations is very sound 

and wise, Ihoixgh rumour says that Lord L was 

much opposed to it. I view with a certain amount of 
apprehension the present condition of affairs. If the 

Indian troops have arrived. Sir G. W ought to be able 

to hold his ground in Natal, especially as they have 
withdrawn with great wisdom from the dangerous New- 
castle district. I am not sure that they would not have 
been wiser to withdraw still further (I hear this has not 
been done on account of the coalfields near Glencoe). 
They have no superiority in artillery. This is, I think, 
a pity, but I suppose it can't be helped. With regard to 
the scattered forces round the Northern and Western 
boundaries of the Eepublic, I look upon them as dis- 
playing a strategy of so mean an order as to point to 
political interference. There is no doubt that whenever 



382 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

poKticians interfere with military disposition they court 
and invite disaster. Probably in this case, people 
clamoured for protection, saying that they expected to 
have their throats cut ; of course this is not likely to 
occur, as, however barbarous the Boer may be, he could 
hardly kill defenceless people ; the real reason of their 
clamour is that they want their property protected. 
I should encourage them to remove the property by 
denying them protection and by giving compensation to a 
moderate extent for property damaged that could not be 
removed, such as mine machinery. My forces I should 
concentrate sufficiently far from the frontier as to render 
an attack in overwhelming force improbable. I fully 
expect to hear that the different detachments at Tuli, 
Bulawayo, Maf eking, Kimberley, &o., have been mopped 
up : if they are not, the Boers have only themselves to 
blame ; we have played their game as much as the Khalifa 
did Kitchener's at Omdurman. I also expect a pretty 
general Dutch rising in the Colony, which also would 
have been less likely to happen if our total available 
forces had been concentrated somewhere near the line 

Colesberg-Burghersdorf. Major S , whom I mentioned 

above, is one of the special service officers. He is a Staff 
College officer and was on the same staff with me at last 
year's (Wareham) manoeuvres as D.A.A.G. He is a cousin 

of Sir Leicester S , who was a distinguished general. 

Before coming out, he was Major at the depot of his 
regiment, the 21st (E. Scots Fusiliers) at Ayr. He brought 
out a draft years ago to his regiment in Natal. The day 
they landed was the day the Boers cut up the British 
regiment at Bronkerspruit. He was hurried up with his 
draft to the front, and was present at Laing's Nek, where 
he was employed to take ranges for the Artillery, who 
could not take their own, as they were not at home with 
the new range-finder and were really garrison gunners. 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 383 

not field ditto. He was in the camp the day of Majuba, 
and, after the armistice, went up to Pretoria, where he 
remained for some time with his regiment  very interest- 
ing man to be with. I hope we may keep together, but of 
course we have no idea of what we are going to do. We 
have had several tremendous tropical storms of rain, just 
as if all the fire brigades in the world were playing on us. 
To-morrow we cross the line, and then we hope to meet 
the head wind which will make things cooler and dryer. 
Your thermometer has been a comfort. I sleep with it 
close to my bunk ; the heat has not been excessive, about 
89 on the bridge is the most I have heard of. I have had 
no difficulty in sleeping soundly. The greatest misfortune 
I have had at present is with my pyjamas. I asked 
Davison to get a beautiful pair of wide floppy ones 
washed, and they have come back like acrobatic tights. I 
am reading Ball's ' Story of the Heavens ' out of the ship's 
library excellent ! I also read a good bit of ' Pot-Pourri ' 
No. 2, and find it also excellent. I see you state that 
nothing grows under beech ; I saw beautiful shrubs with 
a sweet white flower (very well known, only I can't re- 
member the name) growing under the beeches at Ames- 
bury, the Antrobus' place. I find that in the ' Globe ' I 
bought just before starting, there was a criticism very 
favourable and complimentary, but nothing really in it ; 
still I was glad to see just one notice. I forgot to make 
any arrangements about having newspapers sent out. 
Something in time to catch the weekly mail which would 
give a summary of the week's news would be very accept- 
able. If there is a big war, a file of some daily paper 
would also be an interesting thing to keep for me to look 
at on return. 

Thursday, 19/10/'99.  We are now well over the 
line and have met the trade winds ; it has never been 
oppressively hot, and now it is perfect as regards tempera- 



384 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

ture. I think the Government treat the men on board 
ship with considerable meanness ; almost all the men on 
board are skilled men of some kind or another, and as 
such receive ' Corps Pay,' the lowest rate of which is 
6d. a day ; this they lose from the moment they step on 
board. Of course the idea is that their skill is not required 
on board ship ; but still they don't go on board of their 
own choice, and they feel that their loss of pay is a 
grievance, and I agree. They have no beer, and I believe 
no liquor ration on board. Now, moderation is a great 
virtue, but enforced total abstinence for no definite 
reason seems to me to be unwise. While actually on a 
campaign it may not only be advisable, but necessary, 
but it should be universal ; if Pte. T. A. is compelled to 
be a teetotaller, so should the G.O.C. and all other 
officers. For future reference I am going to jot down 
my ideas on the conduct of a war against the Boers. 
A campaign of this kind necessarily forms an exception 
to several of the best known rules of strategy, as the 
advantage of rapidity of action is greatly diminished 
from our point of view in consequence of the English 
becoming stronger and the Boers weaker (owing to the 
consumption of supplies, the diminution of wealth, sick- 
ness of men and horses, desertion and evaporation of 
enthusiasm). Pohtical reasons  i.e., the protection of 
both Gape Colony and Natal  oblige us to commit the 
gravest of strategical errors  viz., a separation of force 
without any possibility of mutual support. This mis- 
fortune should, it appears to me, be reduced to a mini- 
mum at the outset of the campaign by massing each 
of the dividing forces at such a distance from the border 
as to render an attack upon either a difficult and 
hazardous operation ; in fact, we want to gain time. We 
undoubtedly must expect loss of prestige by leaving 
places undefended and exposed to the mercy of the Boers, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 385 

but that is better than the destruction or capture of one or 
more small garrisons. The next move depends upon 
whether the Dutch inhabitants of Cape Colony rise; if 
they do, no forward movement; should be made against 
the Boers, until the country has been properly policed by 
the soldiers ; in fact, let them (the Boers) stew a bit. The 
police duties must be carried out with rigour, and should 
consist of total disarmament and of partial confiscation of 
property of disloyal colonists. Arms should be given to 
loyal colonists, and armed local police forces raised. If 
there is no trouble of this kind, or if it has been put down, 
I should devote my attention to the establishment of an 
advanced base somewhere on the line Colesberg-Bur- 
ghersdorf. The railway bridge over the Orange Eiver 
will probably have been destroyed, but the passage of the 
river, and ultimately the repair of the Bethulie bridge, 
will probably present no very great difficulties, though it 
should not be attempted till a considerable force has 
arrived at the front (especially artillery) ; the general 
advance on Bloemfontein should not be begun till the 
whole of the army corps and hne of communication troops 
have arrived at the front. Prom this point the advance 
must be made in conformity with the rules of European 
campaigns cavalry screen, advanced guards, &c. If 
the enemy is met with, he probably would not be in great 
strength, as it is difficult to see how the Transvaal would 
be able to take many men or guns away from the Trans- 
vaal border. But whether he is strong or weak, he must 
be gently ' levered ' out, a considerable display of artillery 
in his front, and turning movements of cavaby and 
mounted infantry round his flank. There may be oppor- 
tunities of getting him on the run, when horse artillery 
and cavalry can act with boldness, but they must be 
carefully chosen ; the one thing to avoid is running up 
against a selected position to be shot, as the Boer himself 

oc 



386 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

puts it, like buck in the open. Now the Boer, owing to 
being mounted, has great tactical mobility ; but in order to 
keep the field for any length of time, he must have his 
waggons, which serve him as tents, kitchens, and store- 
houses ; he has therefore very little strategical mobility, 
and it ought therefore to be easy either to separate him 
from his waggons, or at least to drive him and his waggons 
back on Bloemfontein. In either case it is difficult to see 
how he is to avoid a disaster, his inferiority, especially in 
artillery, is so evident. I am rather of opinion that one 
serious reverse to the Boers would be sufficient to stop 
the whole war. If not, the whole proceeding must be 
begun again, this time with Bloemfontein as the advanced 
base. Our line of communications will by this time have 
assumed gigantic proportions, and any advance will of 
necessity be a slow matter. However, as I have already 
pointed out, that is attended by little disadvantage except 
expense. We have, I believe, eleven battalions to guard 
our communications, and these, with all available local 
forces, will have their work well cut out for them. Great 
strictness must be enforced, and if the Une is tampered 
with, the people of the district should not only be fined 
to make good the damage, but be compelled to work at it 
with their own hands. The further advance must be 
conducted on similar lines, except that immediately after 
crossing the Vaal Eiver steps must be taken to remove 
any troops still blocking the line from Natal. Pressure 
upon their line of communication with Pretoria, &o., will, 
if they are in large force, probably effect this; if their 
force is small, it may be necessary to detach a force from 
the army corps to co-operate with the Natal force. After 
our forces have got within supporting distance of each 
other, further actions must depend upon what the enemy 
do. If they, as they most probably will, fall back upon the 
Pretoria forts, I look upon the campaign as at an end, 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 387 

probably without a further engagement ; if they retreat in 
some other direction, they at best can only hold out a 
certain time ; their best course is to take up some inter- 
mediate and, if possible, flanking position, to bar our 
advance on Johannesburg and Pretoria. If we avoid the 
frontal infantry attack, we still ought to have httle diffi- 
culty. These are my views before seeing the opening 
moves ; they will of course be modified when I see what 

happens. Colonel E , our senior special service officer, 

tells me that he anticipates great difficulties from the 
fact that the Boers take women with them in the waggons 
to cook and look after the teams, &c. Our business will 
naturally be to go for the waggons and try to shell them, 
capture them and destroy them in all possible ways ; 
there is no doubt that the women will shoot and will 
probably get killed, and of course a howl will be raised 
about fighting against women. It is a serious business, 
as people will not accept the only rational answer, which 
is that the women should remain at home, where they 
would be safe. 

Friday.  Three days ago we espied the ' Mexican,' 
the mail ship which left a day after us, lying across 
our bows in the far distance flying the signal ' un- 
manageable ' ; great excitement on board  we thought 
she had broken down, and that we should have to tow her 
to St. Helena. However, when we got within a mile of 
her she steamed off on her true course, and we have never 
seen her again. The probable explanation is that she 
had got some small matter wrong with her machinery, 
and had stopped to put it right. Another excitement  
we yesterday passed the homeward-bound mail-boat 
' Dunvegan Castle,' but she was two and a half days late. 
Why ? we can't tell  a possible explanation is that, as the 
interior mail trains have stopped running, there were 
delays in getting the letters from all the seaport towns. 

cc2 



388 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Perhaps they delayed her in case she might have been 
wanted to bring troops from Natal to Cape, or vice versa. 
We expect to find Capetown crowded with refugees, so 
much so that it is doubtful whether we can get in at an 

hotel. S and I propose trying the new hotel, ' The 

Gardens,' beyond Government House ; we may of course 
be sent on at once. 

Sunday.  Weather turned quite chilly and cool. 
There is rather a heavy swell, though no breeze to 
speak of. We have gone back to serge clothes, having 
been in khaki all the rest of the time. I wish now 
that I had brought more clothes of all sorts; it is 
much better to have too much than too little, and no 
questions were asked as to the amount of baggage we 
had. I am also afraid that I left my notebooks, that I 
looked out carefully, behind ! However, I think I can 
replace them somehow. The captain and officers of the 
ship have invited us all to supper on Wednesday next  
very civil of them. I hope the company will bear the 
expense. I have recently read the 'Convention of '84, 
London '  have you ? I never thought we had much 
right in this affair, and now I am convinced we have 
absolutely none. I am not surprised we would not con- 
sent to arbitration ; no impartial person could possibly 
give it for us. If Lord Derby did not intend to resign all 
rights of any kind over the Transvaal, he was jolly well 
taken in by old Kruger and Co. ; but one would have 
thought that anyone could have seen to having what 
they wanted put down on paper  a clerk in a bank could 
have done that. 

Wednesday 25th.  We expect to be in to-morrow 
afternoon. Weather improved, but quite cool, and last 
night a tremendous thunderstorm, which is most unusual 
in these latitudes at this time of year. I read ' Sybil,' by 
Dizzy, out of the ship's library the other day, and on 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 389 

turning over ' Pot-Pourri ' I see you mention it as giving 
an account of the times. I thought it very interesting, 
but of course the whole tone is in the fashion of the last 
generation. The swells talked and thought in a way 
hardly conceivable at present. I had no idea Dizzy had 
such liberal ideas. Why didn't he do a bit more ? For 
instance, he is always jeering at foreign Missions ; while 
home heathen or miserables exist, I should like to see 
them made a criminal offence. The excitement about 
news is of course intense. The possibilities are so wide 
I wonder whether the telegraph will have broken down. 
I don't think Kruger knows his business if it hasn't. It 
is just possible we may be in time to catch the in-going 
mail if she is late, so if this letter ends abruptly and 
without signature, you will know that I have just sealed 
it down and chucked it in in time to catch post. 

Saturday 28th.  Arrived yesterday-afternoon and heard 
the exciting news of first three battles. No one had any 
orders for us, but to-day I went to Headquarters and 
have received orders to go to De Aar, where the advance 
base is expected to be established. There are a good few 
troops there, and I think I have been lucky. I shall be 

working under Major H , who was at the S.C. with 

me  a great comfort to have a friend. Du C , who is 

Staff officer, has been more than kind. I have got a Horse 

Artillery reservist as groom. J D has also been 

most attentive and helpful. Please thank Uncle Henry 
for his letters. I had an interview with the bank 
manager, and he was charming, and said he would 

do all to help me. I have not seen Lady E C , 

she is at Ehodes's place. I am going to leave your book 
for her if possible. I have bought some provisions, which 
may be useful or not, but still it is a safeguard to have 
them. I have no idea what my work is going to be ; 
probably preparing for the advance of the army corps ; 



390 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

they ought to be here in about a fortnight. S is going 

to Bast London, not nearly such a good post. Every- 
one is very jolly and cheerful here, and pleased with our 
having held our own. I have only seen the General in 
the distance, not to speak to. I must close now to make 
my final preparations, and get down to the station. I am 
dining with Du C . Much love to all. Bather dis- 
appointed at not getting any letter by the 'Mexican.' 
I suppose they were posted too late. I have sent a vnre 
to let you know my whereabouts ; you had better still 
address Standard Bank. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eablb. 

No. 3 

(From Cape. My only letters are to you.) 

Sunday, Oct. 29, '99 : De Aar. 
De!Ab Motheb,  On arriving here I found your com- 
forting little note, and the extract from the ' Globe ' 
which, as you will see by my other letter, I had already 
read. I was also given the telegram about Max, which 
was indeed good news, though I am afraid it will greatly 
increase your worries. However, by the time he gets 
out and up to the front the serious business wiU be over. 
Alas ! I hadn't a moment at Capetown to get the photo 
done. It was all rush from beginning to end. I gave 

'Pot-Pourri,' No. 2 to J D to give to Lady E 

C . I received a wire on my way up  it was about 

twenty-nine hours' journey  to say that my saloon was 
going to be put in a siding, so that I could go on 
sleeping peacefully; but I found that that was im- 
possible, so I bundled out at about 1.30 a.m., and 
got a good night's rest in an empty carriage. This 
morning, soon after I got up, I met my new chief, Major 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 391 
H , Oamp Commandant, who met me in a most 



friendly manner. He told me I was to sleep in the office, 
which is a large, airy, well-found waiting-room. Nothing 
could be more comfortable, and it has far exceeded my 
wildest hopes. Meals  very fair  we get from station con- 
tractor, in company with a large number of newspaper 

correspondents. One of them, P L , I know, a 

friend of Lord B 's. The Lochs will tell you all about 

him ; he is always civil to me. Immediately after break- 
fast I met Col. C B , who commands the regi- 
ment here  the Lochs can tell you aU about him  and to us 
came Major Henry Earle, who is the second in command ; 
he was very civil, and it certainly is very refreshing meeting 
friends at every turn. After I had settled down a bit, I rode 

round the place with Major H on Col. B 's pony. 

Everything is in perfect order, and in an advanced condi- 
tion. We first inspected the spot selected for General 

W 's camp and mess, who is expected soon ; quite a 

nice garden with shady trees, and water laid on. A railway 
official has prepared for him a bath-room and kitchen, as 
he had the necessary range, &c., to put in a house he was 
building. We next went on past the little hospital and 
the medical camp (chiefly Volunteers) to the remount 
officer, and, practically, bought a couple of horses. I am 
going to try them with a saddle on to-morrow. They are 
poor-looking beasts ; but I dare say they are willing  one 
of them is about thirteen years old, but has good strong 
legs. I think that one will be my first charger. I had 
the good fortune to pick up a Horse Artillery reservist as 
groom in Capetown. This will be a great comfort, as 
he can ride my second horse and carry kit. I have, of 
course, hardly got to know what my work will be ; but it 
will consist chiefly of making arrangements for the large 
number of men and horses that will use this point as 
their advanced base when the army corps lands. 



392 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

Monday, Oct. ZOth.  ^In the afternoon I walked round 

the defences with Major H and an intelligent young 

sapper called W ; he has done excellent work all 

through, and has been particularly clever in making a gun 
carriage out of iron rails, chiefly with his own hands. 

After Kimberley was invested a Hotohkiss gun and 
ammunition came through here, but no carriage. However, 

that is all put right by "W ; he has tried his gun, and 

bar the first shot, which missed the hill aimed at altogether, 
and is supposed to have fallen on a Dutchman's farm 
about five miles away (he has asked us to discontinue 
this practice), he has done very well with it. Except for 
the fact that the defences are much over extended (about 
three and a half miles for one battahon), they are very 
satisfactory, and I think it would require a very large 
force to do us any harm. We have small look-out posts 
all day long. Scouts ride out just before dawn, and all 
night the forts are held by strong picquets. Some of the 
forts are very neatly made, and vyithout artillery I don't 
think the Boers could ever turn us out. I dined in the 

evening with P of the A.S.C. at a little mess of Army 

Service Corps, E.E., and A. Ordnance. I got up in the 

middle of the night to receive Col. G , the cavalry 

A.A.G., who was passing through on his way to Cape- 
town. Several correspondents also arrived  Knight, of 
the ' Morning Post,' and Bennet Stanford, of the ' Daily 
Mail.' There was also a very suspicious Irish- American 
who came out in the ' Mexican.' He is supposed to have 
married Kruger's daughter; he refused to drink the 
Queen's health ; he stated he was going to Aliwal North 
to buy horses, and had 1,000 rounds of ammunition and a 
Mauser gun. This morning we have wired on to have 
him stopped, if he cannot show a pass or give a good 
account of himself. A wire was received to-day from 
the Postmaster-General asking who gave military people 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 393 

authority to act as censors to telegrams. No one did, 
but it is hardly likely we should allow all sorts of 
rumours and real reports of important moves to fly about 
all over the country. Heaps of telegrams come to me, 
but we hardly stop any, unless they contain anything 
which may disturb the existing quiet as regards local 
farmers, who are pretty friendly on the whole  i.e., they 
are willing to sell us anything. This morning I went to 
try my two quads ; one is so yellow that I propose calling 
them Mustard and Cress, which ought to please a vege- 
tarian mother. I think I shall take them both. After 
breakfast I went out to decide upon camping grounds for 
cavalry brigade and infantry division ; they had been 
mapped out before, but in a confused manner ; they are, 
I think, now square. There is of course plenty of room, 
but we want all the camps near water, which is also 
abundant, but we have had to wire for more pipes, &c. 
We have had absolutely no news of any kind lately, but 
that is good news ; every hour we get stronger and the 
enemy weaker, and the Dutch colonists less likely to 
rise. This afternoon I am going for a ride with Major 

H (with whom I am getting on admirably, and who is 

evidently a very good man) and Col. B to consider a 

portion of the defences, and to visit two Dutch farmers in 
the neighbourhood. 

9.40 P.M., Monday.M.a,il closes at 10 p.m., so I have 
just left Station Eestaurant, where I have been dining 

with H and B , to close this. The day has been 

hot ; the railway engineer tells me that the thermometer 
showed 94 in the shade at his house, but your ther- 
mometer shows maximum 86, and is now at 75. The 
dust was bad, with a strong wind ; my evening bath was 
heavenly. The dryness of the air is rather trying, and 
the regimental buglers can hardly play, and one's nails 
get brittle at the end ; but it makes one feel fit and well. 



394 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

The difficulty is to avoid drinking. I got down to a very 
small ration on board ship : half-cup of tea at breakfast, 
half-glass water and lime-juice at luncheon, and one glass 
(half-pint) very weak whisky-and-water at dinner, but I 
think that is too little here; so I am increasing my 
evening allowance  it encourages perspiration, which is a 
relief in the dryness. We had about six drops of rain in 
the afternoon. I am thoroughly well and happy, and con- 
sider myself quite out-of-the-way fortunate, as I think the 
most interesting part of the show will come my way ; but 
I am reconciled to the thought that I may be left behind 
here, in which case, however good my work, I shall get 
little credit ; it is only the advertisers who can hope for 
much, but I expect to have the satisfaction of knowing 
that I have made their way easier and smoother. Much 
love. 

Your affectionate son, 
Sydney Baele. 

No. 4 

2/ll/'99: DeAar. 

Dbae Motheb,  Your dear letters received; most 

cheering, as I was a bit depressed at news of C 's 

force in Natal. They are making the mistakes I expected, 
detaching small forces to be mopped up in detail. Prom 
the meagre information to hand, it is hard to see what 
the authorities wanted in Natal, unless it was to score a 
victory before being superseded, which is a cause that 
often makes mistakes. We hear the Boers are crossing 
the Orange Eiver at Norval's Pont and Bethulie, but that 

has been expected for a long time ; and General B has 

ordered troops at Naauwpoort to concentrate here ; I felt 
sure that he would not have had all these detached posts 
to tempt the enemy. Kimberley and MafeMng seem to be 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 395 

holding out well, and no doubt we shall do the same. We 
have been strengthened to-day by a battery and a half of 

artillery, among whom is P W , whom I saw at 

Las Palmas. I am very busy here ; got up at 3.30 this 
morning to receive gunners, and have been at it ever 
since (5 p.m.). The Naauwpoort garrison will probably be 
arriving all night. I think it is evident that we have 
underrated numerical strength of Boers, and that we shall 
have a harder nut to crack than even I expected. We 
shall have a pretty strong force when the garrison from 
Naauwpoort arrives ; we want a good many, as 
we have a lot of valuable stores and a large extent 
of ground to watch. I have paid for my two ponies, 
and have got them down in the camp, not far from 
my office, but I have been too busy to ride. The 
weather two days ago became suddenly cold. Your 
thermometer was down to 49 in my room, and it must 
have been nearly freezing outside at night. The flies, 
which are a nuisance, manage to revive by day. I have 
got Davison out of the camp of the Yorkshire Eegiment, 
which he hated on account of the dust, and he lives 
now near the station, in the guard-room, much more con- 
venient for me. We are expecting General P W 

to come up here, or even General B , but we know 

nothing definite. H gets newspapers sent out, which 

is a comfort, as I read them. I wish I had made arrange- 
ments to have some sent out. I have just heard a rumour 
that wires to Ladysmith have been cut, so we sha'n't get 
any news from them for some time. It is difficult to 
understand how Boers are able to keep the field so long ; 
their organisation must be very good. 

L has taken a photograph of me on my pony 

' Mustard,' which I shall perhaps be able to send home to 
you. I shall number my letters, and send them off to you 
as I write, as the mail service might break down. I am 



396 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

going to write to Max now, so that he shall get some- 
thing on arrival. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eaele. 
Let me hear all about book. 

No. 5 

Sunday, November 5/'99 : De Aar. 

Deab Mother,  Things are still very busy here 
indeed, but we don't get much news. On Friday the 
troops at Naauwpoort were brought here with all their 
stores for the purpose of concentration ; it was very well 
and smoothly carried out ; the railway people worked 
wonders ; but, of course, it has created a bad effect in the 
country, as it is practically an evacuation and change of 
plan. Major Eimington's Guides form part of this force ; 
they are an irregular force of colonials, and do excellent 
work as scouts and spies ; they have been more or less in 
touch with the Boers all the time ; they seem to think 
that the Free State Boers don't mean to come down far 
this way ; on the other hand, there are rumours that about 
4,000 of these have crossed at Norval's Pont, and are 
coming this way, but they are still sixty miles off. In an 
open country like this we ought to get three or four hours' 
warning of their approach, and so be ready for them. 
I don't think they can possibly have any artillery, and we 

have got a good bit. General W arrived yesterday 

to take over the command. I hope this will be a per- 
manent arrangement for some little time, as we have 
been suffering from changes in command as senior men 
arrive. 

The weather is unpleasantly dry and windy, cracks 
one's lips, but we do not suffer from heat or cold  about 
54-77 in my room. I am sitting now (7 a.m.) facing the 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 397 

bright sun, on the platform, very comfortable and warm. 
On Friday we had a most terrible dust storm, covered 
everything about two inches thick and gave one a thick 
layer of it between shirt and skin. The same evening we 
had a thunderstorm with a little rain. We get dreadful 
dust every afternoon. Martial law was proclaimed for the 
district on the 3rd, though we only heard about it yester- 
day. We stuck up a notice about registration of people 
and closing of bars. Anyone found selling drink to 
soldiers or natives is to be locked up and his goods de- 
stroyed publicly. This has given me a lot of work getting 
out the passes which I shall have to continue to-day and 
this evening. There were rumours last night again that 
the rail had been cut between this and Capetown, which has 
delayed all the trains. It was, of course, not true, as the 
wires were working, but still I expect every moment that 
it will be done ; the people are evidently very disloyal. 
The proclamation of martial law may make a difference 

if they carry it out strictly. Major E seems a very 

nice fellow, and I should think a good soldier. He 
certainly gets a lot of work out of his men, and his praises 
are always being sung by the station-master. The rail- 
way officials and telegraph are beyond all praise. Mr. 

C , traffic manager ; Mr. C , station-master ; and 

Mr. F  , chief telegraphist, are all Al. A farrier 
corporal-major of the 1st Life Guards is standing about 
two yards off, which seems home-like ; we have abeady 
had a talk. We have large working parties out every day 
under the Engineers. They are making excellent works, 
but our whole line is much too extended, though it is difficult 
to know how to avoid it, owing to the nature of the ground 
and the extent to protect. We have got enormous stores 
here, thousands of animals, so that it would be a tempt- 
ing place for the enemy to make a dash for ; but I fancy 
he would get more than he bargained for. We are going 



398 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

to have some experimental alarms just to see how the 
disposition works out. The General and his Staff (Majors 

B and C ) are forming a small mess, and H 

and I are going to join them ; but we shall probably not 
get as good food as at the Station Bestaurant, which 
would be quite good but for the flies. We think it pro- 
bable that the first troops to arrive will come up here, 
unless they are wanted in Natal, or unless they decide to 
concentrate them further back, say at Beaufort West. 
They should begin arriving on Monday or Tuesday at 
Capetown, and I suppose Max will come about the middle 
of the week. It would be nice if he came up here. I am 
now writing at noon in my office and bedroom at the 
station ; there was a momentary lull in the business in 
which I had time to write a few words. We have just 
had news  only railway news, which is, as a rule, very in- 
accurate^-that there has been a victory in Natal. Let us 
hope it is true. It is now about 6.30, and I am still at 
work and likely to be for some time to come, though I 
shall get some food about seven o'clock. I am getting 
very little exercise at present, which is tiresome. 

Very much love to you all. I may possibly get off 
another letter to-morrow. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eaele. 

The Boers are evidently coming into Cape Colony, and 
the line to Nerval's Pont has been ordered to be destroyed 
by us. 

No. 6 

Monday : De Aar. 

Deab Mother,  Just a line to say all well. It looks 
to me as if Boers were not coming our way after all, they 
seem to me to be just wandering through their own 
friends' country doing nothing. We have arrested one or 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 399 

two about here ; one, a ganger on the line, was found with 
a very dirty Mauser which he said he had borrowed to 
shoot rock rabbits. I have had a letter to-day from 
my old Colonel, who is on the Staff at Capetown. 

L , of the ' Times,' tells me he is trying to get a 

rider into Mafeking, so I propose trying to get a letter 

in for N C . We had a rehearsal to-day of 

what to do in case of attack. Our guides, Eimington's 
Horse, appear to be excellent scouts, and we shall probably 
get good warning of any attack. I have been in De Aar 
now just over a week, and I feel as if I had never been out 
of the country or town. I hope I sha'n't be here for ever. 
The station and telegraph people still work wonders. 
Love to aU, 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eable. 

No. 7 

9/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

Deak Mothee,  Things going on well; rumours of 
enemy being near are getting less frequent, which causes 
disappointment in camp ; people are getting jealous of 
those in Natal. We have heard to-day that the mail is 
in, but she is very late : two days we have heard nothing 
of arrival of troops. I have written and wired to Max to let 
me know of his arrival. We think it almost certain now 
that the Guards' Brigade will come up here  jolly lucky 
for me to be with my friends. I have had a line from 

V C to-day. She seems to like your book, and is 

going to appropriate it, though I only meant to lend her 
my copy. As you wrote my name in it, however, you must 
do it in another. I have forgotten whether I have 
mentioned what luck I have had in my clerk  S. Major 
S , of the B.S.A. Police. He was on his way to join his 



400 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

corps when he found he couldn't get on, and was com- 
mandeered here ; he is invaluable and such a nice man. 
He was one of the raiders, but does not seem bloodthirsty ; 
he says that most of them were under the impression 
that the raid had something to do with the natives. We 
have got a bad dust storm to-day, otherwise the weather 
has been perfect ; in fact, I have nothing to complain of in 
any way as regards comfort, except an all-consuming 
thirst which comes from the dust particles in the air. 
I had the misfortune to crush my fingers this morning. 
I was tying my pony to the iron railway bridge here, 
when he jerked his head up and caught my hand between 
rein and iron railing. I am afraid I shall lose some 
nails. I have had it bandaged by doctor to keep it clean, 
and it is now quite comfortable. We sent a portion of 
our artillery away to-day. I believe they contemplate 
a reconnaissance towards Belmont to put a shell or two 
into the Boers. My idea is that all the Boers near ns 
are merely doing a sort of promenade round the country 
to visit their friends on the side of boundary. We 
caught three beauties to-day. A father wired to his two 
sons, students at Stellenbosoh, to come home at once, and, 
from letters and information, evidently for purposes of 
joining Boers. The farm lies north of here, but at the 
next station south, the lads got frightened about passing 
through De Aar and sent for their father, who came a 
long way round in a cart to fetch them. They are now 
all in gaol, and it will go pretty hard with them I expect, 
though they are no worse than all the rest. I don't think 
the preparations generally in South Africa are in such 
a forward state as was imagined. I expect the war will 
last at least a year. If they had at once pushed pre- 
parations, war might have been saved, though only to 
lead to another crisis. Longing for your next, very well 
and happy. Turner forgot to put in my regimental 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 401 

bridle, with my saddlery; that will take the shine off my 
entry into Pretoria. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eable. 

No. 8 

ll/ll/'99 : De Aar. 

Deab Mothhe,  I heard yesterday of the death of 

poor C K E ; so sad for his wife  he was a 

real good fellow, and his loss is a great one to all. The 
news was only telegraphed by correspondents to-day. 
We knew that a reconnaissance was going to take place 
to disturb enemy and keep him on the move a bit : it 
appears to have been successful in attaining its objects. 
The proportion of ofQcers hit appears extraordinary  four 
officers and two men. The reason is that in a recon- 
naissance an officer constantly goes with a small party of 
men to some place to get a good view. The men of 
course lie down while the officer is observing, and then, 
when finished the party retires with the officer last. It 
is most difficult to tell here the difference between an 
officer and a man in khaki at anything over 400 yards, 
except from the way he moves about. There is some 
talk of giving company officers guns to complete the 
resemblance, but I don't think that will be done. It 
appears now that all the first arrivals have been diverted 
to Natal, and I suppose Max and the Guards' Brigade 
will be among them  a great disappointment to me, as I 
had hoped to see them here, but possibly a good bit of 
luck for them, as apparently there is little doing on this 

side. We are expecting Lord M to-night, only there 

seems to be some doubt as to his movements, as we had 
a wire to say on his arrival ' Tell him to go back again.' 
The wire must have been sent just about the time he 
was starting on a thirty-six hours' journey with many 

D D 



402 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

stops on the way, so it is perfectly inexplicable. There 
doesn't seem to be quite so much business doing here 
now for me, though mules and stores and railway 
material of all sorts are coming, and we are holding camp 
ready for arrival of troops. I now hear that Guards are 
probably coming up here : if sp we shall have a good time. 
There is a rumour that another poor fellow has died at 
Orange Eiver ; his wound was supposed to be only a flesh 
one, and he was reported going on well ; it may prove 
quite untrue. The weather has been good  lovely bright 
days (except for sand storms) and clear cold nights, nearly 
freezing, I should think. The flies bother me a great 
deal. I tried to remember fly trap out of ' Pot-Pourri,' 
bread and jam on the top of a jar and soapy water under- 
neath, but it didn't do much good. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eable. 

Love to all. I hope to see Douglas to-night. 

No. 9 

Sunday, 12/ll/'99 : De Aar. 
Dear Mothbe,  Things are mighty quiet to-day, 

very little doing. Lord M arrived at about 1.30 a.m. 

this morning. I waited up for him, but they were all 
asleep when the train came in. I saw a clerk, however, 
and he told me that Douglas had been kept behind, 
and was to join some irregular force. I am afraid 
he will be disappointed, but it may turn up trumps for 
him. Three pieces of baggage of his are here. I have 
wired to him for instructions, but can get no answer. It 
was a disappointment not to see him, but everything: was 
forgotten in the joy of getting your letters  you did not 
say what Max was coming out as, though you say some- 
thing about police, so I gather that you mean assistant 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 403 

provost marshal to a division. I call the notices in the 
paper most complimentary  much more intelligent praise 
than last time ; the Leeds paper was not among them, 

though. Lord M did not stop long ; he went to 

Church Parade, at which we had ' Child she-bear ' hymn, 
and then went round the camp and on to Orange Eiver 
at about 12.30. He seemed in excellent spirits and 
form; his two A.D.C.s I know. Most of troops now 
here are moving to-morrow to Orange Eiver, and others 
go on Tuesday; we shall be left with three guns, 
which have been mounted on the neighbouring kopjes, 
half company mounted infantry to act as scouts, 
and probably two battalions of infantry when they 
arrive. We are expecting almost at once a portion of the 
1st Battalion Highland Light Infantry, who were with 
me at manceuvres this year, a very nice lot of fellows. 
I shall be glad to meet them again. As regards my own 
future, I really can't make out what I shall do ; it would 
really be very bad luck to stick here all the time, but I 
don't see how I can hope to get on far for some time. 
Please tell Lionel that I am most grateful for his letter 
and for forwarding my things, which have not yet reached, 
but I have no doubt that they will do so soon. He 
has acted quite rightly with regard to signing of cheques. 

I had a letter from Messrs. H explaining the matter, 

but I sha'n't answer them  it is not worth while after such 
a lapse of time. Major Bimington's Guides are an excellent 
body of men, half -soldiers, half -detectives ; they ought to 
get great praise for the work they are doing : hardly a 
mouse stirs in the country without their knowing all about 
it. The rather vague rumours of large bodies of Boers 
moving about in various directions towards Colesberg and 
Hanover Eoad, Philipstown and Petrusville, have almost 
entirely stopped, but we don't know here where the 
enemy have gone to, as we don't see reports except in our 

dd2 



404 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

neighbourhood.  I don't like this forward move on 
Kimberley; it again smacks of politics and playing up 
to the B.P. Detached forces of this kind are unsound in 
principle, and as far as the ultimate result of the cam- 
paign is concerned, it would be much better to let 
Kimberley fall than to risk the entanglement of a whole 

division. M is the man to make it a success, if 

anyone can. It makes matters much more interesting 
knowing so much of what is going on as I do. Every 
wire is brought to the office, and I act, usually, as censor, 
and very strict we are ; we let none of the usual reporters' 
bosh through. They meet a man they have never seen 
before, who tells them of something he thinks has 
happened 100 miles off, and they wire it off as gospel, 
or rather they would do so if it wasn't marked ' (Stop. 
S. Barle),' which means that the message does not go on 
except by post to the P.-M.-General. Am going to bed 
for a bit. Have only had about three hours' sleep the 
last two nights. Much love. 

Your affectionate son, 

Stdnet Eable. 

No. 10 

13/ll/'99: DeAar. 

Dbab Motheb,  Just a line before mail goes. Nothing 

to record except that General W (who nearly 

turned Gladstone out for Mid-Lothian) arrived here. Also 
the 11th Co. E.B., with whom I lived at manoeuvres 
this year. Quite nice to see old friends. We are expecting 
2nd Bn. Coldstream Guards to arrive to-morrow morning. 
Davison, who has nearly shaved all his hair off except a 
sort of thatch on the top, quite beamed when I told him. 
We are worried off our heads about returns, figures, &o. ; 
they are never correct, but we get them somewhere near. 
The remount officer finds he has got thirty more mules than 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 405 

he bought, though he has lost a lot through straying. We 
are to have half the Highland Brigade here, including, I 
think, my friends of the Highland Lt. Inf. who were 
at manoeuvres. We had good news from Mafeking 
to-day ; they seem to be holding their own well. We tried 
our Hotchkiss gun to-day on its new mounting ; it shot off 
well, but it only fires an armour-piercing shell for torpedo 
boats. It would frighten more than hurt. Mail just off. 
Good-bye ; write often. Correspondents here have been 
' Times,' ' Morning Post,' ' Daily Mail,' ' Sun.' Collect 
any notes about De Aar. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eable. 
Douglas Loch wired to have his luggage sent. 

(On a little extra sheet was written.) 
In some of our seized correspondence we sometimes 
come across some amusiag yarns. One story told in a 
letter as a fact is that the British soldiers have had to be 
tied together, two and two, all the way up from Capetown. 
They are so terrified of meeting the Boers that without 
this precaution they would all escape and run away on 
the way up !  the absolute unconcern and indifference on 
the part of the real Mr. T. Atkins is most marked. I don't 
think he either knows or cares whether there is a Boer in 
the country. He doesn't like being without a canteen ; on 
the other hand, I think he prefers doing fatigue and out- 
posts to drill and barrack life. 

No. 11 

15/ll/'99: DeAar. 

Dear Mothee,  Things are fairly humming now. 
Troops are being pushed up as quickly as possible to 
Orange Eiver with a view to an advance on Kimberley  
rather a wild scheme, in my opinion. I hope they are not 



4o6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

under-rating their enemy ; they can't have a very good 
opinion of him, as, of course, there has been nothing 
except promenades and the sieges of Kimberley and 
MafeMng  open towns defended almost entirely by ir- 
regulars, and yet they have been unable to take them, or 
at any rate they have stood out for a long time. But to 
advance against the enemy with such an exposed line of 
communication as we have got would, in ordinary circum- 
stances, be the height of folly. There is a large force of 
the enemy only about fifty miles from here, and he could 
get in and bag us all with stores if he was determined ; 
but, instead, he remains at Colesberg and sends in the 
traders of that town to Naauwpoort to ask the railway 
authorities to hand over any foodstuffs that there might 
be there ; the latter wired for instructions, and were told  
' Certainly not ; send foodstuff south.' A most amusing 
way of conducting a raid. Our garrison has been con- 
siderably weakened now, but it will become stronger 
again later, and we shall have troops in trains sleeping 
here every night, though they would hardly be much use, 
as they would not be prepared for a sudden attack. Of 
course we have got scouts on the look-out at a consider- 
able distance out. The 2nd Battalion Coldstream Guards 
passed through yesterday, and a portion of them slept in 
their train here ; they were looking very fit and well, and 
Davison and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing our pals, and a 
lot of reservists greeted me in one way or another. Un- 
fortunately, their first train took us by surprise. Cape- 
town had not notified their coming, so I had nothing 
ready for them for breakfast ; however, they soon got some 
coffee, and they were all right. The second half I did ' slap- 
up,' tea and biscuits, provided by Colonel B , oranges, 

bread and a pint of beer on sale ; dinner ready for the 
officers. The Soots Guards arrived to-night, and an am- 
munition column. The New South Wales Lancers are 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 407 

here. We fairly worried them ; we had no warning of their 
arrival, and they had orders to get out here from Capetown. 
As soon as they ' were out,' and had got their camp in 
order, a wire from Orange Eiver said, ' Send them on ' ; 
back they bundled, horses, baggage, and everything, into 
the train. It was then discovered that they had no trans- 
port, and were deficient in many equipment things. Of 
course they were not expected to form part of the force, 
so we wired for instructions, and now they are finally out 
here, and very glad we are to have them ; from what I 
saw of them at mancEuvres I should say they will make 
admirable scouts. They took their worrying too, well, 

considering how annoying that sort of thing is. ' D 

that Staff! ' Things are now working smoothly at Cape- 
town. 

The line of communication station staf is not in 
working order yet ; I have no doubt it will improve. 
I hope to send you a poem culled from a local paper 
on Martial Law at De Aar to-morrow, if I can get a copy. 
I see little chance of my moving from here for some time ; 
it will be rather dull to spend many months at De Aar. 
Love to all. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eable. 

P.S.  I haven't written to a soul except you ; you 
must make my apologies for me. I am very busy. 
I started 4.15 this morning and did not get a wash till 
1 P.M., and have been at it till now, 7 p.m., and shall start 
again at 8.30. 

No. 12 

16/ll/'99: DeAar. 

Deab Mothek,  I got a wire early this morning to 
say I was to go at once to Orange Eiver to join 
mounted infantry of Methuen's force, in what capacity I 



4o8 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

do not know. I am glad to get up to the front, but I am 
sorry that I am going to take up a job of which I know 
nothing, as it is a bad time to learn. However, one can't 
tell what luck one may have, but I don't think I am 
suited for the work. I am too heavy physically. The 
troops I shall be with will be probably the Northumber- 
land Fusiliers, but I don't know yet. I am leaving 
almost the whole of my kit here in charge of a man 

named McI , a storekeeper ; I dare say he will 

look after it all right. It is possible that I shall be 
separated from Davison; that will be an awful blow, 
both for him and for me, but it can't be helped. I 
expect my letters will get few and far between now, as 
the opportunities for writing will almost cease. 

Your affectionate son, 

Stdnet Eable. 

No. 13 

18/ll/'99 : Orange Eiver. 

Deab Mothbe,  I have arrived here and joined the 
Mounted Infantry of the Loyal N. Lancashire Regiment 
(the 47th Foot), and I now command a section in it. The 
captain of the company is, I believe, junior to me, but I 
have to do subaltern's work  i.e., take my turn of orderly 
officer ; it is the very last job in the world that I expected. 
However, the job seems interesting, and I will do my 
best to do the thing well ; the reason I and some other 
officers have been taken is that there were so many 
casualties when poor C K F was killed. 

They say we are to start on Monday on our march to 
Kimberley ; but I have my doubts as to whether we shall 
go there at all, as it has been so advertised that we are 
going there, it has been officially announced, and the war 
correspondents allowed to wire it, that it looks to me as if 
our real ' point ' was to be somewhere else, say Nerval's 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 409 

Pont or Bloemfontein. We are to take nothing with us 
but blankets and a waterproof sheet and one or two 
things on our horses or in our pockets, I am going to 
take my groom Gasten on with me, but Davison I must 
leave behind. We shall live entirely on the ration, 
tinned meat and biscuit, and I hope some lime-juice. We 
shall probably have great difficulties about water. I am 

sitting writing now in W B 's tent, which I am 

sharing. It is very hot ; your little thermometer, which I 
shall have to leave behind, now reads 88- I shall, I am 
afraid, lose almost all my kit, unless Davison can manage to 
get it on somewhere. In consequence of my sudden move 
I have not managed to get hold of my mail letters for this 
last week  a dreadful deprivation. I have not heard a 
word of Max ; they have evidently got confused over him 
and me already. I was put in orders to-day as belonging 

to the Grenadiers ; and Colonel C told me that he 

was under the impression that Max was up here, and he 
wanted to ' commandeer ' him to make him serve in 

his battalion in the place of poor A T . Two of 

Max's letters have just arrived here, re-directed to me ; 
rather distressing. I am not even taking any writing 
things with me now, except a notebook and stylo. Much 
love. Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eaele. 

No. 14 

19/ll/'99 : Orange Biver. 

Deae Mother,  I have got the mail that I thought 
had gone vn-ong. . . . 

I hear Max is in Capetown now, not Natal, as I 
thought, but I have had no wire from him, though he 
might have got my address from the bank, even if my 
wires missed him. They are going to try to get him up 



4IO A THIRD POT-POURRI 

here to fill T 's place. I have been trying to get moved 

from the mounted infantry to one of the battalions of the 
Brigade, but without success. We are moving across the 
river to-morrow, to encamp on the other side, near where 
the Guards are. What we are going to do then we don't 
know, though it has been carefully given out that we are 
going to Kimberley so carefully and so openly that I 
have my doubts. I should not be surprised myself if we 
made a sudden turn off to the right and tried to get down 
to Norval's Pont, This would relieve matters, I think, at 
Kimberley, and we would effect a junction with troops 
coming up ziid Naauwpoort. They are even loading 
trains for Kimberley, but that may be another blind, as 
they could send them vid De Aar and Norval's Pont, 
where the railway is re-opened ; anyhow, we expect excit- 
ing times the next few days. 

I shall be glad to get away from the discomforts of 
this camp to the discomforts of the open field. We are 
taking no baggage at all, and shall probably be unable to 
wash or even take off our clothes for a fortnight or more. 
I shall have no stationery with me except a field note- 
book, so you mustn't expect letters. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eaelb. 

No. 15 

Tuesday 22nd: Near Belmont, on sort 
of outpost duty, watching enemy. 

Deab Mother,  We marched the day before yester- 
day across the Orange Eiver, and bivouacked on the north 
side, not far from the Guards' camp, where I got a wash 

in Col. S 's tent, a mug of beer and a little soup and 

some bread and tinned meat, so I didn't do badly. I had 
a wire from Max to-day to say he was coming up to join 
the 3rd Batt. We were ordered to start off at 12.30 a.m., 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 411 

but that was afterwards altered to 2.30 a.m. My section 
consists of about twenty men, all old soldiers, and dread- 
ful ruffians in private life I should think, but not bad 
fellows to deal with, though totally without discipline. 
The non-commissioned officers are also worse than use- 
less ; they do nothing but sleep. We went as portion of 
the baggage escort, and we marched without incident to 
Witteput. I saw a good many friends on the road and 

heard use some dreadful language on having his eye 

nearly put out by a native mule driver. The march was 
short and easy, but the transport seemed quite up to its 
work. There were a farm and stores at Witteput, and we 
managed to get a tin of herrings and some bread, so we 
did well. We took our horses out to graze, and just as 
we were bringing them in there was an alarm that some 
of the enemy were advancing. We saddled up and 

dashed off, then heard that Lord M was missing. 

However, he was discovered quietly sitting at the foot 
of a kopje watching events. The alarm was false ; the 
enemy had fired five shells at the 9th Lancers, and 
killed a horse, I believe. In the evening I borrowed a 
bucket from the New South Wales Lancers and had a 
good wash. My men know nothing about looking after 
themselves, they are like idle children. I am teaching 
them a few useful habits. After a good night I was 
roused at 2.30 a.m. and at 3.30, having had a little coffee 
and bread, the whole of the M.L trotted off in the moon- 
light towards Belmont, the place where they had the 
skirmish the other day. On getting to Belmont Farm we 
dismounted, and lined the kopjes, and except for small 
changes we are here still, though it must be about 
9 o'clock. My watch stopped yesterday  a great misfor- 
tune. I suppose the dust has got into the works, or I 
have banged it about somewhere. Soon after we arrived 
here we saw numerous small parties of the enemy, I should 



412 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

think about 300 in all, coming out from behind one hill and 
going behind another, without much aim apparently, except 
to graze their ponies ; the men are almost all out of sight, 
but I can see their ponies with my glasses about three 
miles away. We expect to be reinforced to-day at 6 p.m., 
so we have a good long wait before us, and mighty little 
prospect of any food, though we have a day's ration on 
our horses, which are about 400 yards away. We heard 
a few shots fired on the outpost line  probably someone 
got the jumps. I expected to be excited the first time I 
saw the enemy, but it seems as natural as anything now. 
The 2nd Staff (Methuen's) came out with us this morning. 
I waved to Douglas from my humble position. My 
captain seems nice, but he is not the man to keep these 
rough diamonds in order. He is too serious ; they only 

get sulky. My brother section commander is called L 

of the Bombay Army. It seems a queer turn of the 
wheel that I am commanding 20 men of the N. Lan- 
cashire Eegiment, while Max will command 120 
Grenadiers with two officers. In addition to having to 
live my time away from friends, my subordinate position 
will quite prevent my getting any professional advance- 
ment; it is bad luck. We have got E as Staff 

Officer to the M.I., and though he has been very civil to 
me, he probably hates the Guards as much as his father 
does, which accounts for my being put with this company. 
I have just jumped up in a great hurry on seeing a nasty 
looking snake making for me. He was apparently as 
much frightened as I was, as he has nipped under a stone. 

I have no stick to Mil him with. 

Ahout 4.30 p.m.  My picquet was withdrawn about 

II A.M. to the farmhouse, which belongs to an English- 
man named Thomas, and where we joined the reserve. 
I got some milk, and later a little bread and jam from the 
farmer. All of a sudden the Boers opened fire on us with 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 413 

a gun, not a very big one  a six-pounder I should think  
and from a long way off they made quite good practice, 
and during the afternoon they have put about fifteen 
shells into the small amphitheatre surrounding the farm 
pond and spring. Taking horses to water is the signal to 
shoot. I expected to feel anxious, but instead, I only felt 
curiosity and excitement. Of course we all ducked under 
big stone walls on seeing the smoke. Then came a pause 
before hearing the report, then the whistle of the shell, 
and then the explosion of the shell. Some did not explode 
at all ; one went thump into the rocky ground about 
twenty yards from me without exploding. Another 
missed the farmhouse just over, and exploded in the hill- 
side beyond, about two feet from a goat who was taking a 
snooze, but without hurting him. The ostriches seemed 
alarmed  it is a great game here for the soldiers to pursue 
the birds and snatch out their feathers, which they then 
put inside their helmets to keep their heads cool, and 
as a present for their girls on return. We are expecting 
the advanced guard of the force this evening at 6 p.m. 
We shall probably have a battle to-morrow, which we 
ought to win easily, if we don't throw masses of infantry 
Against the Boers before thoroughly shaking them with 
artillery. We are travelling as light as we possibly can  
nothing but blankets and a waterproof in cart, great-coat, 
&c., on horse. We draw rations with the men ; good bread 
or biscuit ; the tinned meat might be better, some is good 
and palatable, other tough, stringy, and nasty to look 
at  a question of economy ; but I am sure soldiers would 
sooner be spared dinners and extravagances on their 
return if they might have the best possible on service. 
One should remember the initial value of the article is so 
little compared with the value of the article delivered 
here. 

Am giving this to groom to post if possible, 2.30 a.m. 



414 A THIRD POT-POURRI , 

Thursday.  We expect battle to-day. "We protect 
advance of Guards' Brigade. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Eaelb. 



No. 16 

26/ll/'99 : Near Graspan. 

Deak Mothee,  I hope you got my fifteenth letter, 
dated from Belmont ; it was entrusted to a wounded 
sergeant of the Coldstreams, who promised to post it. 
We have had an anxious three days. Thursday we fought 
the battle of Belmont, and though we turned the Boers 
out of an almost impregnable position, we lost heavily 
in so doing. My company was operating on the right 
flank of the Guards and artillery, but we were unable to 
do much ; we began by drawing the fire of the enemy to 
enable the artillery to have a target. We remained under 
fire until the position was taken, and then we dashed 
round the south side of the great kopje and tried to catch 
the enemy trekking away ; but it was impossible to dis- 
tinguish friends from enemy ; in fact, the Grenadiers fired 
at a portion of one company. We got a few waggons and 
a small laager of the enemy, we then tried to get still 
further round, but they got away so cleverly and so 
quickly, covered by the fire of a few men, that we never 
did any good. We then went away still further from the 
rest of the force (which in my opinion is wrong, as in 
these great plains it is most important not to lose all 
cohesion), and coming on to the top of a rise, a gun 
opened fire on us at a very short range, supported by rifle 
fire ; we stopped there for some time, but did no good. If 
we had been able to get up some guns, it might have been 
all right, but still the detaching of small forces is what 
so often leads to disaster. We then returned slowly and 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 415 

got some water and Boer bread (an excellent sort of rusk) 
from this laager. We destroyed about 15,000 rounds of 
their ammunition ; they have plenty more, though. I saw 
Max, who, I hear, did splendidly on the afternoon, and 

heard about losses of Brigade. I saw C and B 

with their wounds dressed walking about quite cheerfully. 
Max gave me your letter with father's ideas about war, in 
which I quite concur ; it seems the most ridiculous thing 
that we should be going through every sort of horror in 
order to shoot at total strangers who have never done us 
much harm. They are splendid fighters too, from what 
I can see, and they make full use of the wonderful 
country in which every two miles there are perfect posi- 
tions which fulfil all the requirements that a most 
ingenious engineer can contrive  a first-class position in 
Europe may fulfil five or six conditions, leaving four or 
five others unfulfilled ; here every one is fulfilled, abso- 
lutely ready made, except an abundant supply of good 
water. 

The day after the battle our company started long 
before daybreak to support the armoured train, which was 
going to repair the line. We sent out scouts in front and 
flanks. I took charge of a small rearguard and the left 
flank scouts ; all went well till we got nearly here. I was 
then sent off with a few men to a small farm about three 
miles to the right, where we thought we saw Boers and 
waggons, but on arriving we found only black farmers with 
oxen. I purchased a drink of milk all round from them, 
and was just going to water my horse at a pond when I 
saw in the far distance a big gun fire at the armoured 
train, which proceeded to retire rapidly. I at once set off 
to support it, and on arrival found that an officer and two 
of our scouts had been fired on at close range, and were 
missing. 

We have since found that the officer and one man 



4i6 A THIRD POT-POURRI 

were killed ; the other is lying here dangerously wounded, 
shot through the back of the head. It was no good 
attempting to repair the line farther, so all retired to 
Belmont, where we stopped the night alone, all the rest 
of the army marching out north. Yesterday we did not 
start till 5 a.m., as our horses and men were very tired. I 
borrowed a basin from the farmer, whose house had been 
turned into a hospital, took it into his vegetable garden, 
which had of course been completely stripped, and had a 
fine wash, which was only spoilt by the near neighbour- 
hood of a decaying horse  this was the evening of the 
armoured-train day. Next day we started off in pursuit 
of our friends, arrived just in time for the opening of 
what I suppose will be called the engagement of Gras- 
pan. We had no orders, but we had an idea that the 
9th Lancers were round on the right flank (east), so we 
rode round, being shelled at two or three places without 
result, though the aim was very good. We found the 
9th snug under a kopje. We could not tell how the fight 
was going, but our artillery fire, which had been going on 
for a couple of hours, stopped suddenly, and we saw Boers 

on three sides of us. Colonel B G was just 

going to retire when we perceived that the Boers them- 
selves were retiring, so we went on further round, very 
well concealed, till we got to a place where we could see 
them leaving the kopje with their waggons. There is no 
doubt that the Lancers ought to have charged home here, 
supported by us, instead of which we dismounted and 
fired at them. I am afraid we frightened them more than 
we hurt them. Anyhow, there were hundreds of them 
going away, trekking across the plain ; a perfectly orderly 
rabble, no hurry or confusion ; it is always so, for every 
man works for himself in this open country. We got on 
our horses again and pursued, but got no closer ; we gave 
them a parting shot or two, but they were still round us 



LAST LETTERS OF CAPT. SYDNEY EARLE 417 

on two sides. The Lancers then retired, and we were 
told to hold a kopje to cover their retreat ; we had a 
ticklish time, but got out of it all right, one man shot 
through the cheek and neck. They shelled us going back, 
but only got a horse. I don't know yet whether we are 
doing much good ; we are camping on enemy's position, 
but that is only a barren honour, specially as the 
water is infamous, same for animals and men, and all the 
colour of coffee. I hope it won't give disease. I am 
trying to drink it only boiled, but the dryness makes one 
dreadfully thirsty. I am suffering, like most of us, from 
bad cracked lips, and have no grease to soothe them. To- 
day we have a rest day, but I expect we shall go out this 
afternoon. Much love. 

Your affectionate son, 

Sydney Baele. 
I wish it was all over. 



E E 



INDEX 



A , Miss, 377 

Abbott, Archbishop, 101 

Abo, 360-361 

Aoacia, yellow, 160, 169 

Acorns, eatable, 164 

Acton, Lord, 351-353 

Adenophora Potardni, 218 

Adulteration of food, 32, 100 

Advertisements, teaching of, 
52 

Agaves (aloes), 163-164, 170 

Agneau-de-lait, 94, 96 

Agnew, Lady, 107 

Aix, 238 

Albumen, daily allowance of, 85- 
86, 111; digestion of, 105 (see 
also under ' Proteid ') 

Alcohol, hereditary effect of ex- 
cessive drinking of, 51 ; Plas- 
mon as a substitute for, 55 ; 
Maeterlinck on, 73-74 ; effects 
of, 256 

Alison, Mr. George, 220 

Aliwal North, 392 

Alkaline salts in potatoes, 71 

 treatment, 44 

Allen, Grant, 253-255 

Allinson, Dr., 15 ; ' Medical 
Essays,' 30 ; on diet for uric- 
acid diseases, 45 

Alhnan & Son, 34 

Allopathy, 30 

Almond cream, preparation of, 
69-70 

Almonds, prussie acid in, 62, 
98-9; in diet, 69, 71, 130; 



varieties of, 98 ; oil of, 99 ; 

amount of proteid in. 111 
Aloes, 163-164, 170 
Alternanthera, 208 
Amalfi, 198, 333 
Amwranthus caitdatus, 323 
American food reformers, 112 
Amesbury, 383 
Amomum, 272-273 
Ampelopsis VeitcMi, 271 
Amygdalin in almonds, 99 
Arm/gdaltis Damdiana, 152 
Ansemia, diet for, 45, 67 
Analysis of food, 104 ; on the 

Continent, 100 
Andover, 121 
Andromedas, 233 
Anemones, 165, 172, 354 
Angelo, Michael, 173 
' Animal Life,' 272 
Anthropoid apes, teeth of, 28 ; 

diet of, 29 
Antrobus family, 383 
Appendicitis, 126 
Appetite, importance of, 67 
Apple and nut diet, 98 
 dumplings, 128 ; pudding, 

baked, 129 ; meringue, 287 
Apple-trees, 212 ; prunings of, for 

goats, 103 ; grown from pips, 

260 
April, notes for, 175-202 
Aquarium, 98 ; at Naples, 185 
Arabis alpina flore-pleno, 220 
Army Service Corps in South 

Africa, 381 



420 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Art, pre-Eaphaelite school of, 58 ; 

modern, 205 
Artichoke, leaves of, for goats, 

103, 227; Globe, 226-227, 

260 ; how to serve, 285 
Asparagus, 4-S, 17, 260; xanthin 

in, 48 
Asphodels, 197-198 
Asters, 265 

' Astolat Press,' 100-102 
Atlee, Mr., 295 
Atwater, Professor, 27 
Auckland, 250 
August, notes for, 266-304 
' Aurora Leigh ' quoted, 202 
' Australia ' battleship, 377 
Austria, and Bussia, 371-373 
Ayr, 382 
Azaleas, 216, 231-233, 348 



B , Captain and Mrs., 377- 

378 

B , Colonel C, 391, 393, 406 

B , General, 394-395 

B , Lord, 391 

B , Major, 398 

B , W., 409 

Baby food, 297 

Backhouse, Messrs., 232 

Bagnoles-de-1'Orne, 63 

Baiffl, 179, 184 

Ball, Mr., 250 

Ball's ' Story of the Heavens,' 

383 
' Ballads of the Boer War,' 341 
Bamboos, 170, 233, 235 
Bananas, 115 
Bankruptcy Court, story from 

the, 339 
Barberton, 340 
Barcelona nuts, 130 
Barley and raisin pudding, 129 

 bread, 126 

 porridge, 112 

 water, 70, 113, 289 ; receipt 
for, 128 

Barr & Sons, 251, 323 
Barr, Mr. Peter, 210, 249-251 
Batourin, town 370 
Battle Creek Sanatorium, 112 



Bax & Sons, 126, 295 

Bay-trees, 162, 236-237 

Beaconsfield, Lord, ' Sybil,' 388 

Beale, Dr. Lionel, 11 

Beans, 4, 17, 57, 261 ; uric acid 
in, 18, 48 ; ancients abstained 
from use of, 49 ; used by the 
Greeks in balloting, 49 ; as 
food for the poor, 109 ; from 
Madeira, 144 ; preserved, 301 

Beaufort West, 398 

Beaumont, Sir William, 208 

Bee-keeping, 124 

Beech-trees, 211, 236, 383 ; at 
Strathfieldsaye, 335 

Beer, 32, 50, 90, 121 

Beer-money for servants, 145 

Beetroot salad, 288 

BeU's ' Life and Light ' series, 
26 

BeUet, 161 

Behnont, 400, 410-411, 416 
battle of, 414-415 

Berkheim, Count, 349 

Berlin, 75 ; Conference on Tuber- 
culosis, 88, 158 

Bertschinger, Dr., 100 

Besant, Mrs. Annie, 354 

Bethulie Bridge, 385, 394 

' Bhagavad Gita,' 354 

' Bibelots ' series, 101 

Bible on flesh foods, 48 

Bignonias, 231 

Bills, payment of, 138-139 

Biscuits, use of, in travelling, 66 ; 
making, 252, 293, 300 

Bjorsby, 361 

Blackthorn, 153 

Blatchford, Eobert, ' Merrie Eng- 
land,' 249 

Blight, 247 

Bloemfontein, 385-386, 409 

' Bloody Noses,' 324 

Blunt, Mr. Wilfred, ' In Vinculis,' 
347 

Boer War, 89, 194, 227-228; 
incident in the, 340 ; ' BaUadg 
of the,' 341 ; Captain Sydney 
Earle's letters on the, 874-417 

Bohn's Classical Library, 183 

Boix, Dr., 27 



INDEX 



421 



Bomarsund, 360 

Books, see under Cookery, Diet, 
Education, Gardening, Health, 
Hygiene, Poems, &e. 

Booth, Charles, 139 

Boraoic acid in mucus colitis, 
68 

Boron in bread, 65 

Borrow, George, quoted, 147 

Botanical names and the igno- 
rant, 170 

 gardens, 229-280 
Botticelli, painter, 174 
Bouchard, Dr., 27 
Boulouris, 161 

Bourget's 'Homme d'Affaire,' 165 

Bouvardias, 273 

' Braemar Castle,' 377-379 

Brams Hill, visit to, 274-275, 
306, 309 

Bran tea, 113, 294 

Brassica oleracea, 252 

Brazil nut soup, 130 

Bread, Graham brown, 4 ; gyp- 
sum in, 65 ; receipt for, 296 ; 
amount of proteid in, 111 ; un- 
fermented, 126 ; flour for mak- 
ing, 294-295 ; on bought, 296, 
300 ; Boer, 415 

 and fruit diet, 120 
Breakfast, hour for, 4 ; omission 

of, 15-16, 27 

Briar root for pipes, 161-162 

Brighton, 279 

Brindisi, 176 

Brink's ' French Revolution,' 340 

British Dental Association, 297 

British Museum, 358 

Broadbent, Mr. Albert, 26, 297 

Broadbent, Sir William, on con- 
sumption, 96 

Broadlands Home, 77 

Broadmoor, 72 

BroccoU, 252, 262 

Brody, town, 371 

Bronkerspruit, 382 

Brooke, Mr. Stopford, 213-214 

Brouardel, M., 158 

Brown, T. B., ' Letters ' quoted, 3 

Browning, Eobert, 323-324 

Browning, Mrs., 202 



Bruccio, curd made from goats' 
milk, 96 

Bruce, Hon. Mrs. F. J., 26 

Bruges, nursery gardens at, 230 

Brussels, 230 

Bryoe, Eobert, ' Suffolk Breviary,' 
336 

Bulawayo, 382 

Bull, sex vigour in the, 55 

Bullant, architect, 167-168 

Burgundy wine, 67 

'Buried Temple, The,' quoted, 
72-74 

Burue-Jones, painter, 54 

Bushey art students, 124 

Butter, 88, 90 ; as an aid to 
digestion, 71 ; nut, 112 ; cocoa- 
nut, 117 



C , Colonel, 409 

C , General, 394 

C , Major, 398 

C , Mr., trafiSc superinten- 
dent, 397 

C , Mr., stationmaster, 397 

C , E., ' Vale,' poem, 355 

C , Lady E., 389-390, 399 

C , N., 399 

C V , Prince, 378 

Cabbages, 252; 260 ; how to serve, 
286 ; on cooking, 287 

Cain, sculptor, 166 

Cakes, how to keep fresh, 285 ; 
foreign, 293 

Calendulas, 213 

Calomel in eczema, 46 

Cambridge University, 351-352 

Camellias, 235 

Camembert cheese, 90 

Campanulas, 217-218, 320 

Campions, 282 

Canary Islands, 162 

Cancer, cause of, 47 

Cannas, 267 

Cannell, Mr., 262-263, 267 

Cannes, 162 ; visit to, 169-172 

Cantani, Dr., 78, 80, 84, 86-87 

Cape montbretias, 235 ; bulbs, 
310; pelargoniums, 320-321; 
heaths, 322 ; plants, 332 



42 2 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Cape Colony, 398 ; Dutch rising 
in, 382, 385 

Capetown, 249, 378-379, 388 sej. 

Capetown Cold Storage Co., 250 

Cape Verde Islands, 380-381 ' 

Caprera, Island of, 200 

Capri, 196-197 

Capuoine convent, 198-200 

Garacciolo, Admiral, 186 

Carbolic acid in mucus colitis, 68, 
188-189 

Carisbrooke, 303 

Carlsbad waters, 44 

Carlstadt, 359 

Carnations, 230, 236, 263-264 

Carnivora, 28 ; sex vigour in the, 
55 

Carnivorous habit in man, 25, 
29,72 

Carrots, 261 

Carter, Mr. Albert, 298 

Carvalho, Miolan, 166 

Casein, 78 ; in separated milk, 
90 

Cassell's National Library, 337 

Cassia corymbosa, 263 

Cataloguing a garden, mode of, 
253, 262 

Catalpas, 248 

Cats' tongues (biscuits), 293 

Cauliflowers, 252, 261 

Ceanothns, 212 

Cedars, 236, 327 

Celeriac, 261 

Celery, 261 

Cellini, Life of Benvenuto, 327 

Cenotaphs, 193 

Centaureas, 232 

Ceylon and the tea industry, 32, 
51 

' Chambers's Encyclopsedia ' quo- 
ted, 99, 164 

Champagne in dyspepsia, 61, 70 

Charwoman and Cabinet Minister, 
109 

Chatsworth, 352 

Chatterji, Mohini, 354 

Chaucer quoted, 345 

Cheese, 5, 78, 84-85, 88 ; melted, 
7 ; curd, 8, 129 ; as a substi- 
tute for meat, 67, 69 ; in diet, 



86-87; Camembert, 90; goats', 
96 ; amount of proteid in, 111 ; 
for dinner in various forms, 
113 ; and macaroni patties, 
127; Gruydre, 127; cream, 
252 ; salad, 285 ; boiled, 289 

Cherry and raspberry jam, 285 

Chestnuts, leaves for goats, 103 ; 
purchasing of, 115-116; how 
to stew, 128 ; as a sweet, 289 

Chicken farming, 124, 150 

Chicory, 261 

Chilblains, cure for, 304 

Children, management of, 30 ; 
diet for, 50, 52 

Chinese method of preparing tea, 
51 ; payment of doctors in 
health, 62; flowering shrub, 
152; Guelder roses, 265 

Chocolate in glasses, cold, 294 

 toast, 285 
Chou brais6, 286 

 a la crSme, 286 
Choucroute, preserved, 301 
Christmas roses, 153, 221 
Chrysanthemums, how to grow, 

349-350 ; poem on, 350-351 

Cicero's essays, ' Old Age ' and 
'Friendship,' 184 

Cimicifugas, 264^265 

Cinematographs of operations, 
340 

Cmera/ria mariUma, 271 

Claude, artist, 206 

Clematis, 222, 318, 330-331 ; ' as 
a Garden Mower,' 251-252 ; at 
Harwich, 330 ; for pergolas, 
383-334 

Clergy and the diet question, 
104 

Cleveland, U.S.A., 284 

Clodd, Mr., 255 

Cobham, 294, 376 

Cocoa, 17 ; xanthin in, 48 ; sub- 
stitute for, 113 

Coeoannt butter, 117 

Cod-liver oil, 90 

Coffee, 4, 17, 42, 50 ; uric acid 
in, 18, 48; condemnation of, 
31, 141 ; goat's mUk with, 93 ; 
substitute for, 113 



INDEX 



423 



Colds, open-air treatment of, 159 

Coldstream Guards, 404, 406, 
414 

Coleridge's ' Table Talk ' quoted, 
180-181 

Colesberg, 403, 406 

Colesberg-Burghersdorf railway, 
382, 385 

Colitis, 68, 71, 126 

Comfrey for goats, 103 

Congo plants, 230 

Connington Hall, 307 

Constantinople, 371 

Constipation the proof of indi- 
gestion, 52 ; in vegetarian diet, 
81-83, 87 

Consumption, high feeding in, 
41 ; treatment of in sanatoria, 
83, 96, 178 ; Berlin Conference 
on, 88 ; Sir William Broadbent 
on, 96; suggestion for the 
King's new hospital for, 96 ; 
exemption of goats and asses 
from, 96 : letter on the in- 
fectiousness of 156-158; Na- 
tional Association for the Pre- 
vention of, 157-158 

Convention of London, 1884, 888 

Cookery Books, 283 ; {see also 
Health books) ; Kellogg, Dr., 
' Science in the Kitchen,' 5, 
32 ; ' Dainty Dishes,' 287 ; 
Hilda's ' Diary of a Cape 
Housekeeper,' 284 ;  ' Where Is 
It of Beoeipts,' 284 ; instruc- 
tions for elementary schools on 
cookery, 105 ; Liverpool School 
of Cookery book, 284; Boss, 
Janet, ' Leaves from our Tus- 
can Kitchen,' 284 
Cooking reduced to once a week, 

116 
Cooks, 140-141, 144 
Cope, Sir Walter, 241 
Copenhagen, 357 
Copper stewpans lined with silver, 

302 
Cork-trees, 164-165 
' ComhiUMagazine,' articles from 
the, 107 seg., 133-151, 323, 
356-373 



Corns, cure for, 303 
Coronation decorations, 240-241 
Correvon, M., quoted, 153 
Corrosive sublimate as an anti- 
dote for microbes, 188 
Corsica, 162 ; goats in, 96 
Cottar farmers, art students as, 

124-125 
Cotterill, Mr. H. B., letter on 

larkspurs, 344-345 
Cotton, Sir Eobert, 307 
Cotton-seed oil for frying, 116 
' Country Life,' 103 ; ' Country 

Life Library,' 245, 334 
Country life and slum-dwellers, 
123; desire for, 124; advan- 
tages of, 147; expenses of, 
148 seq. 
Cowan, George, 340 
Cows, artichoke leaves as food 

for, 103 
Cowslips, 155, 206 
Crabbe, poet, 336 
Cranberries, 144 
Crawford, Marion, ' The Eulers 

of the South,' 49 
Cream, no proteid in, 90 
Cream cheeses, 252 
Cremation, 200-201; Garibaldi 

on, 200 
Crimea, 369, 371 
Crimean war, 194, 228, 357 
Crocuses, 155 
Cronberg, 311 
Cronenburg, Castle of, 358 
Crops, rotation of, 260-262 
Cruelty to animals in Italy, 

177 
Cucumbers, preserved, 301 
Cud-chewers, teeth of, 29 
Curd cheese, 8, 129 
Currie, Sir P., 208 
Curry, to make a dry, 290 
Curtis, Miss Adela, 26 
Curtis, A. C. and the ' Astolat 

Press,' 100-102 
Curtis & Davison, booksellers, 

32 
Cyanthus lobatus, 310 
Cypress-trees, 172, 239-240, 248 
Cypripediums, 348 



424 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



D , J., 389-390, 406, 408 

Dabbs, Dr. G. W. E., 303 
Daffodils, 152, 155, 213 ; ' Lecture 

on,' 249-251 
Dahlias, 267-268 
' Dally Mail,' 77 ; war correspon- 
dent, 392, 405 
' Dairy Farm in Miniature, A,' 

103 
DiklBh^t (Indian breakfast dish), 

290 
Dalmatia, 162 
Dante quoted, 46 
Danube, river, 371 
Dardanelles, 371 
Darmstadt, 349 
Date pudding, 127 
Dates, albumen in. 111 
Datura cornigera, 266-267 
David, statue of, 173 
Davison, Mr., 378, 383, 395, 404, 

409 
Davitt, Michael, quoted, 346-347 
De Aar, 389-410 
'De I'Horlogiographie,' 168 
De I'Orme, architect, 167-168 
Defoe, Daniel, ' Tour through the 

Eastern Counties,' 337 
Delphiniums, 348 
Denmark, tour in, 356 seq. 
Depopulation of rural districts, 

108, 123 s2. 
Depression caused by indigestion, 

120 

 on change of diet, 45-46 
Derby, Lord, 388 

' Devil in the bush, the,' 323 
Devonshire, Duke of, Mr. Mor- 

ley's letter to, 351-353 
Dewey, Dr. B. H., on diet, 8; 

' A New Era for Women,' 15, 

27 ; 'True Science of Living,' 

32 
Dictanmus fraacmella, 226 
Diet of the author, 4-7 

 Dr. Haig's, 6, 8, 17, 41-42, 62, 
74 ; SaUsbnry, 6, 46, 50 ; vegeta- 
rian, 6, 8-11, 25, 43-44, 60, 67 ; 
meat, 6, 10, 16, 18, 28, 46, 48, 
50 ; moderation in, 8, 30 ; 
change of, 11, 53, 88, 121, 255, 



300; of anthropoid apes, 29; 
of man, fruits and seeds, 29 ; 
Dr. Allinson's, 30; in iUiiess, 
34, 62-64, 66-68; difficulties 
of change of, 46-7, 59, 60-61, 
67; wrong, the cause of dis- 
ease, 40 ; of a doctor, 42 ; in 
uric-acid diseases, 45-46; de- 
pression on change of, 45-46 ; 
serious study of, 46, 51-52, 
68; in old age, 47, 56; for 
children, 50-53, 75 ; in schools, 
54-55; the cure for obesity, 
58 ; in indigestion, 61-62, 67 ; 
while travelling, 64-66, 204; 
dry, 69 ; the cure for skin- 
diseases, 71-72 ; Maeterlinck 
on, 72-74 ; homes for instruc- 
tion in, 76 seq.; a friend's 
criticisms on, and Dr. Haig's 
reply, 78-88 ; habit in, 87-88 ; 
the question of quantity in, 78 
seq., 84-87 ; of nuts and apples, 
98 ; universal interest in the 
question of, 104 ; at three 
shillings a week, 109 seq. ; 
cheapest form of, 120; plea 
for a simpler form of, 120 seq., 
204 ; the cure for corns, 303 
Diet, books on {see also under 
Health books) : Sir Henry 
Thompson's ' Diet in Relation 
to Age and Activity,' 13-14 ; Dr. 
Haig's leaflets on diet, 24 n., 
45, 48-49, 57;  'Diet and 
Pood in Relation to Strength 
and Power of Endurance,' 

25, 41, 86 ; Eustace Miles's 
'Muscle, Brain, and Diet,' 25; 
 ' Failures of Vegetarianism,' 
25 ;  'Better Food for Boys,' 

26, 53-54; 'Forty Vegetarian 
Dinners,' 26; 'Science in the 
DaUy Meal,' 27 ; ' Fruits, Nuts, 
and Vegetables : their Uses as 
Food and Medicine,' 27 ; Mrs. 
Anna Kingsford's ' The Perfect 
Way in Diet,' 28 ; T. E. AUin- 
son's ' Book F,' 30 ; A. W. 
Duncan's ' Chemistry of Food,' 
32; A. W. Duncan's 'Foods 



INDEX 



425 



and their Comparative Values,' 
32 ; Hutchinson's ' Dietetics,' 
32 ; Smith's ' Fruits and Fari- 
nacea,' 32 ; Albert Carter's 
' Natural Food,' 298 

Dieting, doctors on, 6, 11 ; weight 
in, 58, 61, 78 sej., 85 seg. 

Dietists, dinner to, 20 ; and hotel- 
keepers, 64, 66 

Digestion, 79, 87 ; mental irrita- 
tion bad for, 60 ; aids to, 71 

Digestive organs, in man, 29, 60, 
79, 81 ; of the cud-ohewers, 
29 

' Digit of the Moon : A Hindoo 
Love Story,' 37-39 

Dinner, the hour for, 56 

Dinners and teas to the poor, 
85 

Diosma capitata and ericoides, 
211 

Doctors, imaginary conversation 
between two, 42-43 ; and the 
treatment of vegetarians, 52- 
53, 61-62 ; and vegetarianism, 
83 ; and their bills, 138 

Doernberg, Count, 365 

Dorbay, architect, 168 

Dorking, 295 

Douglas, Mr., 263 

Dover, 252 

DriU HaU exhibitions, 152-154, 
207, 210 

Drinking, hereditary effect of 
excessive, 50-51 ; Maeterlinck 
on, 73-74 ; at meals, mode of, 
112 ; stories, 338-339 

Drunkenness, 48 

Dry diet, 69 

Du C , 389-390 

Du Cerceau, architect, 168 

Dublin, 204, 230 

' Dunvegan Castle,' 387 

Dyspepsia, diet in, 61, 67 ; acid, 
71 ; produced by milk, 86 ; 
and tea drinking, 141-142 (see 
also under Indigestion) 

Dyspeptics, diet for, 5 ; long life 
of, 6 ; meal hours for, 57 ; 
diet for, with reduced cooking, 
118 



E , Major, 397 

E , Staff officer, 412 

Barle, Charles, Journal of, 356- 
373 

Charles William, 376 

Major Henry, 391 

Lionel, 377, 403 

Max, 390, 396^02, 409- 

415 

Captain Sydney, 253 ; last 

letters of, 374-417 

Early rising, 142 

Eating, love of, 59-60 

Economy in housekeeping, 142 

Eczema, 46 ; diet in, 71 ; the 
cause of a tragedy, 71-72 

Edinburgh, 273 

Education, Books on : ' An Ideal 
School, or Looking Forward,' 
by Preston Search, 35 ; ' Educa- 
tion and Empire,' by B. B. 
Haldane, 36 

 defects of modern, 149 
Edward VII., King, new sana- 
torium for consumption, 96; 
and the diet question, 104 ; 
interest in the Society for the 
Prevention of Tuberculosis, 
158 ; iUness of, 241, 243 

Egg-plants, 320 

Eggs, uric acid in, 16, 78, 85 

' Eighteen hundred a year,' 133- 

151 
Elementary Schools, Instructions 

on Cookery for, 105 
EUot, George, 137 ; ' Eomola,' 

191 
Elizabeth, Queen, 307, 331 
Ellaoombe, Canon, 247 
Blsinor, 358-359 
Elysfe, Palace, 166-167 
Emulsin in almonds, 99 
' Encyclopaedia Britannioa ' 

quoted, 161 
Endive, 261 ; French mode of 

cooking, 287 
Enteric, inoculation for, 378 
Epilepsy, diet for, 45 
Epimediums, 155, 235 
Ericas (heaths), various, 207-210, 

224 



426 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



EisMne, of Linlathen, Thomas, 

243 
Esher, Lord, 274 
Eton and the diet question, 52 
Eucalyptus-trees, 169 
Eueomis, 310 
Euonymus, 195 
Euphorbias, 232, 270 
Evergreens in London, 195 
Everlastings, 374 
Eversley, 274 
Exercise in indigestion, 61 
 for invalids, 62, 86 
Exeter, 338 

' Exile's Mother, An,' poem, 215 
Eye, training of the, 149-150 



F , of the Army Service Corps, 

392 
P , Mr., chief telegraphist, 

397 

F , C. K., 401, 408 

' Family Budgets,' articles on, 

107 seg., 133-151 
Farming, various kinds of, 124^ 

125 ; goat, 89-106 
Fat, reduced by diet, 57-58, 61 ; 

digestion of, 105 ; in diet, 110 ; 

in goat's milk, 93, 119 
February, Notes for, 152-159 
Ferments, 99 
Ferns, 195 

Fiesole, Mino da, 173 
Fig-trees, outdoor culture of, 268 
Fig pudding, 291 
Figs, albumen in, 111 ; stewed, 

289 
Finland, 361-363 
Fir-trees, 211 ; Scotch, 275 
Fish in rheumatism, 5 

 salt, the cause of leprosy, 47 

 uric acid in, 16, 47-49 
Flesh foods, Bible on, 48 ; uric 

acid in, 48 {see also under 

Meat) 
'Fleurs et Montagues,' poems, 

153 
Florence, 191, 284, 344 ; visit to, 

172-173 ; letter on, 173-174 



Flour, various qualities of, 116, 
294-296 

Flourens, M., on man's frugi- 
vorous nature, 29 

Flower-growing, 124 ; in London, 
difficulties of, 194 

Flowers, in table decorations, 
144-145 ; floating arrangement 
of, 221-222 ; how to dry, 802 ; 
wild, 343-344 

Fly-trap, 402 

Foleo, Sina, 174 

Food, adulteration of, 32, 100 
wrong, the cause of disease, 
40 ; the study of, 51-52 ; che- 
mistry of, 53 ; on board ship, 
65-66 ; Maeterlinck on, 73 ; 
instruction in elementary 
schools on, 105 ; wholesome, 
for the poor, 107-32 ; Ee- 
formers, 108, 112 {see also 
under Diet) 

Forget-me-nots, 207, 232 

Formic acid in almonds, 99 

Forsythia suspensa, 153 

Pptheringhay village, 306-307 

France, visit to the South of, 
160 seq. ; ' Benaissance of Art 
in,' 167; and Eussia, 372- 
373 

Francoa ramosa, 268 

Frankfort, 171 

Fr^jus, 166 

French Exhibition of 1900, 280 

 hours for meals, 57 

 plums, albumen in. 111 
Proude on Mary Queen of Soots, 

307-308 

Frozen provisions, 65 

Frngivorous habit of man, 28- 
29,72 

Fruit, albumen in. 111 ; puddings, 
113 ; and bread diet, 120 ; farm- 
ing, 124 ; to bottle, 288-289 

Fruit and seeds, man's proper 
diet, 29, 43 

Fruitarians, 54; on board ship, 
65-66 

Fruit-trees for London, 195 

 how to grow, 259-260 
Fruit-wall, an old, 332-333 



INDEX 



427 



Fry, Mr. Eoger, 206 
Frying, oil for, 116 
Fuchsias, 320 
Furnishing, 138, 149 



G , Colonel, 378, 392 

G , Colonel B., 416 

Gambling, 134 

' Garden, The,' 207, 245, 334 

Garden City Association, 109 

Gardening, wUd, 198, 208, 233- 
235, 282 ; recent books on, 
203 ; in winter, 204 ; letters 
from Germany on, 217-219, 
301-302, 310-315, 349; new 
tool for, 321 

 Books on : Mr. Robinson's 
' English Flower Garden,' 155, 
198, 208-209, 219 ; Moggridge's 
'Flora of Mentone,' &o., 161, 
165; 'Eiviera Notes,' 171; 
Jekyll and Morley's ' Roses for 
English Gardens,' 246 ; Nichol- 
son's ' Dictionary of Garden- 
ing,' 219, 258, 273 ; Gerarde's 
' Herbal,' 225 ; ' Century Book 
of Gardening,' 237, 252-253 ; 
Miss G. Jekyll's 'Home and 
Garden,' 244 ;  ' Wall and 
Water Gardens,' 244-245 ; 
 ' Lilies for English Gar- 
dens,' 245-246 ; ' Country 
Life Library,' 245, 334; Her- 
bert Cousins' ' Chemistry of 
the Garden,' 246-247, 314; 
Violet Biddel's ' Small Gardens 
and How to Make the Most 
of Them,' 247; Forbes Wat- 
son's 'Flowers and Gardens,' 
247-248 ; Edward Jesse's 
' Favourite Haunts and Rural 
Studies in the Vicinity of 
Windsor and Eton,' 248-249; 
Richard Jefferies' ' Life of the 
Fields,' 249 ; Peter Barr's ' The 
Daffodil ' and ' Lilies of the 
World,' 249-251; Moore and 
Jackson, ' The Clematis as a 
Garden Flower,' 251; Mrs. 



Loudon's ' Lady's Country 
Companion,' 252 ; Edward 
Step's ' The Romance of Wild 
Flowers,' 253 ; Rider Haggard's 
' Farmer's Tear-Book for 1898,' 
255-256 ; Vilmorin's ' Vege- 
table Garden,' 258 ; J. C. Lou- 
don's ' Arboretum et Fruti- 
cetum Britannicum,' 271, 334- 
335 ; Andrews' ' The Botanist's 
Repository,' 320 ; Curtis' ' Bo- 
tanical Magazine,' 321 ; An- 
drews' ' Heathery,' 322 ; Cook's 
' Trees and Shrubs,' 334-335 ; 
H. Repton's ' Theory and Prac- 
tice of Landscape Gardening,' 
337-338 

Gardens, advantages of, 150 ; 
ideal position for, 231 ; shelter 
for, 234; lily, 245-246, 249- 
250 ; mode of cataloguing, 253, 
262; kitchen, 258-262, 283; 
rotation of crops in, 260-262 ; 
wall and water, 244-245 ; sea- 
side, 331 seq. 

Garibaldi, Guiseppe, 174; and 
the Naples Museum, 178 ; 
autobiography of, 186 ; resi- 
dence of, 200 

Garlic, wild, 232 

Garner, Professor, 272 

Garrod, Dr., 5 

Gassendi on man's frugivorous 
nature, 29 

Gasten, Mr., groom, 409 

Gastro-intestinal inflammation, 
70, 126 

Gates, Mr., 91 ; on dry treatment 
of sewage, 92 ; his goat farm, 
97, 102-104 

Gauntlet, V. V., & Co., 235 

Gawra Lindheimeri, 240 

Gem Supply Company, 35 

Genistas, 264, 332 

Genoa, 161-162, 201-202 ; ' Flora 
of,' 165 

Geraniums, 219, 320 ; wild, 343 

Gerbera Jamesoni, 322 

German waters, 44, 46 

Germany, treatment of tubercu- 
losis in, 41 ; analysis of foods in. 



428 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



100 ; letters on gardening from, 
217-219, 301-302, 310-815, 
349 ; fruit-preserving in, 301- 
302 ; and Bussia, 371-372 

Gibbon's ' Boman Empire,' 179- 
180 ; Coleridge on, 180-181 ; 
Frederic Harrison on, 181- 
183 

Gibraltar, 371, 377; goats in, 
96 

Gingerbread, receipt for the best, 
292 

Girls, training and education of, 
35-39 

Gladiolus, 210, 323 

Gladstone, W. E., 404 

Glasnevin botanical gardens, 229- 
230 

Glenoee, 381 

' Globe,' 383, 390 

Gnoeohi, receipt for, 286 

Goats, 89-106, 347; sex vigour 
in, 55 ; Mr. Bryan Hook's 
' Milch Goats and their Man- 
agement,' 91 seq. ; Toggenburg, 
91, 96, 102 seg.; fat globules 
in milk of, 93, 119 ; food for, 
94, 103-104 ; Mr. Pegler's book 
on, 94 ; their yield in nulk, 
95, 102 ; prejudice against, 95- 
96 ; cheese, 96 ; their exemp- 
tion from tuberculosis, 96 ; 
' A Dairy Farm in Miniature,' 
103 ; milk in London, price of, 
119 ; in SuflEolk in the 17th 
Century, 336-337 

' Golden Treasury ' series, 184 

Goode & Co., 302 

Gorse, 224, 264 

Gourds, 262 

' Gourmands, Des,' 33 

Gourmet boiler, 127 

Gout, 34, 63; 'La Physiologie 
du,' 32 ; water for dimking in, 
35 ; diet for, 45-46, 61, 71, 84 ; 
Plasmon in, 55 ; milk and 
cheese as the cause of, 78, 86- 
87 

Gramnivorous animals, sex vi- 
gour in, 55 

'Grape nuts,' 8 



Graspan, 414, 416 

Gra'y's 'Elegy,' missing stanza 

of, 248-249 
Great Barton Mills, 295 
Great Bookham, 263 
Greek civilisation, high level of, 

193 
Green & Nephew's glass bowls, 

221 
Green sauce, 286-287 
' Greenery - Yallery Grosvenor 

GaUery,' 324 
Greenhouses, how to keep dry, 230 
Grenadier Guards in South 

Africa, 409, 412, 414 
Grouse L la crfeme, 291 
Gruel from Graham flour, 296 
Guards' Brigade in South Africa, 

399^02, 410, 414 
Guelder roses, Chinese, 265 
Guildford, goat farm at, 91 ; a 

day in, 97, 100-102 
Gums in underfeeding, 8, 61 
Gypsum in bread, 65 



H , Major, 389-395, 398 

H , Messrs., 403 

Haage & Schmidt, 312 

Habit in diet, 87-88 

Haggard, Mr. Bider, 255 

Haig, Dr., 3, 27, 30, 40, 110, 303 ; 
on coffee, 4 ; on asparagus, 5 ; 
on diet, 6-8, 17, 24 n., 41- 
42, 62 ; on rheumatism, 17- 
18 ; ' Uric Acid in Disease,' 
23-25 ; ' Leaflets ' on his diet, 
24.., 45, 48-49, 57 ; ' Diet and 
Food,' &c., 25, 41, 86 ; diet for 
consumption, 41 ; on uric acid, 
44, 46 ; on the progress of 
enlightetmient, 48 ; on meal 
hours for dyspeptics, 57; his 
diet for fat people, 58 ; patients' 
cases, 62-64, 66-71 ; his ad- 
dress, 74; his home for in- 
valids, 76 sej. ; criticisms on 
his diet, 78-84 : his reply, 84- 
88 

Haldane, B. B., ' Education and 
Empire,' 36 



INDEX 



429 



HaU, W. H. Bullock, ' The 
Bomans on tlie Biyiera,' 166 

Hamburg, 3S7 

Hamilton, Major A. C, 340 

Hamilton, Sir William and Lady, 
185 

Hamlet, tomb of, 358 

Hampton Court, 236, 273 

Hams, curing of, 150 

Hanbury, Mr. Thomas, 171 

Hanover Boad, 408 

HE^res, 234 

Harris, C. J., 43 

Harrison, Frederic, quoted, 181- 
183 

Harrod's Stores, 302 

Harwich, 329-830, 337 

Hatton, Sir Christopher, 809 

Hawkweeds, 844 

Hawley, 208 

Haymarket Stores, 295 

Headaches, caused by uric acid, 
42 ; diet for, 45 ; from indiges- 
tion, 120 ; cure for bilious, 
304 

Health, 1-88 ; a stranger's letter 
on, 2 ; of the author, 3-5 ; 
undermined by adulterated 
food, 32 ; where to obtain 
books on, 32 ; Natural Health 
Society, 34 ; ' Paradise of,' 46 ; 
study of, 52; a sure sign of 
good, 58-59 ; International 
Health Association, 112 ; sub- 
jects, legislation on, 158 ; the 
houses best for, 277 seg. ; dis- 
cussion of, in public, 339- 
340 

Health, books on {see also un- 
der Cookery) : Dewey, Dr. E. 
H., ' A New Era for Women : 
Health without Drugs,' 15, 
27 ;  ' True Science of Liv- 
ing,' 32 ; Haig, Dr., ' Uric Acid 
as a Factor in the Causation 
of Disease,' 23; MUes, Eus- 
tace, ' Avenues to Health,' 26 ; 
Kellogg, Dr., 'The Stomach,' 
82; Pouohet, M., 'Plurality de 
la Bace Humaine,' 28 ; Cuvier, 
' Le B^gne Animal,' 29 ; Law- 



rence, Professor, ' Lectures on 
Physiology,' 29 ; Bell, Charles, 
'Diseases of the Teebh,' 29; 
AUinson, T. E., . ' Medical 
Essays,' 30 ; Searle, Henry, 
' Tonic System of Treating 
Affections of the Stomach and 
Brain,' 31 ; Fernie, Dr., ' Her- 
bal Simples,' 82; Huxley's 
' Elements of Physiology,' 32 ; 
'La Physiologie du GoAt' de 
Brillat Savarin, 32 ; Lancaster, 
Owen, ' A Short Account of the 
Human Body,' 34 ; ' Water : 
How it Kills its Thousands,' 
35 ; Maeterlinck, ' The Buried 
Temple,' 72-74; 'Herald of 
Health,' 99 ; Kuhne, Louis, 
' New Science of Healing,' 296 ; 
Cox, Edwin, ' Degeneracy and 
Preservation of the Teeth,' 
298 

' Heart of the Empire, The,' 108 

Heath gardens, 208 

Heaths, 161-162, 207-210, 233; 
books on, 322 

Hedgerow cuttings for goats, 103 

Heidelberg, 349 

HeUchrysums, 347 

Hell, Dante on, 46 

Hellebores, 221 

Henry IV., 168 

Hentzner, Panl,^' Travels in Eng- 
land," 337 

Herb eaters, 29 

' Herbal Simples,' 32 

Herbs, sweet-smelling, 162 

Hertfordshire garden, 236-237 

Hervey, Lord Francis, 336 

Heywood, Mr., 4 

nidalgood Werokalsi, 320 

High feeding, cure, 41 ; insanity 
bom, 41 

 tea, 121 

Highland Light Infantry, 403, 
405 ; Brigade, 405 

' Hindoo Love Stoiy, A,' 37-39 

Holbein's ' Dance of Death,' 
357 

Holland, third Lord, 242 

Holland House, 275, 809 ; rose 



43 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



show, 241 ; gardens of, 242- 

243 
HoUy, 195 
Hominy with cheese, 113 

 fried, 128 
Homoeopathy, 30 
Horace quoted, 193, 282 
Horses, rheumatism in, 18, 92 
Horticultural Show, 222 
Hospitality, 144 
Hotel-keepers and dietists, 64, 

66 
Housekeeping in country, 148 seq. 

 in town, 135 seq. 
Housemaids, 145 

Houses, on building, 277-281 
Housman, Mr. Laurence, 222 
Houston, Miss, 72 
Hyacinths, 154-155, 232, 249 
Hyasnas, food of, 29 
Hydrangeas, 212, 222, 233 
Hydres, 161 
Hygiene, books on, 32 
Hyssop, 327 



Ice for thirst, 70 

lUness, diet in, 34, 60 

Imaginary conversation between 
two doctors, 42-43 

Imprisoimient, Michael Davitt 
on, 346-347; Wilfred Blunt 
on, 347 

' In Memoriam,' 101 

' In Vinculis,' by WiUred Blunt, 
347 

Income, expenditure of, 138 

India and the tea industry, 32, 
51 

Indian breakfast dish, 290 

Indigestion from tea-drinking, 
31 ; as the cause of constipa- 
tion, 52 ; the cause of diseases, 
60, 120; diet in, 61-62, 67 
{see also under Dyspepsia) 

Indigofera Oera/rdiana, 319 

' Individualist, The,' 165 

Inflammation, gasfro-intestinal, 
70 

Insanity from high feeding, 41, 48 

 from tea-driiiing, 142 



Intelligence Department, 378, 

380 
International Health Association, 

112 
Invalids, effect of vegetarian diet 

on, 60, 67-68 ; exercise for, 62, 

86 
Ipswich, 295, 337 
Ireland, tea-drinking in, 142 ; 

visit to, 204 seg. ; emigration 

from, 213-215 
Iris garden, 236 
Irises, 154-155, 165, 170, 199, 

235 ; time to plant, 310 
Italian Government and Pompeii, 

190-191 
Italian may, 200 
Italy, diet in, 64 
Ivy, 195 



Jackuan, Messrs., 251, 333 

Jam, a new, 285 

James I., 275, 307 

Jameson, Mrs., ' Diary of an 
Ennuite,' quoted, 189-191 

Jameson Baid, 400 

Japan, Bishop of, 121 

Japanese decorations, 145, 178, 
192 ; nurseries, 235 ; garden, 
242 ; lilies, 246, 250 ; lonioeras, 
282 ; anemones, 319 ; treat- 
ment of wistarias, 330 ; Ginkgo, 
maidenhair-tree, 348 

Jastmn/um nudiflorv/m, 152 

Jeaffreson, J. C, ' Lady Hamilton 
and Lord Nelson,' 185 

Jekyll, Miss, 277, 323 ; works on 
gardening by, 244-246 

Jersey cows, 103 

Jesse, Edward, ' Gleanings from 
Natural History,' 248 

Jessop, Miss Florence, 76 

Johannesburg, 387 

Johnstone, Sir Harry, 256 ; letter 
on monkey's food, 272-273 

Jones, Inigo, 309 

Jones' ' Views of Seats, Mansions, 
and Castles of England,' 
309 

Joubert on Plato, 75 



INDEX 



431 



' Journal of a Tour in the North 

of Europe," 356-373 
' Journal of Horticulture,' 249 
Jowett, Benjamin, 3 
Julius Cffisar on goat's cheese, 

96 
July, notes for, 244-265 
June, notes for, 224-243, 267- 

268 



Kales, flowering, 197 

Karlsbad, 64 

Katharine of Arragon, 305 

Seats quoted, 147 

Keith, Dr., on diet, 8 

Kellogg, Dr., 27, 112; 'Science 
in the Kitchen,' 5, 32 ; ' The 
Stomach,' 32 

Kew Bridge, old, 220 

Kew Gardens, 155, 209, 238, 242, 
318-319, 322; of Germany, 
350 

Khalifa, the, 382 

Kid, roast, 93-94 

Kidney pudding, illness from eat- 
ing, 178 

Kiew, 370 

Kimberley, 379, 382, 392-394, 
404-410 

Kingsley, Charles, 274-275 

Kirby HaD, 308-309 

Kitchener, Lord, 882 

Kitchens, German, 301-302 

Knight, ' Morning Post ' corre- 
spondent, 392 

Koch, Dr., on tuberculosis, 88, 
158 ; antidote for microbes, 
188 

Konig, Professor, 112 

Kremlin, the, 369-870 

Kronstadt, 372 

Kruger, ex-President, 388-389, 
392 

Kugler's ' Handbook of Painting,' 
185 

Kuhne, Louis, 296 



L- 
L- 



-, officer, 412 
-, Lord, 381 



L , P., 391, 395, 399 

La Cava, station, 200 
La Mortola, 171-172 ' 
'La Rose de Noel,' poem, 153- 

154 
Laburnum, 231 
Lactic acid, 78 
Ladies' maids, 140 
Ladysmith, 395 
Laing's Nek, 382 
Lalange, Adolphe, 32 
Lancers, 9th, 411, 416-417 
' Lancet,' 201 

Landcress, as a vegetable, 285 
' Landscape Gardening,' 337-338 
Lard, substitute for, 117 
Larkspurs, 312; markings of, 

344-345 
Las Pahnas, 379, 381, 395 
Laurels, 236-287 
Laurustinus, 170, 225 
Lavender, 236, 270 ; oil of, 282 
' Lavengro,' 147 
Lawless, Miss BmUy, ' The Wild 

Geese,' quoted, 213-216 
Lawns, Americans on English, 

276 
Le Veau, architect, 168 
Leghorn, 161, 201 
Leichtlin, Mr., 217, 219 
Lemann's biscuits, 300 
Lemberg, 873 
Lemon souffle, cold, 292 
Lemons in Italy, 198 
Lentils, 5, 17 ; uric acid in, 18, 

48 ; as food for the poor, 108 

Leprosy, 71 ; cause of, 47 

Lescot, architect, 167 

Letter, an old, 327-329 

Lettuce, 261 

Liatris, 218 

Liddell, Miss, 379 

Lilacs, 225, 231 

Lihes, 199, 233, 235, 245-246, 
323, 332; 'for English Gar- 
dens,' 245; 'of the World,' 
249-250 

Linden, Mr., 230 

LinnsBus, on man's frugivorous 
nature, 29 



432 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Lion, sex vigour in the, 55 
Lippi, painter, 174 
Liverpool, 327-328 
Liverpool School of Cookery, 

284 
' Lives of the Twelve Csesars,' 

18B 
Lloyd, Mr., 360 
Lobelia, 310 
Loch family, 391 
Loch, Douglas, 402, 405, 412 
London, 135 seg^. ; ' Life and 

Labour of the People in,' 

139 ; flowering plants in, 194- 

195 
London (Bloomfield), Bishop of, 

335 
London Hospital, 377 
Longden, 102 
Lonioeras, 320 
Loubet, President, 96 
Loudon, Mr. and Mrs., 252 
Louis XIV., 168 
Louvre, the, 167-168 
' Love-in-the-mist,' 323 
' Love-lies-bleeding,' 323 
' Love's Labour Lost,' by Owen 

Meredith, 173 
Loyal North Lancashire Begi- 

ment, 408, 412 
Liibeck, 357 
Lucerne for goats, 103 
Lung Amo, 172 
Lytton, Bulwer, 191 
Lytton, Eobert, quoted, 196-197, 

317 



M , Lord, 401-404, 407, 411- 

412 
Macaroni, 7 ; cheese, 113 ; and 

cheese patties, 127 ; k la tripe, 

127 ; and Portugal onion, 

287 

McI , storekeeper, 408 

Madeira, 162 

Maeterlinck quoted, 72-74, 203 ; 

his appeal against meat and 

alcohol, 110 
Mafeking, 382, 394, 399, 405- 

406 



Magnolias, 235, 237 

Maidenhair tree, 348 

Maize, Indian, 125 ; with cheese, 

113 ; bread, 126 
Majuba, 383 
Malet, Lucas, 274 
MaUoek's ' The Individualist,' 

165 
Malta, 371 ; goats at, 96 
Manchester, International Health 

Association of, 112 
Mangold for goats, 194 
Manures, 247 
Manuring, 261 
Maples, 235 

March, notes for, 160-174 
Marigolds, 213 
Mario, Jesse White, 186 
Market gardening, 124 
Marrows, 262 

Marseilles, 162 ; ' Flora of,' 165 
Martial, quoted, 194 
Mary Queen of Scots, 306-308 
' Materia Medica,' 9 
May, notes for, 203-224, 238 
Meals, hours for, 56-57, 116 
Meat, one of the causes of cancer, 

47 ; amount of proteid in, 111 ; 

the sale of diseased, 177 
Meat diet, 6, 10, 62 ; uric acid in, 

16, 18 ; man's teeth not adapted 

for, 28 ; hereditary effect of, 

51, 122 ; in dyspepsia, 61, 67- 

68 
Medical books, old and new, 31 

(see also under Health books) 
Medici, Catherine de, 166-167 
Mediterranean heath, 161-162 
Medlars, 332 
Medstead, 77 
Meissonier, Madame, 169 
Meissonier's studio, 168-169 
Melbourne, 298 
Mellin's food, in dyspepsia, 61, 

70 ; as a substitute for tea, &c., 

113 
Mental irritation bad for diges- 
tion, 60 
Mentone, 171 ; 'Flora of,' 161 
Menus, vegetarian, 113-115, 117- 

119 



INDEX 



433 



Mercury in eczema, 46 

Meredith, Owen, quoted, 173 

' Merrie England,' 249 

Mesembryanthemums, 332 

Metabolism, 9, 80, 86 

Metropolitan Hospital, 77 

' Mexican,' E.M.S., 387, 890, 392 

Michaelmas daisies, 236, 265, 
323 

Microbes in dust, 163 ; antidote 
for, 188 

Miladorovitoh, Count, 365 

Miles, Eustace, 40, 55, 57 ; works 
by, 25-26, 53-54 ; on diet in 
uric acid diseases, 45 ; home 
recommended by, 77 

Milk, 78, 84-85 ; separated, 4, 7, 
90, 93 ; in diet, 86 ; in consti- 
pation, 87 ; of goats, 89 seq^., 
119 ; ignorance of the properties 
of, 90-91 ; of sheep, 96 ; albu- 
men in, 111 seq. ; fat globules 
in, 93, 119 

Milk soup, 288 

' MUkwoman, The,' 299 

Miller, Dr. E. P., 99 

Milton, John, lost poem of, 256- 
258 ; ' Lycidas,' 344 

Mimosa, 116 

Modder Eiver, 375- 

Model village, 122 

Moggridge's 'Flora of Mentone,' 
161 

Monkeys, food of, 272-273 

Mont St. Michel, 201 

Montagu, Lady M. W., 238 

Montbretias, 235, 319 

Moore, H., & Son, 294 

Moore, Mr., 295 

Moral self-control, 55 

Moravia, 373 

'More Pot-Pourri,' 2, 77, 244, 
379, 383, 390, 403 ; American 
reception of, 354-355 

Morley, Mr. John, quoted, 137 ; 
his gift to Cambridge, 351- 
353 

' Morning Post ' war corre- 
spondent, 392, 405 

Morrison, Arthur, 107, 116 

' Morte d'Arthur,' 101 
 



Moscow, 367-370 

Mothers and the training of 

children, 36 
Motley, Mr., 1 
Motor-oars, 274-275 
Mucus colitis, 68, 71 
Mulberry-trees, 195, 236 
Munby, Mr. A. J., quoted, 298- 

300 
Munthe, Dr. Axel, quoted, 187- 

189 
Murray's ' Guide to Pompeii,' 

187 ; ' Guide to Russia,' 370 
Mushrooms, 17, 272 ; dried, 301 ; 

xanthin in, 48 
' Mustard ' and ' Cress ' (two 

horses), 393, 395 
Mustard bath for bilious head- 
aches, 304 
Mutton, leg of, mode of using, 151 
Myrtle, 162 



Naauwpookt, 394-396, 406, 410 

Naples, goats in, 89, 185; visit 
to, 175 seg. ; sanitary condition 
of, 187-189 ; museum, 193 

Narcissi, 154-165 

Natal, 381-388, 394, 398-399, 409 

National Association for the Pre- 
vention of Consumption, 157 

' National Eeview,' 195 

Natural Health Society, 34 

' Natural History, Gleanings 
from,' 248 

Natural History Museum, 272 

Nature in art, 205-206 

Neapolitan violets, 170 

Nelsoii, Lord, 185-186, 330 

Nemesia strumosa, 316-317 

Nene, river, 307-308 

Nerves injured by tea drinking, 
51 ; in underfeeding, 61 

Nervous diseases, high feeding 
in, 41 

Nervousness, from indigestion, 
120 ; from excessive meat eat- 
ing, 122 

Neuralgia, diet for, 45, 67 ; inter- 
costal, 63 

Neva, river, 363 

F P 



434 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



New English Art Club, 205-206 

New South Wales Lancers, 406, 
411 

' New Trafalgar, A,' 100 

Newcastle, 381 

Nice, 161 

Nicotiana sylvestris alba, 269 

Nightingale, Florence, 381 

Nightshade, deadly, 48 

Nordraoh treatment for tubercu- 
losis, 41 

Northamptonshire, visit to, 305 
seq. ; maidenhair-tree in, 348 

Northumberland Fusiliers, 408 

Nervals Pont, 894-398, 408-410 

' NouiUes lactSes Suisse,' 100 

Niiremburg, 161 

Nut butter, 112, 117; cutlets 
129, 132 

Nuts, 43, 111 ; ' Fruits, Nuts, and 
Vegetables,' 27 

Nuts and apples, diet of, 98 



Oaks, 236; 'Turkey,' 248; Go- 
vernment plantation of, 275 

Oatmeal, amount of proteid in, 
111 

Oats, cause of rheumatism in 
horses, 18 ; bread from, 126 

Obesity, cure for, 57-58, 61 

Observation, powers of, 149-150 

October, notes for, 326-355 

Octotis grandis, 332 

Odessa, 324, 369-371 

CEuotheras, 268, 344 

OU as an aid to digestion, 71, 
of almonds, 99 ; cloth, 165 ; 
olive, 284 ; stoves, 117 

Oirsted, Professor, 357 

Okapi, 272 

Old age, diet in, 47, 56 

' Old Glory,' 170 

Olive oil, 284 

Olive-trees, 172 ; at Cannes, 169 

Omdurman, battle of, 382 

Onions, 7, 261 ; braised, 131 ; 
how to serve, 285-286 

Open-air treatment of colds, 159 

Operations, cinematographs of, 
340 



Opium, 32 

Orange jelly, the best, 293 

Orange Biver, 385, 394, 402-410 

Orange Eiver Camp, 375 

 trees, 144, 236 

Orangeade, as made in Paris, 

293 
Orchids, 154, 230; wild, 232, 

348 
Ornithogalums, 239 
Orwell, river, 337 
Ostriches and the soldiers, 413 
Owen, Professor, 29, 260 
Ox-tongues, to cure, 292 



PEONIES, 235 

Pffistum, 176, 196 

Page-boys, 146 

' Palace of Truth,' 36 

' Pall MaU Gazette,' 256, 375 

' Palmen Garten,' 350 

Palms, 170, 272 

Parents and the diet of children, 

52-53 
Parinarium-tree, 272. 
Paris, 75, 226, 240, 340 ; Opdra 

Comique, 166 ; restaurants, 64 ; 

visit to, 168-169 
Parkinson, Mr., 251 ; on cypress- 
trees, 239-240 
Parkyn, receipt for, 127-128 
Partridge k la crdme, 291 
Paths planted with thyme, 163 
Paton, Mr. J. B., 247 
Patties, macaroni and cheese, 127 
Fattison, Mrs. Mark, ' Benaissance 

of Art in France,' 167 
Peace in South Africa, 222, 227 
Pear-trees, 212 ; grown from pips, 

260, 331 ; prunings of, for 

goats, 103 
Pears, early picking to save, 332 
Peas, 4, 17, 261 ; urio acid in, 18, 

48,57 
Pegler, Mr., 94 

Pelargoniums, 230, 262, 320-321 
Penzance, sweet briars, 242, 282 
Pergola, at the Capucine convent, 

198-200; in Suffolk, 333 
Pemettias, 238 



INDEX 



435 



Peterborough Cathedral, 305, 307 

Petersfield, 232 

Petrusville, 403 

Pheasants, 234 

Philanthropic, suggestion for the, 
95-96 

Philipstown, 403 

Phlebitis, 63-64 

Phloxes, 219, 270, 314 

' Picciola,' 345-346 

Pigeon-houses in Prance, 309 

Pigs, keeping of, 150 

Piles, diet for, 67 

Firms austriaca, 331 

Pipes, briarwood, 161-162 

Plane-trees, 165 

Plants, overfeeding of, 350 

' Plasmon,' 13, 54, 56, 110-112 ; 
biscuits, 8, 18 ; in rheumatism 
and gout, 55 ; in mucus colitis, 
68 ; in gastro-intestinal inflam- 
mation, 70 ; as a drink, 1 13 
seq. ; in cooking, 127 

Platyoodon, 218 

Playfair, Dr., 41 

Pleas for a simple diet, 120 seq., 
204 

PUny on the uses of cork, 165 ; 
' Letters,' 183 

Plumbagos, 220-221, 320, 348 

Poems quoted : Keats', 147 ; Cor- 
revon's ' La Rose de Noel,' 153- 
154 ; J. Ehoades' poem on 
flowers, 155-156 ; Owen Mere- 
dith's 'Love's Labour Lost,' 
173 ; Shelley's ' Ode to Naples,' 
190; Sir Henry Taylor's ' Philip 
van Artevelde,' 194 ; Bobert 
Lytton's ' Sorrento Revisited,' 
196-197 ; Mrs. Browning's 
' Aurora Leigh,' 202 ; Miss 
Emily Lawless' ' Wild Geese,' 
214-216; Laurence Housman's 
' The Winners,' 222-223 : on a 
pigeon in St. Paul's, 228 ; ' The 
Settlers,' 229 ; missing stanza 
of Gray's ' Elegy,' 249 ; Lord 
Tennyson quoted, 255 ; lost 
poem by John Milton, 257- 
258 ; E. L. Stevenson's ' The 
Celestial Surgeon,' 258; Miss 



Una van A. Taylor's 'Nous 
n'irons plus au bois,' 276 ; on 
rain, 278 ; A. J. Munby's ' The 
Milkwoman,' 299-300 ; Robert 
Browning quoted, 324 ; Crabbe 
quoted, 336 ; a sailor's street 
song, 339 ; ' The Queen's Cho- 
colate,' 341-343 ; ' Chrysan- 
themums,' 350-351 ; ' Vale,' 
355 ; J. Rhoades's ' Stars,' 377 

Polenta cutlets, 125 

Polygonums, 238, 319 

Pommes k la caramel, 286 

Pompeii, 184 ; art treasures of, 
178 ; visit to, 186 seq. ; ' Last 
Days of,' 191 ; books on, 192 

Poor, food for the, 108 seq. 

Portinari family, 174 

Post, van de, 340 

Postcard box, automatic, 97 

' Pot-Pourri from a Surrey 
garden,' 220, 323, 389, 402 

Potatoes, poisonous berries of, 48 ; 
mode of cooking, 71, 288 ; 
baked, 113 ; to keep when 
cooked, 116 ; souS6 with nuts, 
130 ; early, 261, 271 ; pur6e of, 
286 

Poultry-keeping, 150 

Poussin, artist, 206 

Pratt, Anne, 282, 336, 345 

Prescriptions for weakness on 
change of diet, 45 

Press, and the diet question, 104 

 on the training of the eye, 149 ; 
on tuberculosis, 158 ; and the 
Coronation, 241 

Pretoria, 383, 386-387 

' Pretty Betty ' (red valerian), 345 

' Pretty PoUy ' (Pelargonium), 262 

Primroses, 232 

Privet, 195, 264 

Proteid food, 55 ; in obesity, 61 ; 
daily allowance of, 78 seq., 85 
seq., 104, 111, 119-120; in 
separated mUk, 90 ; amount of 
in various foods. 111 ; in flour, 
116 {see also under Albumen) 

Protene, 13, 112 

Pruning, necessity of, 211, 237, 
319-320, 334 



436 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Prunus Pissardii, 152 ; spinosa, 

153 
Prussie acid in almonds, 62, 

98-99 
Pruth, river, 371, 373 
Puddings, fruit, 113 ; raisin and 

barley, 129 ; semolina, 289 
Pythagoreans and the bean, 49 



Quack dbuqs, 32 

Quacks, 31 

Quadrumana, diet of the, 29 

' Queen Mary's Tears ' (thistle), 

308 
' Queen's Chocolate, The' (poem), 

841-348 
' Quo Vadis,' 183 



E , Colonel, 387 

Railway carriages, infection in, 
156-158 

Eaisin tea, 112, 131 ; and barley 
pudding, 129 

Eaisins, albumen in, 111 

Ealeigh, Sii- Walter, 48 

Bamondia pyrenaica, 219 

Eanunculus, turban, 172 ; Per- 
sian, 210 

Easpberries, 260 

Eteamier family, 32 

Eeeeipts, 125-132, 151, 284-297, 
302-304 

Eedruth, 235 

Eeed, Mr. T. G., 297 

Eeligion, 59 

' Eeuaissance of Art in France,' 
167 

Ehemnatism, 34 ; fish in, 5 ; 
cause of, 17-18, 86-87; in 
horses, 18, 92 ; water for 
drinking in, 35 ; diet for, 45- 
46, 61, 71, 84 ; ' Plasmon ' in, 
55 

Ehoades, Mr. James, 155 ; poem 
by, 377 

Ehodes, Cecil, 389 

Ehododendrons, 281, 233 

Ehubarb, 269 

Rhus Cotinus and laciniata, 819 



Bihis sangmnea, 282 

Eice, 7 ; with cheese, 118 ; bread 

from, 126 ; croquettes, 130 
Eichmond, 818 
Eimingtou's Guides, 396, 899, 

403 
Eippingille's oil-stoves, 117 
' Eiviera Notes,' 171 
' Biviera, The Eomans on the,' 

166 
Eoberts, Captain, 200 

 Lord, ' on treating soldiers,' 
21-23 

Eobinson, Mr., 219 ; ' English 
Flower Garden,' 155, 198 ; on 
heaths, 208-209 ; on vegetable 
gardens, 258, 260 ; list of sun- 
flowers, 270 

Eockery plants, 310 

Eogers, Samuel, 242 

Eoman ruins at Baiffi, 179 

Eome, 175 

Bomneya CouUeri, 240 

Eoosevelt, President, quoted, 218 

Boot crops, 261 ; plants, 270 

Bosa nigosa, 819 

Eosemary, 236 

Eoses, 170 ; Christmas, 153, 221 ; 
in water, 221 ; Holland House 
show of, 241; for English 
gardens, 246; Chinese Guel- 
der, 265; soil for, 283 ; on 
growing, 314-315 ; difficulty 
of photographing, 835 

Eosetta stone, 858 

Eossi, Signer, 357 

Rotation of crops, 260-262 

Eoyal Engineers, 404 

Eoyal Hospital for Children and 
Women, 77 

Eoyal Scots Fusiliers, 382 

Bubus deliciosus, 222 

' Rulers of the South,' 49 

Eural districts, depopulation of, 
108 seq. 

Eush-broom, Spanish, 264 

Euskin, John, 247 

Eussia, tour in, 356 seq. 

 Alexander I. of, 356 ; death, 
364 

 Alexander II. of, 857 



INDEX 



437 



Bussia, Grand Duke Gonstan- 
tine of, 364 

 Nicholas I. of, 356 ; acces- 
sion, 864 



S .Colonel, 410 

S , Sir Leicester, 382 

S Major, 377-378, 381-382, 

388, 390 
S , Sergeant-Major (B.S.A. 

PoUce), 399 
Sabajone (Venetian dish), 291 
Sage, 162 
St. Claude, 161 
St. Helena, 387 
St. Hospice, tower of, 161 
St. Paul's Cathedral, 228, 309 
St. Petersburg, 356, 360, 363- 

367 
St. Eaphael, 160-1 
St. Thomas of Canterbury, 101 
St. Vincent, 380 
Saintine's, ' Picoiola,' 845 
Salad, cheese, 285 ; potato, 288 
Salisbury cure, 6, 46, 50 
Salsify, 261 
Salt one of the causes of cancer, 

47 
Salutaris Water, 35 
Sande-Torte (cake), 298 
Sandhurst, 375 
' Sandow ' exercises, 378 
Sandwiches of almond cream, 

70 
Sanguisorbas, 265 
Sapon (powdered soap), 302 
Sardinia, 162 
Sauce, green, 286-287 ; Seyillane, 

289 
Saving, habit of, 133 seq. ; object 

for, 147 
Savoury vegetable stew, 128 
Savoys, 252 
Saxifrages, 163, 348 
School Board curriculum, 120 
Schwartzenberg, Prince, 366 
Scorzonera, 261 
Scots Guards, 406 
Scott, Mr., 295 
Sea-buckthorn, 238 



Seakale beet, 271 ; to cook, 288 
Sea Point Horticultural Society, 

249 
Sebastopol, 370, 372 
Second childhood, 346 
Sedentary occupation, diet for, 

54, 62, 67 
Seeds, growing from, 170, 381, 

347 ; preservation of, 322 
SemoUna pudding, 289 
Senile decay, 104 
Sensuality and diet, 55 
September, notes for, 305-325 
Servants and diet, 121 ; wagee 

and treatment of, 139, 141 
Sewage, dry treatment of, 91-92 ; 

question 337 
Sex vigour in animals, 55 
Shanklin, 308 
Sheep's mUk, 96 
Shelley, 'Ode to Naples,' 190 

cremation of, 200 
Shelter for gardens, 234 
Shingles, 46, 64 
Shopping, 144 
Shrubs, treatment of, 225 ; lists 

of, 237, 253 
Shuckburgh, E. S., 184 
Sidalcea Candida, 218 
Sienkiewicz's ' Quo Vadis,' 183 
Skin-diseases cured by diet, 72 
Slaughter-houses, cruelty in, 177 
Slough, 76 
Slums, overcrowded condition 

of, 122-128 
Smoke nuisance, 318 
Smoking, hereditary effect of, 

50-51 
Snake's head iris, 155 
Snowdrops, 152 
Soap, powdered, 302 
Social reformers on diet, 108 
Society for Prevention of Cruelty 

to Animals, 177 
Socrates quoted, 144 
Soda, bicarbonate of, 45 : salicy- 
late of, 45, 68 ; m bread, 65 ; 

in mucus colitis, 68-69 ; water, 

70 
SoU, how to tell a good, 231- 

232 



438 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Solanums, 317, 320 
Solomon's seals, 225, 232 
 wisdom, 326-327 
Sorrento, 196 ; poem on, 196-197 
Sonffl6 potatoes with nuts, 130 
Soup, vegetable, 284 ; milk, 288 
South Africa, deficiency of women 
in, 272 ; return of troops from, 
353; Captain Sydney Earle's 
letters from, 374-417 
South Kensington Museum, 308 
Southwold, 327 
'Spectator' quoted, 222, 229, 

323, 341, 344 
Spencer, Herbert, on diet, 15 
Spikenard of the Bible, 282 
Spinach, 261 

Spirseas, 200, 225, 238, 265 
Spitting, on the habit of, 156- 

157 
Stag's-horn sumach, 31$ 
Standard Bank, 390 
Stanford, Bennet, 392 
Starch, digestion of, 105 ; in 

flour, 116 
' Stars ' (poem), 377 
Starvation, cure, 11, 70-71 ; 
death from, 50; from under- 
feeding, 67 
Steamships, food on, 65-66 
Stellenbosch, 400 
Stevenson, B. L., quoted, 258 
Stockholm, 359-360 
Stonehenge, 201 
Strangford, Lord, 365 
Strathfieldsaye, 335 
Strawberries, 260 
Suffolk, visit to, 326 seg. ; 
' Breviary,' 336 ; books on, 337 
Sugar in gout and rheumatism, 

46 ; in diet, 110 
Sugden, Mr. E., 102 
' Sun ' war correspondent, 405 
Sundial, 320-321 
Sunflowers, 269-270; for goats, 
103, 324; grown for profit, 
324325 
Sunstroke, 255-256 
Surrey, gardens in, 232-234 
Swanley Horticultural College, 
227 



Sweden, tour in, 356 seq. 

Sweet peas, 316 

Swiss Government and the ex- 
port of goats, 102 

Switzerland, goats in, 96 ; analysis 
of foods in, 100 ; letter from, 
344 

Synaptase in almonds, 99 



T , A., 409-410 

T , General, 377 

Table decoration, 144-145 

Tamarisk, 237-238 

Taylor, Miss U. van A., quoted, 

275 
Taylor, Sir Henry, quoted, 194 
Tea, 17, 121 ; afternoon, 6-7, 42 ; 
uric acid in, 18, 48 ; condemna- 
tion of, 31-32, 141 ; hereditary 
effect of, 50 ; excessive drink- 
ing of, 51, 142 ; various qua- 
lities compared, 51 ; Chinese 
mode of preparing, 51 ; goat's 
milk in, 98 ; substitute for, 
113 
Teeth as an indication of man's 
proper diet, 25, 28-29 ; books 
on the, 29, 298; early decay 
of, in the present generation, 
89, 297-298 
Teetotallers, 83 ; use of tea and 

coffee promoted by, 50, 142 
' Temple Classics,' 101 
Tennyson, Lord, 101 ; quoted, 

255 
Thalietrums, 265 
' The Choice ' (poem), 214 
' The Settlers ' (poem), 229 
' The Winners ' (poem), 222 
Theosophy, 20 
Thirst, treatment of, in illness, 

70 
Thistles, 308 
Thomas, Mr., 412 
Thompson, Dr. Alexander, 183 
Thompson, Mr., 345 
Thompson, Sir Henry, on diet, 

13-14 ; on cremation, 201 
Thome, John, 241, 309 
' Three Cups Inn,' The, 330 



INDEX 



439 



Thrift, habit of, 133 seq. 

Thrombosis, 63 

Thuyas, 349 

Thyme, 162 ; for paths, 163 

Tiger, food of the, 29 : sex vigour 
in the, 55 

' Times,' 88, 376 ; war corre- 
spondent, 405 

Titian's landscapes, 206 

Toadflax, wHd, 343 

Tobacco, to keep moist, 285 

Toggenburg goats 91, 96, 102 seg. 

Tomatoes, stewed, 129 

Tool, a new gardening, 321 

Toothache among the troops in 
South Africa, 89 

Toulon, 161 

Tradesoant, Mr., 240 

Tragedy caused by eczema, 71-72 

TranquUlus, C. Suetonius, 183 

Transvaal, 385, 388 

' Traveller's joy,' 330 

Travelling, diet while, 64-66, 70 

' Treating,' Lord Roberts on, 21- 
23 

Tree heaths for briarwood pipes, 
161-162 

Tuberculosis (see under Con- 
sumption) 

Tuileries, ruins of the, 166-169 

Tula, town, 370 

Tuli, town, 382 

Tulip-trees, 248 

Tulips, 207, 213, 222, 225-226 

Turkey and Russia, 371-372 

Turkeys, 337 

Turner, Mr., 400 

Turnips, 261 



Undekfeedino, 19 ; the gums in, 
8, 61 ; from non-assimilation, 
41 ; Dr. Haig on, 67 

' Unit Library,' 101 

Upton Church, 248 

Uric acid, 17, 18, 42-44, 60-61 ; 
definition of, 16 ; in eggs, 16, 
78 ; as the cause of disease, 23- 
25, 78 seq., 84 ; as the cause 
of headaches, 42 ; diet, 45 ; in 
flesh and vegetables, 48 ; foods 



free from, 68-69, 85, 87, 110 ; the 
cause of gout and rheumatism, 
86 (see also under Xanthin) 



Vaal river, 386 
Vaccination, 10 
' Vale ' (poem), 355 
Valescure, 160-161, 169 ; heaths 
of, 162 ; cork-trees at, 164-165 
books on, 165 ; fragments of 
the Tuileries at, 166-168 
Van der Goes, Hugo, 174 
Vegetable, stew, 128 ; gardens, 

258-262 ; soup, 284 
Vegetables, amount of proteid in, 
111 

' Vegetarian,' newspaper, 43 ; 
creed, 97, menus, 113-115, 117- 
119 ; Society, 297 

Vegetarian diet, 6, 8, 11, 25-27, 
43-44 ; books on, 26, 27 ; 
objections to, 48, 68 seq., 108 ; 
for children, 52 ; homes for 
instruction in, 76 seq. ; ques- 
tion of quantity in, 78 seq., 84 
seq. ; constipation in, 82-83 ; as 
taughtin schools, 105 ; on three 
shillings a week, 109 seq. ; plea 
for a, 120 seq. (see also under 
Cookery books and Diet) 

Vegetarianism and sociability, 
52 ; and sentiment, 60, 177 ; 
effect on invalids of, 60 ; 
Maeterlinck on, 72-74 ; and 
the medical profession, 83 ; 
Virehow on, 122 ; an American 
judge on, 284 

Vegetarians, unscientific, 41 ; in 
the Army, 53 ; dining out, 
57 ; and cruelty to animals, 
177 

Veitch & Sons, 210, 213, 222 

Venidiums, 268, 332 

Veratrum nigrum, 270-271 

Verbascum, phceniceum, 222 

Verbena, 263 

Vesuvius, 175-176, 187, 201 

Victor Emmanuel, King, of Italy, 
174 

Vienna, 373 ; flour, 116 



440 



A THIRD POT-POURRI 



Villiers, Charles, 12 

Vilmorin, M., 'Vegetable Gar- 
dens,' 227, 258-259 

Vine-clad Pergola, 198-200 

Vinton & Co., 91 

Violets, 171, 232, 249 ; on grow- 
ing, 322-323 

' Violettes de Parme,' 170 

Virehow, Dr., 27, on vegeta- 
rianism, 122 

Virginia creeper, 271 

' Virgin's bower,' 381 

Volkousky, Princess Z6n&de, 36 



W , General,- 391, 396, 404 

W , sapper, 892 

W ., Sir G., 381 

W , F., 379, 395 

W ; General F., 395 

Wagner, composer, 59 
Wales, Henry, Prince of, 275 
Wallace, Mrs., 99 
Wallflowers, 207, 345-346 
Walnuts, 130 
Wareham, 882 
Warsaw, 357, 364 
Water, when to drink, 7 ; for 

gout and rheumatism, 35 ; 

' How it kills its thousands,' 

35 
Watercress as a vegetable, 285 
Water-lilies, 242 
Waterer, Messrs., 231 
Waterhouse, Elizabeth, 243 
Waters, German, 44, 46 
Waterton Collection, 308 
Watts, Mr. G. F., 243 
Weight in dieting, 58, 61, 78 

seq., 85 seq. 
Weir-Mitchell, Dr., 41 
Wellbank, Mr., 127 
Wellington Barracks, 375 
Wellingtonias, 349 
Welsh polypody, 344 
West Surrey Dairy Co., 97 



Westminster Abbey, 307 

' Westminster Gazette,' 155 ; let- 
ters to the, 156-158, 303 ; poems 
from the, 221, 275-276, 350- 
351, 355 

Wheatmeal bread, 126 

Whitmore, Mr., 195 

' Wholesome Food for the Poor,' 
107-132, 283 

Wild flowers, 343-344 

 gardening, 198, 208, 233-235, 
282 

' Wild Geese,' The, 212-216 , 

Wilde, Oscar, 251 

Williams, Dr. B., 27 

Williams, Mr., 200 

Willow herb, 344 

WUson, Mr. G. F., 233-235, 246 

Wimbledon Common, 375 

Winchester, 101 

Windsor, 290 

Wine, the purchase of, 144 

Wisley, 225, 238-235, 246 

Wistaria creeper, 175, 225, 231, 
330 

Witteput, 411 

Woking, 231 ; ' Nursery,' 251 

Wolf, food of the, 29 

Wood gardening, 211, 237, 282 

' Workman's budget,' 108 

Worthing, 178 



Xanthin, 45, 48, 85 ; in fish, 49 
in eggs, 85 ; in lentUs, 108 
(see also under Uric acid) 



Yew hedges, 211 
Yews, 172, 236, 269 
York, 232 ; Cathedral, 305 
Young, Dr. Thomas, 357-358 
Yuccas, 207 



Zola, M., 328 



Spottiswoode  Go. Ltd., Printers, New-street Square, London. 



illi 



il'ij'll'i! 




 itiUHWIHHHUUUUHUUUlllHHimi 



