
^^d« 







^^..^^ ; Jlfe\ ^.c^-^* :ii»i^o ^^^.^.^ .^ 







^/^^- 



> V^.V*' '^ 
























%^^ ••«• ^o/ .•^^"•. %.<■* 5*A': \/ 











,/^--. 



..'?•" ^5 














: ^^0^ ., 



""- ^'' ' <^ ...r^ 





» o 





•Ji^ 






^0-^^^ 







1^ 



















o^ •• .0 



r^'>. .//^<.V ./.i;2^->^^ .//^vX 




*'% '. 







•^ '•^* A* 



O. * • « o ' .0' 






^^■ 
.V^. 




Cadies Jlppreciate 



the roomy retiring rooms, cosy compart- 
ments and the many little conveniences 
especially arranged for their comfort on the 



NORTH-WESTERN LIMITED 

"the train for COMFORT" 



every night between Minneapolis, St. 
Paul and Chicago via. 




C.STRM.&O.RY 



Before starting on a trip — no matter 
where — write for interesting information 
about comfortable traveling. 



F. W. PARKER, GENERAL AGENT 

151 Yesler Way. Seattle. Wash. 



Northwestern GoiDmercial Company 

REGULAR SAILINGS DURING OPEN SEASON 

TO 

NOME AND TELLER 

ALASKA 

For Rates, etc., apply to 

20i and 202 Pioneer Building, Seattle, Wash. 



Full line of MINERS' SUPPLIES carried at both points. 

THE SEATTLE GAS & ELECTRIC GO. 

214 CHERRY STREET 



The Old Relia^ble CompaLny. 

Mains in a-ll pa^rts of the City. 

If You want Gas for Lighting, Heating 
or Cooking consuh us. 



EXCHANGE 27 

INDEPENDENT 96 



TELEPHONE EXCHANGE 4 



SGHWABACHER HARDWARE GO. 



WHOLESALE DEALERS IN 



HARDWARE, IRON AND STEEL 

SHIP CHANDLERY, ETC. 

CORRESPONDENCE SOLICITED 

SEATTLE, KorBox ^29 WASH. 

Cbe Independent telephone Company 

with the best equipment money can lauy, witli the best service 
that can possibly be given, respectfully solicits your patronage. 

OUR. RATES 

Business Phvorves, Individvial Service. $4.50 per morvtK. 

Two-pa.rty " 4.00 " 

" " Fovir-party " 3.00 " 

Residence " Individvial Lines 3.00 

" " Two-pa.rty " 2.50 " 

Four-pa.rty " 2.00 " 

All subject to 50 cents per month rebate, if paid in advance before the lOtli 
of the month at ouroffices, 1113-1115 FOURTH AVENUE. 

A VERY GOOD RECEIPT 

To follow in maintaining a perfectly happy 
household is to be found herewith; 

Take the required amount of groceries (the best is far 
preferable ) use economically, serve according to 
suggestions contained in this volume, blend liberally 
with pleasant words, keeping the home cheerful and 
brighf, and we are positive you will have the success 
in life for which all strive, ><v«v<ve><N«><>« 

Yours truly, 

Loueh, Aupstine S Go- 

GROCERS 

^•^'•/Inaepemlent 465 815 FlRST AVE. 



He who eats whui's cooked our way 
IVill live to eat some other day 



:x 




y^^^ 





o 




o 



^ • . "• ' Published by the 

WOMEN'S GUfbD OF ST.'' MARK'S CHURCH 
' ■" ' SCATt-L'E' ' WASHINGTON 



Mrs. Richard C. Stevens 
Mrs. Henry C. Colver 
Mrs. Horace C. Henry 
Mrs. James D. Lowman 
Mrs. Edwin A. Strout 
Mrs. Charles E. Shepard 
Mrs. Winfield R. Smith 



COMMITTEES: 

19C3 
Mrs. Winfield R. Smith 
Mrs. Edwin A. Strout 
Mrs. a. B. Denniston 
Mrs. Sherwood Gillespy 
Mrs. John Rosene 
Mrs. G. W. Saulsberry 
Mrs. a. T. Timmerman 
Mrs. J. F. Wagner 



a: 



1903 

LOWMAN & HANFORD STATIONERY AND PRINTING CO. 

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON. 



DEC 

: ... 

I •! ^ B L f 

1 ^ " 



J 



C7 ■ 



.COPYRIGHT ig03 
SrSIE W. SMITh'aND'CO&A'T. STRbUT ' 



TI PREFACE usually both disappoints and aggm- 
Jm rates — it says nothing, with a deal of Avords; 
and it holds the hungry reader from the feast before 
his eyes. But a cook book's should more kindly speed 
on rather than hinder from that crowning banquet of 
literature. Yes, croicning; for is it not the essence of 
all things good? And does it not contain the very 
provender which goes to the making of all other books, 
and without which even our brains would evaporate? 
Epitome it is, too, of man's deep excogitations, and 
indeed of life itself. Here you have mathematics, 
science, the philosopher's "cause and effect," the 
^'high seriousness'' of all great poetvv — are not our 
cream-puffs soulful poems? — the wit's spice and tart- 
ness, the artist's daintiest device, the arguments of 
state which make and unmake crowns. Nay, only 
look deeper, and find in that microcosm the kitchen, 
besides the object lessons which it fabricates, other 
most nutricious lessons of the Greek's golden mod- 
eration and other moralities. But of all to be learned 
there or to issue thence the preface cannot give you 
a first course or even a taste. That is not its part. It 
can only ask you to partake. It is like a lady who at 
evening welcome's her guests. Much agouA^ hath gone 
to the morning's work ; and sundry costly viands too 
— else had not her art triumphed. Yet of all this not 
a hint in her voice or mien as she smilingly : 

"Madam, the dinner is served." 
"Ah, well then, ladies and~ gentlemen — 
'Now, good digestion wait on appetite 
And health on both.' " 



(ix) 



''To he a fiood cool; means the Jxnoirledge of all 
fruits, herbs, halms and spices, and of all that is heal- 
ing and meet in fields aiul groves, savory in meat. Jt 
means carefulness, inventiveness, watchfulness, tvill- 
ingness and readiness of appliance. It means the 
economy of your great-grandmother and the science of 
modern chemists; it means much tasting and no 
tcasting; it means English thoroughness, French art 
and Arahian hospitality ; it means in fine that you 
are to he perfectly and always ladies, and you are to 
see that everybody has something nice to eat.'' — 
KrsKiN. 



i^) 



ACKNOWLEDGMENT 



It would be a pleasure to thank by name each one 
who has assisted this book, but that is impossible. 
Primarily we are indebted to our advertisers. We 
have an added kindly feeling- for them because from 
personal experience we know their trustworthiness 
and the merits of the articles they advertise. 

In the compilation we have received especial cour- 
tesies from Mrs. Lincoln, Mrs. Rorer, and The House- 
hold Neivs; and also from many a notable house- 
keeper outside the Parish of St. Mark's. 

We are indebted to Dr. Sarah J. Dean for many 
sick room recipes. 



(xi) 



[For "Clever Cooking."] 

L'ENVOI— TABLE TALK 

For a Dinner Party of Thirteen. 

( When making put in a thirteenth line according to taste.) 



For soup, of books we'll have a rich extract. 

Fish, sallies caught from fancy's sparliling stream; 
And oysters, our young folks in love, with tact 

For sauce to both. In fitting time ''twill seem 
Mete we partake of dish of sage discourse. 

A salad of crisp shoots of gossip-vine 
With char'ty's oil and just a dash (no worse) 

Of malice. But each guest must bring the wine 
Of his own wit. Judgments of frozen sense 

On things of church and state shall be dessert. 
While sweets the gracious hostess must dispense. 

Alas, too soon from feast to crusts we shall revert! 

• — -M. Treize Inconnu. 



fxii) 



SOUPS 



"For soup is but the first of those delights which go to 
make the coming bill of fare." 



Bouillon. 

Will Serve Five. 

I tablespoonful of butter )/ of an onion, sliced 
ij^ pounds of finely chop- i stalk of celery 
ped beef (from the 3 or 4 cloves 
round) 2 slices of carrot 

I bay leaf 2 sprigs of parsley 

Shell and white of i egg. 

Melt the butter in a granite saucepan, add the onion 
and cook until thoroughly brown, when add the beef, 
celery, cloves, carrot, bay leaf and parsley and one quart 
of cold water. Cover the saucepan and stand on the 
back of the stove where it will heat slowly. Let it 
simmer gently for three hours ; strain, return to the ket- 
tle and bring to a boil. Beat the white of an ^gg with 
one-half cup of cold water until thoroughly mixed. 
Crush the shell and add it to the tgg; add this to the 
boiling bouillon. Boil four minutes, stand on the back 
of the stove one minute to settle, and strain through 
.cheese cloth. Be sure to wring out the cloth from cold 
water before straining. 

MRS. C. E. SHEPARD (from Table Talk). 



CLEVER COOKING 



Chicken Bouillon. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

2 large chickens- 3 quarts cold water 

2 teaspoonfuls salt j/^ teasponful pepper 

2 bay leaves 3 whole cloves 

I small head celery. 

Simmer (but do not boil) for five hours. Cool, skim 
and strain through a cloth, several times. Serve in cups 
with whipped cream. 

For Aspic Jelly, add i box of gelatine to i quart of 
bouillon. 

EMMA GRANT. 



Brown Soup Stock. 

Will Serve Eight or Ten. 

4 pounds hind shin of beef 4 quarts cold water 
8 whole cloves 8 whole peppercorns 

4 teaspoonfuls mixed sweet i tablespoonful salt 

herbs 3 large onions 

I small carrot 2 stalks celery 

.Shell and white one egg 2 sprigs parsley 

Wipe and cut the meat and bones in small pieces. 
Put the marrow, bones, half of the meat and the cold 
water into a kettle. Soak half an hour before heating. 
Add spices and herbs. Brown the onions and the remain- 
der of the meat and add them to the stock. Add the veg- 
etables, cut fine ; simmer eight or ten hours and strain. 
When cold, take ofi^ the grease ; it ma}^ be necessary to 
wring a cloth out of hot water and wipe oft' the stock — 
not a pinhead must be left. To clear it, allow the white 
and shell of one egg to every quart of soup, adding the 
egg when the soup is perfectly cold. Beat them well 
together, then set on the stove, stirring until hot. Let 
it boil ten minutes without stirring. Draw it back on the 
stove and add half a cup of cold water. Let it stand ten 
minutes. Wring a napkin out of hot water and lay it on 
the colander. Put the finest wire strainer on the napkin 
and pour the soup through, letting it take its own time 

Pidduck-Ross Co. — High-Class Grocers. 



SOUPS 3 

to drain. "\Mien ready to serve, heat to the boiling point. 
You may serve with it in the tureen thin slices of lemon, 
glass of sherry, or yolks of hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 

MRS. C. E. SHEPARD. 



Spice Soup. 

Good for a Dinner Party. 

Will Serve Ten. 

Boil a large bone all day, and see that your stock 
measures when strained four quarts. Add 2 cups of to- 
matoes, I teaspoonful cloves, Yi teaspoonful each of 
mace, cinnamon and alspice, pepper and salt to taste, 
grated peel and juice of i lemon, i teacup browned flour 
moistened in water and stirred in while your soup is 
boiling, ^ dozen hard-boiled eggs, the whites chopped 
fine and yolks added just before serving. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. ' 
(From Webfoot Cook Book.) 



Veal Soup (Excellent). 

Will Serve Eight. 

Put a knuckle of veal into three quarts of cold water, 
with a small quantity of salt and one small tablespoonful 
of uncooked rice. Boil slowly, hardly above simmering, 
four hours, when the liquor should be reduced to half 
the quantity ; remove from the fire. Into the tureen put 
the beaten egg and stir well into it a teacupful of cream. 
or, in hot weather, new milk; add a piece of bittter the 
size of a hickory nut ; on this strain the soup, boiling 
hot, stirring all the time. Just at the last, beat it well for 
a minute. 
' MRS. ALBERT T. TIMMERMAN. 

(From White House Cook Book.) 
Use Pure Spices from Pidduck-Ross Co. 



CLEVER COOKING 



Cream of Mutton Soup, 

Will Serve Ten. 

2i/^ pounds mutton i cup of tomatoes 

Vz cup of rice i^ quart of water 

I tablespoonful of flour i quart of milk 

(scant) I small onion 

^4 carrot i tablespoonful of butter 

I tablespoonful of salt Black pepper and cayenne 

I teas^oonful of catsup Small bouquet of herbs 

(mushroom, walnut Tiny bit of mace 

or tomato) 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

Put the mutton (neck will dd) with the vegetables, 
rice and cold water into the soup pot. The meat should 
be free from fat and cut in small piece's. When it begins 
to boil, skim carefully, and let it simmer for three or 
four hours. (At the end of two hours add the herbs and 
mace.) Then cream the butter and flour together; add 
this, the seasoning and the catsup, and cook for five min- 
utes longer. Put the milk into the double boiler. Put 
the soup into a colander, rubbing through as much as 
possible. Rinse out the kettle, return the soup to it, add 
the boiling milk, taste for seasoning, add sherry, more 
or less, as you like it, and serve immediately. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Cheese Soup. 

Will Serve Six. 

I pint stock, heated i pint milk, boiling hot 

I tablespoonful corn starch Yolks 2 or 3 eggs 
I cup grated cheese 

Put the corn starch into the hot milk, pour into the 
stock, then gradually pour over the beaten yolks, beat- 
ing all the time. Have the cheese in the tureen and pour 
the above mixture over it. 

MRS. T. W. CLISE. 



SOUPS 5 

Louisiana Okra Gumbo. 

I pint okra, fresh or canned i can Eastern 03^sters 
I tablespoonful lard i spring chicken 

I teaspoonful flour Onion to taste 

salt, cayenne. 

Fry the chicken, cut in joints, in the hot lard until a 
nice brown ; add flour, brown ; then onion and okra ; fry 
again ; add the drained oysters, fry ten minutes. Add 
3 quarts of boiling water, indudivg the oyster liquor. 
Cook until chicken is tender ; season highly. Strain 
and serve as soup, but accompanied by rice cooked ji la 
Creole, that is, every grain separate. 

MRS. A. B. ALLAIN. 



Mock Chicken Soup. 

Will Serve Six. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of cream 
1 5^ pints of beef stock r &^^ 

Butter size of an ^^^ 

Put the butter and flonr in a saucepan, stir until 
smooth ; add stock little by little. Just before taking 
from the fire add the cream and ^^^ Avell beaten together ; 
salt and pepper to taste. 

MRS. T. M. DAULTON. 



Green Turtle Soup. 

» Will Serve Six. 

Take the meat from a can of green turtle, add a quart 
of stock and put in stew pan, add a bouquet of sweet 
herbs (in muslin), a dozen peppercorns and a half dozen 
cloves. Put a piece of butter the size of an ^^^ into the 
frying pan and add a small onion, a stalk of celery, a 
small slice of turnip and two slices of carrot, all minced 
fine. Fry until nicely browned, about ten minutes, and 
skim out into the soup. Put two tablespoonfuls of flour 
into the butter and stir into the soup ; simmer for an 
hour ; skim carefully, strain and return the soup to the 



CLEVER COOKING 



kettle. Separate the meat as much as possible from the 
vegetables, cut in dice, and return to the soup with muci- 
lage and green fat (diced), which was laid aside in tlie 
beginning. Season with salt and pepper; boil up; add 
two hard-boiled eggs, chopped tine, three tablespoonfuls 
sherry, and serve with thin slices of lemon cut in points. 
Do not boil after adding the eggs. Water may be used 
instead of stock. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVEXS. 



Crab Soup. 

Will Serve Four.- 

I large or 2 small crabs i quart new milk 

3 square crackers i teaspoonful salt 

Dash of cayenne 2 tablespoonfuls sherry 

I piece of butter size of an egg 

Put the meat from the body of the crabs into a chop- 
ping bowl and chop coarsely ; add the crackers, roUed 
fine, the salt, pepper and butter. Put the milk in a double 
boiler, and when just at the boiling point add the crab 
meat, etc., and the meat from the claws cut in nice bits. 
Taste for seasoning. Cover for one minute, stir well, 
add the sherry and serve ivimediatrly. The sherry may 
be omitted or you may use more or less, according to 
your liking. A little whipped cream is an improvement. 
MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Oyster Soup. 

100 Eastern oysters, or 3 i large tablespoonful flour 
cans I pint cream ' 

y^ pound butter Cayenne and salt 

A little whole mace 
Rub the flour and butter till perfectly smooth. Take 
the liquor from the oysters and let it come to a boil, skim 
well and pour it into a dish. Rinse out the kettle care- 
fully. Pour back the liquor and into it put the cream, 
oysters, butler and flour, salt, red ])epper and the mace. 
Boil, stirring constantly, until the gills of the oysters be- 
gin to curl. Serve immediately. 

MRS. W. A. PETERS. 



SOUPS 7 

Oyster Bouillon. 

Chop oysters, put into a double boiler and heat very 
slowly to draw out the juices. Put into a cheese cloth 
and press out the liquor. Return to the fire, clarify and 
strain as for beef bouillon. Add an equal quantity of hot 
milk. Season and serve. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Crab Bisque. 

Take one good pint of crab meat, one light pint of fine 
bread or cracker crumbs ; mix thoroughly, adding one 
tablespoonful of butter and onion to taste ; season highly. 
Frv this mixture in hot lard ten minutes, add two quarts 
of boiling water, boil twenty minutes and serve. 

MRS. A. B. ALLAIN. 

Clam Chowder, No, i. 

Mrs. Henderson's Cook Book. 

Put fifty clams on the fire in their own liquor, with a 
little salt. When they have boiled about three minutes 
strain them and return the liquor to the fire. Chop a 
medium sized onion into small pieces and cut six ounces 
of pork into dice. Fry both a light color in a piece of 
butter the size of an egg ; then stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. When thoroughly cooked add the clam 
liquor, half a pint of good stock or milk, the same quan- 
tity of cream, a saltspoonful of mace, and one of thyme, 
eight ounces of potatoes cut into dice, and salt to taste. 
When these are cooked and ready to serve, add the clams 
cut in dice and four ounces of ship bread or crackers 
broken in pieces. 

Clam Chowder, No. 2. 

j4 dozen clams (if razor i pinch of soda 
clams are used) i quart milk 

I heaping tablespoonful of i onion 
butter I potato 

I tablespoonful of flour 

Cut clams rather fine, putting them over the fire, with 
water enough to cover, and the soda. Let boil fifteen 



CLEVER COOKING 



minutes, then add the diced onion ; let boil fifteen min- 
utes more, then add the diced potato ; let it boil until all 
is tender, keeping it just covered with water; then add 
butter, milk and flour. Small pieces of crisp salt pork or 
bacon may be added, ^j^g. A. B. C. DENNISTON. 



Waldorf Clam Broth. 

Will Serve Six. 
I quart "shucked" clams i tablespoonful tiour 
I tablespoonful butter Whipped cream 

Pepper and salt Dash of onion juice 

Boil the clams until perfectly tender, then squeeze 
imtil entirely dry. Season the juice obtained with the 
butter, pepper, salt and onion. Thicken with flour. Serve 
in bouillon cups, very hot. Just before sending to the 
table put a tablespoonful of whipped cream on top of 
each cup (do not stir it in). If fresh clams cannot be ob- 
tained an excellent substitute is bottled clam juice. Very 
nice for luncheons and card parties. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Corn Chowder. 

I can corn }■! lb salt pork 

4 small potatoes i onion 

I pint milk 2 crackers 

Salt and pepper. 

Chop fine the pork and onion and fry together. When 
cooked add the potatoes and corn. Cover with hot water 
and cook half an hour. Add the milk (boiling), then 
add the butter and crackers ; salt and pepper to taste, 
bring again to a boil and serve. 

MRS. FRED RICE ROW^ELL. 



Claret Soup. 

Will Serve Four or Six. 

Pour I pint of boiling water into a pint of claret ; add 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice and ^A cup of sugar; 



SOUPS 9 

moisten i tablespoonful of arrow root with a little cold 
water; add to it the hot soup, cook in double boiler just 
a moment and stand aside to cool. May be served either 
hot or cold. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER 
and The Household News Co. 



Wine Soup. 

Yolks 2 eggs I cup sherry or Rhine wine 

I tablespoonful sugar i cup water 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add wine, then the 
water. Cook in double boiler, stirring until it just comes 
to boiling point. Serve cold. Especially fine for invalids. 

MRS. ROSENE. 

Split Pea Soup. 

Will Serve Six or Eight. 

Soak Yi cup of split peas for several hours, then boil 
them two or three hours. Have about a pint of water on 
them when done. Rub through a strainer. Add 3 or 4 
cups of milk, a little salt and pepper and i teaspoonful of 
butter. Usually it is thick enough, but if not thicken 
with a large teaspoonful of flour, mixed to a smooth 
paste in a little milk. Serve with croutons. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Split Pea Soup No. 2. 

4 cups split peas 2 onions 

I head celery i turnip 

1 carrot ' Salt and pepper 

2 quarts stock or 2 quarts water and some fresh meat 

bones 

Soak the peas twelve hours ; drain and put into a 
kettle with the stock, or 2 quarts of water and some fresh 
meat bones ; add the vegetables and seasoning and boil 
about three hours, or until the peas are very tender, stir- 
ring occasionalh^ Take out the bones and rub the soup 
through a fine seive. Serve with dried mint and croutons. 

MRS. BONE. 



10 CLEVER COOKING 



Green Pea Soup. 

Will Serve Six. 

I quart canned peas i teaspoonful of salt 

I quart of milk % teaspoonful of pepper 

I tablespoonful of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Put the peas, flour, salt and pepper in a saucepan and 
cook till the peas are soft, then rub through a colander. 
Have the milk heated to boiling point in a separate sauce- 
pan ; add the strained peas with the butter and flour 
rubbed together. Taste for seasoning and serve immedi- 
ately with croutons. ^^^^^ ^^^^ c. SPENCER. 



Vert Pre Soup. 

Will Serve Eight. 

Take i pound of spinach, well washed ; put into 
saucepan with enough water to cover, a tiny bit of soda 
and a little salt. Let it just come to a boil, then drain 
and press out the water. Put the spinach into a sauce- 
pan with 

2 ounces of butter y^ pint shelled peas 

2 onions sliced fine A spray of green mint 

A small bunch of herbs 

Simmer fifteen or twenty minutes, then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, or rice flour, and 3 pints of water. 
Cook all together one and a half hours. Rub the puree 
through a fine hair seive, and to each quart of the puree 
add y2 pint of cream or milk and yolks of 3 eggs. Stir 
in a double boiler till it thickens, strain into tureen and 
serve with small round croutons. 

MRS. SILLITOE. 



Yellow Soup. 

I quart stock 3< cup small sago (scant) 

I quart milk 4 eggs (yolks only) 

Cook the sago in the stock till clear ; scald the milk 
and add to the cooked sago and stock ; season. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs in the tureen and carefully pour the 
boiling soup over them. Beat thoroughly and serve 



SOUPS 11 

immediately. Any stock may be used, but half veal and 
half chicken makes a very delicate soup. 

MRS. W. I. ADAMS. 

Spinach Soup. 

Will Serve Eight. 
Boil one quart of spinach for ten minutes in salted 
water, drain and rinse in cold water, chop fine and rub 
through a strainer into three pints of boiling milk. 
Thicken with two' tablespoonfuls of butter and one of 
flour. MRS. E. W. ANDREWS. 

Puree Printanier Maigre. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Will Serve Eight. 

2 large carrots 2 large onions 

2 potatoes 2 turnips 

2 leeks I pound of asparagus (if in 

2 bay leaves season) 

I good handful of lettuce i sprig of thyme and pars- 

1 tablespoonful of flour ley 

3 ounces butter 3 pints of milk 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

Cut up the vegetables and fry well in two ounces of 
the butter, add the flour and milk, and simmer three- 
quarters of an hour, or until tender ; rub through a puree 
sieve. Heat again in a double boiler, and to each quart 
of puree add Yz pint of warm cream, to which has been 
added the remaining ounce of butter and the eggs. Stir 
all well till it thickens. This soup may be prepared with 
stock or water instead of milk. MRS. SILLITOE. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Will Serve Eight. 

2 bunches of asparagus 3 cups of milk 

I teaspoonful of salt A dash of pepper 

Butter, size of a walnut i tablespoonful of flour 
Yz cup of whipped cream 

Cut ofif the tender portion of the stalks and lay aside 
to serve as a vegetable. Cut the remainder of the stalks 



12 CLEVER COOKING 



into small pieces and boil until tender (it will take about 
three-quarters of an hour), and have a pint of water on 
them when done. Have the milk hot in the double boiler, 
mash the asparagus in the water and strain into the hot 
milk. Rub the butter and flour together and add to the 
hot mixture ; also add the seasoning. Put the whipped 
cream in the tureen and pour the soup over it and serve 

immediately. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Turtle Bean Soup. 

Will Serve Ten.' 

I pint black turtle or pink i onion 

Spanish beans i carrot 

I beef bone i turnip 

5 quarts water i teaspoonful whole cloves 

Salt and pepper 

Soak the beans over night ; in the morning drain, add 
the water and bone and boil two hours, when add the 
vegetables and seasoning and boil two or three hours 
longer. Rub through a sieve and pour into tureen into 
which has been put Y^ glass wine, i lemon and i hard- 
boiled ^%^, sliced. 

MISS HOPKINS. 



Black Bean Soup. 

Will Serve Eight. 

One pint l)lack beans ; soak over night ; in the morn- 
ing drain and put over to boil with enough water to 
cover, and cook until tender; mash and press through 
colander; put o\cr the fire again and add about i quart 
of water, i tablespoonful of flour, i tablespoonful butter. 
Rub flour and butter together, with i saltspoonful of mus- 
tard, I teaspoonful of salt, and a small pinch of red pep- 
per. \\nien soup is ready to serve add i sliced lemon 
and 2 cold boiled eggs, sliced. Serve with soup dice. 
Wine may be added if desired. 

MR.S. CITARLKS STIMSON. 



SOUPS 13 

Potato Soup. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

1 quart potatoes i cup cream or milk 

2 medium-sized onions min- 4 quarts water 

ced fine, or i head celery Salt, pepper and butter 
minced 2 eggs 

Boil the potatoes in the water until tender ; drain 
(saving the water), mash fine, add the seasoning and the 
onion or celery. Cook in the same water one-quarter of 
an hour longer. Stand on the back of the stove and stir 
in the eggs, well beaten, and the cream or milk. Let the 
soup get hot again, but not boiling. 

:MRS. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 



Celery Soup, 

Will Serve Eight. 

I bunch of celery i pint of boiling water 

I pint of milk i large slice of onion 

I large tablespoonful flour i cup of whipped cream 

Pepper and salt A small bit of mace 

Boil the celery (cut up fine) in the water forty-five 
minutes. Let the milk, with the onion and niace, come 
to a boil, then skim these out and strain the celery into 
the milk ; thicken with the flour, wet with a little cold 
milk, and cook eight minutes. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Pour into the tureen, and just before serving stir in the 
whipped cream. An egg may be substituted for the 
J^ream. MRS. C. J. SMITH. 



Vegetable Oyster Soup. 

Will Serve Eight or Ten. 

I pint of vegetable oysters 3 cups of milk 

cut fine I teaspoonful salt 

Butter size of a walnut ^ cup rolled crackers 

Have the milk hot in the double boiler. Cook the 
vegetable oysters until very soft, and have about a pint 
of water on them when done. Rub the vegetable oysters 
throueh a strainer, usino- the water in which thev were 



U CLEVER COOKING 



cooked, and add to the hot milk. Add the salt and butter. 
Just before serving add the rolled crackers. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Tomato Soup. 

Will Serve Six or Eight. 

1 pound can tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped carrots 

celery 4 tablespoonfuls chopped 

2 cloves onions 

Piece cinnamon i inch long i bay leaf 
2 tablespoonfuls salt >< teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ' i teaspoonful sugar 

I quart water 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Fry (slowl}^ the vegetables in the butter for half an 
hour, add the other ingredients to the tomatoes, also the 
water, and boil slowly for half an hour ; then put all to- 
gether and boil half an hour longer. Thicken with flour, 
strain and serve. MRS. L. G. BANNARD. 



Tomato Soup No. 2. 

Will Serve Six. 

1 can of tomatoes i quart of boiling water 

y2 of an onion 

Boil these twenty minutes and thicken with : 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i tablespoonful of butter 

Rubbed well together and melted with a few spoon- 
fuls of hot tomato juice. Let come to a boil, strain and 
serve with fried bread dice. 

?\IRS. CALVIN E. VILAS. 

Tomato Soup No. 3. 

Will Serve Five or Six. 
I can of tomatoes i quart of milk 

I teaspoonful of salt .Soda sufficient to cover end 

I tablespoonful corn starch of a teaspoon 

Boil the tomatoes and boil the quart of milk each sep- 
aratelv. Strain the tomatoes and throw into them while 



SOUPS 15 

hot the pinch of soda. Make thickening of the table- 
spoonful of corn starch in same quantity of cold milk. 
Add this to boiling milk and let the mixture boil five 
minutes ; then throw the tomato juice into the hot milk, 
stirring gently as you do so. Add salt and serve imme- 

^i^^^^y- MRS. D. C. GARRETT. 

Noodles. 

Two eggs Pinch of salt 

Two tablespoonfuls of water 

Mix well and add flour until stiff. Roll out as thin as 
possible and cut with a sharp knife in narrow strips. 
Have ready a kettle with plenty of boiling water, drop 
the noodles in and allow them to boil five" minutes. Then 
drain and serve with butter as a vegetable. Or without 
butter in soup. j^j^S_ A_ ^_ ENGLE. 



Croutons for Soup. 

Cut slices of bread into squares, lay in a pan, drip 
melted butter over them, place in the oven and toast un- 
til a light brown color. Use as desired for garnishing or 
for serving with soup. 

MRS. C. P. DAM. 



Egg Dumplings for Soup. 

Yolk I egg 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 tablespoonful cold water ^ teaspoonful baking pow- 

2 tablespoonfuls melted der 

butter A little salt 

Mix and drop from a teaspoon into boiling soup. 
Cook about five minutes. 



16 



CLEVER COOKING 




THE SCENIC HOTEL OF THE WORLD 



The Washington is the fad for society din-* 
ners, and as the season advances there will be 
more and more luncheons and dinner parties 
given by ladies who wish to avoid the details 
and inconvenience of preparations for lunch^ 
eons, etc. , at their homes. 




MRS. R.C.STEVENS 

2 0-4- BOSTON BLOCK 

S E A.-rTl_E 

LATEST EXCLUSIVE NOVELTIES 

in Ladies' Neckwear, Veils, Hair Ornaments and Hosiery. Also 
most bcaytiful designs in French Novelty Jewelry. 

UNDERMUSLINS and Infants' and Children's outfitting to order 

FINE TABLE LINENS. Towels, Lace and Embroidered 
Luncheon Cloths, Centerpieces, Doylies and Bedspreads. 

THE' PLACE to buy Handkerchiefs. 

Correct styles in Embossed Stationery, Engraved Visiting 
Cards and Wedding Invitations. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 



"An oyster may be crossed in love." — Sheridan. 



The following' general rules for fish will hold good 
for all kinds : 

Selection of Fish. 

Great care should be taken to preserve the freshness 
of fish, as no other food deteriorates so rapidly in flavor. 
Fresh fish should be firm and the skin and scales bright. 
When it does not look so, do not buy it, as it will only 
be a disappointment. Do not uash the fish until just 
before using. An old fish dealer is our authority for the 
statement that the slimy coating always found on fish is 
a great factor in preserving its freshness ; therefore if 
the fish is to be kept some hours before using, scale, 
clean and scrape it well, sprinkle a little salt on the in- 
side, and just before using wash once quickly in cold 
water. Do not let the fish stand in the water or the best 
flavor will be lost. 

Boiled Fish. 

There are three ways of boiling fish. The length of 
time required for a fish weighing four or five pounds is 
thirty minutes. A fish weighing more than six pounds 
should cook five minutes longer for every two pounds 
additional. 

First Method — Pin the fish in a strong white cotton 
cloth, then plunge in kettle of boiling water and simmer 
gently for thirty minutes. Hard boiling breaks the fish. 



18 CLEVER COOKING 



Second Method — Lay the fish on a cloth or plate and 
place in steamer and simply steam until done, about the 
same length of time as for boiling. 

Third Method — Put in a double boiler, or if one has 
not a double boiler large enough put the fish in a lard 
pail and set in a large kettle of boiling water. The flavor 
of the fish is preserved best in the two latter methods. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 



Baked Fish. 

I fish weighing about 5 lbs i pint of bread crumbs 
Butter size of walnut V4 teaspoonful of pepper 

I teaspoonful of salt 

Scrape and wash the fish clean, if not already pre- 
pared, then rub into it a tablespoonful of salt. Mix to- 
gether the bread crumbs, butter and seasoning for the 
stufiing and moisten with cold water. Put this into the 
body of the fish and fasten with skewer. Cut gashes 
across the fish about two inches apart, one-half inch deep 
and two or more inches long and into each put a strip of 
salt pork ; dust over pepper and salt and sprinkle thickly 
with bread crumbs or flour, according to taste. Put into 
the roasting pan and bake one hour, basting frequently ; 
the bottom of the pan should be covered with hot water 
when the fish is first put in. Serve with drawn butter 
sauce, or any of the fancy sauces suitable for fish. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 



Fried Fish. 

The best method for frying fish is to first prepare 
your fat by frying slices of salt pork a crisp brown ; re- 
move and place around the edge of your platter. Have 
your fish well covered or rolled in flour and Indian meal 
mixed and salted ; then lay it in the frying pan and fry 
in the salt pork fat. Fry brown on one side, then turn 
and fry on the other. Be sure to have the fat smoking 
hot when the fish is put in and fry quickly. Serve very 
hot, garnished with the salt jM^rk and parsley or lemon 
^^iced. ^,j]^S_ -p.^ ^^r, EMMONS. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 19 

Broiled Fish. 

Always use a double broiler to facilitate turning the 
fish. Before using rub the broiler with butter or a piece 
of salt pork to prevent the fish from sticking. The size 
of the fish will have to be the guide to the length of time 
required in cooking, a fish weighing four pounds requir- 
ing twenty minutes to half an hour. In broiling, the in- 
side of the fish should be put over the coals first. Great 
care is required not to burn the skin. Mackerel will cook 
in from twelve to twenty minutes. After the fish is re- 
moved to the platter it should be spread generously with 
lumps of butter. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 



Smelts. 

Split the smelts down the back, take out the intes- 
tines and backbone ; most of the side bones will come 
with it.; wipe clean and salt the inside lightly. Roll in 
salted corn meal and fry quickl}^ in very hot deep fat, or 
in butter. The fat must be very hot to brown quickly or 
the fish will become hard. Serve with tartare sauce. 



Fish Turbot. 

Will Serve Four. 

Steam until tender a white-meated fish. When done, 
remove the bones, pick up very fine, and season with pep- 
per and salt. 

Dressing. 

I pint of milk i tablespoonful of fiour 

A large lump of butter i or 2 eggs 

Onion and parsley 

Heat the milk, salt to taste, and thicken with the flour. 
When cool add the butter (melted), eggs well beaten, and 
season with onion or parsley. Put in the baking dish a 
layer of fish, then a layer of sauce, until full ; cover the 
top with bread crumbs and bake half or three-quarters 
of an hour. Canned salmon, any cold boiled fish, or salt 
codfish freshened, can be prepared in the same way and 
are very nice. 



20 CLEVER COOKING 



Fish Cream Cutlets. 

Will Serve Six. 

Chop, with a silver knife, i pound of uncooked hali- 
but rather fine ; add i teaspoonful of salt, two table- 
spoonfuls of minced almonds, a drop or two of onion 
juice, a dash of cayenne and the unbeaten white of one 
egg. Mix well and stir in y^ piut of whipped cream. 
This cream must be stiff and fine. Put this mixture into 
small cutlet shaped molds ; stand them in a steamer 
and cook about ten minutes. Turn carefully from the 
molds. Cover the bottom of the serving dish with cream 
sauce, arrange the cutlets, put a pretty sprig of double 
parsley in the "bone" end of each and serve very hot. 
Sightly and very good. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER 
and The Household News Co. 



Flaked Fish Steamed. 

Will Serve Six. 

1 cup of cold fish 2 cups of mashed potatoes 
Yz cup of cream or milk 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 

2 hard boiled eggs butter 

I raw egg i teaspoonful lemon juice 

I teaspoonful of salt. J<2 saltspoonful of pepper 

A dash of cayenne 
I tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

Flake the fish carefully. To the hot mashed potato 
add the cream and melted butter, stir in the fish, then 
the hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, followed by beaten 
egg and seasoning. Steam for one-half hour in buttered 
pudding mold. Serve with either cream or tomato sauce 
poured over it. 

MRS. GEORGE H. HEILBROX. 



Creamed Fish. 

Take any nice, firm-fieshed fish. Boil and remove the 
bones.vChop one small onion and a little parsley very fine 
and. mix in with the fish, adding salt and pepper. Put it 
in a deep dish and cover with bread cruml)s about two 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 21 

inches deep. Put small lumps of butter over it and add 
a little nutmeg (if you like it), and pour sweet cream 
over it until it is all wet. Bake in a quick oven until 
nicely browned. 

MISS MALTBY. 

Baked Salmon. 

For Fish Weighing Four or Five Pounds. 
Leave fish whole and fill with dressing made as fol- 
lows : 

2 cups of bread crumbs 

I tablespoonful of butter 

I scant teaspoonful of salt 

I teaspoonful of thyme or summer savory. 

Sew up fish and bake one hour; place slices of salt 
pork over fish ; baste often ; enough water should be put 
in pan to keep it from burning. Serve with cream sauce 
made as follows : 

Cream sauce (have ready in saucepan) 

Yz cup of hot water 

Yo teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce 

1 cup cream or rich milk 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

I tablespoonful of flour or corn starch 

Add drippings from pan in which fish was baked ; 
flavor with parsley chopped fine. 

MRS. JAMES FIELDS. 



Salmon in Mould. 

Will Serve Six. 

I can salmon or i pound of 4 tablespoonfuls of butter 

cold boiled salmon i cup of bread crumbs 

3 eggs Milk, pepper and salt 

Chop the fish and rub it in a bowl with a silver spoon 
with the butter until it is a paste. Beat the bread crumbs 
with the well-beaten eggs and season with salt and pep- 
per, adding this mixture to the salmon and working all 
together with a little milk or cream. Put in a covered 



22 CLEEER COOKING 



buttered mould and boil one hour and a quarter. Turn 
out and serve with the following sauce : 

1 cup of milk I tablespoonful corn starch 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i teaspoonful of catsup 
Pinch of mace Pepper 

I tablespoonful of chopped i egg- 
parsley 

Boil the milk and thicken with corn starch and but- 
ter. Add the seasoning, pour all carefully over the beaten 
egg, cook one minute and pour over the form of salmon. 
Serve hot. ^,jf^S_ S_ ^Y. R. DALLY. 



Escalloped Halibut. 

Will Serve Six. 

2 cups cold boiled halibut ij4 cups milk 
1/ cup fine bread crumbs i large tablespoonful flour 
I teaspoonful onion juice J^ tablespoonful butter 
i^^ teaspoonfuls finely i cup white sauce 

chopped parsley Salt, cayenne 

Flake the halibut, removing all bone and skin. If a 
white or egg sauce is served with the fish and there is 
any left, mix with the fish. Make the white sauce, mix 
one-half the sauce with the fish, one tablespoonful of the 
parsle.y, the onion juice, salt and cayenne. Butter a shal- 
low pudding dish, put in the fish, smooth the top, cover 
with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle with parsley, 
bread crumbs and the butter scattered in bits over the 
bread crumbs. Put the dish in a pan of boiling water and 
put in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Should brown 
nicely in that time. ^/^^^^ EDMUND BOWDEN. 



Halibut a la Poulette. 

Will Serve Six. 

Sprinkle three slices of halibut with the juice of one 
lemon and salt and pepper. Put a slice of onion on each 
and set away for thirty minutes. Dip each piece in melt- 
ed butter, roll up and fasten with a toothpick. Put in a 
pan and dredge with flour and bake twenty minutes. Re- 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 23 

move picks, sprinkle with the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs chopped very fine. Pour over the sauce and garnish 
with the whites of the eggs cut into rings. 

Sauce. 

Boil ^ tablespoonful of onion and 2 teaspoonfuls of 
butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour together until done. 
Stir in slowly i cup of soup stock, i cup of cream, i tea- 
spoonful salt, ^ teaspoonful of pepper ; boil up once and 
strain and add i tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

MRS. E. W. ANDREWS. 



Fish Croquettes. 

Any fish may be used for croquettes, but the white 
meat is the best ; for instance, halibut. After boiling, 
pick the fish into small pieces, taking out all the bones. 
Mix with a white sauce, season with salt and pepper and 
a little chopped parsley, if desired. Shape into cylindri- 
cal balls, roll in crumbs, then &gg, then crumbs again, 
and fry in deep lard. A nice way to use up cold fish. 
MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Salmon Timbales. 

Will Serve Six or Eight. 
I can salmon i tablespoonful lemon juice 

I tablespoonful melted 3 eggs 

butter Salt and pepper 

^ cup soft bread crumbs 

Remove bones from salmon. Chop fine and add but- 
ter and seasoning, the bread crumbs, lemon juice and 
eggs. Mix thoroughly and bake in timbale moulds. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. . 



To Fry Black Cod. 

(The Finest Fish we have on the Coast.) 
Cut the fish into slices, not too thin ; wipe dry ; dip 
in flour seasoned with pepper and salt ; fry in a little olive 



24 CLEVER COOKING 



oil, having oil hot before fish is put in. Brown nicely on 
both sides and serve hot with mayonnaise sauce, to 
which a little sour pickle or chow-chow (chopped fine) 
has been added. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Steamed Clams. 

Wash the clams thoroughly with a stiff brush. Fit a 
steamer with a soup plate, or, better, a jelly cake tin, so 
there is a margin all around to allow the steam to come 
up freely. Pile the clams on the tin, put in the steamer 
and cover closely. The kettle should be boiling hard and 
there should be plenty of water when the clams are put 
in. It will take fifteen minutes or longer for the clams 
to open, according to size, and they should be as nearly 
one size as possible. Have prepared some nice rounds 
of toast, hot; quickly take out the clams and lay on the 
toast, squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the tin with 
the clam liquor, add a dash or two of cayenne and pour 
over the clams ; then bathe in melted butter, so that each 
clam is moistened. If you are qtdck you can cut ofif the 
black heads with scissors, which will improve them, but 
you must not let them cool. Serve immediately. The 
clams should be in the steamer only just long enough to 
open. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Deviled Clams No. i. 

Will Serve Eight. 

4 qt. pail of clams (with i cup of cream or milk 

shells on) i tablespoonful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 tablespoonfuls of dry 
Yolks of 2 raw eggs bread crumbs 

I tablespoonful of chopped Salt and pepper to taste 
parsley 

Remove clams from their shells. Drain and rinse 
them. Chop very fine. Scald the cream (or milk). Rub 
the butter and flour together until smo6th, add to the 
scalded cream and stir until it thickens. Then add the 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 25 

bread crumbs, eggs and parsley. Take from the fire, mix 
well together, stir in the clams, add salt and pepper. Do 
not add salt until the clams are stirred in for they may 
flavor the mixture sufficiently. Fill clam, scollop or sil- 
ver shells, brush over with the beaten yolk of an egg, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and brown in a hot oven. 

MRS. WM. H. DeWOLF. 



Deviled Clams No. 2. 

Will Serve Six. 

25 good sized clams i small onion 

3 crackers rolled fine i small piece of bacon 

I tablespoonful of butter Salt and pepper 

Chop together the clams, onion and bacon and dredge 
with the crackers. Wash some large shells, fill with the 
mixture, which should be well seasoned with salt and 
pepper. On each shell put a small piece of butter and a 
sprig of parsley. Roast about fifteen minutes and serve 
hot. 

MRS. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 



Clam Pot Pie. 

Will Serve Eight. 

I quart clams Salt and pepper 

I dozen crackers pounded fine 

Place a narrow rim of paste round the upper part of 
the baking dish. Then sprinkle a thin layer of the cracker 
over the bottom of the dish, then a layer of clams ; over 
them place small pieces of butter, salt and pepper. Re- 
peat until the last two layers, when use soda crackers 
in place of the powdered. Moisten the whole with a 
little milk, cover with a nice paste and bake like a pie. 

MRS. V. A. RITON. 



Oyster Cocktail. 

Served in punch or champagne glasses or bouillon 
cups. To every glass allow : 



26 CLEVER COOKING 



I teasponful of lemon juice 

1 tablespoonful of strained tomato 

2 tablespoonfnls of tomato catsup 
54 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls of Sound oysters 

I drop tobasco sauce 
A little salt 

If the tomato catsup is very mild put in no strained 
tomato and proportionately more catsup. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Oyster Fricassee. 

Dry one quart of oysters. Brown some butter in a 
saucepan and add the oysters. Keep stirring all the time 
in the hot butter until they plump ; then add i pint of 
boiling cream, in which you have stirred 2 tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Salt and pepper to taste. Have some large 
crackers warmed aqd on a meat platter and pour oysters 
over them. 

Creamed Oysters. 

Will Serve Six. 

Put a bit of onion as large as a bean and % oi a. blade 
of mace, with a pint of cream, into a double boiler. Put 
one quart (or can) of Eastern oysters into a saucepan 
and let cook in their own liquor until they are plump and 
the edges begin to curl. Skim and set aside where they 
will keep hot but not cook. When the cream comes to a 
boil thicken with a tablespoonful of flour mixed in a 
little cold cream or milk. Let boil up, season with salt 
and cayenne, skim out the onion and mace. Drain the 
oysters and add to the cream. A dessert spoonful of 
sherry may be added if liked. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Frizzled Oysters. 

Have ready on a platter sufficient toast, which has 
been dipped quickly into hot slightly salted water, and 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 27 

buttered. Turn the oysters, with only their own Hquor, 
into a very hot frying pan ; season with salt and pepper. 
Soon as their edges begin to curl stir in a large spoonful 
of butter, and turn immediately over the toast. Nice for 
breakfast. 

Oysters en Beure Noir. 

Will Serve Four. 
I pint of oysters 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

1^2 tablespoonfuls of vin- Salt, and a dash of cayenne 
egar 
Drain and rinse the oysters, let stand a half hour and 
cook in the liquor formed until plump ; sprinkle with 
salt. Brown the butter, but be careful not to burn ; add 
the pepper and vinegar, then the oysters. Fill timbale 
cases and serve hot. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 



Oysters Served in Shells. 

Drain six large oysters and wash the shells. Marinate 
the oysters with melted butter, salt and pepper and 
minced parsley. Fill the shells and cover with rolled 
bread crumbs. Put bits of butter on top and brown 
in a very hot oven. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 
(Mrs. Hinckley's Portland Cooking Class.) 



Deviled Oysters. 

1 pint oysters ^ teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter i cup cream or milk 
2 tablespoons flour Yolks of 2 eggs 

I tablespoon chopped pars- Bread crumbs 
ley Cayenne 

Drain and chop oysters ; melt butter and add flour 
and pour in slowly the hot cream or milk ; add eggs and 
seasoning, then oysters, and fill buttered shells or one 
large dish with the mixture. Cover with buttered bread 
crumbs and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

- MRS. A. D. BISHOP. 



28 CLEVER COOKING 



To Fry Small Oysters. 

I quart of oysters 3 eggs, well beaten 

I cup of corn meal 

Drain the liquor from the oysters and wipe them dry. 
Take three or four at a time and dip into the egg, then 
in the meal and again in the ^gg, keeping the oysters to- 
gether. Put them on a platter until all are treated in this 
way, and then fry a few at a time in equal parts of hot 
butter and drippings. Olive oil may be used instead of 
butter, and makes them very rich. Season with red pep- 
per and salt to taste. Cook until brown, turning carefully 
to keep them in shape, and be sure they are well done. 
Serve very hot with slices of lemon. 

MRS. CHARLES J. RILEY. 



Toasted Oysters. 

Wrap one large or two or three small oysters in very 
thin slices of bacon, having put a little cayenne and lemon 
juice on the oysters. Stick toothpicks through to hold 
in place, and broil or fry until bacon is crisp. Do not 
take out toothpicks. Serve hot. 

MISS HOPKINS. 



Olympia Oysters on Toast. 

Will Serve Six. 

1 quart of oysters i cup of cream or rich milk 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 
I teaspoonful of lemon juice Salt and cayenne pepper 

Drain the oysters and throw them into a hot pan and 
stir carefully until they look plump. Heat the butter, 
into which stir the flour, rubbing until smooth, and add 
gradually the cream. When thoroughly cooked pour 
over the oysters in the pan, heat through, put in the salt 
and pepper, and lastly the lemon juice. Pour over crack- 
ers or nicelv toasted bread. 

MRS. A. W. ENGLE. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 29 

Escalloped Oysters. 

1 quart oysters 7 tablespoonfnls butter, 

2 cups water melted 

I tablespoonful lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

3 pints bread crumbs i cup cream 

Salt and pepper 

Drain and wash the oysters and heat slowly with the 
water until the gills ruffle. Add a little salt. Make a 
sauce with three tablespoonfuls of the butter and the 
flour and two cups of the warm water drained from the 
oysters. Cook and add the cream. Pour the remaining 
butter over the crumbs ; add pepper and salt. Put in 
deep dish in layers, first crumbs, then sauce, then oysters, 
having crumbs on top, and brown in oven. 

MRS. E. B. EDGERS. 



Pigs in Blankets. 

Take large Eastern oysters, wipe them dry, wrap a 
slice of shaved bacon around each oyster, put on skewers. 
Broil till bacon is well cooked and serve on toast. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Celeried Oysters. 

For I dozen large oysters, put i teaspoonful of butter 
in a stewpan ; add i tablespoonful of minced celerj^ and 
the oysters ; cover and cook till the oysters are plump 
and the edges begin to curl ; add seasoning and a little 
sherrv. Let it boil once and serve very hot on toast. 



Oyster Kabobs. 

Put one large tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan, 
add a small onion, chopped very fine, a dessert spoonful 
of parsley and a dozen mushrooms chopped ; let these 
fry one minute ; add one dessert spoonful (scant) of 
flour; stir well together; then drop in as many oysters 



30 CLEVER COOKING 



as required, which have previously been blanched and 
bearded. Stir and add the beaten yolks of three eggs, 
one at a time, taking care they do not curdle but get just 
thick enough to adhere to the oysters. Take skewers 
and string six oysters onto each one, basting with the 
sauce wherever it does not adhere. Let these cool, then 
roll in beaten egg and abundant cracker meal, so that it 
looks like a sausage with a skewer run through length- 
wise. Fry in deep fat two minutes. Great care must be 
taken to have the fat hot enough, about 380 to 400 de- 
grees, so that the oysters will become a pale brown in 
that time, as they would become hard and tough if 
cooked longer. Serve on a napkin, allowing one skewer 
to each person. 

ADELAIDE M. BLACKWELL. 



Oysters a la Poulette. 

Put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a hot saucepan ; 
melt and add 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion and i of 
parsley, i bay leaf and a sprig of thyme. Siniwfr for 
ten minutes, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour. Have i 
cup of stock hot and pour gradually over the ingredients 
in the saucepan ; strain into a double boiler ; season ; 
add I cup of hot cream and stir well until thick. 

Drain i pint of oysters, pour cold water over them 
and drain again, then squeeze lemon juice over them and 
cook till plump, and add to the sauce. 

Have ready shells prepared as follows : Cut slices of 
bread an inch and a quarter thick, and with a biscuit cut- 
ter cut rounds from each slice. With a small cutter cut 
nearly through the round and remove the center, leaving 
a cup. Roll these in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs, 
and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown. Fill with the 
prepared oysters and serve hot, garnished with a sprig 
of parsley. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 31 

Olympia Oysters and Fresh Mushrooms. 

Will Serve Six. 

2 cups of mushrooms (a i pint of oysters 

few more or less will 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
not matter) 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

% cup of sherry 

Peel and break into small pieces the mushrooms and 
put them in a stewpan with a little water; cook until 
tender, stirring frequently. Heat the butter and stir into 
it the flour, rubbing smooth ; add the cream gradually 
and let it boil up once. Add to this the mushrooms and 
oysters. Season with salt and cayenne pepper and add 
the wine. Serve on toast. MRS. A. W. ENGLE. 

Oyster Patties. 

Will Serve Eight. 

I pint solid native oysters i large tablespoonful butter 

1 saltspoonful salt i saltspoonful pepper 

2 small tablespoonfuls flour 2 small cups milk 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

Stir your flour, pepper and salt in a little cold milk, 
then stir this into your boiling milk and add butter. When 
this is the consistency of cream, have a quart of boiling 
water and pour your oysters into it, and give them a 
shake or a stir with a spoon ; then turn immediately into 
a colander, drain well, and stir them into your cream. 
Set over a slow fire for five minutes for oysters to finish 
cooking. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a little milk and 
stir into your cream, then fill your shell. This will serve 
eight persons. 

CHARLES MULCAHEY (Chef Rainier-Grand). 

Deviled Crabs. 

Make one pint of cream sauce and add : 

%. teaspoonful cayenne i teaspoonful made mustard 

I teaspoonful lemon juice i tablespoonful wine 
I pint crab meat 

Make the sauce thick, as the crabs liquify it. 

MRS. CHARLES SHEPARD. 



32 , CLEVER COOKING 



Crab a la Roi. 

Will Serve Six. 

1 can of tomatoes i slice of onion 

2 cups of crab meat i cup of cream 
I pinch of salt i red pepper 

I lump of butter size of an Qgg 

Cook the tomatoes with a pinch of salt, red pepper 
and slice of onion at least two hours. Then strain 
through a colander. Shred the crabs very fine, add the 
cream, then mix the crab with the tomatoes and just let 
it come to a boil ; put in the butter but do not cook. 
Serve on small pieces of buttered toast on a warm dish. 

MRS. HOMER F. NORTON. 



Crab Pates a la Creole. 

This will make Nine Pates. 

1 large Dungeness crab i cup rice 

2 eggs fi cup milk 

4 tablespoonfuls of melted i small pinch of cayenne 

butter pepper 

I quart boiling water Salt and pepper to taste 

Crack the shells of the crab, remove all of the white 
meat from the claws and body, also the yellow "fat" next 
the back shell, as this fat is the richest portion of the 
crab. Mince fine and set aside until the rice is ready. 
Wash the rice in several waters, then boil in double 
boiler, covering the rice with the boiling water. Do not 
stir at all, but let boil until dry and tender. Stir the hot 
rice into the minced crab, add the butter, milk and sea- 
soning, then last of all the beaten eggs. Drop into well- 
buttered granite or iron gem pans, heap up as full as 
possible, brush over the top with beaten egg and bake 
in a hot oven until of a rich golden brown color, or it 
may be baked in an earthern dish. 

MRS. C. P. DAM. 



CLEVER COOKING 33 



34 CLEVER COOKING 



McCarthy Dry Goods Co, 



FINE HOUSEKEEPING LINENS 



Uhe Tl^ost Complete and 9/^ost Carefuili/ Selected Stoo/c 
in the V^orthwest. 



Full bleached, all linen Satin Damask, Irish and Scotch 
Linens, 2 yards wide, at 85c. Sl.OO, 1,25, 1,50, 1,75, 2,00, 
2,25 and 2.50 a yard; with large ^ size Dinner Napkins 
to match each pattern. 

Cream Table Damask, fine quality, 72 inches wide, 
at ,95c, SU5, 1.35 and 1.50 a yard. 

EXTRA SPECIAL— Satin Damask, l^A yards wide, at 
$1.75 and 2.75 a yard, with Napkins to match. 

Satin Damask Cloths, Irish and Scotch Linens; sizes, 8x8, 
8x10, 8x12, 8x14, 8x16, in all qualities, with Napkins to 
match each cloth. 

Silver Bleached Barnsley Crashes, complete lines, all 
grades. 

Glass Towelings in all qualities. 

Royal Society Art Linens, all widths and all qualities. 

Handkerchief Linens in all the new sheer weaves. 

Hemstitched and Hand'-embroidered Doilies, Lunch' 
cloths, Traycloths, and Sideboard and Buffet Scarfs in 
endless variety and all prices. 



It is a matter of pride and pleasure for our salesmen to 
show these beautiful lines whether you purchase or not. 



McCarthy Dry Goods Co. 

Second ytvenue and TT^adison Street, Seattle, *l//ash. 



MEATS 



'O! the roast beef of Old England." — Fielding. 



"Venison's a Caesar in the fiercest fray, 
Turtle an Alexander in the way; 
And in quarrels of a slighter nature, 
Mutton's a most successful mediator." — Pindar. 



Roast Beef. 

Buy a prime roast (first, second or third ribs). Have 
the butcher cut off the ends of the ribs, making a stand- 
ing roast. Wipe clean with a damp cloth. Do not wash. 
Put a heavy steel frying pan onto the range and let it get 
very hot then put the roast in and sear over all the cut 
surfaces. This keeps the juices in, and if thoroughly done 
a small roast can be made almost as juicy as a large one. 
Salt and pepper the meat, run a steel skewer through the 
fleshy part to keep it from bulging ; put the meat rack in 
the pan, place the roast on it, cut side up, and dredge well 
with flour, not forgetting the pan. Put in the oven, and 
when the flour in the pan has browned add enough hot 
water to just cover the bottom. The oven should be very 
hot at first, and should be diminished a little after the 
roast has browned. From this time baste every five min- 
utes, keeping only enough water in the pan to prevent 
burning; any more makes too much steam and draws 
out the juices. An eight-pound roast will be well done on 
the outside and rare in the middle in one hour. Save the 
ribs cut off for braised short ribs. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



36 CLEVER COOKING 



Fillet of Beef. 

Lard the vipper side, dredge with salt, pepper and 
flour. Put several pieces of salt pork in the pan under 
the meat. Bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. If you 
prefer omit the pork and put the choice pieces of beef fat 
over the meat. Serve with mushroom sauce. 



Braised Short Ribs. 

2 or 3 short ribs i onion 

5 slices salt pork. 

Put the salt pork on the stove in a braising or dripping 
pan and slice the onion in it. Fry till a golden brown, 
dredge the ribs well with flour and brown also ; then 
cover with a pint of hot water, set in the oven and cook 
for three hours, having the braising pan closely covered. 
Baste often and add more water if necessary. This is a 
very satisfactory way to treat any of the tougher cuts of 
meat. Sprinkle quite thickly with pepper and salt. It is 
impossible to give exact quantity as it would vary with 
weight of meat. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 



Crown of Mutton. 

4 lbs. of ribs of young mut- yi cup butter 

ton Salt, pepper and celeiy 

Have your butcher trim the ribs two inches down and 
take off the backbone, and tie in a circle with the bones 
erect. Put in baking pan with a few stalks of celery and 
the seasoning, butter, and a pint of water. Roast, allow- 
ing fifteen minutes to a pound. Baste often. Ten min- 
utes before serving remove the top pan and brown. Very 
nice served with green peas in the circle of meat. 

MRS. FRANK W.* PARKER. 



Leg of Lamb with Dressing. 

Buy a hind quarter of spring lamb ; have the leg cut 
off and boned the same as a fillet of veal. The remainder 
of the quarter may be cut into chops. Make dressing, 



HEATS 37 

using about i^ cups of grated bread, i tablespoonful of 
minced mint, salt and pepper, soft butter sufficient to 
moisten slightly, and about half as many chopped pecans 
as bread crumbs. Rub the meat with salt and pepper in- 
side and out, put in the dressing, taking care to fill the 
cavity so as to give shape to the leg, but do not press too 
tight or the dressing will be heavy. Roast about fifteen 
minutes to the pound ; baste very often, or it will be dry. 
Put a bouquet of herbs, or a few sprigs of mint in the 
pan, and serve with a nice brown or mint sauce, or with 
a mint sorbet. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Leg of Mutton. 

Peel back the outside skin and with a sharp-pointed 
knife make slits or gashes, into which force thin slices of 
salt pork which have been rolled in equal parts of ground 
cloves and alspice. Replace the skin and roast, basting 
frequently. 

MRS. HELEN M. flUNT. 



Boiled Dinner. 

Put the meat on in hot water and boil three hours be- 
fore adding the vegetables. The usual ones are potatoes, 
cabbage, turnips and beets ; some, however, add carrots 
and parsnips. Put the first three into a wire basket on 
top of the meat, keeping all covered with water and boil 
one hour, making four hours the entire time for boiling 
meat. The beets, on account of discoloring the other 
vegetables, should be boiled in a separate kettle, and un- 
less very young will require two hours' boiling. 

A boiled dinner may be served in two ways : The 
meat on a large platter with the vegetables placed 
around it, or the potatoes and turnips mashed separately 
or together, and beets and cabbage each in a vegetable 
dish. 

MRS. SARAH CONANT. 

Use Only Extracts from Pidduck-Ross Co. 



38 CLEVER COOKING 



To Corn Beef. 

Use a pint of rock salt to one gallon of cold water; 
let it come to a boil, skimming carefully. Cool before 
putting in the beef. Leave in brine four or five days. 

MRS. SARAH CONANT. 



To Corn Beef. 

Get a piece of round beef from below the hip (with the 
bone attached), weighing thirteen or fourteen pounds. 
Rub over it a mixture of i teaspoonful of salt petre and i 
tablespoonful of sugar ; then rub one large handful of 
salt very thoroughly into each side of it, getting into all 
the creases. Set away in a cool place and baste it well 
every day for eight days in its own liquor, being careful 
to turn it over each day. Boil it about six hours, or until 
tender. Better when eaten cold, thinly sliced. 

MISS COLLINS. 



Veal Cutlets. 

Dip the cutlets in egg, then in bread crumbs, and cook 
on top of the stove until brown on both sides. Then 
cover and cook in the oven about three-quarters of an 
hour. Make a brown thickened gravy of the fat in the 
pan after the cutlets are removed, a good lump of butter, 
some flour and heated milk. Pour over the cutlets on 
the platter. ^/[^.g^ CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



To Fry Chicken. 

Joint the chicken ; put into a dish and set into a 
steamer, which should be ready with the water boiling, 
and steam until tender. Take up and fry quickly in very 
hot fat, half butter and half beef suet, until lightly 
browned. Serve with a cream gravy. An onion and a 
stalk of celery cut up fine and put into the steamer with 
the chickens gives a good flavor. This method is for a 
chicken a year old. While cooking, keep the pan well 
covered. MRS. HINCHLIFFE. 



HEATS 39 

Roast Turkey or Chicken. 

Having prepared the fowls for roasting, make a thick 
dough of graham flour and water and roll out one inch 
thick. Have it large enough to cover the fowl completely. 
Butter the fowl thoroughly, then place the rolled dough 
over, being careful to press down around the neck and 
legs. Pour boiling water into the pan about one inch 
deep. Have the oven very hoi; keep just enough water 
in the bottom of pan to prevent burning. One-half hour 
before serving time remove the pan from the oven and 
lift off the dough blanket. The turkey will be tender but 
white. Cool the oven and brown the turkey. There is 
no basting or opening of the oven door except to see that 
the water in the pan has not boiled out. 

MRS. HINCHLIFFE. 



Tongue with Sweet Gravy. 

Boil a fresh beef tongue in salt water until very ten- 
der, having about one quart of water when done. Brown 
without burning (in a large skillet), a large teacupful of 
flour, in half butter and half lard. Thin it out slowly 
with the liquid, stir till smooth, adding a few cloves, y^ 
teacupful of sugar and Yi teacupful of strong vinegar ; 
also a teacup of raisins and a little more salt if necessary. 
Skin the tongue while hot, cut in slices and place while 
warm on a large meat dish, pouring the gravy over it, 
and. garnish with a few slices of lemon and blanched al- 
monds. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 



Cold Tongue. 

Cook about three hours in a large kettle ; put Yz pint 
of salt and 2 large green peppers in the water; let get 
cold in water. If green peppers are out of season, put in 
a dozen of the little red peppers. 

To serve tongue hot, pour over it tomato sauce made 
from Mrs. Erastus Brainerd's recipe. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



40 CLEVER COOKING 



Curried Mutton. 

Will Serve Four. 

I cup of cold mutton cut in i small onion 

dice ij^ cups of new milk 

I tablespoonful flour i heaping teaspoonful of 
Butter size of walnut curry 

Fry the mutton and onion together with the butter. 
When brown add the milk and thicken with flour, into 
which the curry has been stirred. Boil in a double boiler 
at least an hour. Serve with boiled rice, putting curry 
m the center of the platter, arranging the boiled rice 
around it. When the curry is done it should be the con- 
sistency of thick cream. 

MRS. T. M. DAULTON. 



Jellied Tongue. 

Will Serve Twelve. 
One cup of the liquor in which the tongue was cooked. 

2 cups good stock of any ^^X box of gelatine 

meat except mvitton i gill of cold water 

I cup boiling water 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

I glass of sherry i cold boiled tongue, sliced 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for two hours ; 
pour over it the boiling water, the stock and the tongue 
liquor, heated. Unless the stock is highly seasoned, boil 
a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, slice of onion and a few 
sweet herbs in a cup of water, and then strain this and 
pour it over the gelatine instead of using the plain boil- 
ing water. Flavor the jelly with the vinegar and sherry, 
pepper and salt, strain through a cloth. When the jelly 
begins to harden pour a little of it in a mould, first wet- 
ting the mould in a little cold water. Arrange slices of 
tongue on this, pour in more jelly, then another layer of 
tongue, and so on until the materials are all used, having 
jelly on top. Set the mould on ice until hard, then turn 
it out and slice. 

MRS. ALBERT T. TIMMERMAN. 



Delicious Teas Are to Be Had at Pidduck-Ross Co. 



riEATS 41 



English Pie. 

i^ lbs. round steak i tablespoonful flour 

I medium sized onion 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
Salt and pepper 

Invert a cup in the center of a pan. Cut the steak 
into small pieces and place around the cup ; slice the 
onion fine and sprinkle over the meat. Mix the flour and 
butter and spread over the onion ; add seasoning. Cover 
with cold water and bake three hours. About twenty 
minutes before serving cover with rich pufl: paste and 
brown in the oven. The cup will be filled with rich brown 
gravy. 

MRS. C. E. McTEIGH. 



French Mutton Stew. 

Cut the mutton in pieces one-half the size of the hand. 
Place in a stew pan with one tablespoonful of hot fat and 
brown on both sides. Now add one tablespoonful of 
flour, mix well and add just enough stock or water to 
cover the meat. Skim while boiling one-quarter of an 
hour. Add two small onions sliced. Cook steady one 
hour more. 

MRS. L. H. GRAY. 



Pot Roast. 

Four to six pounds from the rump or the round ; wipe 
with a wet cloth. Sear by placing in a hot frying pan 
and turning until surface is browned. Put in a kettle 
with one cup of water; keep just below the boiling point. 
Do not let the water boil entirely away, but add ojily 
enough to keep from burning. Keep cover closed to keep 
in steam. Cook very tender, but not so as to break. Serve 
hot or cold. The meat when cold may be cut in slices 
and fried in hot butter. 

From MRS. LINCOLN'S COOK BOOK. 



42 CLEVER COOKING 



English Dobe. 

6 lbs. lean beef (off the i pint tomatoes 

rnmp) i pint mushrooms 

2 large onions 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

5^2 *cup of butter Salt and pepper 

Put butter in a stew pot and fry with sliced onions 
until brown ; remove the onions and add the meat, 
browning on both sides. Remove the meat and tomatoes 
and the fried onion, thicken with flour; add a pint of 
boiling water and seasoning. Put in the meat and cook 
slowly with kettle closely covered for three or four 
hours ; turn the meat occasionally ; add niore water as 
it cooks away. When ready to serve place meat on plat- 
ter and pour over it the gravy, to which the mushrooms 
have been added. ^RS. FRANK W. PARKER. 

Veal Blanchette. 

One-half breast of veal. Cut into small pieces and 
boil in water enough to cover. Season with a little mace, 
salt and pepper. When quite tender transfer the meat 
into cold water to blanch. Boil a pint of macaroni 
(broken) in milk until tender. Cream y^ pound of but- 
ter and two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir into the water 
in which the veal was cooked. Add meat and macaroni 
and let come to boiling point before serving. 

MRS. L. B. STEDMAN. 

Spiced Beef. 

Boil a three or four-pound roast slowly for three or 
four hours. Chop very fine. Add half a teaspoonful of 
cloves, cinnamon and a pinch of nutmeg. Salt and pep- 
per to taste and turn into a mould. MRS BONE 

Mock Duck. 

ij^ lbs. round steak 2 hard boiled eggs 

Little chopped onion Pepper, salt 

Few whole cloves Cracker crumbs 

I can tomatoes 

Roll the steak and tie it; place in a pot with a little 
suet melted in it, and brown. Add a can of tomatoes and 



MEATS 43 

cook two hours ; season ; thicken a little. Untie meat 
and serve with the tomato savice. 

MRS. LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 



Baked Calf's Liver. 

I whole (or half) calf's liver Salt and pepper 
Sliced bacon Little onion 

Cover the liver with sliced bacon, sprinkle with the 
salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Rub the bottom 
of a covered baking pan with onion, put in liver, add a 
little water and bake about an hour. Make gravy as for 
anv roast. 

MRS. A. D. BISHOP. 



Jellied Veal. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

2 pounds breast of veal i teaspooxiful of thyme 

I teaspoonful of savory >'2 teaspoonful of marjoram 

Salt Pepper 

Nutmeg 2 bay leaves 

4 tablespoonfuls of parsley, ^ lemon 

chopped 3 eggs hard boiled 

Cut the veal into small pieces and put with the bones 
into boiling water. Simmer one hour. Remove the 
meat and add to the bones and water, the herbs and sea- 
soning. Simmer two hours, strain and pour over the 
other ingredients, which have been arranged in a deep 
buttered dish as follows : A layer of small pieces of veal, 
over these sprinkle salt, pepper, a little lemon juice and 
grated rind ; also a suspicion of nutmeg. Then a layer 
of hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices, chopped parsley 
sprinkled between, another layer of veal, with seasoning 
as before ; so on until all the veal and ^%g are used. Pour 
the hot soup over this ; when cold turn out and cut in 
thin slices. Serve very cold. 

MRS. S. W. R. DALLY. 

If It's from Pidduck-Ross Co.'s It's Good. 



44 CLEVER COOKINQ 



French Ragout. 

Will Serve Six. 
3 lbs. lean beef 4 medium sized onions 

I tablespoonful of French coloring flour 

Cut the meat in about two-inch squares, season and 
roll well in flour. Slash onions in quarters (do not cut 
apart), and stick a whole clove in each quarter. Sprinkle 
flour plentifully in bottom of baking pan or saucepan, 
put in onions, then the floured meat and tablespoonful of 
caramel or French coloring, cover with water and sim- 
mer in oven four hours, putting on more water as it is 
needed. 

MRS. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 



Boiled Ham. 

Trim off the hard dark part and cover with cold wa- 
ter ; simmer slowly, allowing half an hour to the pound. 
Take from the fire ; let it remain in the water until nearly 
cold, then skim and sprinkle sugar and grated bread or 
cracker crumbs over the top and brown in the oven. 
MRS. LINCOLN'S COOK BOOK. 



Pork Tenderloins. 

1. Cut in thin slices and fry in hot lard. 

2. Do not let the butcher cut them. Cut them 
nearly through lengthwise, and fill with a dressing made 
as for poultry. Tie together with string and bake about 
half an hour. Remove strins; before sending to the table. 



Venison Steak. 

Venison steak i^ inches i tablespoonful butter 
thick I saltspoonful salt 

I teaspoonful lemon juice 2 tablespoonfuls quince jelly 
Yi pint claret or Maderia A bit of mace 
A pinch of cayenne 

Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in steak, cover 
and cook three minutes ; turn and cook three minutes 



MEATS 45 



longer. Add the other ingredients and simmer all to- 
gether six minutes. Serve on hot plates. 



Stewed Pigeons. 

Pick, draw and clean, then lay in cold salted water 
for one hour. Put to cook in a pot with cold water to 
cover them. Stew until quite tender, then add milk, but- 
ter, pepper and salt to taste. Thicken with flour and 
milk and serve. Doves may be treated in the same man- 
ner. 

MRS. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 



Native Wild Ducks. 

First in excellence is the mallard, then the teal, and 
the widgeon, during the winter months. 

Dry pick the duck, singe, clean thoroughly and wipe 
dry with a clean towel. If badly shot wash in cold salt 
water, or even soak half an hour in salt and water, wip- 
ing well before stuffing. The stuffing: 

2 teacupfuls stale bread i tablespoonful of butter 

crumbs ^ (scant) teaspoonful dried 

Pepper and salt thyme 

Crumb the bread very fine, add the seasoning and the 
butter broken in bits. This quantity will stuft' one mal- 
lard or two teal or other small ducks. Tie securely, rub 
the outside with pepper and salt and a little butter, very 
little if the duck is very fat ; put in pan, breast side up, 
in a moderate oven, with just enough water to keep from 
burning. Cover with another pan and cook one hour or 
a trifle more for a mallard or large duck. Do not baste 
as it makes the dressing wet. If not brown enough re- 
move the cover ten minutes before serving. Skim the 
gravy in the pan, add more water if necessary, and 
thicken with flour. Season and serve hot with currant 
jelly. 

MRS. J. W. EDWARDS. 



46 CLEVER COOKING 



Broiled Game Birds. 

Take any small birds, draw, clean and wipe quickly 
with a damp cloth, split down the back, rub with salt 
and pepper and broil over hot coals. Put each bird on a 
triangle of toast and pour over a sauce made as follows : 

Bread Sauce for Game. 

I cup of bread crumbs i slice of onion 

I cup of stock Salt and pepper 

I large tablespoonful butter 
Put in the double boiler, cook half an hour, strain and 
add the butter. Serve at once on a hot platter. Garnish 
with parsley. MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 

Quail au Delire. 

54 lb. of bacon y^ lb. veal liver 

I bay leaf i shallot 

Yt. carrot, chopped A little chopped onion 

Salt and pepper. 
Fry the bacon, add the liver cut in small pieces, the 
vegetables and seasoning and stew until cooked. Pound 
together with a few mushrooms, and rub through a 
sieve. This force meat will stuff two birds. Put a piece 
of butter on the breast of each and roast half an hour, if 
liked rare, longer to be well done ; baste every ten min- 
utes. For the sauce, add i cup of stock to the baking 
pan, thicken, add 2 tablespoonfuls of currant jelly, sea- 
son and serve very hot. Pigeon, reed birds, or any small 
tender birds, cooked after this manner are delicious. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

(To Serve with Roast Beef.) 

% pint sweet milk ^^ cup flour 

3 eggs, whites and yolks A little salt 
beaten separately 
Three-quarters of an hour before the roast is done 
pour some drippings from the beef into another pan ; 
pour in pudding, basting with drippings. When done, 
cut in squares and serve with roast. 

MRS. W. B. GAFFNEY. 



MEATS 47 



Chicken Pie. 



Skin the chicken, put in cold water and cook until ten- 
der. When done salt to taste. Make a sauce of: 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, Pepper and salt 

melted 3 cups of chicken stock 

3 tablespoonfuls flour i cup cream or milk 

Cook sauce until smooth and pour over the chicken. 

Crust. 
2 cups flour I egg 

yi teaspoonful salt i cup milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Stir to a batter and spread on the chicken and bake. 

MRS. JOHN ROSENE. 



Dumplings. 

(For Chicken or Stews.) 

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Pinch of salt 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together, then 
moisten with milk until it will drop easily from a spoon. 
Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling stew and keep closely 
covered for 20 minutes. These dumplings will be very 
light if the proper amount of milk is added ; so rnilk 
should be added until you have a drop batter. 

MRS. A. T. TIMMERMAN. 



Egg Dumplings for Stew. 

I Qgg I cup milk 

I heaping teaspoonful of Flour to make a thick batter 
baking powder Salt 

Drop into hot gravy ; cover and cook about ten min- 
utes. Nice with chicken or lamb stew. 

MRS. C. P. DAM. 
Good Things to Eat at Pidduck-Ross Co.'s. 



48 CLEVER COOKING 



Dressing for Boned Leg of Mutton. 

I cup bread crumbs i tablespoonful parsley 

^ cup chopped almonds i teaspoonful salt 

Little pepper J4 cup butter (melted) 

Mix and fill in the leer when bone has been removed. 



Meats and Their Accompaniments. 

With Roast Beef — Tomato "sauce, grated horseradish, 
mustard, cranberry sauce, pickles. 

With Roast Pork — Apple sauce, cranberry sauce. 

With Roast Veal — Tomato sauce, mushroom sauce, 
onion sauce and cranberry sauce. Horseradish and lem- 
ons are good. 

With Roast Mutton — Currant jelly, caper sauce. 

With Boiled Mutton — Onion sauce, caper sauce. 

With Boiled Fowls — Bread sauce, onion sauce, lemon 
sauce, cranberry sauce, jellies ; also cream sauce. 

With Roast Lamb — Mint sauce, mint sorbet. 

With Roast Turkey — Cranberry sauce, cranberry sor- 
bet, currant jelly. 

With Boiled Turkey — Oyster sauce. 

With Venison or Wild Ducks — Cranberry sauce, cur- 
rant jelly, or currant jelly warmed with port wine. 

With Roast Goose — Apple sauce, cranberry sauce, 
grape or currant jelly. 

With Boiled Fresh Mackerel — Stewed gooseberries. 
With Boiled Bluefish — White cream sauce, lemon 
sauce. 

With Boiled Shad — Mushroom sauce, parsley or egg 
sauce. 

With Fresh Salmon — Green peas, cream sauce. 
Pickles are good with all roast meats. 
Spinach is the proper accompaniment to veal. 
Slices of lemon with all fish. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 



"Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appe- 
tite." — Shakespeare. 



Drawn Butter. 

I tablespoonful flour i tablespoonful butter 

I cup of boiling water J4 teaspoonful salt 

Dash of pepper. 

Melt the butter and stir in the flour; add carefully 
the water, then season. 

Many other sauces are made with drawn butter as a 
foundation : 

Caper Sauce — Add 3 tablespoonfuls of capers. (Boiled 
mutton.) 

Egg Sauce — Add i egg, hard-boiled and chopped fine. 
(Fish.) 

Sauce Piquant — Add 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, 
2 teaspoonfuls each of chopped olives, pickles, parsley 
and capers. 

Brown Sauce. 

I tablespoonful of butter Salt 
I tablespoonful of flour Pepper 

I tablespoonful of onion i teaspoonful of lemon juice 
I cup of stock 

Chop the onion and fry in butter; then add the flour, 
then the stock and seasoning-; strain. 

The following sauces can be made by using brown 
sauce as a foundation : 

Mushroom Sauce — Add V2 cup of mushrooms. 

Olive Sauce — Add 8 olives chopped. (Game.) 

Wine Sauce — Add ^ cup wine and i tablespoonful of 
currant jelly. Thicken a little with flour. (Venison.) 

S. W. S. 



50 CLEVER COOKING 



Caramel. 

I teacupful sugar 4 tablespoonfuls of water 

Put in a skillet over a hot fire and stir constantly 
until thoroughly browned. Add enough water to make 
a thin syrup. Bottle. This will keep any length of time 
and is used for coloring soups and gravies. 

MRS. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 

Mint Sauce. 

For Lamb. 

1 cup fresh chopped mint % cup sugar 

y2 cup vinegar 

Use only leaves and tender part of mint. Let it stand 
an hour before serving. Use more sugar if the vinegar 
IS strong. j^j^g LINCOLN'S COOK BOOK. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

For Any Kind of Fish. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i tablespoonful of chopped 
I tablespoonful of lemon parsley 

juice % teaspoonful of salt 

3 tablespoonfuls of anchovy paste 

Mix all the ingredients and knead well in a bowl. 
Should be perfectly smooth. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 

Celery Sauce. 

For Boiled Fowl or Turkey. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour ^ cup of butter 
I pint of milk 3 heads of celery 

Mix the flour and butter ; add the milk hot. Cut the 
celery into small bits and boil a few minutes in water, 
which strain off. Put the celery into the butter and milk 
and stir over the fire for five or ten minutes. 

(THE HOME COOK BOOK.) 

Frogs' Legs in Season at Pidduck-Ross Co.'s. 



HEAT AND FISH SAUCES 51 

Parsley Butter. 

For Oysters, Fish and Vegetables. 
Cream i heaping tablespoonful of butter, add Yz tea- 
spoonful salt, Yz saltspoonful pepper, and i tablespoonful 
chopped parsley. MRS. LINCOLN. 

(In the American Kitchen Magazine.) 



Bearnaise Sauce. 

Crab Chops, Steak or Fried Fish — French. 

Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add J4 cup of best olive oil, 
and when well mixed add ^4 cup of hot water. Set the 
bowl over the tea kettle or in a pan of boiling water, and 
cook till thick, stirring constantly. Take from the fire, 
beat well and add salt, a dash of cayenne and a table- 
spoonful of vinegar ; Tarragon is best ; let cool. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Hollandaise Sauce. 

For Fish. 
Make a drawn butter sauce, remove from fire and add 
yolks of 2 raw eggs, juice of half a lemon, i tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley and i teaspoonful of onion juice. 
By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 



Horse Radish Sauce. 

Potato Balls or Fish. 
Chill one cup of thick cream and beat it until thick 
enough to hold in shape. Add >4 teaspoonful of salt, Yz 
saltspoonful of pepper, and 3 tablespoonfuls of prepared 
horse radish. If fresh-grated horse radish is used, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar and i teaspoonful of sugar to 
the radish. Keep this in a cold place, as it should be stiff 
and thick when used. If served on the dish with hot 
meat, put it in a shallow sauce dish and cover the dish 
with a garnish of water cress. MRS. LINCOLN. 
(In the American Kitchen Magazine.) 



52 CLEVER COOKING 



White Sauce. 

For Vegetables. 

I pint of milk 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

I tablespoonful of flour ^A teaspoonful of salt 
Yz saltspoonful of pepper 

Heat the milk over hot water. Put the butter in a 
granite sauce pan and stir until it melts and bubbles. Be 
careful not to brown it. Add the flour dry and stir quick- 
ly till well mixed. Pour in one-third of the milk. Let it 
boil and stir well as it thickens ; tip the sauce pan slightly 
to keep the sauce from sticking. Add another third of 
the milk, let it boil and thicken and stir until perfectly 
smooth. Be iure that all the lumps are rubbed out while 
it is in this thick state. Add the remainder of the milk ; 
let it boil, and when smooth put in the salt and pepper. 

A richer sauce is made as follows : 

For Shell Fish, Sweetbreads. 

I cup hot cream i heaping tablespoonful of 

I heaping tablespoonful of butter 

flour Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Y2 saltspoonful of pepper 

Make in the same manner as the White Sauce. 

MRS. LINCOLN'S Boston Cook Book. 



Sauce Allemande. 

French — For Fish. 

2 ounces butter 2 ounces flour 

I pint clear soup stock Salt and pepper 

Yolks of 3 eggs 

Melt the butter and mix thoroughly with it the flour; 
add immediately the stock and seasoning, boil fifteen 
minutes, remove from the fire and carefully skim off the 
grease. When it has ceased boiling add the yolks mixed 
in a little water and stir in quickly with an z^^ beater 
so as to make the sauce light. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



HEAT AND FISH SAUCES 53 

Sauce for Vegetables, 

I ounce butter i ounce flour 

I pint milk i onion 

Yz ounce lean raw ham Salt and pepper 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the onion sliced, 
the ham and seasoning. When beginning to color 
slightly moisten with the milk ; stir well and boil ten 
minutes. Strain and serve. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Lemon Sauce. 

For* Boiled Chicken. 

2 ounces butter i ounce flour 

Salt, pepper A little nutmeg 

I glass water Juice of i lemon 

Rub flour and half the butter together ; season ; add 
the water, stirring until it boils ; then add remainder of 
butter and the lemon. Strain and serve. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



• Bread Sauce. 

For Game. 

I onion 4 ounces of bread crumbs 

Salt and pepper i glass of milk 

I glass of cream 

Chop the onion fine, put in the saucepan with the 
bread crumbs, which have been put through a seive ; 
add seasoning and milk. Boil ten minutes, add cream 
and serve. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Sauce Bordelaise. 

Fish. 

Peel and chop fine four cloves of garlic and put in 
saucepan with three tablespoonfuls of olive oil. When 



54 CLEVER COOKING 



slightly colored add one tablespoonful of chopped pars- 
ley. This should not be made until- just ready to serve. 
MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Tomato Sauce. 

For Beef. 

Put into saucepan i ounce of raw ham, i carrot, i 
onion, a little thyme, i bay leaf, 2 cloves, i clove of garlic, 
Yz ounce of butter ; simmer for ten minutes ; add i ounce 
of flour well mixed in ^2 pint of tomatoes and i glass 
of consomme. Boil for one-half hour ; season with salt, 
pepper and a mite of nutmeg. Strain and serve. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Sauce Tartare. 

Fish. 

Alake a mayonnaise, but use double the quantity of 
mustard. Chop i pickle and i tablespoonful of capers 
and dry in a napkin. Chop some parsley, i green onion 
and a few Tarragon leaves. Mix all with the dressing. 
MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Meat Sauce. 

4 ripe tomatoes i large onion 

I tablespoonful of butter Dash cayenne 
Salt and pepper 

Chop the onion, add the tomato and butter ; season 
and stew gently for fifteen minutes. Serve hot with any 
meats. 

Onion Sauce. 

Boil three large onions till very soft ; drain and rub 
through a sieve. Stir the pulp into half a pint of white 
sauce. 

From MRS. LINCOLN'S Boston Cook Book. 

Table Water at Pidduck-Ross Co.'s. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 55 

Bechamel Sauce. 

For Vegetables, Eggs and Chicken. 

I tablespoonful of butter ^ cup of stock 
I tablespoonful of flour Yolk of i egg 
]/> cup of milk Salt and pepper 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, but do not brown ; add 
the flour and stir till smooth. Add the stock and milk 
and stir constantly till it boils. Take from the fire, add 
the salt and pepper and egg, well beaten. 

MRS. NEUFELDER. 



Chestnut Sauce. 

Roast Turkey. 

Blanch the chestnuts. Cook in stock until soft. Mash 
fine in the stock. Thicken with flour and butter rubbed 
together. Salt and pepper. One-half cup of cream may 
be added. 



56 CLEVER COOKING 



ENTREES 



'A genial savour 

Of certain stews and roast meats and pilaus, 
Things which in hungry mortal's eyes find favour." — Byron. 



"When art and nature join th' effect will be 
Some nice ragout or charming fricassee." 



Curry Hawaiian. 

Will Serve About Eight People. 

1 small cocoaniit or i cup i quart of milk 

dessicated cocoanut ^ teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of curry i teaspoonful of butter 

powder A few shreds of onions 

I tablespoonful corn starch 

Put on the stove and stew for half an hour or longer. 
Thicken with the corn starch mixed in a little milk. For 
shrimp curry add the shrimps, heat through and serve. 
For oyster curry, put them into the mixture and boil up 
once. For chicken, mutton, beef or veal curry, cut the 
meat in small pieces, place in a sauce pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter, and fry a nice brown ; add to the 
curry mixture and set back to cook slowly an hour if un- 
cooked meat is used. Serve with rice. 

MRS. NINA C. SPENCER. 



Importers of Table Delicacies — Pidduck-Ross Co. 



58 CLEVER COOKING 



Russian Entree. 

Boil fresh tongue. When nearly done pour off the 
water and add fresh water, in which put one pound of 
prunes, previously soaked ten hours, and one lemon 
sliced very thin. Simmer until prunes are done. When 
ready to serve throw in two wine glasses of Madeira. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Veal Olives, 

6 large slices veal 3 slices salt pork 

2 cups bread crumbs 

Trim uniformly the veal ; spread with chopped pork 
and bread crumbs well seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter; roll up and bind with small skewers — small 
wooden toothpicks do very well. Lay in pan ; add i cup 
boiling water and roast, basting often with melted but- 
ter. When done remove the skewers carefully and make 
a brown gravy to pour over the olives. Serve with tart 

j^^^>'- MRS. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 

Macaroni Stufato. 

Italian. 
Will Serve Ten. 

Yz pound macaroni i pound lean beef, chopped 

Yi. pint cooking sherry fine 

3^ pound cheese, grated Spices 

Cook macaroni until tender in boiling water. Put the 
chopped beef in water enough to cover it, with 2 cloves 
of garlic, 3 cloves, 2 alspice, 2 tablespoonfuls tomato cat- 
sup, I tablespoonful walnut catsup, i tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, salt to taste, i teaspoonful of jelly 
or sugar. Cook slowly ; when done add sherry. Put in 
a baking dish first a layer of the cooked macaroni, then a 
layer of the stew, then one of grated cheese, alternating 
until the dish is filled. Put pieces of butter on top and 
brown in oven. Any stew left when the dish is filled may 
be served as a dressing for the dish. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



ENTREES 59 



Macaroni. 



Turkish Way. 

Break one pound of macaroni into pieces, throw it 
into boiling water ; boil rapidly, for thirty minutes ; drain 
and throw into cold water ; strain ^ pint of stewed 
tomatoes ; put it over the fire while macaroni is boiling ; 
let it stew until reduced one-half. Add i tablespoonful 
of butter and ^ cup of chopped almonds ; let it remain 
fifteen minutes longer. Add i teaspoonful of beef extract. 
Drain macaroni, throw it into the tomato, pull it to the 
back of the fire, where it may simmer for ten minutes. 
Add I teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of paprica, and 
turn into a dish. Pass with a dish of grated Parmesan. 
By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News. 



Veal and Macaroni. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

13^ pounds veal ij^ pounds macaroni 

2 eggs Butter 

Salt and pepper 

Cook the veal and chop fine, mixing thoroughly with 
macaroni, also cooked and chopped fine. Season well ; 
add the eggs, well beaten. Put in a baking dish and pour 
over this the broth in which the veal was cooked. It 
must be verv moist. Bake one-half hour. 



Cold Weather Dish. 

Take the largest size bologna sausage (four or five 
inches in diameter) ; cut in thin slices without skinning. 
Put a piece of butter the size of a large walnut in the 
frying pan. When melted drop in a few slices of the 
sausage and let them crisp as bacon does. They will 
curl into cup about like half an orange. In a stewpan 
put three or four mufiin rings and boiling water, enough 
to cover nearly to the top of the rings. Into each ring 
break a fresh &%'g\ season with pepper and salt. When 
cooked take out of the ring and lay on the slice of pre- 



60 CLEVER COOKING 



pared sausage. Serve hot on hot plates. The sausage 
"cup" with the egg may be laid on lettuce leaves if de- 
sired. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Chicken Terrapin. 

Will Serve Eight. 
I cold roast chicken r parboiled sweet bread 

Sauce. 

1 cup rich, hot cream V\ cup of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour Salt and pepper to taste 

Chop the chicken and sweetbread moderately fine ; 
add to the sauce and heat over hot water fifteen minutes. 
Just before serving add the yolks of two eggs, well beat- 
en, and one wineglass of sherry. 

MRS. STROUT, From Mrs. Lincoln. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Joint a chicken, put it into a saucepan with two slices 
of onion, a stalk of celery, a couple of slices of carrot, a 
couple of cloves and ^ bay leaf ; cover with hot water 
and cook sloitiy till the meat will come from the bones. 
When about half cooked add salt, pepper and a light dash 
of cayenne. When thoroughly cooked take out the meat 
and set both meat and liquor away to cool. Soak two 
tablespoonfuls of gelatine in a little cold water. Take 
every bit of fat ofT the liquor and put it into a saucepan. 
Add a sprig of parsley, and, if you have no celery, a little 
celery salt. Taste for seasoning and simmer about fif- 
teen or twenty minutes ; then add the gelatine, and when 
it is dissolved, a tablespoonful of sherry, or more to your 
taste. There should be about i^ pints of the liquor. 
Take the skin and bones from the chicken and pull apart 
lengthwise in small pieces. Put a little of the liquor in 
a mould ; a narrow bread tin is good ; then a layer of 
hard-boiled eggs sliced ; then the chicken laid lengthwise 
of the tin ; then more of the liquor and another layer of 

Chase & Sanborn's Coffees at Pidduck-Ross Co. 



ENTREES 61 

eggs, and cover all with the liquor. If you like, a layer 
of chopped mushrooms may be put through the center 
of the chicken, making two layers of chicken. Set aside 
to harden. Turn out of the mould and cut in thin. slices. 
MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cream Chicken. 

I chicken, 43/2 pounds 4 sweetbreads 

I can of mushrooms i quart of cream 

5 dessert spoonfuls of flour 4 tablespoonfuls of butter 
or cracker Black and red pepper 

Boil the chicken and sweetbreads, and when cold cut 
up as for salad. Put the cream in a saucepan with the 
butter ; add the flour or cracker crumbs ; stir until well 
melted and put the hot cream over, stirring all the time 
until it thickens ; season highly. Put all in the baking 
dish and cover with bread crumbs and pieces of butter. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

Blanquette of Chicken. 

Will Serve Six or Eight. 

I quart cooked chicken cut i large cup white stock 

in small pieces i cup cream 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

Yolks of 4 eggs flour 

I saltspoonful salt Y^ saltspoonful pepper 

4 tablespoonfuls milk 
Heat the butter in a saucepan ; add flour, stirring until 
smooth, but not brown ; add stock and cook two minutes, 
then seasoning and cream. As soon as this boils add 
chicken and cook ten minutes. Beat the yolks of eggs 
with the milk, add to other ingredients and cook about 
one-half minute. Serve on hot dish with rice or potato 
border, or on toast. ^^j^g WEBSTER BROWN. 

Turkey or Chicken Croquettes. 

Chop very fine the remnants, freed from fat or bone, 
of a roast or boiled turkey. Heat a piece of butter the 
size of an Q.gg ; chop together a little onion and a sprig 
of parsley and add to the butter with a large .tablespoon- 



62 CLEVER COOKING 



ful of flour. When well cooked put in a cupful of strong 
stock and seasoning of pepper, salt, a little lemon juice 
and sherry, and the turkey. Set away to cool, and when 
cold mould into small rolls, dip into a beaten egg, then 
into cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Serve heaped 
around a pile of peas, made very hot and seasoned with 
butter. White sauce may be used in place of the stock. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Veal Croquettes With String Beans. 

Chop two pounds of cold roast veal and two sweet- 
breads. Moisten them with a little clear stock and bind 
together with the yolks of two eggs. Season with salt 
and pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Roll 
into cones, dip in beaten egg, then in fine crumbs, then 
in egg and again in crumbs and fry in smoking hot lard. 
Arrange neatly on a dish with small end upright, and 
put around them a border of string beans, which have 
been boiled very tender and nicely seasoned. 

MRS. HATFIELD. 



Chestnut Croquettes. 

Shell and blanch one quart of chestnuts, cover with 
boiling water, boil until tender, drain and sprinkle over 
a teaspoonful of salt. When dry, mash, add one tea- 
spoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and beat until 
light and smooth. Form into croquettes, dip in beaten 
egg, then in crumbs and fry in smoking fat. By permis- 
sion of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The HousehoH News. 



Kidneys. 

I tablespoonful of butter i onion 

I dozen lamb kidneys 3^ cup of stock 

I lemon Salt, pepper and flour 

Mushrooms Sherry 

Worcestershire sauce 

Put the butter in a saucepan and add the onion slices, 
and when brown add the kidnevs sliced thin, and cook 



ENTREES 63 

five minutes. Dredge with flour, add stock, boil up, then 
mushrooms, sherry, salt, pepper and sauce, and serve on 
toast. 

MRS. NEUFELDER. 



Steak and Kidney Pudding. 

Will Serve Six. 

I heaping cup chopped suet i^ cups of flour 

I level teaspoonful of bak- 2 pounds round steak 

ing powder 2 veal kidneys 

Pepper and salt i large onion 

Chop the suet very fine, put in the flour, salt and bak- 
ing powder; then mix to a stiff dough with cold water. 
Roll out, not too thin, line a basin holding about two 
quarts with part of it. Cut the steak into pieces about 
an inch square, rejecting all bones, gristle and fat; have 
salt and pepper mixed in the proportion of one small tea- 
spoonful of pepper to two large ones of salt, in a small 
dish. Now dip your pieces of steak and kidney on one 
side in the mixed salt and pepper, lay evenly on the crust 
in the bottom of the basin. When the bottom is cov- 
ered put a layer of the onion very thinly sliced and finish 
with the seasoned meat, making three layers. Wet the 
edges of the crust, put on the top crust, press the edges 
closely together and leave no holes in the top. Wring 
a cloth out of hot water, flour well and tie very tightly 
over the basin, put in a kettle of boiling water and boil 
for three hours. Serve in the dish in whioh it is cooked. 

The kidneys may be omitted and more steak used in 
place of them. 

In using the kidneys cut out the centers well. 

MRS. EDMUND BOWDEN. 



Sweetbreads. 

In whatever manner sweetbreads are to be served 
they must first be parboiled and blanched. The follow- 
ing is a good way to do this : 

As soon as received they should be put into cold wa- 
ter, and this should be changed two or three times, if 



04 CLIiVI'R COOKINd 



tlii'V AW blootly. until tlu-y arc (|iiilc while; tlu'ii put 
thcni ill a saucepan, tH)ver vvilli l)iiiliii,t;" vvalor, add yj tca- 
spoDiiful (if salt, ami lot tlioin sinimcr on the back of the 
ratig'e for twenty minutes. If to this water von atld ^' j a 
blade of niaei", a eonple n{ eIo\ es, a hit of stick cinnamon, 
}/2 a hay leal and a \cv\ slight i^ratiui; ol onion, they 
will In- mui'li InuT llaxored in whatexiT way they arc 
prepai'ed. Aflei" simmeriiiL;, drain and throw them into 
ice water and let them stand for an hour. Hrain free 
from fal and membrane, and tlie\ ai'e read\ to be cooked 
b\' an\- of the \arious methods. 

Mus. KKii \Kn c. s'n':vb:NS. 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Will Servo l'\>iir. 

2 sweetbreads ' .- cup cri"ani 

h slices bread i tablesptHMiful butter 

Small tc\'ispooufid llour Tepin-r and salt 

II milk umst hi' used instead of ci-eam add: 

J'j cup milk 1 luapini; teaspooufnl Hour 

1 teaspooufnl bntlei" 

(lit the swi'ct biH-ads into small ]Meces. put in a small 
sanci^pan. pour o\ er them the cri^am, and when boiliui;" 
add the Hour tpre\iousl\ mixed with a little of the 
creanO ; boil thri-e minutes, beiui; careful not to burn, 
ami add the pepper and salt. lia\e the six slices of bread 
nicely toasted, cul into rounds with a lar^c-si/ed biscuit 
cutter; butter, dip tlu- lower side in hot salted water, 
arraiit^e on a small plalti'r and lu-ap the sweetbri-ads on 
them. 

MK.S. -I-DMIINM) lU)\Vni':N. 

Sweetbread Patties. 

Cut the sweetbii'ads in small dice and mix with an 
etpial .imounl ol boiled mushrooms. Make dressiuj;' of: 

1 iMip swei't cre.im J taldesiuHuifnls of butter 

^^ teaspooufuls of tlour. 

r.oil until it thickens, add sweetbreads and mush- 
rooms and iMil in pat t \- shells. 



KNTRRKS (i5 

Sweetbread Fritters. 

C'lil SDiiu- |)rc'\i()iisl\' parhoilt'd swiH'tbrcads into lliiii 
slices; scalier t)ver these slices .'i little leinoii juice, 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt and nulmej;'. Dip them 
into hatler and fry in hoi lard. Drain all grease from 
them, arrange them on a napkin on a jilalter and serve 
garnished with {)arsley. 

MKS. llA'ri'll'.Ll). 



Breaded Sweetbreads, 

Will Serve I'ivc. 

After boiling six swi^-threads, split llu'in, dip in hc-at- 
en egg, season with salt, roll in cracker crnnd)S, dip in 
egg again, fry in hot I)titler, hidng cai-efnl not to scorch. 
Serve with sliced lenion. 

MKS. I AMI'S PlI'.r.DS. 



Mock Sweetbreads, 

Will Serve Six. 

One jionnd of nncooked lean veal, cut into half-inch 
cnl)cs, and cooked with one slice of onion in boiling salt- 
(■(1 vvatci- till lendc'i-; lluii piil in cold water to whiten. 
Makt- I Clip of while sanee and season with l saltspoon- 
fnl of salt, I saltspooid'nl of celery sail and '//> saltspoon- 
fiil of pepper. I'nl Hie veal and j,'j a cup of mushrooms 
ent into ([narlers inlo the sauce; heat over hot water five 
minutes, or till hot ; remove from lire, add (piickly 1 tea- 
s])oonliil lemon juice and i w(dl beati'ii egg. Serve in- 
side a ()otato border, or on toast garnislu'd with toast 
])oinls. 

MKS. LINCOLN'S lloslon Cook I'.ook. 



Potato Patties. 

l\ub cold |)olaloes through a sieve, add a litle clarifu'd 
butter and one cgi^; nioidd them into 1)alls willi a little 
flour to kec]) tlKun smoolli ; take them in yom- hands, and 
with your lhund)s in llie nnddle work llieni round to foiin 



66 CLEVER COOKING 



the shell. Fry them in hot fat and fill with any kind ' f 
minced meat or fish. Mackerel with parsley sauce is 
very good. 

MRS. BEATRICE GREEN. 



Baked Mushrooms. 

Peel the mushrooms, then cut the tops and upper 
portion of the stems into pieces of uniform size. Place 
in a buttered pan with salt, pepper and bits of butter, 
and bake until the mushrooms seem tender, or about fif- 
teen or twenty minutes. When almost ready to serve 
pour over them enough sweet cream to cover them ; let 
all heat up together and serve very hot. In the absence 
of cream milk may be used, but more butter must then 
be added. 

MRS. C. P. DAM. 



Mushroom Entree. 

Will Serve Four. 

I cup mushrooms i cup of chicken or sweetbreads 

Cut the chicken into dice, or if you use sweetbreads, 
which are even more delicate than chicken, boil and cut 
into small pieces. Cut the mushrooms in halves and mix 
with the meat. Make a white sauce and season with 
salt, pepper, a dash of onion juice and a hint of bay leaf. 
Stir the mixture into this sauce and serve very hot in 
small entree dishes. Just before sending to the table put 
a tablespoonful of- whipped cream on each dish. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Crotistades of Asparagus. 

Cut ofif the tops of rolls or biscuits, scrape out the in- 
side and set, with the tops, in the oven to crisp. Make 
a white sauce, add the tips of 2 bunches of cooked aspar- 
agus ; fill the rolls with this, put on the tops and serve 
very hot. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 
(Mrs. Hinckley's Portland Cooking Class.) 



ENTREES 67 

Fruit Entree. 

Take equal quantities of white grapes skinned, small 
pieces of oranges picked with a fork, small pieces of ban- 
anas ; use the juice also. Sweeten to taste. Keep sev- 
eral hours in ice box. Serve in glass lemonade cups or 
bouillon cups, and just before serving add fine sherry to 
taste and 2 or 3 candied cherries to each glass. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Lobster Baskets, 

Get fresh lobsters if possible, if not canned will do. 
Cut fresh bread into slices a full inch thick, then cut 
with a large biscuit cutter into round pieces (without 
crust), scoop out of the center of the bread circle a hole 
half way to the bottom ; drop them into boiling lard and 
fry a delicate golden brown. Meanwhile prepare a white 
sauce. Heat it and stir in while hot small pieces of lob- 
ster. Fill the holes in the bread circles with this creamed 
lobster preparation, grate a little of the coral over the 
top and put small claws in like handles to the baskets, 
tied at the top with red baby ribbon, if you can get fresh 
lobsters ; if not, lay each filled basket on a lettuce leaf 
and serve on an individual plate. The baskets and "fill- 
ing" must be served very hot. Add a little sherry to the 
lobster if desired. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Chicken Patties. 

I chicken, 4 pounds. 

A little parsley, celery and onion (if you like). 
Cut chicken into dice-shaped pieces and stir into 
cream sauce as for oyster patties. Use lamb or sweet- 
breads in the same way. 

CHARLES MULCAHEY, Chef Rainier-Grand. 

Crab Chops No. i. 

Take the meat from two good-sized crabs. Put in 
sauce pan i teacupful of cream, i teaspoonful of grated 



68 CLEVER COOKING 



onion, i teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. When 
mixture comes to a boil stir into it 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour rubbed smooth in a little milk. Put in crab, season 
with pepper, salt, a little cayenne pepper, a tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, take from the fire, slightly cool, 
then stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; add a small glass 
of sherry wine ; replace on stove and cook long enough 
to set the e^gg. Turn the mixture on a platter to cool. 
When cold form into shape of chops, pointed at one end ; 
roll in egg and bread crumbs ; fry in boiling fat ; stick a 
claw into the pointed end of each chop, after they are 
cooked. Garnish with parsley and serve with tartare 
sauce. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Crab Chops No. 2. 

1 quart of crab meat ;>4 cup of cream 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i teaspoonful of grated 
I tablespoonful of Worces- onion 

tershire sauce i teaspoonful of chopped 

I glass of sherry (small) parsley 

A dash of mace Yolks of 2 eggs 

Salt and pepper A dash of cayenne 

Mix flour and part of the cream, add the onion and 
parsley and cook until thick ; then add the remainder of 
the cream, eggs and other ingredients, the sherry last. 
When cold shape into chops, dip in eggs and bread 
crumbs, fry in hot deep lard, and serve with tartare 
sauce. 

MRS. NEUFELDER. 



Crab Cutlets. 

1 pint milk 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of 

2 tablespoonfuls buttter corn starch 

Yj teaspoonful salt ^^ teaspoonful celery salt 

Little bit of cayenne pepper 

Heat the milk; put the butter in a pan, and when it 
commences to bubble stir in corn starch slowly and cook 
till thick; then stir in crab meat ; pour on a large flat 
dish. When cool, form into cutlets ; dip in crumbs, then 



ENTREES 69 

egg, then crumbs, and cook like griddle cakes. Serve 
on a lettuce leaf with a claw stuck on one side.. 

MRS. TAYLOR (from Mrs. Harrington). 

Salmon Cutlets. 

Will Serve Six. 

I pound canned salmon ^ lb. cracker, rolled fine 
I ounce butter i teaspoonful salt 

y2 teaspoonful pepper i egg 

Pour the oil off the salmon, pick out the bones and 
the skin ; beat it ; add a few tablespoonf uls of crackers, 
then the butter, salt and pepper and mix it all together. 
Form it into cutlet shape ; dip into the beaten egg and 
then into the rolled crackers. Fry in very hot lard until 
brown and garnish the dish with parsley. 

L. M. THEDINGA. 

Fritters. 

To three eggs well beaten add one pint of sweet milk, 
a little salt, flour sufficient to make a drop batter ; have 
lard hot as for doughnuts and drop one tablespoonful at 
a time. Let fry until brown. If fruit fritters are de- 
sired, wrap a slice of apple or peach within each spoonful 
before dropping. 

MRS. J. F. WAGNER. 

Banana or Apricot Fritters. 

Will Serve Four. 

4 bananas i large teaspoonful sugar 

2 eggs y2 teaspoonful melted butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

3 large tablespoonfuls of cold water 

Remove the skins from four banans, split them and 
cut in two. Beat the yolks of the eggs well and add the 
sugar. Mix the flour with the water, put in the yolks of 
the eggs and add the melted butter. Pour the mixture 
into the stiffly beaten whites, stirring constantly. Dip the 
bananas separately into the batter, drop them into the 



70 CLEVER COOKING 



hot fat and fry to a fine golden color. Serve at once. 
Apricots may be used in place of bananas, and canned 
apricots are even better than fresh ones if well drained. 

Sn uce. 

I small tablespoonful of corn starch 

1 tablesponful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

I teaspoonful of vanilla extract or nutmeg grated 

1 J/2 cups of boiling water 

2 tablespoonfuls of cold water 

Mix the corn starch with the cold water, add the boil- 
ing water, the sugar, and boil three or four minutes, then 
put in the butter and flavoring. 

MRS. BOWDEN. 



Banana Cakes. 

Three bananas, overripe, mashed and beaten ; let 
stand over night. In the morning add 3 eggs, 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, juice of ^ lemon, ^ teaspoonful salt,' 
y2 teaspoonful baking powder, flour enough to make a 
soft batter. Fry as hot cakes and serve with pulverized 
sugar and brandy. 

MRS. A. L. HAWLEY. 



Salted Almonds. 

Blanch the almonds ; put them, with one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter and one teaspoonful of salt to each 
cup of almonds, into a bowl and let stand an hour or 
more ; then put them in a moderate oven in a large pan 
and stir frequently till a light brown. ]\Iore salt may be 
added as they come from the oven if not salted enough. 
MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



CHEESE DISHES 



Welsh Rarebit No. i. 

Yz pound rich cream cheese, ^ cup lager beer (or milk) 
broken in very small 2 teaspoonfuls mustard 
pieces i teaspoonful salt 

A little cayenne 8 slices toast 

Put cheese and beer together in kettle and melt ; mix 
mustard, salt and cayenne together dry, and add ; cook 
till it thickens but does not curdle ; pour over toast and 
serve at once. An t^% broken into the mixture and well 
stirred, just before serving, makes it more creamy and 
prevents curdling. 

MRS. BAKER. 



Welsh Rarebit No. 2. 

I ^^^ 5 ounces domestic cheese 

I level tablespoonful butter yi teaspoonful salt 

5 tablespoonfuls milk i level teaspoonful dry 
Pinch cayenne mustard 

To make a Golden Buck, drop a poached ^^'g on each 
piece of toast, covered with rarebit. 



Welsh Rarebit No. 3. 

I lb. of rich cream cheese, y^ glass of Bass' ale 

grated i tablespoonful of butter 

I tablespoonful cream i teaspoonful of Worces- 

I teaspoonful mustard tershire sauce 

Yz teaspoonful of garlic vinegar or grated onion juice. 

Cayenne ; pepper and salt to taste. 

Mix thoroughly, form into a loaf and place in the re- 
frigerator. When wanted cut in slices and heat in a 



72 CLEVER COOKING 



chafing dish. When melted it should be of the consist- 
ency of drawn butter. If too thick thin with ale. Serve 
on toast. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 

A Welsh Rarebit will be more digestible if bi-carbon- 
ate of potash is added to it just before serving. A piece 
the size of a pea is sufficient. 

Genoa Ramaquins. 

To two well-beaten eggs add half a pint of milk and a 
saltspoonfvil of salt. Pour over the bread and let stand 
for one hour. Then remove all custard which may not 
be absorbed and fill the pudding dish with the following: 

Cheese Mixture. 

Into a double boiler put cheese enough to cover the 
bread one inch thick, with half a cup of cream, and stir 
over the fire until dissolved ; add salt and pepper. Pour 
over the bread and bake half an hour, or until brown. 
ADELAIDE M. BLACKWELL. 



Cheese Crackers. 

Take ordinary square crackers ; butter them ; cut a 
square piece of the common dairy cheese (fresh) the 
size of the cracker and place on it. Spread the cheese 
with a little prepared mustard. Lay them in a dripping 
pan, put in the oven until the butter and cheese melt to- 
gether. Serve very hot with salad. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 

Cheese Sticks No. i. 

I pound cheese, grated i cup of flour 

I tablcs])Oonful of butter i full saltspoonful of salt 
5 drops of tobasco sauce or pinch of cayenne pepper 

Mix as pie crust, with cold water; roll thin, cut in 
strips and bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 



CHEESE DISHES 73 



Cheese Straws No. 2. 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of 

sifted flour grated cheese 

I tablespoonful butter Yolk of i egg 

Yz saltspoonful salt Yi saltspoonful pepper 

I tablespoonful milk and a little nutmeg 

Stir cheese and butter in a bowl ; add egg yolk, salt 
and pepper ; stir well. Pour in milk, then add flour ; roll 
out thin and cut in narrow strips and bake in buttered 



pan fifteen minutes. 



MRS. M. J. Carter. 



Cheese Fondu. 

I cup bread crumbs 2 small cups fresh milk 

Yz pound grated cheese 3 well-beaten eggs 

I small tablespoonful of A pinch of soda dissolved in 

melted butter hot water and stirred into 

Pepper and salt the milk 

Soak the crumbs in the milk and beat into these the 
eggs, the butter, the seasoning, lastly the cheese. Pour 
the mixture into a buttered baking dish, strew dry bread 
crumbs on top, bake in a quick oven and serve immedi- 
ately. 

MRS. S. W. R. DALLY. 



Cheese Souffle. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i heaping tablespoonful of 
y2 cupful of milk flour 

I cupful of grated cheese 3 eggs 

Yz teaspoonful of salt A speck of cayenne pepper 

Put the butter in a saucepan and when hot add flour 
and stir until smooth, but not browned; add milk and 
seasoning. Cook two minutes, then add the yolks of the 
eggs well beaten, and the cheese. Set away to cool. 
When cold add the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Turn 
into a buttered dish and bake from twenty to twenty-five 
minutes. Serve the moment it comes from the oven. 

MRS. H. R. CLISE. 



74 CLEVER COOKING 



Cheese Sauce. 

One tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, 
one egg, salt and cayenne pepper to taste, one pint milk, 
one-half pound grated cheese. Make a sauce of first three 
ingredients. Add cheese and eggs last. Serve on but- 
tered toast. 

MISS COWAP. 



Cottage Cheese Balls. 

Mix together cottage cheese, salt and paprika. Add 
white of egg, beaten stifif. Shape into small balls, roll 
in sifted cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat to delicate 
brown color. Fat should be hot and the balls will cook 
in less than one minute. 

MRS. E. A. STROUT. 



Cheese Balls to Serve with Salad. 

Mix together thoroughly i^ cupfuls of grated Amer- 
ican cheese, ^ teaspoonful of salt and a sprinkle of cay- 
enne pepper ; then beat to a stifif froth the whites of 3 
eggs. Stir well through the seasoned cheese. Shape 
mixture into small balls, roll in cracker crumbs which 
have been sifted until very fine. Fry in frying basket in 
deep fat until a nice brown. Place on brown paper to 
drain and serve hot with lettuce salad with French dress- 
ing. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Cheese Balls No. 2. 

5 eggs I tablespoonful dry mustard 

2 cups grated cheese Salt, cayenne 

Cracker crumbs 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stifif froth and stir in 
the cheese, which has been mixed with the seasoning. 
After mixing let it get thoroughly cold and roll into balls. 
Roll balls in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. Will 
serve thirty. Serve with salad. 

MRS. J. F. WAGNER. 



A LITTLE DINNER 



"Without good company, all dainties 
Lose their true relish, and like painted grapes 
Are only seen, not tasted." 



The giving- of a small dinner in a household where 
several trained servants are kept is a matter of little 
moment to the hostess, who has simply to notify her 
cook of the number of guests expected, give her orders 
as to menu, etc., and then dismiss from her mind all feel- 
ing of responsibility, and await with composure the ar- 
rival of her guests. In the ordinary home, however, 
where as a rule one, or at most, two maids are kept, the 
addition of several guests to the dinner table requires 
much thought and preparation, which necessarily must 
devolve upon the mistress. Successful dinner-giving, 
like genius, implies an infinite capacity for taking pains. 
In giving a small dinner of, say, six guests in addition to 
the family, it is necessary to first consider the resources 
of the household in the way of dishes, silver, etc., as upon 
these will depend the number of courses in the menu. 
This inspection completed, the next step is the prepara- 
tion of the menu, not forgetting in the consideration of 
each dish the possibilities of the cook in the way of 
losing her head at the prospect of guests. It is a good 
plan to select only those dishes which the cook has tried 
before, as even the best of cooks frequently fails to suc- 
ceed in the first trial of a new receipt. As far as possible 
it is advisable to select dishes which may be prepared the 
preceding day, thus lessening the work and confusion on 
the day of the dinner. Salted almonds, cheese sticks, 
pate shells and all kinds of blancmange and jellies should 
be prepared the day before. The question of menu set- 
tled, all orders should be given the day before, so that no 
harrowinsf non-arrival of some essential article shall mar 



76 



CLEVER COOKING 



the composure of the hostess. On the morning of the 
day for the dinner the mistress should explain to the 
waitress which plates and other dishes are to be used for 
each course. It is a good plan to write on slips of paper 
the words "Fish," "Roast," "Salad," "Entree," etc., and 
put the paper on top of the pile of plates to be used for 
that piirpose. A menu should be prepared very plainly 
and distinctly written, giving the exact order in which 
the courses are to be served, stating what dishes are to 
be passed with each course and when to use the crumb 
knife. The menu may be written thus : 









MENU. 


I 


Raw Oysters. 




2 


Soup. 




Pass creckers. 


3- 


Fish. 




Pass potatoes, then bread. 


4- 


Roast. 




Pass vegetables and celery- 


5- 


Entree. 




Pass jelly. 


6 


Sorbet. 






/ ■ 


Game. - 




Pass olives. 


8. 


Salad. 




Pass cheese sticks. 


9 


Use crumb 


knife. 


lO 


Pudding. 






II 


Ice Cream. 








Fruit. 




Cake. Nuts. 
Cheese. 



12. Coffee. 

The menu should be pinned in a conspicuous place 
where the maids may refer to it readily. After the table 
is set the mistress should make a thorough inspection of 
the dining room, to see that the necessary extra silver 
and china is laid out upon the sideboard, that the ar- 
rangement of decorations and of lights is satisfactory 
and that the temperature is neither too high nor too low, 
as none but a thoroughly competent waitress could be 
trusted to attend to these details. It is better to err on 
the side of too low a temperature for the dining room 
than too high, as with the lights, the warm food and the 
number of people, the room is likely to become uncom- 
fortably warm. With final admonitions to the maids in 
regard to the dififercnt viands, the warmth of the soup, 
the coolness of the water and other details, the mistress 
should try to slip up to her room in time to insure at 



A LITTLE DINNER 77 



least a few moments quiet and rest before dressing to 
receive her guests. At the appointed time the maid 
should throw open the doors of the dining room, and 
upon the signal "Dinner is served," the host should lead 
to the dining room, escorting the lady in whose honor the 
dinner is given, the other guests following, and the host- 
ess last of all with the gentleman to be most honored. 
Confusion is avoided by having name cards at each 
place, the guests of honor of course being seated at the 
right of the host and hostess. If the first course con- 
sists of oysters these are upon the table when the guests 
enter the dining room, and as either a cube of bread or 
a roll has previously been placed in a fold of the napkin 
for each guest, no dishes are to be passed during this 
course. The maid stations herself back of the chair of 
the host, and after the oysters are eaten, at a look from 
the mistress, she removes the plates. The dishes should 
always be served at the left side and removed from the 
right side. Taking care not to pile too many dishes upon 
her tray at once, the maid swiftly and noiselessly trans- 
fers the oyster plates to a table in the kitchen assigned 
to that purpose. After the oysters follow soup, with 
which crackers are usually passed ; then fish with its 
accompanying cucumbers or other relish ; then roast 
entrees, sorbet, game and salad, each in turn served with 
its accompanying dishes in strict accordance with the 
written menu. When the salad is finished, all side dishes 
and salts and peppers should be taken away and all 
crumbs removed neatly with a crumb knife or napkin, 
and the maid should see that the necessary dessert forks 
and spoons are at each cover. If preferred the dessert 
may be placed before either the host or hostess, who will 
serve her guests, the maid standing ready to pass each 
plate as it is served. After the pudding course has been 
removed comes either the pastry or ice. When this 
course is finished finger bowls may be placed at each 
plate, and at the same time come fruits, nuts, and raisins. 
Last of all the coffee in small cups, which should be 
served fresh and very hot. When dinner is over the 
hostess gives the signal to arise and the host leads to 
the drawing room, after which the gentlemen, if they 
wish, may retire -to smoke. 



78 CLEVER COOKING 



CHAFING DISH 



A true epicure can dine well on one dish, provided it is excel- 
lent of its kind. 



While the use of the chafing dish is said to date from 
the days of Homer, its present popularity is due to a re- 
vival of the past few years, and although the possession 
of one is a thing to be desired by the "gude wife" in her 
housekeeping, it is equally popular in the bachelor apart- 
ments, the artists' quarters in modern Bohemia, the light 
housekeeping of flats, the summer outing in a houseboat 
or to put in one's canoe, for a dainty tidbit on shore, after 
an evening's paddle. The modern chafing dish when 
complete consists of the stand and lamp, dish proper, 
cutlet dish, and hot water pan, and while preferable in 
sterling silver, just as good results have been made with 
a granite iron one, especially if to the delights of the 
palate there is added "A congenial group who make pos- 
sible the feast of reason and flow of soul." Some objec- 
tion has been made on accovmt of the expense of fuel. In 
the Gorham Manufacturing Company's Chafing Dish 
book they claim ten of the recipes were prepared in one 
of their dishes and less than a, pint of alcohol was used. 
Wood alcohol we recommend as cheaper and just as good 
as grain alcohol. Except for cofifee and tea, which can be 
made over another spirit lamp, almost any light break- 
fast or luncheon can be prepared on a chafing dish, and 
for late suppers for a few, no other way is as practicable. 
It is also an attractive way of serving an entree at dinner. 

Always use a wooden spoon to avoid scratching the 
dish. Most of these recipes are improved b}^ serving on 
fresh taosted bread or crackers. 

Any ordinary cooking done in a saucepan on the 
range can be done in a chafing dish. Chops and steak 

Electric Flat Irons a Summer Necessity. Kilbourne 
& Clark Co., Seattle. 



80 CLEVER COOKING 



can be daintily done by using a scant amount of butter. 
Chicken, trout, frogs' legs, crab chops, liver and bacon 
can all be done equally well. The limits of the chafing 
dish include most breakfast and luncheon dishes and the 
majority of entrees. For a quick meal on a chafing dish 
nothing equals one of the many preparations of eggs, 
boiled, poached, fried with bacon, scrambled or in one of 
the many omelettes. 

[For Welsh Rarebit, Fondu, Etc., See Cheese Dishes.] 

English Monkey. 

Butter size of an egg i cup grated cheese 

jA teaspoonful mustard i tablespoonful Worcester- 

Two-thirds cup of stale shire sauce 

bread crumbs i egg 

I cup milk 

Soak the crumbs in the milk fifteen minutes. Put the 
ingredients into the chafing dish. After it is melted add 
the crumbs and milk and the eggs. Add the seasoning 
and cook until it thickens — usually about ten minutes. 
MRS. FRED RICE ROWELL. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Put a walnut of butter in chafing dish and drop eggs 
in whole. When they begin to set stir lightly, so when 
cooked the mixture is even white and yellow in appear- 
ance. Some add a tablespoonful or two of cream or milk.- 

Plain Omelette. 

The number of eggs depends on size of chafing dish 
as well as the number to serve. Five eggs make a good 
omelette. Beat whites and yolks separately, the former 
very stifif. Give the yolks about twelve good beats ; add 
a large tablespoonful of milk to every two yolks, or if 
you find after making once you prefer it more moist, take 
a small tablespoonful of milk to each egg, add pepper and 
salt to yolks, then put yolks and beaten whites together, 
mixing quickly. Have ready the hot chafing dish with a 

Electric Chafing Dishes, Handsome and Convenient. 
Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle. 



CHAFING DISH 81 



walnut of butter sizzling hot and pour in your mixture. 
Do not stir. This is perhaps the only chafing dish prep- 
aration that requires the use of a knife, but for the suc- 
cess of an omelette a broad-bladed knife must be slipped 
about the edges and under the omelette to' lift it just a 
little all the time, to keep from burning. When it is set, 
run the knife under one edge and slip on a hot platter, 
deftly folding over one-half of the omelette on the other. 

Cheese Omelette. 

Is made as above, with the addition of grated cheese 
according to taste. 

Oyster Omelette. 

When a plain omelette is prepared to serve, have 
ready a small oyster stew, and before folding the ome- 
lette lift several spoonfuls of oysters into the center of 
the omelette and fold over. 

Peas Omelette,, 

Peas left from dinner may be heated over and folded 
in plain omelette. Asparagus heads, corn, tomatoes, 
minced ham and other combinations will suggest them- 
selves, and a little ingenuity can develop original ome- 
lettes. 

Sweetbreads. 

There are many excellent ways of cooking sweet- 
breads in a chafing dish, but whether cooked at table or 
on the kitchen range, they must first stand in cold water 
an hour or two, then they should be parboiled, cooled, 
and all rough edges, membranes and sinews removed. 
They should then be put in cold water and kept on ice 
until wanted for the chafing dish. Calf's brains are pre- 
pared in the same way and may be cooked in any style 
sweetbreads are. y 

Creamed Sweetbreads. 

Put into the chafing dish a walnut of butter ; when it 
melts put in slices of sweetbreads or brains, cut not too 

See Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle, for Gas and Elec- 
tric Fixtures. 



82 CLEVER COOKING 



thin nor yet too thick, or if preferred, cut in dice and 
saute in butter. Open a can of French mushrooms, rinse 
in cold water, cut half of them into quarters, add them to 
sweetbread with i pint of cream ; season with salt and 
pepper. Dissolve i heaping tablespoonful of flour, add 
it and simme?- until the sauce is thick and smooth, 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Sweetbreads With Peas. 

Will Serve Four. 

Put into the hot water dish a teaspoonful of butter ; 
toss about in the dish the three small sweetbreads which 
have been prepared as in the foregoing recipe. They may 
be larded also. When they have absorbed the butter and 
are in danger of burning, add ^^ pint of strong beef or 
veal broth or gravy, i celery leaf chopped fine, salt, pep- 
per, and y2 teaspoonful of browned flour. Turn the 
sweetbreads, and when the sauce is reduced one-half the 
dish is ready. 

Open a can of best green peas, or cooked fresh ones 
are better ; put them into cutlet dish with i tablespoonful 
of butter, salt and pepper. When the peas are warmed 
through they are done. Serve both together. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

r 

Lobster or Crab a la Newburg. 

Will Serve Six. 

Take i large cup of meat, cut into pieces about one 
inch long. Put an ounce of butter in the pan and add 
meat, tossing about. Season with salt and pepper to 
suit and add i cup of heavy cream sauce. When well 
heated add the yolk of i raw ^g'g and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sherry. Serve on small pieces of dry toast. 

RECTOR, Chicago. 

Corned Beef Hash a la Murrey. 

The first important step is to select the proper cut of 
corned beef ; the second is to be positive that raw pota- 

See Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle, for Anything Electrical. 



CHAFING DISH 83 



toes only are used ; cold boiled potatoes will spoil the 
dish. 

Select a very fine piece of navel corned beef, weighing 
about 3 pounds ; boil it half an hour in hot water, then 
take it out, throw the water away and cover the meat 
with tepid water. Simmet on back of the range two and 
a half hours ; remove the pot from the range and allow 
the meat to cool in the water. Skim off the fat and re- 
move the meat, placing it in ice box until next day. Cut 
into small pieces 2 pounds of the beef; peel, slice and 
cut into dice enough raw potatoes, which when cut up 
will equal in quantity the cut meat. Peel and cut up fine 
I large sour apple ; chop these ingredients together in a 
chopping bowl. Cut up fine 2 medium sized onions ; also 
a large sweet Spanish pepper, not the hot variety. Now 
put into a large frying pan a scant tablespoonful of beef 
drippings — butter will not do. When hot add the onion 
and fry a delicate brown. Next add the pepper, toss 
about for a few moments, then add a gill of strong beef 
stock, after which the other chopped ingredients, with a 
pint of beef stock or strong broth ; mix well, cover and 
simmer thirty minutes. Should the moisture evaporate 
too quickly add more of the broth. Stir to prevent stick- 
ing to the pan, and also to assist in evaporating the mois- 
ture finally. Taste for seasoning and put away until 
next day, when it should be warmed in the chafing dish 
with the hot water dish underneath it. 

(Gorham's Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

Will Serve Four. 

Butter size of an egg Sherry, wineglassful 

Oyster juice, i cup Cream, ^ cup 

Good pinch cayenne Yolks of 4 eggs 

I pint Puget Sound oysters Lemon juice 

Put into the chafing dish butter the size of an egg: 
when hot add i wineglassful of sherry, reduce, add i cup 
of oyster juice, Yz cup of cream, a pinch of cayenne, yolks 
of 4 eggs. When like custard put in i pint of strained 
Puget Sound oysters, which have been seasoned, and the 
juice of ^ of a lemon squeezed over them. Cook until 
plump. MRS. HINCKLEY. 



84 CLEVER COOKING 



Oysters a la Creme. 

Will Serve Four. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i pint of cream 
Saltspoonfiil of salt Saltspoonful of pepper 

Grating- of nutmeg Bay leaf 

2 tablespoonfuls of bread i pint Puget Sound oysters 
crumbs 

Put the butter in a chafing dish ; v/hen hot add 
cream, pepper, salt, a grating of nutmeg and a bay leaf. 
Stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of very stale fine bread crumbs. 
Blanch the oysters by pouring boiling water over them ; 
drain and add to the sauce. Cook two minutes. 

MRS. HINCKLEY. 

Curried Oysters or Clams. 

Will Serve Four. 

I small onion 2 tablespoonsful of butter 

I teaspoonful of curry 2 teaspoonfuls of flour 

powder i pint of milk 

1 i^int of Olynipia oysters or i dozen of b^astern 

Choj) the onion fine. Put butter in the chafing dish 
and when hot add the onion ; fry. Mix the curry powder 
with flour and stir into the butter ; add i pint of hot milk 
gradually ; strain the oysters and add, cooking them only 
until the leaves curl. 

MRS. HINCKLEY. 

Oyster Toast. 

Will Serve Four. 

I dozen Eastern oysters or i teaspoonful of butter 
I pint of Puget Sound Yolks of 2 eggs 
oysters Gill of cream 

Salt, pepper and nutmeg 
Chop the oysters moderately fine, season with salt, 
pepper, and a trace of nutmeg. Put into the chafing dish 
a teaspoonful of butter ; add the oyster mince. Beat up 
the yolks of eggs with the cream, stir it into the dish 
when the egg is firm. Serve on buttered toast. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

See Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle, for Anything Electrical. 



CHAFING DISH 85 



Oysters Maitre d'Hotel. 

Will Serve Two. 

Yz dozen large oysters i teaspoonful of butter 

Yz lemon Chopped parsley 

Season with salt and pepper 
Dry the oysters in a napkin. Put butter in chafing 
dish. When it is very hot add the oysters ; saute them 
on one side, then on the other; season with salt and pep- 
per; put out light under dish, then squeeze the juice of 
half a lemon over the oysters, strew over them a little 
chopped parsley and serve with or without toast. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Shrimps a la Poulette. 

Will Serve Two. 
Squeeze over a cup of shrimps a little lemon juice; 
put into chafing dish i tablespoonful of butter ; when 
hot, add I tablespoonful of flour; pour gradually over i 
cup of hot cream ; season, stir in the yolks of 2 eggs ; add 
the shrimps. When hot serve. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 

Shrimps a la Creole. 

Take a pint of shelled shrimps, fresh or canned, and 
place them in a chafing dish in which you have 2 ounces 
of butter, Yz of a very small onion, grated. Braise the 
shrimps in this preparation ; add ^2 a pint of canned to- 
matoes ; season very highly with salt and Chili pepper ; 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of French peas. Cook for about ten 
minutes and serve. 

CHARLES E. RECTOR, Chicago. 

Cheese Fondu. 

Will Serve Three. 

I tablespoonful of butter i cup of milk 
I cup stale bread crumbs Y^ teaspoonful dry mustard 
Speck of cayenne pepper i cup grated English dairy 
3 eggs cheese 

Put the butter in the chafing dish ; when melted add 
cup of milk, then cup of stale bread crumbs which have 

Let Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle, Advise you on Fixtures. 



86 CLEVER COOKING 



been seasoned with ^A teaspoonful of dry mustard, a 
speck of cayenne, the beaten yolks and the cup of cheese. 
Stir all the time. Just before serving add the well-beaten 
whites. Serve on toast. Twice as much cheese can be 
used if preferred without changing the other proportions. 

, MRS. HINCKLEY. 
(Recommended by Mrs. M. F. Backus.) 



Fresh Mushrooms. 

Peel one dozen medium-sized mushrooms ; remove 
the stems ; melt ^S a teaspoonful of butter in the cutlet 
dish, and before it gets hot lift the dish off and put it on 
a plate ; cover the bottom of the dish with mushrooms ; 
on top of each mushroom put a bit of butter the size of a 
marble ; season each with a little salt and pepper. Re- 
turn the dish to the flame and cook from two to three 
minutes, according to the size of the mushrooms. 

(Gorham Chafing Dish Recipes.) 



Fresh Mushrooms. 

To every quart of mushrooms add i tablespoonful of 
butter, cut into bits and well floured ; cook fifteen min- 
utes ; add i tablespoonful of cream to a quart of mush- 
rooms ; salt and pepper to taste. Remove from the fire, 
add one well-beaten Qgg and small wineglassful of sherry. 
Serve at once, with or without toast. 

MRS. E. A. STROUT. 



Electric Heaters of Every Kind at Kilbourne & Clark 
Co., Seattle. 



CLEVER COOKING 87 



CLEVER COOKING 



ALPHA SALAD CREAM 

is made from the formula of a fa- 
mous New England "chef." Every 
ingredient used in its preparation 
is of purest and highest quality 

GIVES THE SIMPLEST DISH A FLAVOR 
THAT WHETS THE APPETITE 

KELLEY-CLARKE CO., Agents 




BITTER OR SWEET 

The Delightful Flavor and 
Uniform Excellence of 

Cbirardclli^s £bocoIate 

Commend Them to Your Use 
One trial will give them a permanent place in your housebold. 

KELLEY-CLARKE CO., Agents. 

D IVT^DE from the Largest 

Bed of Pure Rock Salt 

^^ in the world. Costs a 

little more, perhaps, but it is 



V 

p 

SALT 



ROCK SALT 
VERY PURE 



*y* «,r« *i« 



KELLEY-CLARKE CO.,^ 



SALADS 



"We may pick a thousand salads e're we light on such an 
herb. " 



Mayonnaise No. i. 

2 eggs (yolks only) i teaspoonful dry mustard 

1 teaspoonful sugar i teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar Juice of i lemon 

I pint best olive oil A dash of cayenne 

Rub the inside of a bowl with a slice of onion ; beat 
the yolks of the eggs with the dry ingredients and with 
a silver fork beat in the oil, pouring in only a drop or 
two at a time. Always stir one way, and always be sure 
that the last drops of oil are stirred in thoroughly before 
adding more. After the mixture becomes thick and ropy 
the oil may be added in a little larger quantities, but it 
is better to be too careful rather than not enough so. If 
the mixture separates it is probably because it is not 
chilled enough or because the oil has been added too 
rapidly. Set the bowl on the ice in the refrigerator for 
fifteen or twenty minutes, then try again ; if it still will 
not mix, add the yolk (very cold) of another egg, and 
perhaps a second one may be added. If it is still obstinate 
and it is necessary to finish the dressing at once, it will 
be best to set this away and begin over again, taking 
great care that all the materials and utensils are well 
chilled ; and in warm weather, or a warm room, set the 
bowl in a dish of cracked ice while beating. Some times 
two or three hours' chilling will bring the old dressing 
out all right; sometimes a few drops of lemon juice or a 
little unbeaten white of egg will restore consistency. 

After the dressing becomes quite stiff and hard to 
stir, a few drops of lemon or vinegar may be added, then 

Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle, Make Fixtures to go 
with your Decorations. 



90 CLEVER COOKING 



more oil, and so on till all the oil has been used. It is 
impossible to give exact quantities of vinegar and sea- 
soning for a salad dressing, so much depends upon the 
strength of the materials ; so that much must be left to 
the taste. But lemon juice is better than all vinegar, and 
tarragon vinegar is a great improvement upon cider vin- 
egar. 

To keep, this dressing should be thick enough to cut 
with a knife, put into a fruit jar, sealed and kept in the 
ice chest. The quantity needed may be thinned to the 
proper consistency by adding w^hipped cream, thick 
sweet cream, or sour cream. The white of an egg beaten 
to a stiff froth and added at the last makes it very light 
and delicate. MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cream Salad Dressing. 

Mixture for Seasoning. 

8 teaspoonfuls of salt 4 teaspoonfuls of mustard 

I even teaspoonful of red pepper 

Mix well together and place in a tin or glass can for 
future use. 

Dressing. 

To 5 tablespoonfuls of boiling vinegar add the well- 
beaten yolks of 5 eggs, piece of butter size of an ^%%, 
and boil until it thickens ; then remove from the stove 
and beat until cool ; add i teaspoonful of the mixture to 
this and the juice of i lemon. Beat Yi pint of cream stiff 
and stir into the paste when ready to serve. 

MRS. CHARLES STIMSON. 

Sour Cream Salad Dressing. 

5 tablespoonfuls of vinegar Yolks of 5 eggs 

Yi cup of butter or salad oil i teasponful of salt 

I saltspoonful of pepper i tablespoonful of sugar 

I teaspoonful of prepared i cup of sour cream 
mustard 

Heat vinegar to boiling point and pour gradually into 
beaten yolks ; stir until thick, then add butter gradually 
until all is dissolved, and lastly other ingredients. 

C. HOWELL KIRBY. 



SALADS 91 

Cooked Salad Dressing. 

4 eggs Yx teaspoonful red pepper 
I teaspoonful of dry mus- i cup of best salad oil 

tard 15^ teaspoonfuls of sugar 

% cup of vinegar i^ teaspoonfuls of salt 

Beat the yolks and add the dry ingredients, then very 
slowly add the oil. This, if rightly done, will become 
waxy and thick. Add the vinegar a little at a time ; then 
the beaten whites of the eggs. Put into the double boiler 
and stir from the edges and bottom carefully till it thick- 
ens. 

Lemon juice is much nicer than vinegar, or more 
lemon juice than vinegar. Put in a glass jar, keep in a 
cool place and use as required. 

MRS. GEO. OSGOOD, Tacoma. 



Lactiola Dressing. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter i tablespoonful of flour 

I tablespoonful of salt i ounce of sugar 

I large teaspoonful of mus- i cup of milk 

tard Yi cup of vinegar 

3 eggs A pinch of cayenne 

Heat the butter in custard kettle ; add flour, stirring 
until smooth, being careful not to brown. Add the milk 
and boil up. Beat the eggs, salt, pepper, mustard and 
sugar together and add vinegar. Mix with the boiling 
mixture and stir until it thickens like soft custard. Let 
cool and bottle, and it will keep in a cool place for weeks. 
Yolks of eggs may be used, requiring six yolks for this 
quantity. 

MRS. CORWIN S. SHANK. 



Boiled Sweet Dressing, 

I whole &^% I cup cream or milk 

I tablespoonful sugar Yi cup cream (whipped) 

I tablespoonful flour i tablespoonful lemon 

juice 

Heat the milk, then to it add the ^%g, well beaten, and 
then the flour and sugar, which have been dissolved in a 



92 CLEVER COOKING 



little milk. Cook as you would a custard, then remove 
from stove, and when cold and ready to serve beat in the 
whipped cream and lemon juice. 

MRS. ELLEN R. MILLER. 



Salad Dressing. 

Two medium-sized boiled potatoes. While hot pass 
through a sieve ; add well-beaten yolks of two raw eggs, 
mixed mustard and salt to taste, and when well mixed 
and cold beat in gradually and thoroughly as much oil 
as it will bear until stiff enough to bear up a fork. Put 
in vinegar, using your judgment as to quantity, and a 
dash of red pepper. If the oil does not mix readily, add 
a drop or two of vinegar or cold water. It needs a deal 
of beating and should be quite thick and creamy when 
done. 

MRS. B. W. BAKER. 



French Salad Dressing. 

Take four parts of oil to one of vinegar or lemon 
juice; season highly with salt, pepper, drop of Tobasco, 
and add a little Worcestershire sauce if desired. Mix 
very thoroughly. 



Dressing for Cold Slaw. 

I cup milk 2 eggs 

I tablespoonful butter J^ teaspoonful mustard 

I tablespoonfid sugar Yi cup vinegar 

I small tablespoonful salt Cayenne 

I small tablespoonful of flour 

Boil the milk and to it add the beaten eggs. Remove 
from the fire and add the butter and flour (creamed to- 
gether) ; stir constantly and add slowly the other in- 
gredients, one at a time, finishing with the vinegar. Cool 
before using. 

MRS. L. B. STEDMAN. 



SALADS 93 

Fruit Salad Dressing. 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar }4 teaspoonful cinnamon 

I gill sherry 2 tablespoonfuls Maderia 

Mix sugar and cinnamon together, add the wine and 
stir constantl}^ imtil sugar is dissolved. 
By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and ARNOLD & CO. 



Egg Salad. 

I tablespoonful of butter 3 raw eggs 
I cup of cream fi cup of vinegar 

I teaspoonful of pepper i teaspoonful of salt 
2 teaspoonfuls of dry mustard 

Beat the eggs separately, then mix and to them add 
pepper, vinegar, salt and mustard and stir all in a sauce 
pan in which is the tablespoonful of butter melted. Let 
it come to a boil, then cool before adding the cream. Cut 
celery as for chicken salad and cut hard-boiled eggs in 
quarters or slices, having equal quantities of celery and 
eggs. Mix all together and stir in dressing. 

MRS. R. C. WASHBURN. 



Chicken Salad. 

Use mayonnaise recipe No. i, but make it with a 
Dover egg-beater instead of a fork. When the dressing 
is made add to it a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce 
and sev&ral dashes of Tobasco sauce. Cut the chicken 
into small pieces with a knife or scissors. Do not chop. 
Fix the celery the same way. To this add blanched al- 
monds, some capers and olives, all chopped, but not too 
fine. Put in the mayonnaise dressing and serve on shred- 
ded lettuce — shredded lettuce because it is so much more 
convenient to eat when served in that way. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Three chickens with an equal amount of celery will 
serve forty people. 

See Kilbourne & Clark Co., Seattle, Before Buying 
Fixtures and Glassware. 



94 CLEVER COOKING 



A Few Combinations that Make Good Salads, Served 
With Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Sweetbreads and cold peas. 

Potatoes, cold peas, cucumber cut into cubes, and 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Orange, banana and pineapple. 

Fresh or canned cherries with the stones taken out 
and hazel nuts or small pieces of walnuts put inside. 
Soak the cherries in brandy a little while before putting 
on the salad dressing, unless Maraschino cherries are 
used. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Shrimp Salad. 

Use equal parts of shrimp, oranges and English wal- 
nuts. Garnish with heads and tails of the shrimp, if 
fresh shrimp is used. 

MRS. ELLEN R. MILLER. 



Sardine Salad. 

2 dozen sardines i large cucumber 

I Bermuda onion 4 or 5 olives 

Mince the onion, cucumbers and olives. Remove the 
bones and skin from the sardines, then place on a dish 
and cover with lemon juice imtil ready to serve the salad. 

Pile the vegetables in the center of a dish -and place 
the sardines in groups of three around the salad, alter- 
nating with lemon points and water cress. 

MRS. ELLEN R. MILLER. 



Veal Salad with Nuts. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

Two pounds of cold veal, cut small ; i head of celery, 
I pound of nuts (almonds, filberts and English walnuts), 
blanched and halved ; marinate with French dressing and 
at serving time place on tender lettuce leaves and add 
mayonnaise dressing. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



SALADS 95 

Lobster Salad. 

2 raw eggs well beaten i teasponful of mustard 

I teaspoonful of salt j-i teaspoonfiil of pepper 

I tablespoonful of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

I bunch of celery i lobster 

Remove the coral for the dressing, then chop the lob- 
ster with the celery. Heat the vinegar, add the season- 
ing, except the oil, and stir constantly until of the con- 
sistency of thick cream. Add the oil and work in grad- 
ually the coral which has been rubbed to a paste. Pour 
over the hot mixture and set aside to cool. 

MRS. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 



Salmon Salad No. i. 

Will Serve Six. 

1 quart cooked salmon 2 heads of lettuce 

2 tablespoonfuls of lemon i tablespoonful of vinegar 

juice I teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of capers i cup mayonnaise dressing 

Break up the salmon with a fork, add to it the salt, a 
little pepper, the vinegar, lemon juice and capers. Place 
on ice for two hours, and just before serving add the 
dressing, tossing the fish lightly with a silver fork and 
spoon. 

MRS. J. D. LOWMAN. 



Salmon Salad No. 2. 

Will Serve Five. 

I pound boiled salmon i head celery 

1-8 teaspoonful white pep- 3^ teaspoonful salt 
per 

Break salmon into small pieces, chop celery and mix 
with mayonnaise dressing. Garnish the dish with white 
leaves of celery and serve. 

MRS. NINA C. SPENCER. 



See Kilbourne & Clark Co.. Seattle, for Decorative 
Lighting for Dinners. 



96 CLEVER COOKING 



Herring Salad. 

8 herrings Cold roast veal 

Raw apples Pickled red beets 

Cucumber pickles 2 onions 

6 hard boiled eggs 

Soak the herring for twelve hours, pick out bones and 
skin, cut in small pieces ; add the same quantity jof finely 
cut cold roast veal, almost as much of apples and red 
beets, and i saucerful of chopped pickles and 2 chopped 
onions. Shortly before using cut the whites of 6 hard- 
boiled eggs into it, and stir the yolks into the milt of the 
herrings, which has been previously beaten with vinegar ; 
then add thereto pepper, salt, a little mustard and more 
vinegar. Pour over the rest, and when ready to use orna- 
ment with beets, pickles, hard-boiled eggs (each chopped 
separately), and some capers. Enough olive oil and vin- 
egar to moisten. 

L. ^I. THEDINGA. 



Asparagus and Chicken Salad. 

Marinate cold boiled asparagus tips in French dress- 
ing and place on top of chicken or veal mayonnaise. Gar- 
nish with mayonnaise. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Macedoine Salad. 

Vegetables which are ordinarily cooked before serv- 
ing should be cooked before using for salad. Mayon- 
naise should be added just before serving it, as it liquifies 
as soon as mixed with vegetables. 

I head celery i tablespoonful green peas 

Yi. cauliflower i tablespoonful string beans 

I small beet 

Cut into small i)ieces, cover with mayonnaise and 
serve at once. Any combination of vegetables may be 
used. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



SALADS 97 

Potato Salad. 

Boil four good-sized potatoes in their jackets, peel, 
cut in dice, put into a colander and marinate with French 
dressing in which has been grated a few drops of onion. 
When cold moisten slightly with mayonnaise which has 
had one teaspoonful of minced cucumber pickles and one 
of minced capers mixed with it. Put a layer in the salad 
bowl, a thin layer of sliced and salted cucumbers, a spoon- 
ful or two of mayonnaise on this, then more potatoes, 
etc., until all are used, putting potatoes last and mayon- 
naise liberally on top. Garnish with pitted olives, cold 
boiled beets cut in any shape desired, hard-boiled eggs or 
capers. It is hardly possible to put too many good things 
into potato salad. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Apple and Celery Salad. 

Select several ripe mealy apples and about half as 
much celery. Make a mayonnaise dressing, using lemon 
juice instead of vinegar. Add to this the well-beaten 
white of one egg. Peel and slice the apples thin. Cut 
the celery fine. Stir these into the dressing. Garnish 
with celery tips and serve. 

MRS. PETERS. 

Waldorf Salad. 

1 cup of apples 2 cups of celery 

2 tablespoonfuls of chopped walnuts 

Cut the apples and celery into one-half inch pieces. 
Chop the nuts very fine. Mix with mayonnaise Jusi be- 
fore serving, and garnish with halves of walnuts. Serve 
very cold. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

Will Serve Eight. 

I can tomatoes ^ box gelatine 

Pepper and salt 

Put the tomatoes in a sauce pan and let them come to 
a boil ; season high with pepper and salt, particularly the 



98 CLEVER COOKING 



latter. Strain through a fine sieve, add the gelatine (dis- 
solved) and fill a mould. Set in ice box until cold. Cut 
in thin slices and serve on lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise. Cucumbers sliced very thin may be added if de- 
sired. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Tomato Salad. 

1. Select fine large tomatoes that have been in the 
ice chest and are very cold ; remove the skins without 
the use of hot water, arrange on a dish garnished with 
lettuce or parsley, and put a generous spoonful of may- 
onnaise on each tomato. 

Beet Salad. 

2. Cut cold boiled beets into dice and mix with an 
eqtial quantity of celery cut into pieces not too small. 
French or mayonnaise dressing. 



Asparagus Salad. 

3. Serve a spoonful of mayonnaise on the plate with 
boiled asparagus. 

MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Cottage Cheese Salad. 

Form small balls of cottage cheese mixed with French 
dressing; roll in chopped walnuts. Serve on lettuce with 
mavonnaise. 

MRS. EDWIN A. STOUT. 

Spanish Pepper Salad. 

Place peppers on bed of lettuce or cress, with a spoon- 
ful of mayonnaise ; a ball of cottage cheese may be added. 
For variety the ball of cheese may be rolled in chopped 
parsley or chopped nuts. The peppers may be cut in 
heart shape also. The cans average 12 peppers. 

MRS. L. C. SAULSBERRY. 



SALADS 99 

Sweetbread Salad. 

Parboil one pair of sweetbreads ; put in cold water for 
half an h&ur; remove the skin, add salt and simmer 
gently for twenty minutes. When cold, slice thin, mar- 
inate with French dressing, and add shredded celery. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 



I Fruit Macedoine. 

Two bananas, cut in quarters lengthwise and then in 
inch-long pieces ; 2 oranges, having the pulp separated 
as nearly whole as possible ; a small pineapple, shredded ; 
a bunch of grapes, seeded, and ^ cupful of nuts (pecans 
are best, but almonds or walnuts may be used, or a mix- 
ture). Have the fruit thoroughly chilled; moisten lightly 
with French dressing. Serve at once on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise on top. A great many combinations of 
fruits can be prepared in this way. Oranges alone, or 
oranges with nuts are good. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Golden Chestnut Salad. 

Shell, blanch and boil until tender one pint of chest- 
nuts ; drain, dust with salt and stand aside to cool ; liard- 
boil two eggs. At serving time arrange the lettuce in a 
salad bowl, put the chestnuts over and moisten with a 
nice French dressing, using lemon juice instead of vine- 
gar. Hold a small sieve over the bowl and rub the yolks 
through it, with which cover the salad slightly. By per- 
mission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News. 



Celery as a Garnish Salad. 

Take a large cork, as from a wide-mouthed bottle, 
drive in needles head first quite close and regularly. 
Have nice white celery cut about two inches long, draw 
over the needles from the center (nearly) to one end, 
then turn and draw to the other end, making the celery 
into fringes. Held together in the center. Throw into ice 

I 



100 CLEVER COOKING 



water for a half hour, and it will curl and crisp beauti- 
fully. This is also a pretty way to prepare celery for a 
salad. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Apples. 

Select fine, large red apples ; cut off the tops scoop 
out center and fill with any preferred salad. Apple and 
celery or any meat salad is good. Serve whole on lettuce. 



Cucumbers. 

Select symmetrical cucumbers, wash and polish. Cut 
them lengthwise in half. Scoop out centers and fill with 
salad. Shrimp or any fish salad, or fruit salad is good. 



Peppers. 

Slice cucumbers with French dressing and fill the pep- 
pers. Serve on lettuce. 

Bananas. 

Remove two sections of the banana skin and take out 
fruit. Cut into dice, mix with mayonnaise and refill the 
skins. Serve on lettuce. 

Pears. 

Cut in half ; take out centers and fill with chopped 
celery mixed with mayonnoise. Serve on lettuce. 



Cherry Salad. 

Remove the seeds from sour cherries ; place a filbert 
in each one. Heap the fruit on a lettuce leaf and serve 
with French dressing or mayonnaise. 

:\[RS. ALBERT T. TIMMERMAN. 



SALADS 101 

Raspberry Salad. 

Choose the heart leaves of head lettuce. Heap a few 
raspberries in each and dust slightly with powdered su- 
gar. Put a teaspoonful of mayonnaise on each portion 
and garnish with lemon. ^^^^^ ^y_ g_ QAFFNEY. 



Truffle Salad. 

Russian. 

4 dozen truffles i wineglass of sherry 

I tablespoonful of oil i teaspoonful of chopped 
I teaspoonful of chopped tarragon 

parsley Salt and pepper 

Chop the truffles and put over the fire with the sherry 
for five minutes. When cold put in a bowl with the other 
ingredients. Mix well and cover with mayonnaise. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Cauliflower Salad. 

Boil a cauliflower until tender ; cool ; pick into small 
pieces or serve whole. Cover with mayonnaise. Garnish 
with lettuce and hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

Cabbage Salad. 

J/2 cabbage J/2 green pepper (remove seeds) 

^ small onion ; chop all together 

One-half cup French dressing ; add 2 tablespoonf uls 
catsup, I tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. Mix and 
pour over the cabbage, stirring it in well. 

MRS. HENRY DRISLER. 

Cabbage and Nasturtium Salad. 

Place cabbage, cut very fine, in salad bowl ; arrange 
nasturtium flowers on top. In serving place two or three 
flowers on each plate. The flowers are to be eaten. Serve 
with mayonnaise. ^jrs_ HENRY DRISLER. 



102 CLEVER COOKING 



Orange Salad. 

For Rt)ast Game. 

Slice oranges thin ; free from seeds ; and mix with a 
dressing made of 3 tablespoonfnls of oil, i tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, salt, cayenne. Delicious. 

MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 

A Dainty Way to Serve Chicken Salad. 

Cut out the stem end of tomatoes and remove the 
pulp ; moisten the inside slightly with French dressing 
and chill thoroughly. ' At serving time fill with chicken 
mayonnaise (chicken salad without the celery) ; put a 
spoonful of mayonnaise on top, garnish with capers or 
chopped pickles and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Tomato Baskets. 

Select fine large tomatoes, carefully peel and put on 
ice. Leave a strip of the tomato in the middle to serve 
as the handle of basket. Prepare celery by splitting 
lengthwise the thickness of a straw and cut in half-inch 
pieces. Mix with ma^'onnaise and fill the baskets. ]\Iay- 
onnaise of sweetbreads is very nice in these baskets. 

Mushroom Salad. 

I can mushrooms i cup of cut celery 

Pecans if desired 

Soak mushrooms in cold salt water for an hour or two 
before using. Mix with celery and pecans and a mayon- 
naise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Oyster Salad. 

Drain the liquor from a pint of Sound oysters, pour 
boiling water over them and let them stand until they 
plump. Set away until perfectly cold, them mix with 
half a cup of mayonnaise and serve on crisp lettuce. 



SALADS 103 



Pecan Salad. 



I cup pecans, shelled % cup celery, cut fine 

Marinate with French dressing; chill well and ar- 
range on lettuce leaves and garnish with mayonnaise. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Chestnut and English Walnut Salad. 

Have the chestnuts shelled and blanched ; boil till 
they are soft and tender. Pour boiHng water on the wal- 
nuts to remove the skins. 

Mix the nuts together, pour over a French dressing, 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Celery may be cut into small pieces and mixed with 
them, or apples may be used instead of the celery. Gar- 
nish with mayonnaise. 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News Co. 



Nut Jelly Salad. 

In a sauce pan put 3 cupfuls of walnut meats, 2 slices 
of onion, i teaspoonful of salt, 2 blades of mace, 2 bay 
leaves. Cover with boiling water and boil ten minutes ; 
drain and drop into ice water until needed. Then dry 
thoroughly in a towel and with a sharp knife cut (not 
chop) each nut into several pieces and add enough may- 
onnaise to mix well together. 

In a sauce pan put one quart of boiling water, 4 
cloves, 2 blades of mace, ^ teaspoonful of celery seed, i 
slice of onion, i bay leaf, 4 slices of carrot, 2 slices of 
turnip, 2 teaspoonfuls of beef extract, and simmer gently 
for thirty minutes. Season to taste. Add 2-3 box of gel- 
atine which has been soaked in water and stir till dis- 
solved. Strain very carefully and add 4 tablespoonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar. Have ready a dozen medium sized 
timbale moulds dipped in cold water. Pour into them 
the aspic and put away until set. Then scoop out the 
center of each and fill with the nut mixture. Put the 
fragments of jelly where they will melt without heating 



104 CLEVER COOKING 



and when liquid put a little on the top of each mould. 
Keep on ice until ready to use, then turn out and serve 
on lettuce leaves, garnishing with mayonnaise and pa- 
prika. From TABLE TALK. 



Nut and Cheese Salad. 

I small Neuchatel cheese i tablespoonful of olives 
I tablespoonful English Cream 

walnuts 

Moisten the cheese with cream, then add the walnuts 
and olives (chopped) ; roll in a long roll and wrap in 
parafine paper and let stand. When ready to serve re- 
move from paper and serve in a bed of lettuce with may- 
onnaise. 

This can be used for brown bread sandwiches. 

MRS. ELLEN R. MILLER. 



Stuffed Radishes. 

Select round red radishes, carefully cut the peeling 
back in sections and scrape out center. Fill with break- 
fast cheese or any creamy cheese. Replace the peeling 
and serve with salad. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



[For Cheese Balls, Cheese Sticks and Cheese Crackers 
to serve with Salad, see Cheese Dishes.] 



VEGETABLES 



"Nor lacked our table small parade of garden fruits." 
"What and how great the virtue and the art to live on little 
with a cheerful heart." 



New Potatoes a la Creme. 

Select new potatoes about the size of apricots. Boil 
in salted water till tender, drain them and when dry pour 
over a little drav/n butter sauce. Serve very hot. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Potato au Gratin. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, stew in milk, season with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle with grated cheese and bread 
crumbs mixed, and brown in oven. 

MRS. V. A. RITON. 



Potato Puff. 

To i^ cups of seasoned mashed potatoes allow i egg 
and heat well. Yolks should be added first, then the 
whites, previously beaten stiff with a pinch of salt in 
them. Place the mixture in a well buttered dish and bake 
until light brown on top. A little minced parsley may be 
added, or a little finely chopped cooked meat of any kind, 
or white fish minced fine. Serve immediately in the dish 
in which it is baked. 

ANNA BEACH. 



106 CLEVER COOKING 



Duchesse Potatoes. 

5 cold potatoes 5 heaping- dessert spoonfuls 

I teaspoonful of baking of flour 

powder • 2 eggs 

A little salt 

Grate potatoes ; add, lightly stirring with a fork, the 
other ingredients. Drop with a spoon into boiling lard 
and fry until balls are a rich brown. 

• ^ " ■■ MRS. BURNSIDE. 



Potatoes on the Half Shell. 

Will Serve Six. 

Wash, scrub and bake three smooth potatoes. Cut in 
halves lengthwise, and without breaking the skin scoop 
out the potato into a hot bowl. Mash and add i table- 
spoonful of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of hot cream, i table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff and mix with the potato. 
Fill the skins with the potato mixture, heaping it lightly 
on the top. Brown slightly. One tablespoonful of grated 
cheese may be used instead of the parsley. 

MRS. CHARLES SHEPARD. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Boil 6 large potatoes, mash fine, season with pepper 
and salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Beat sep- 
arately the yolks of 2 eggs' and the white of one ; first 
beat the yolks thoroughly into the potato, then add the 
white, beating all very light. Form into balls and roll, 
first in beaten egg, then into cracker crumbs, and fry 
in hot lard. MRS. J. C. HAINES. 

Scalloped Potatoes No. i. 

Slice raw potatoes fine, put a layer in a baking dish; 
put over them a dust of flour, small pieces of butter, salt 
and pepper and celery salt, and a little milk (cream is 
better if you have it) ; fill the dish in this way. Roll 3 
crackers fine, sprinkle over the top, and bake one hour in 
a moderate oven. MRS. J. C. "HAINES. 



VEGETABLES 107 

Scalloped Potatoes No. 2. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice and alternate them 
in a baking dish with layers of cream sauce, to which 
may have been added a little onion juice or parsley. 
Strew bread crumbs and bits of butter on top and bake 
about thirty minutes. 

MRS. CALVIN VILAS. 



French Fried Potatoes. 

Pare the potatoes and cut into three-cornered pieces. 
Fry as doughnuts in boiling lard. When brown add pep- 
per and salt. 

H. VAUGHAN HOWELL. 



Potatoes and Eg'gs, 

Eight or ten potatoes, six hard-boiled eggs. Boil and 
mash potatoes, season with, cream, butter and salt. Put 
a layer of this in buttered baking dish. Separate yolks 
from whites ; mash the yolks, adding 9. teaspoonful of 
mustard, very little cayenne, tablespoonful of butter, des- 
sert spoonful of vinegar, cream sufficient to soften. Mix 
this with the chopped whites ; add a layer of this, then 
the potatoes till the dish is filled, putting bits of butter 
on top. Put in the oven and brown twenty minutes or a 
half hour. 

MRS. LOUISE A. TOMPSON. 



Potato Timbale. 

Pare eight good-sized potatoes, cover them with boil- 
ing water, let them cook until soft, drain water from 
them and mash smooth and light. Add 3 tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two of finely chopped parsley ; season with 
pepper, salt and Celery salt, and then gradually beat in i 
teacupful of hot milk, stirring hard; beat the yolks of 3 
eggs and stir into the mixture ; butter baking dish and 
cover it thickly'with fine crumbs; lastly beat the whites 
of the 3 eggs very stiff ; beat well into prepared potato ; 
turn all into dish and bake in a moderate oven for half 
an hour. Let the dish stand a. few minutes after it comes 



108 CLEVER COOKING 



from the oven ; then place a heated platter over the top 
and turn them over together. If the timhale does not 
readily come from the dish, loosen with a thin-hladed 
knife. 



MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Moulded Potato. 

Boil until mealy half a tlozcn large potatoes ; mash 
smooth and light ; stir into them 2 generous tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of cream and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley; season with pepper 
and salt. Beat very light the whites of 3 eggs, stir into 
potato, beating all well together. Have a quart tin jelly 
mould well buttered, pour the mixture into it, pressing 
down well into form ; let stand a few minutes, then re- 
verse mould on a buttered baking tin. Brush the mould- 
ed potato over with the beaten yolks of the 3 eggs ; place 
in oven and brown lightly. This makes a sightly dish 
placed in the center of a hot platter and French mutton 
chops jiiled aroimd it. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 

MRS. I. C. HAINES. 



Creamed Potatoes au Gratin, 

Put in sauce pan 1 cup of thin cream. 1 small table- 
spoonfid of butter ; season with salt and pepper ; cut 
into rather fine dice half a dozen cold boiled potatoes. 
When the cream mixture comes to a boil add the ]-)ota- 
toes, let them boil up once and remove from fire. Place 
a layer of potatoes in a buttered baking dish and scatter 
over them some grated cheese, and then layers of po- 
tatoes and cheese until the dish is filled. Sprinkle over 
the top a layer of crumbs and bits of butter over all. Put 
dish in oven and bake until cnmibs are brown, which 
will be in fifteen or twenty minutes. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Sweet Potatoes with Sugar. 

Boil the potatoes, then slice them. Put them in a 
baking dish, make a syrup by adding water and a little 



VEGETABLES 109 

butter to the sugar ; do not cook the syrup, but pour it 
over the potatoes and bake them in the oven. A very 
little while will suffice for the syrup to permeate the po- 
tatoes. A crust of sugar will form on the top of potatoes. 

MRS. THOMAS GREEN. 



Spinach With Cream. 

Boil spinach and chop fine. In a sauce pan over the 
fire put 4 ounces of butter, i tablcspoonful of flour, salt, 
nutmeg and ^ pint of cream. Stir well until it boils ; add 
spinach, and when hot serve with bread fried in butter. 
MRS. ERASTUS BRAINERD. 



Boiled Cabbage. 

Prepare the cabbage by cutting as for cold slaw and 
allow it to lie in cold water at least half an hour before 
cooking. Cover with cold water and cook slowly until 
tender, changing the water three times during the pro- 
cess in order to remove the strong cabbage taste and 
odor. When tender, drain oflf all water and add ^ cup of 
milk (this amount for about half a head of cabbage), but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Heat the milk through and serve at 
once. Cabbage cooked in this way is as delicate as cauli- 

^o^^'"- MRS. J. D. LOWMAN. 

French , Cabbage. 

Wash cabbage in salt water, cut in quarters and boil 
twenty minutes. Drain the water from it, but do not 
squeeze. Brown ^ pound of blotter in pan, put in cab- 
bage and a teacup of cream and let simmer another 
twenty minutes. Good. 

MRS. CHARLOTTE B. CHURCH. 

Winter Succotash. 

Boil half a pint of dry Lima beans until tender ; add i 
can of corn, season with butter, salt and pepper and add i 
cup of cream or milk. ^j^g^ FRANK BEACH. 



110 CLEVER COOKING 

Creamed Carrots. 

Will Serve Five. 

Scrape and wash six medium-sized carrots, quarter 
them and boil in salt water until soft. Drain and mash, 
season with salt^ pepper, and butter the size of a walnut. 
Add a cup of rich milk and serve. 

MRS. JAMES FIELDS. 

Salsify or Oyster, Plant Patties. 

Will Serve Six. 

12 medium sized salsify 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

roots I egg 

4 rolled soda crackers Pepper and salt 

Scrape the salsify and cut crosswise in half-inch 
pieces, throwing at once into cold water to keep from 
turning dark ; a good deal more than cover with boiling 
water; add i teaspoonful salt arid boil until tender, which 
will be an hour or longer ; mash very fine, put in y^ table- 
spoonful of butter, pepper and a little sa:It if needed, and 
let cool. • In the meantime beat i ^%^ lightly, put in a 
little salt and pepper, roll the crackers very fine, season 
with a little salt and pepper. Take a dessert spoon and 
mould the salsify into little cakes, dip them into the ^^'g, 
handling carefully so as not to break them ; roll them in 
the cracker crumbs. Fr}^ a light brown in good hot beef 
dripping, or butter. The patties may be prepared some 
hours before frying. ^^-^<^_ EDMUND BOWDEN. 



Brussels Sprouts. 

I quart sprouts . Vz gallon .water 

I tablespoonful salt Salt 

^ teaspoonful soda Pepper 

Pick all dead leaves from sprouts and wash in cold 
water, then add them to the water, which must be boil- 
ing, and add salt and soda. Boil rapidly, uncovered, 20 
minutes ; drain and serve in heated dish with butter and 
seasoning. ^ MRS. ,L. C. SAULSBERRY. 



VEGETABLES 111 

Baked Summer Squash. 

Select a perfect round, squash, cut a small round cover 
from the stem side ; scrape out the inside with a spoon 
until it leaves the shell about an inch thick. Mix with 
one cup of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and a liberal 
amount of butter. Put back in shell and place the cover 
back into place. Put in a covered dish with a little water 
and bake one hour and a quarter. 

MRS. A. B. C. DENNISTON. 



Fricassee of Rice. 

Will Serve Six. 

2 onions, chopped fine i cup rice 

I teaspoonful butter ' i^ cups boiling water 

4 tomatoes 5 green sweet peppers. 

Salt chopped fine 

Boil rice, water and peppers an hour, stirring well ; 
put onions, butter and tomatoes in frying pan and fry- 
fifteen minutes; add to the cooked mixtiire, stirring well, 
without breaking the rice. j^j^g_ ^ ^^y\ BAKER. 

Rice and Cheese. 

Put three or four tablespoonfuls of rice into a sauce 
pan of boiling salt and water (use a good deal of water) 
and keep it boiling hard twenty minut.es. Strain. Butter 
a baking dish and put in a layer of rice, then bits of but- 
ter, salt and pepper ; then a layer of grated cheese. Re- 
peat to the top, cover with a layer of bread crumbs and 
pour in milk until you can see it at the top. Bake a half 
hour. This is much more delicate than macaroni and 
cheese. ^j^g GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 

Baked Onions. 

Boil until well done and put whole into a baking dish. 
Pour over a small dishful }4 cup of cream or milk' add 3 
tablespoonfuls of butter (less if cream is used), pepper 
and salt. Sprinkle bread crumb's over the top and bake 
half an hour. MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



112 CLEVER COOKING 



Fried Onions. 

Will Serve Five. 



Peel six large onions, slice, place in pan containing 
hot fat and fry until brown, leaving them uncovered and 
stirring often to prevent burning. Season with salt and 

P^PP^^' MRS. JAMES FIELDS. 



Onion Tart. 

This is a very appetizing dish to all onion lovers. 
Place sliced onions in a dish lined with paste, seasoning 
with butter, pepper and salt and baking until the onions 
are tender. 

If Spanish onions are used and a little cream is added, 
dredging each layer with a little flour, it makes a delight- 
ful accompaniment to baked meats. It must be eaten 

P^P^"^ ^°'- MRS. L. H. GRAY. 



Celery. 

Cut the tender stalks into inch pieces and boil in water 
and a little salt three-quarters of an hour. The white 
root may be boiled with it. Pour over it a white sauce. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Creamed Celery. 

2 cups of cut celery . ly^ cups of milk 

I teaspoonful of butter i teaspoonful of flour 

Bread crumbs Salt, cayenne pepper 

Boil the celery not quite tender ; add milk, flour, but- 
ter and seasoning; put in layers in a baking dish with 
alternate layers of soft bread crumbs. Sprinkle fine, dry 
crumbs on top, with bits of butter. 

MRS. CALVIN VILAS. 



VEGETABLES 118 

Catachis. 

2 rather small crooked neck 4 medium-sized ripe toma- 

squashes toes 

I bell pepper (from which i large onion 

seeds have been extracted) 

Chop fine ; melt i tablespoonful of butter in hot fry- 
ing pan, put in vegetables, season, cover and cook one 
hour, stirring often. Good warmed over. 



Papas Rellenas. 

Spanish. ' 

Boil some potatoes, mash smooth, put in salt and but- 
ter and line your dish with them ; cut some fine cold 
roast beef, add some chopped onion, red peppers, thyme 
and parsley. Put in a pan with some lard and fry a little ; 
add some soaked bread, and if too dry a little water. 
When nicely fried put in your potato dish. Slice some 
hard-boiled eggs over it, cover with mashed potato and 
brown in oven. 

Fried Cucumbers. 

Slice cucumbers lengthwise in thin slices after paring 
carefully ; salt well and place on tilted board to drain 
thirty minutes to an hour ; dry on towel, dredge with 
flour seasoned with pepper and fry on hot griddle. 

MRS. EUGENE RICKSECKER. 

Boiled Cucumbers. 

6 cucumbers 6 slices of toast 

I cup of milk I tablespoonful of butter 

Pepper and salt 

Pare the cucumbers and slice lengthwise of the veg- 
etable into long strips about the size of asparagus. Boil 
about twenty minutes until tender, drain and serve on 
toast. Cover with milk heated to boiling point, seasoned 
with butter, pepper and salt ; if preferred the milk may 
be thickened with a little flour. This tastes very much 
like asparagus on toast and is an excellent substitute. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 



114 CLEVER COOKING 



Stuffed Egg Plant. 

Will Serve Four. 

I egg plant i teacup of chopped cold 

I teacup of bread crumbs roast beef or steak, or 

ij4 tablespoonfuls of butter ^^ pound round steak 

I teaspoonful of cracker cooked and chopped 

dust Pepper and salt 

Buy a good shaped egg plant weighing about a pound. 
Cut the blossom end so that it will stand upright. Cut 
the stem end off about two inches from the top and peel 
the piece off. Now carefully remove the inside of the 
egg plant, leaving the shell about a quarter of an inch 
thick. Stew the egg plant in just enough water to keep 
from burning until tender, about an hour, stirring often ; 
mash, season with salt and pepper and i tablespoonful 
of butter, and beat well. It will be dark in color. Mix 
the egg plant, bread crumbs and meat thoroughly ; put 
back in the shell, dust the cracker crumbs on the top and 
dot it with the half tablespoonful of butter. Put it in a 
pan, without water but slightly greased, in a hot oven, 
and bake imtil the top is brown — about twenty minutes. 

MRS. BOWDEN. 



Corn Dodgers. 

Will Serve Five or Six Persons. 

6 ears green corn (grated) i pint of milk 

2 eggs Salt 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
powder 

Flour sufficient to make a stiff batter. Drop in hot 
lard and fry as you do doughnuts. 

MRS. C. P. DAM. 



Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Select firm, large and ripe tomatoes. With a sharp 
knife cut a deep piece from the stem end of each ; press 
them between the palms to extract as many of the seeds 
as possible without injury to the shape of the fruit; stuff 



VEGETABLES 115 



them with any kind of chopped meat — ham, sausage or 
beef. Place them side by side in a dish well buttered. 
Sift bread crumbs thickly over the top, dot it with bits 
of butter, a teaspooriful in each. Bake in hot oven thirty 
minutes. They should be a light brown when properly 

^o^^^^' EMMA I. McLOGAN. 



Sauce for Tomatoes. 

Use inside of tomatoes, a small onion, one blade of 
mace, two bay leaves, two whole cloves, salt and pepper. 
Simmer slowly for ten minutes. Press tomatoes through 
a sieve. Brown two tablespoonfuls of butter, add two 
tablespoonfuls of fiour ; stir until it boils. Pour this 
over tomatoes and serve. MISS COWAP 



Creamed Tomatoes. 

y2 can of tomatoes 
I tablespoonful of butter 
I tablespoonful of onion, chopped 
I teaspoonful of parsley, chopped 
I teaspoonful of corn starch 
5 eggs 

Stew tomatoes, butter, onions and parsley together, 
adding corn starch after mixing it with a little of the 
tomato juice. Beat the eggs until very light and add to 
other ingredients, stirring all until thick and creamy. 
Serve on buttered toast. Nice with anchovies. 

MRS. S. W. R. DALLY. 



Escallopped Tomatoes. 

Put a layer of sliced tomatoes in the bottom of an 
earthen pudding dish ; then a layer of fine bread or 
cracker crumbs. Season each layer with salt, pepper, 
sugar and bits of butter. Make three layers of each, hav- 
ing the top one crumbs with plenty of butter. Cover 
and bake one-half hour in a moderate oven or until nicely 
browned. 



116 CLEVER COOKING 



Pilaf. 

An Egyptian Dish. 
y2 cupful of rice lYi cupfuls of water 

I cupful of boiled tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Boil the rice and water until soft, then add i cup of 
boiled tomatoes and season with salt, pepper and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter ; mix thoroughly and serve hot. This 
is an especially nice dish for lunch. 



Cauliflower With Cream Dressing. 

Pick over a good firm head of cauliflower, soak in 
cold salt water for at least half an hour before cooking. 
Cook until tender, then lift into the vegetable dish and 
pour over the following sauce : Rub i tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour together. Into this beat the yolk 
of an egg. Dip up some of the cauliflower liquor into this 
until quite thin. Then pour all into the saucepan and 
boil up once and pour over the cauliflower. Some add a 
little lemon juice. 

MRS. T. M. DAULTON. 



Cauliflower au Gratin. 

Boil a cauliflower until tender. Put in a baking dish 
and pour over it a rich cream dressing. Grate cheese on 
top and bake. Serve very hot. 

MRS. H. F. WHITNEY. 



Corn Fritters. 

1 cup of cold sweet corn i beaten ii%^ 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour Pepper and salt 

Chop the corn, stir in the egg and seasoning and flour, 
and, if necessary, add a little milk to make consistency 
of batter. Fry by spoonfuls in l)utler. When brown, 
turn and brown on the other side. Canned corn may be 
used. 



VEGETABLES 117 

Boiled Macaroni. 

Break macaroni into pieces, put into boiling water 
with grated cheese and two green bell peppers, chopped 
fine ; let cook slowly on back of stove until well done. 
Put in plenty of butter and salt and pepper to taste. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Baked Macaroni. 

After cooking macaroni as above, mix with fresh or 
canned tomatoes and bake with cracker crumbs and little 
pieces of butter on top. 

A/lRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Baked Bananas. 

6 bananas 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Yi tablespoonful butter i^ tablespoonfuls lemon 

juice 

Cut the bananas lengthwise in halves, and then cut 
again in two. Melt the butter, add sugar and lemon and 
pour over the bananas. Bake twent}'- minutes or until 
slightly browned. 

MRS. A. D. BISHOP. 



118 CLEVER COOKING 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 



I like breakfast time better than any other moment in the 
day. No dust settles on one's mind then, and it presents a clear 
mirror to the rays of things. — George Eliot. 



Escalloped Mutton. 

Will Serve Four. 

I cup of cooked mutton, i tablespoonful of butter 

chopped I cup of bread crumbs 

I cup of tomatoes Pepper and salt 

Butter a shallow pudding dish, sprinkle it with a part 
of the crumbs, then the meat, then add the stewed sea- 
soned tomatoes, and put the remainder of the crumbs on 
top, using the pepper and salt sparingly on the crumbs 
and tomato. Put a heaping teaspoonful of butter broken 
in bits on the top and bake twenty minutes or half an 
hour. 

The mutton should be chopped fine and all stringy 
and very fatty parts picked out. A nice breakfast or 
luncheon dish. ^/[j^S_ E. A. BOWDEN. 



Hegeree for Breakfast. 

One large cupful of rice, boiled till tender and drained. 
The remains of cold fish from dinner picked up and freed 
from bones and skin ; two hard-boiled eggs cut up ; a 
good lump of butter, salt and pepper. Heat all together. 
Heap on a plater and serve very hot. 

MRS. BEATRICE GREEN. 



Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



120 CLEVER COOKING 



Ham Patties. 

Will Serve Four. 
Two cups of cold boiled ham chopped rather fine, i 
cup of bread crumbs moistened with i tablespoonful of 
milk. Mix together with i beaten egg, form into oval 
shapes and fry in hot frying pan. ]y[T5c t pj GR\Y 



English Pasty. 

j4 pound of suet y^ pound of lard 

I quart of flour 

Make a stiff paste, roll thin, and cut into as many 
pieces as you wish. Take one piece and slice potatoes 
small to cover one-half of it ; on this put a layer of chop- 
ped meat, or steak cut in small pieces sliced ; on this put 
a layer of onions. Parsley or turnip may be used in place 
of onions. Season to suit taste. Close the other half of 
the paste over these ingredients and pinch into a roll. 
Make small hole in the top and pour in a little water ; 
close again with small pieces of paste. Bake one hour. 
Pork or chicken can be used in place of steak. 

MRS. S. CARKEEK. 



Tomato Toast With Fish. 

Cut cold buttered toast in squares or rounds, lay a 
ring of tomatoes on this and some flakes of cold cooked 
codfish on the top. Cover with a plentiful supply of pars- 
ley sauce, put it in the oven to warm and serve hot. The 
dish is very economical and serves to use up any stale 
bread or bits of fish or sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

MRS. V. A. RITON. 

Hash. 

Use equal quantities of chopped meat and fresh grated 
bread; moisten well with milk, stock or gravy; season 
well with salt, pepper, and a little tomato, walnut or 
mushroom catsup. Let cook slowly about fifteen min- 
utes ; add a good lump of butter and serve very hot. Half 
potatoes may be used instead of all bread if desired. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 121 

Corned Beef Hash. 

Equal quantities of cold corned beef, chopped, and 
cold boiled potatoes, chopped (mashed potatoes may be 
used but are not so nice) ; put into a stew pan and 
moisten with stock, water or milk ; a little left-over gravy 
is a nice addition. Let simmer, season with salt, cayenne 
and butter, and any sauce or catsup that is liked. Have 
an omelette pan very hot, put in a bit of butter, sufficient 
to moisten the bottom thoroughly, put the hash in and 
spread evenly. Draw onto the back of the stove and let 
brown without stirring. Fold like an omelette, toss onto 
a hot platter and serve with tartare sauce. A few table- 
spoonfuls of chopped beets make a pleasant change. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Chicken or Turkey Hash. 

Chop the meat and potatoes, not too fine ; also two 
green bell peppers. Put plenty of butter and a little hot 
water into the frying pan. When cooked add a little 
Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Do not 
let the hash get too dry. Serve on buttered toast. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Beet Hash, 

Take equal parts of cold beets and cold potatoes ; cut 
in dice, season with salt and pepper. Fry in butter and 
serve very hot. 

Minced Ham. 

One slice of bread and i pint of milk boiled together ; 
I cup of fried or boiled ham, chopped very fine, i ^ZZ- 
Pour the bread and milk over the ham and ^^% and beat 
all together. Bake a light brown. 

ANNA BEACH. 

Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



122 CLEVER COOKING 



Mock Minced Calf's Head. 

Original. 
2 pounds lean veal i pound liver 

Boil tender, chop fine, mix and make very moist with 
rich drawn butter sauce ; season highly with sage, salt 
and pepper. Serve with baked potatoes. 

MRS. M. H. YOUNG, 

Baked Pork and Beans. 

Boil one quart of navy beans with soda the size of a 
Lima bean for ten minutes ; pour off the water and cover 
well with fresh boiling water and boil with two pounds 
of salt pork for twenty minutes. Slice a small onion in 
the bottom of bean jar; drain water from beans and put 
half of them in the jar; place pork in the jar and add the 
rest of the beans. Rub together i even teaspoonful of 
mustard, i even teaspoonful of salt and 2 tablespoonfuls 
of molasses and dissolve with about a pint of hot water. 
Pour over the beans and add enough water to cover. 
Bake all day, adding occasionally a little water until 
about two hours before serving. 

MRS. H. N. RICHMOND. 



Jellied Veal. 

Have the bone removed from a fillet of veal weighing 
about seven pounds. Shape the meat as evenly as pos- 
sible and prepare a dressing (as for poultry) of bread 
crumbs, savory, butter, pepper and salt, mixed with an 
Q^g to hold it together. Place a cooked beef tongue in 
the center of cavity in the joint and surround it with the 
dressing, packing it in firmly and evenly. Tie up tightly 
in a cloth and boil steadily, but not too hard, for thre.e 
hours. When cold remove the cloth carefully without 
breaking the meat and ])lace in a mould which will fit 
closely, and fill any space with a jelly made with one 
dessertspoonful of gelatine dissolved in a very little wa- 



Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 123 

ter, to which add a cup of the liquor from the meat (hot) 
and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Press down with a 
weight and let set well before turning out. 

MRS. WM. HARDER, Portland. 



Veal Loaf. 

2 pounds veal i teaspoonful salt 

54 pound salt pork ^ teaspoonful butter 

2 eggs Yz nutmeg, grated 

Butter. size of an ^^^ Six crackers, rolled 

Yz cup cream 

Mince the meat together, add seasoning, eggs (well 
beaten), butter and cream. Form into long loaf, cover 
well with the cracker crumbs and bake. Baste frequently 
with sweet milk. ^^^^ CORWIN S. SHANK. 



Suggestion for Meat Loaf. 

In making any kind of meat loaf, putting in a cup or 
two of cold boiled rice makes the loaf much more deli- 
cate, and grating in the rind of two lemons makes an 
agreeable change in seasoning. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Beef Loaf. 

4 pounds round beef, chopped fine 
4 soda crackers, rolled 
6 eggs, well beaten 
Yz cup butter, melted 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Make in loaf and bake one hour. 

MRS. H. C. HENRY. 



Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



124 CLEVER COOKING 



Pressed Meat. 

Four pounds of beef (the part that is called the "thick 
flank"), boiled until it is very tender, then remove from 
kettle and chop very fine ; season with salt and pepper, 
then add the broth in which the meat was cooked until 
quite soft. Set away to cool and slice like beef or veal 
loaf. This is very nice for lunch. 

MRS. ALBERT T. TIMMERMAN. 



Lancashire Pie. 

Take cold beef, veal or mutton, chop and season as for 
hash ; have ready hot mashed potatoes, seasoned as if for 
table. Put in a shallow baking dish alternate layers of 
meat and potatoes till the dish is heaping full ; smooth 
over top of potatoes and drop bits of butter over it ; bake 
until a nice brown. ^j^g^ JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 



Brains. 

Will Serve Six. 

I quart brains 2 eggs 

I tablespoonful salt 6 soda crackers 

Beat the eggs well and roll the crackers very fine. 
Cover the brains with cold water, to which add a table- 
spoonful of salt, and let stand over night. In the morn- 
ing put them in warm water for a few minutes, after 
which carefully remove all particles of the tissue which 
surround the solid part. Next put them into boiling- 
water and let them simmer for ten minutes to make them 
firm. Take them up, drain and wipe, and dip, one at a 
time, first in the ^^%, then in the cracker, and lastly in 
the ^Z%. Take equal parts of butter and drippings (lard 
or cotolene if preferred), and when very hot fry the 
brains. Turn them often and be careful that they are 
thoroughly cooked. When done they should be a rich 
brown color. Season with pepper and serve very hot. 

^IRS. CHARLES J. RILEY. 



Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 125 

Creamed Frogs. 

Parboil the frogs, then make a rich cream sauce of 3 
tablespoonfuls of butter, i tablespoonful of flour, i cup 
of cream and a tiny bit of mace, salt and cayenne. Add 
the frogs, cover closely for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
adding more cream if it becomes too thick. Skim out the 
mace and serve very hot on toast. 



Chicken Hollandaise. 

I tablespoonful butter Yolks of 2 eggs 

j4- saltspoonful cayenne i tablespoonful chopped 

1 saltspoonful chopped parsley 

onion i tablespoonful corn starch 

2 cups hot chicken broth ^ cup celery (cut fine) 
2 cups chicken (cut fine) Salt to taste 

Cook the onion in the butter for one minute ; add the 
corn starch and cook until smooth ; add the broth grad- 
ually, the beaten yolks, the celery, salt and pepper, and 
finally the chicken, lemon and parsley. Cook a few min- 
utes but do not boil. Serve on graham toast. 

MRS. HENRY DRISLER. 



Chicken Timbales. 

Chop uncooked lean chicken, freed from skin and 
bones, very fine ; pound with a potato masher and rub 
through a sieve. There should be half a pint of meat. 
Cook I cup of cream, ^ cup of grated bread, and a tiny 
bit of mace for fifteen minutes. Take out the mace and 
beat and mash the mixture till it is a smooth paste ; add 
3 ounces of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the 
chopped meat ; beat well and add the stiffly beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Set away to cool. When cold butter the tim- 
bale moulds and line with the paste. This must be done 
very evenly, and great care must be taken that there are 
no thin places. When this is done fill with creamed 
chicken made as follows : 

Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



126 CLEVER COOKING 



1 cup of cold diced chicken 

3 tablespoonfuls of mushrooms (chopped), or 

2 tablespoonfuls of mushrooms and i of hard- 

boiled eggs (chopped 
I dessert spoonful of flour 
^ cup of cream 

Mix the flour with a little of the cream, put the re- 
mainder on to cook in the double boiler. When this boils 
add the flour and cook for a minute to thicken the flour ; 
add the chicken and the mushrooms, salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix thoroughly and cook about five minutes; take 
from the fire, grate in a hint of onion, and, if you use it, 
a tablespoonful of sherry, in which case omit a table- 
spoonful of cream. Fill the lined moulds with this mix- 
ture, putting in a little at a time that there may be no air 
bubbles. Fill almost to the top and cover with paste, 
being careful to cover every part of the filling and not to 
heap it, but to have the top perfectly level with the edges 
of the mould. Put the moulds into a bain marie, or a 
deep pan, fill nearly to the top of the mould with warm 
water and bake half an hour. The oven should be about 
right for custards, so that the mixture will never bubble. 
Cover the moulds with buttered paper. They may be 
served on a napkin or on a hot dish with cream mush- 
room. Supreme or Bechamel sauce. Nice for luncheons, 
card parties or entrees. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Sweetbread Timbales. 

These are prepared almost the same as chicken tim- 
bales, substituting sweetbreads for chicken in the filling, 
or part sweetbreads and part breast of chicken. Use the 
same paste for lining the moulds. If you wish them very 
elaborate, after buttering the moulds stick slices of mush- 
rooms around the sides and bottom of the moulds ; then 
line with the paste very carefully, so as not to displace 
them ; hard-boiled eggs, chopped, or almonds blanched, 
browned a little and chopped, may be used in the same 
manner. j^j^g RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 127 

Scrapple. 

8 pounds of fresh pork 4 gallons of water 

I quart of corn meal Cayenne, black pepper 

Mustard, svimmer savory Sage, sweet marjoram 

Buckwheat or entire wheat Thyme, salt 

Boil the pork in the water till very tender, then re- 
move and chop fine. Return to the kettle and add sea- 
soning to taste. When boiling add the corn meal and let 
it simmer a few minutes, then thicken with the buck- 
wheat or entire wheat. Let it stand on the back of the 
stove for a half hour, taking care that it does not burn, 
then pour into dishes and set away to cool. To serve, 
turn out of dishes, slice thin and fry inTiot butter. Serve 
with baked potatoes. MRS TAYLOR 

Jambalaya. 

Use any cold meat, fowl preferred ; chop rather fine ; 
add same quantity of cooked rice, a little onion, i table- 
spoonful of butter, season highly with cayenne, and fry 
in hot lard or butter. ^j^g^ ^_ g_ ALLAIN. 



Savory Pyramids. 

Will Serve Six. 

% pound finely chopped meat (previously cooked meat 
may be used) 
3 eggs 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls fine bread crumbs 
3 ounces butter, melted 
I tablespoonful finely chopped parsley 
I pinch cayenne, and salt 
I teaspoonful grated lemon peel (this may be omitted) 

Mix the ingredients, then moisten the whole with 
gravy, cream or milk ; stir together, form into small pyra- 
mids, dip in beaten &^^, roll in bread crumbs and bake 
on a greased baking tin in a hot oven for about half an 

ho"^- MRS. C. P. DAM. 

Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



128 CLEVER COOKING 



Codfish. 

I'ick very fine a small bowl of codfish, put into a sauce 
pan and cover with cold water. Let it come to a boil and 
drain. Rub together a tablespoonful of sifted flour and 
one of butter. Return the fish to the pan and add half a 
pint of cream. When this comes to the boiling point, 
stir in the creamed butter and flour and let boil for a few 
minutes. Serve on slices of toast. 



MRS. JOS. SHIPPEN. 



Codfish and Eggs. 

Prepare the codfish as usual ; pick into small pieces ; 
make a cream gravy and add hard-boiled eggs, chopped. 
Mix in the fish and pour on squares of toast. 



Codfish Balls. 

I pint of fish, picked very 2 well-beaten eggs 

fine I quart of raw potatoes 

I large tablespoonful of A little pepper 
butter 

i'ut the pcUalocs and fish into the kettle with cold 
water and cook until potatoes are done. Drain ofif the 
water; mash till very smooth; add butter, eggs and pep- 
per, and beat well. Drop by spoonfuls into deep fat, 
boiling hot, and cook till brown. 

■ MRS. JOS. SHIPPEN. 



Codfish Croquettes. 

rick into small pieces i^^ ]ioun(ls salt codfish; cover 
with cold water and soak over night. In the morning- 
drain and press until perfectly dry. 

Put I < pint of milk into a double boiler ; cream 2 
ounces of butter and 3 even tablcspoonfuls of flour. 

Stir this into the hot milk and cook until a thick 
paste. Add the codfish and yolks of 2 eggs and cook 
about two minutes. Remove from the fire, add a little 



Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 129 

pepper, ^ teaspoonful of onion juice and Vz teaspoonful 
of salt ; turn out to cool. Form into croquettes, roll in 
beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard. 

MRS. EDWIN A. STROUT. 

Mackerel Balls. 

Will Serve Six. 

Soak a mackerel over night. In the morning pour 
cold water over it and let it come just to the boiling point. 
Shred it carefully, rejecting all bones and skin. Add an 
equal quantity of cold mashed potatoes, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, season with pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Make into small balls and fry in very hot deep fat. Serve 
very hot on a napkin. 

Potted Herrings. 

I dozen herrings . ^ cup vinegar and water 

Flour Pepper and salt 

Clean thoroughly, remove roe, remove head and tail 
and slip out bone; sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt; 
roll up neatly and pack in deep dish ; sprinkle over with 
flour, pepper and salt; pour on vinegar and water and 
bake. They should be a nice brown. To be eaten cold. 
Use Crosse & Blackwell's malt vinegar if possible. 

MRS. WEBSTER BROWN. 

Potted Salmon. 

Take some cold boiled salmon and pound in a mor- 
tar; add pepper, salt and ground herbs, a liberal quan- 
tity of butter; mix thoroughly and pack lightly into 
small jars. Cover with melted butter. 

MRS. SILLITOE. 
Sausage. 

^Yi pounds of pork i^' pounds beef or veal 

Yz wineglass sage, rubbed 1 V^ tal)lespoonfuls of salt 
fine 1 tablcspoonful of pepper 

Use a patc!it meat cho])i)er and mince thoroughly. 

MRS. HELEN M. HUNT. 



130 CLEVER COOKING 



New England Sausage. 

To a pound of pork (from the ham, a little more lean 
than fat) add i small teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls 
of sage, Yz teaspoonful of black pepper and a little cay- 
enne. Mix all thoroughly together. Cut cloth for bags 
eight inches wide and two or three feet long, according 
to the amount of filling. Press the meat in as solidly as 
possible and hang in a cool place. 

MRS. EDWIN A STROUT. 



Anchovy Toast. 

2 eggs I tablespoonful of cream 

Anchovies Minced tongue 

Beat the eggs, add the milk and put into a sauce pan. 
Add the anchovies and some minced tongue. Let boil 
up, spread on hot toast and serve immediately. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Prune Toast. 

Boil prunes until you can remove the pits ; sweeten, 
and if desired add a little sherry. Pour over toasted bread 
and serve with cream. 



Mushrooms on Toast. 

Will Serve Six. 

Peel and rinse i dozen mushrooms, cut in pieces and 
stew in i cup of water until tender ; add two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream or a little butter ; season with salt and pep- 
per. Serve on slices of buttered toast. 

MRS. JAMES FIELDS. 
Try Wheat Manna for Breakfast Food. 



BREAKFAST AND LUNCHEON 131 

Cream Toast. 

I quart of milk 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

Whites of 3 eggs 2 even tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt to taste or corn starch 

Dip the toast into boiling water into which one table- 
spoonful of the butter has been dissolved ; scald the milk, 
thicken with the flour, and let it simmer until cooked. 
Put in the rest of the butter, salt, and the beaten whites 
of eggs. Boil up once, pour over the toast, and set in the 
oven, closely covered, two or three minutes. Serve at 

°"^^" MRS. CHARLES SHEPARD. 

Wheat Flakes. 

Will Serve Six. 

I pint wheat flakes i^^ pints boiling water 

I teaspoonful salt ' 

Put the wheat into the double boiler, add the boiling 
water and salt, stir well ; cook for fifteen minutes. Long- 
er cooking will not hurt it. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



132 CLEVER COOKING 



EGGS 



Plain Omelette No, i. 

Allow one egg to each person and one tablespoonful of 
milk (or water) to each egg; season. The omelette is 
more tender if made with hot water. Beat very slightly 
and pour into hot buttered pan. Do not stir. Lift gently 
occasionally around the edge until the eggs are set. Fold 
half over and turn on dish for serving. 

Omelette No. 2. 

Separate eggs. Beat yolks and milk together; beat 
whites to a stiff froth ; cut half the whites into the cus- 
tard. Cook as above. Just before it is set spread the 
remaining whites on top, sprinkle well with salt and 
place in the oven two minutes. Fold and serve. 

Omelette No. 3. 

3 eggs I teaspoonful corn starch 

I walnut of butter Pepper 

I cup milk Salt 

Beat the eggs very light; mix corn starch in milk; 
add to eggs ; season. Melt the butter in pan and pour 
mixture in, cooking well before turning. For five eggs 
use two cups of milk. ^y^^ -^ KLINE. 

Omelette With Tomatoes. 

Just before folding the omelette place in the center 
three or four whole tomatoes boiled and seasoned. When 
the omelette is turned of course the tomatoes will be en- 
veloped. Serve with tomato sauce. 

MRS. D. C. GARRETT. 

Omelette. 

Crumb one slice of bread and soak in hot milk. Beat 
the whites of four eggs to a high froth. Beat the bread, 



134 CLEVER COOKING 



with all the milk it will absorb, no mote; add beaten 
yolks and a little salt. Put one ounce of butter in frying 
pan. When hot pour in omelette ; when set put in the 
oven for five minutes. This will never fall. 

S. E. W. 

Quaking Omelette. 

Four eggs, ^ cup of milk, a rounded tablespoonful of 
flour and a teaspoonful of salt. Beat together the yolks 
of eggs, flour and salt ; add them to milk. Then whip 
whites to a froth and stir into mixture. Put a tablespoon- 
ful of butter into a hot frying pan ; turn mixture in. In 
about one minute put the pan into the oven ; remain six 
minutes. Have a hot platter ready and a cup of cream 
sauce well seasoned. Turn the omelette on the platter, 
but do not try to fold it. Pour sauce around it. Serve at 
once ; will fall if let stand. AiRS L H GRAY 

Ham Omelette. 

4 eggs I tablespoonful of butter 

I teaspoonful of grated i teaspoonful of chopped 

onion parsley 

I tablespoonful of chopped Salt and pepper 

ham 

Melt the butter in hot omelette pan. Beat the eggs 
lightly, just enough to mix, stir in the other ingredients, 
and pour in the hot pan. As soon as the edges begin to 
set fold half over, cook one minute longer, turn on a hot 
dish and serve immediately. 

These same ingredients, omitting the eggs, cooked 
with the butter until very hot, and spread on buttered 
toast, make a breakfast or luncheon dish which is excel- 

^e"*^- MRS. BONE. 

Oyster Omelette. 

Will Serve Four. 

6 eggs, beaten separately 6 tablespoonfuls of flour 
6 tablespoonfuls of cream Oysters 

Chop the oyster fine and sprinkle with flour. Place 
where they will keep warm. Beat yolks of eggs, flour and 
cream together, then add well-beaten whites of eggs. Fry 



EGGS 135 

on a griddle in butter. When omelette is firmly set put 
in some chopped oyster and double the omelette over it. 
Serve at once. 

Omelette Soufle. 

Six eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, the yolks 
well beaten with four tablespoonfuls of white sugar. To 
the latter add the grated rind of half a lemon with the 
juice of the whole. Put in the whites and bake fifteen 
minutes. Serve in the pudding dish in which it was 

^^^^^- MISS COWAP. 

Fricasseed Eggs. 

Boil six eggs hard. Remove the shells and slice them. 
Cook I cup of milk, i tablespoonful of flour, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, i teaspoonful of chopped onion, i teaspoon- 
ful or more of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 
Pour this over the eggs and serve hot. 

MRS. M. H. YOUNG. 

Egg Patties. 

For four people take four pieces of bread three inches 
in diameter, three also in height. Make in the middle 
of each a hole two inches deep and one or two inches 
across. Fry these toasts in butter. Put them on a bttt- 
tered dish, break a fresh egg in every hole, sprinkle over 
salt and pepper and about a teaspoonful of butter in each 
egg. Bake five minutes. 

Another way: Butter the gem pan, drop an egg in 
each ; salt. Take from oven when the whites set. 

MRS. L. H. GRAY. 

Golden Rod Pie. 

Boil 12 eggs hard, make a white sauce ; line a deep 
dish with toast, put a layer of white sauce, then a layer 
of white rings of eggs sliced thin, then some of the grated 
or lightly mashed yolks, repeating until the dish is full, 
seasoning with salt and pepper to taste ; a few bread 
crumbs on top. Bake about fifteen minutes but do not 
let it get brown. ^^-^^ MAURICE McMICKEN. 



136 CLEVER COOKING 



Stuffed Eggs. 

Boil good fresh eggs twenty minutes ; when cold re- 
move shells and carefully cut through the middle ; re- 
move the yolks into a dish by themselves. Mash the 
yolks well and add sufficient soft butter, oil, vinegar, pep- 
per and salt to taste quite sharp. Refill the whites even- 
ly. For picnics wrap in tissue paper to keep moist. 

MRS. CORWIN S. SHANK. 

Deviled Eggs. 

Boil half a dozen eggs hard, remove the shell and cut 
in half lengthwise ; take out the yolks and mash them 
fine ; add some finely minced tongue, season well with 
salt, pepper and mustard. Mould in balls about the size 
of egg yolks and put one in each half of the whites. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. mRS! M. A. KELLOGG. 

Curried Eggs. 

Will Serve Two. 
Boil 3 eggs 20 minutes, then remove shells and cut 
in slices ; fry a bit of onion in a little butter and add i 
teaspoonful of corn starch mixed with a saltspoonful of 
curry powder; add slowly -^^ cup of milk, season with 
salt and butter to taste and simmer until the onion is soft. 
Add the eggs and serve when they are thoroughly heated. 

MRS. HATFIELD. 

"Egg Nests on Toast." 

Will Serve Six. 

6 eggs 3^ teaspoonful salt 

13^ tablespoonfuls butter 6 slices toast 

Separate the eggs and keep the yolks whole by letting 
them remain in the half-shell tmtil ready for use ; beat 
the whites with the salt to a stiff froth ; toast the bread 
and dip the edges in hot water, then butter and heap the 
whites high on the toast. Make a depression in the cen- 
ter of each mound, add a little butter and the whole yolk 
of the Q.gg. Place the nests on a pan in a moderate oven 
and cook for three minutes, or until the whites are a light 
brown. Serve on a warm dish MRS MOORE 



EGGS * 137 

Russian Eggs. 

Boil two pounds of veal in salted water, or, much bet- 
ter, use cold chicken, turkey or veal that may have been 
left from dinner the day before. Put through a meat 
chopper, then- add one cup of stock ; season well with 
pepper, salt and a little Worcestershire sauce ; stir well 
together on stove until hot, then set away to cool. Boil 
six eggs twenty minutes, take from shell and while hot 
cover with meat mixture until about the size of goose 
eggs. Roll in fine bread crubs and fry in deep fat until 
a nice brown. Slice each egg in half lengthwise, garnish 
with parsley and lemon and serve. 

The eggs must be used while hot as the frying is not 
sufficient to heat the eggs. Three minutes is about the 
length of time required to fry them. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Baked Eggs. 

Butter small patty pans, line them with fine crumbs, 
drop an egg into each, cover lightly with crumbs which 
have been peppered, salted and moistened with melted 
butter. Bake until crumbs are brown. 



Egg Timbales. 

Will Serve Eight. 

6 eggs I teaspoonful salt . 

i/^ cups milk Dash pepper 

I teaspoonful chopped parsley 

Beat the eggs separately ; add seasoning, parsley and 
milk to the yolks. Stir for five minutes, then add the 
beaten whites. Butter small moulds and divide the mix- 
ture into them. Place in a pan of hot water and bake in 
moderate oven until centers are firm. Turn out on a 
heated platter and pour over them a cream or tomato 

^^"^^- MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



138 



CLEVER COOKING 



TO MAKE GOOD BREAD 

You must have Good Flour. Our " Holly " meets the requirements in 
every respect, Made from Washington's choicest Wheat, in the latest 
and best equipped mill in the great Northwest, 




We have spent the last fifteen years in the study of how to make high 
grade Flour and Cereals, and believe we have accomplished our aim, and 

are putting on the market, from our mills 
direct to the Grocers, the very best that 
can be produced 








Bolly mhok-lUiiem flour 

Made by special process — from the 
choicest recleaned Wheat.. Has no 
equal in the market tO'-day. For sale in 
61b. cartons and 10 lb , 25 lb. and 501b, 
bags 

We are always pleased to have 
people come in and see how "Holly" 
Flour and Cereals are made. 



LILLY, BOQARDUS & CO. 

MILLERS 

SEATTLE. - - - WASH. 



BREAD 



"Here is bread which strengthens men's hearts, and there- 
fore is called the Stafif of Life." 

"The bread of life is love; the salt of life is work; the 
water of life is faith." 



Irish Potato Yeast. 

6 medium-sized potatoes Y^ cup of sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls of salt i "Magic" yeast cake 

3 pints of water 

Boil the potatoes in the water. When done mash in 
the water remaining and add sufficient cold water to make 
the consistency of thick cream. When lukewarm add 
sugar, salt and yeast cake. Press out carefully all the 
lumps, using the hands in doing so. Set in a moderately 
warm place to rise, then remove to a cold place and the 
yeast will keep sweet until consumed. One small teacup- 
ful is sufficient for a quart of flour. 

MRS. W. H. H. GREEN. 



Bread and Rolls. 

Put 3 quarts of flour in a pan and make a hollow in 
the middle of it, into which pour a pint of lukewarm 
water in which half a yeast cake has been dissolved. Let 
this stand over night where it will not become chilled. In 
the morning, to ^-^ pint of lukewarm water and the same 
of milk add a tablespoonful each of salt, svigar and short- 
ening, and stir this into the sponge. Let it rise for about 
an hour and a half, then add flour until stiff, kneading 
well. Let it stand from qne and a half to two hours, or 
until light ; then make into loaves. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



140 CLEVER COOKING 



For rolls. — Save out one quart of the bread dough 
and add to it one tablespoonful each of sugar, lard and 
butter. Mix well and let it rise again, then make into 
rolls. 

This quantity makes three loaves of bread and about 
three dozen rolls. ^^^^^ CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Bread. 

3 quarts of sifted flour i handful of salt 

I handful of sugar 2 small potatoes 

I cake of compressed yeast 

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Mash the potatoes in one 
quart of potato water (taken after boiling potatoes for 
a m§al). Dissolve the yeast in a little cold water. Pour 
warm potato water into the flour mixture ; add yeast ; 
mix stifle and knead thoroughly ; cover and let rise over 
night. In the morning knead thoroughly again and form 
into loaves. Place in well-greased pans and butter the 
top of loaves also to make the crust moist. Let rise and 
bake in an oven about forty-five minutes. When done 
remove from pans, rub over the crust with butter, cover 
carefully with towels or napkins, then wrap well in wool- 
en goods — for instance, an old clean small blanket. 

MRS. CORWIN S. SHANK. 

Salt Rising Bread. 

Pour upon a teacupful of milk sufhcient boiling water 
to bring it to blood temperature, or about 90 degrees 
(must not be too hot or your bread will fail). Add ^ tea- 
spoonful each of salt and sugar, stir in one large table- 
spoonful corn meal or graham flour, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of wheat flour. Mix well and set to rise by placing 
the bowl in warm water. Should water gather on top 
sprinkle in a little flour and stir. If set at early morning 
it will rise at noon. Mix as other bread, put in pans at 
once, let stand until light bake as quickly as possible, and 
when done brush top crust with butter. 

MRS. W. B. GAFFNEY. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



BREAD 141 

Oat Meal Bread. 

1 cup Quaker oats ^ cup molasses 

2 cups boiling water 4^^ cups flour 
Yz tablespoonful salt ]/> yeast cake 

Pour the water over the oats and let stand one hour. 
Dissolve the yeast cake in a half pint of lukewarm water. 
Mix all together and in the morning put in pans or cups. 
Do not knead, but let rise like other bread. 

MRS. L. B. STEDMAN. 

Oat Meal Bread No. 2. 

One cup of oat meal boiled a little thicker than for 
mush and salted ; Yz cup of sugar ; butter the size of an 
English walnut. Beat well, and when cool add one- 
third of a cake of compressed yeast dissolved in a little 
water, or Yz cup of home-made yeast. Stir in all the 
flour it will take and allow it to raise until very light. 
Then work in flour, again to form a loaf. Put in a bread 
pan and let raise until very light. Bake slowly about 
half an hour. ^j^5_ ^i. N. RICHMOND. 

Whole Wheat Bread. 

Two or Three Loaves. 

Take, of the sponge set the night before for white 
bread i quart, 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses and enough 
of the whole wheat flour to make a stiff dough. Let it 
rise, knead down and let rise again. Shape into loaves 
and when light bake one hour. 

MRS. LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 

Parker House Rolls. 

I quart of flour i teaspoonful of salt 

I heaped tablespoonful of 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
sugar I pint of boiling milk 

Ya ounce of compressed yeast 

Measure flour in bread bowl, make a well in the mid- 
dle, into which put salt, sugar, butter and hot milk. Let 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use, 



142 CLEVER COOKING 

stand without stirring until lukewarm, when add the yeast 
dissolved in ^ cup of warm water; stir all together to 
make a soft batter, still leaving a little flour around the 
edges ; cover closely and set to rise. When very light 
mix in the rest of the flour in the bowl, together with 
enough more to make a soft dough ; knead well and set 
to rise again. If there is time after the second rising to 
cut down with a knife a few times the rolls will be much 
more delicate. About an hour before tea, roll out with as 
little flour as possible to one-half inch thickness ; cut out 
with large biscuit cutter and spread with melted butter, 
fold over and place together in pan. Let them rise to 
twice their original size. Bake in a hot oven. 

MRS. GEO. NEWLANDS. 



Rolls. 

Yz cup of yeast i tablespoonful of sugar 

lYz cups of scalded sweet 2 eggs 

milk 1^2 cups of water 

Salt Flour 

i^ cups of melted butter 

Mix with enough flour to make soft bread dough. Let 
rise three times. Bake in moderately quick oven about 
thirty minutes. j^rS_ H. R. CLISE. 



Boston Brown Bread. 

I heaping cup of corn meal 2 cups New Orleans mo- 
I heaping cup of rye flour lasses 

1 heaping cup graham flour 2 cups sweet milk 

2 level teaspoonfuls soda i cup sour milk 

I teaspoonful of salt 

Beat well, pour in buttered tins and boil four hours. 
Take out and place in oven for twenty minutes. Raisins, 
stoned, chopped and dredged with flour, may be added. 

MRS. B. W. HUNTOON. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



BREAD 143 



Boston Brown Bread. 



'The Bostonians, you know, are most cultured 'tis said, 

And its greatly on account of their Boston brown bread. 

The secret of making, I'm privileged to tell. 

So one cup of corn meal, dear sister, sift well ; 

Then add to the same one cup of *graham. 

And a cup and a half of white flour ; 

Of molasses a cup, and an egg beaten up. 

And one cup of milk that is sour. 

One teaspoon and a half of soda to raise it. 

And one of salt, or none would praise it; 

Stir it up well, and four hours steam it. 

And rest assured all will deem it 

A greater treat than finest cake 

That one could eat, or cook or bake." 



*A cup of rye flour in place of the graham makes a darker 
and more moist bread. A half cup of seeded raisins is a great 

^'^'^'*'°"- MRS. E. A. BOWDEN. 



Brown Bread No. 2. 

2 cups corn meal i cup rye meal 

1 cup flour j4 cup molasses 

2 cups sweet milk i cup sour milk 

I teaspoonful soda i teaspoonful salt 

Steam three hours. ^j^g^ p_ ^^ gUCK. 



Graham Bread. 

I cup New Orleans mo- 3 cups sour milk 
lasses ' I teaspoonful soda 

^ cup butter and lard Salt 

Graham flour to make moderately stiff 

Bake in bread tin in moderate oven. 

MRS. C. H. FAIRBANKS. 



Cinnamon Bread. 

When bread dough is ready to knead from the sponge, 
take out desired amount and knead into it i tablespoon- 
Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



144 CLEVER COOKING 



ful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Roll out % inch 
thick, put in pan and sprinkle cinnamon and sugar on 
top ; lay thin slices of butter over top. Let rise well once 
and bake. Cinnamon may also be kneaded into dough 
if strong flavor is desired. j^j^g^ j_ ^_ WAGNER. 



Mother's Currant Loaf. 

Make a stiff batter at night with 

3 cups warm sweet milk i cup sugar 
^ cup yeast and flour 

In the morning mix into this batter 

Yz cup butter Currants, raisins, citrons, 

15^ cups sugar lemon and orange peel 

I teaspoonful cinnamon (Fruit altogether i cup) 

Yi. teaspoonful nutmeg Soda the size of a pea 

Add enough flour to mould into loaves. Bake well 
lyi hours. j^j^5_ ;£ BOWDEN. 

' Tea Biscuits. 

To one quart of flour and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, salted, add 4 tablespoonfuls of lard ; thoroughly 
mix, then moisten with sweet milk (using knife and not 
hand or spoon) sufflciently to roll out, but as soft as pos- 
sible. Handle very little. Roll out about one-third inch 
in thickness, cut out, then place a small piece of butter 
on each biscuit, fold over and press down. Bake in quick 

°^^"- MRS. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 

Virginia Beaten Biscuits. 

I quart of flour 

I teaspoonful of salt 

I heaping tablespoonful of lard 

Sift flour, add salt, and rub in the lard thoroughly 
with the hand ; mix with milk or water, or half and half, 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



BREAD 145 

into a very stiff dough. Lay on bread board and beat 
with rolling- pin until it is thoroughly smooth and pliant. 
When it is beaten sufficiently it will blister. Divide into 
equal parts the size of a small ^^% ; with the hands mould 
into biscuits, stick through with a fork three times, and 
bake in an even, hot oven. 

MRS. W. H. H. GREEN. 



Ragmuffins. 

Make a dough as for biscuit, roll one-half inch thick ; 
spread with butter, cinnamon and sugar, roll up and cut 
off from the end the size of biscuit. Bake quickly. 

MRS. HATFIELD. 

Sally Lunn. 

ij^ pounds flour 2 ounces butter 

I pint new milk i teaspoonful salt 

3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls yeast 

I dessert spoonful sugar 

Warm the milk and butter together over water until 
the butter is melted ; beat eggs and pour over the luke- 
warm milk ; stir in the flour and add salt and yeast. 
After mixing well put the whole into a well-greased tin 
pan and set to rise all night. Bake an almond brown in 
a quick oven. A delicious southern breakfast dish. 

MRS. W. H. H. GREEN. 



Blueberry Cake. 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

2 large spoonfuls melted i cup sweet milk 

butter 2 teasponfuls baking powder 

3 cups of flour 2 cups blueberries 

Cut this in squares; serve hot with butter. A fine 
breakfast cake. j^j^g M^ h. YOUNG. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



146 CLEVER COOKING 



Huckleberry Muffins. 

Yo cup of butter i teaspoonful of salt 

2 cups of sugar 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

2 cups of milk powder 

2 eggs I quart of flour 

I pint of huckleberries 

Creafn the butter, add sugar and yolks of eggs, stir in 
the milk and add flour slowly. Beat the whites of the 
eggs very stiff and add to mixture. Have the berries 
picked over, washed and dried and well dusted with flour. 
Stir in berries last of all. Fill "patty pans" three-quar- 
ters full and bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Southern Corn Bread. 

i' cup corn meal (white) i cup cold cooked rice or 

2 eggs hominy 

I cup milk " I even tablespoonful butter 

Sift a teaspoonful of salt into the meal, then pour boil- 
ing water over it, scalding it thoroughly. Soften the rice 
or hominy with boiling water and then beat into the 
meal ; add the butter, then half of the milk, next the eggs 
beaten light and the remainder of the milk. The mixture 
should be as thin as for batter cakes. Pour into a well 
buttered pan and place at once in the oven. Bake for 
half an hour. ^/[j^S_ ^Y_ A. PETERS. 



Spoon Corn Bread. 

I cup white corn meal i quart milk 

3 eggs well beaten 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar rounded 

I teaspoonful of salt 

Heat the milk and gradually stir in the corn meal; 
boil about ten minutes. Take from the fire and let cool 
a little before stirring in the rest of the ingredients. Bake 
thirty-five minutes in a well buttered baking dish. 

MRS. HELEN M. HUNT. 
Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



BREAD 147 

Corn Dodgers. 

To one quart corn meal add a little salt and a small 
tablespoonful of lard ; scald with boiling water and beat 
hard for a few minutes ; drop a large spoonful in a well 
greased pan. The batter should be thick enough to just 
flatten on the bottom, leaving them high in the center. 
Bake in hot oven. Practical Housekeeping. 



Corn Meal Gems. 

One egg well beaten, a little salt, i tablespoonful of 
sugar, piece of butter the size of an egg, i cup of corn 
meal ^ cup of whole wheat flour, i^ teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, i cup of milk, or enough to make batter 
quite thin. Have gem pans hot and bake in a quick oven. 
Graham flour may be used in place of the corn meal- to 
make graham gems. ^^^^^ g^ l. CRAWFORD. 



Graham Gems. 

Will Make Eight. 

1 egg I teaspoonful of baking 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar powder 

I cup of milk I cup of graham flour 

Pinch of salt 

Stir thoroughly. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Graham Muffins. 

I cup of graham flour i cup of wheat flour 

1 egg, beaten very light 3 tablespoonfuls of melted 

2 small teaspoonfuls of bak- butter 

ing powder fi cup of milk 

A pinch of salt 

Stir the milk in the flour and add the egg and butter. 
Beat hard before putting in pans, 

MRS. W. F. BROOKES (by Mrs. H. C. Henry). 
Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



148 CLEVER COOKING 



Muffins. 

Equal parts of milk and water ; flour enough to make 
a batter of the consistency of cream. Place on ice with a 
piece of ice also in the batter until mixture is thorowrhly 
chilled. Pour into heated muffin rings and bake. Gra- 
ham flour may be used in the same manner. 

MISS FOLSOM. 

Muffins No. 2. 

Will Make About Fifteen. 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls Scant ^^ cup of butter 
of sugar I cup of milk 

i/^ cups of flour 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 

2 eggs powder 

Cream the sugar and butter, add the beaten yolks and 
then the milk and flour (sifted with the baking powder). 
Beat well and stir in the beaten whites last of all. Bake 
in a moderate oven. MRS C P DAM 

Raised Muffins. 

2 cups of potato water 'fi cup of yeast 

2 tablespoonfuls of lard Flour to make stiff batter 

2 eggs Yx cup of sugar 

Stir the lard into the potato water while hot. When 
cool add the eggs, sugar, yeast and flour. When light 
bake in gem pans, or muffin rings. 

MRS. H. R. CLISE. 

Pop-Overs. 

2 eggs I cup milk 

I cup flour Yz teaspoonful salt 

Beat eggs well, stir in a little of the milk, then a little 
of the flour, alternating until all is used ; add the salt. 
Beat thoroughly just before baking. Bake in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes. The secret of good pop- 
overs is the vigorous beating. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



BREAD 149 

Baking Powder Biscuits. 

Sift together i quart of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and a little salt. Work in butter the size of an 
egg and add sweet milk enough to make a soft dough. 

Water may be used instead of milk. 

• DIAMOND COOK BOOK, Minneapolis. 

Premium Biscuits. 

I quart of sifted flour 
3 good teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
}4 pint of milk 
I large teaspoonful of sugar 

1 small teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter and lard 
White of I egg 

Mix flour and baking powder in a pan ; put the milk, 
sugar, salt, egg and shortening in a separate pan and 
beat them well ; then stir in the flour. Turn the soft 
dough out, knead a little, then roll out and cut; rub but- 
ter on top and fold over. Bake fifteen minutes. 

MRS. J. O. COOPER. 

Waffles. 

I pint flour i teaspoonful baking pow- 

y2 teaspoonful salt der 

3 eggs I teaspoonful of butter, 

ij4 cups milk melted 

Mix in order given. Add the beaten yolks of eggs to 
milk, then the melted butter, and whites of eggs last. 

H. VAUGHAN HOWELL. 

Waffles No. 2. 

5 eggs I quart flour 

ijA pints new milk 3 tablespoonfuls yeast 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Beat the eggs very light, add the flour, the milk and 
the yeast ; set to raise over night. In the morning stir 
them down with a spoon just as you are ready to bake 
them. They are better baked in the oven than in waffle 
irons. MRS. GILBERT S. MEEM. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



150 CLEVER COOKING 



Rice Cakes. 

I cup cold boiled rice i pint hot milk 

1 teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful baking pow- 

3 eggs der 

Stir rice and milk together till smooth, then add salt 
and eggs, well beaten ; stir slowly into this enough flour 
to make a thin batter, and fry as you would griddle cakes. 

H. VAUGHAN HOWELL. 

Griddle Cakes. 

I pint sour milk i pint (scant) flour 

I saltspoonful salt Yz teaspoonful soda 

Mix the milk, flour and salt the night before using. 
In the morning beat well, and just before cooking add the 
soda dissolved in a little boiling water. Beat well again. 
An &^^ may be added if desired. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Griddle Cakes No. 2. 

1 pint warm water 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

1 tablespoonful of sugar 

2 eggs, beaten separately 

Add enough water to make a batter and then add the 
other ingredients. ^j^g^ j_ q. COOPER. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

1 pint of buckwheat 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn meal 
2 tablespoonfuls of wheat flour 
2 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast 

Mix in a stiff batter about 9 o'clock at night; set in a 
warm place to rise; mix with lukewarm water. Next 
morning add half a teaspoonful of soda in a cup of milk ; 
stir into the batter, thinning it sufficiently to use ; salt to 
taste. This will serve four persons. 

MRS. F. A. BUCK. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



PASTRY 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes as the soil we 
first stirred in terrestrial pies." 



Puff Paste. 

I pound of flour i pound of butter 

I teaspoonful of salt i yolk of egg 

I cup of cold water 

Take flour and salt and half a pound of butter; rub 
together till real fine, then put the yolk of egg in a cup, 
beat it well and fill the cup with cold water ; add to the 
flour and butter and mix well. Take out on moulding 
board and work smooth. Roll out quite thin ; take the 
other half of butter, cut in very thin slices, spread over 
the dough, dust with flour, then fold over from four sides, 
roll out again and fold; and repeat twice more. Cut in. 
any shape, either strips or tarts, brush with egg, and bake 
in quick oven. ^^ ^^_ THEDINGA. 



Pie Crust. 

Will Make Two Pies. 

y2 cup of butter >^ cup water 

y2 cup lard 2>^ cups flour 

J/j teaspoonful salt 

Cut the shortening into the flour with a silver knife. 
Have water very cold. Mix quickly, 

MRS. J. O. COOPER. 



Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Pies. 



152 CLEVER COOKING 



Mince Meat. 

3 pounds meat after it is 2 pounds suet, chopped fine 

boiled, chopped fine 6 pounds apples, chopped 

4 pounds raisins fine 

3 pounds currants i pound citron 

2 pounds sugar i quart brandy 

I quart cider i teaspoonful mace 

I teaspoonful alspice i teaspoonful cinnamon 

I teaspoonful cloves 2 nutmegs grated 

Rind of 3 lemons Yz teacupful salt 

SAveeten with molasses 

MRS. H. C. HENRY. 



English Mince Meat No. 2, 

I large beef tongue, or 2 2 pounds of raisins, stoned 

small ones, cooked 3 pounds of currants, wash- 
and chopped ed and dried 

4 pounds apples, chopped i pound of suet, chopped 
1/4 pounds of sugar fine 

I pound of almonds, JX pound of candied citron 

blanched and chopped i teaspoonful of cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful of cloves i teaspoonful of mace 

2 teaspoonfuls of alspice 3 or more large tumblers 

3 or more large tumblers of brandy 
of sherry or Madeira 

Mix spices well with the meat and suet, then add the 
sugar, apples, fruit, etc., and brandy last. Mix all Avell 
together and put away in jars for a week before using. 
It should be quite wet with brandy and wine. 

MRS. A. M. BROOKES. 



Mince Meat No. 3. 

4 pounds lean beef, boiled and chopped when cold ; use 

2 pounds 
I pound kidney beef suet, chopped to a powder 

5 pounds chopped apples 

2^ pounds stoned raisins, chopped 
I pound Sultana raisins 

Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Pastry. 



PASTRY 153 

2 pounds currants 

% pound citron, chopped 

Yi. pound almonds, blanched and chopped 

2^ pounds best brown sugar 

1 tablespoonful of fine salt 

2 tablespoonfuls (heaping) ground cinnamon 
I tablespoonful powdered nutmeg 

I tablespoonful ground cloves 

I tablespoonful alspice 

4 lemons, juice and rind grated 

4 oranges, the juice 

I quart brown sherry 

I pint best brandy 

Mix and keep in a stone crock in a cool place. Add a 
little cider and a little chopped apples when used for pies. 

MRS. S. GILLESPY. 



Lemon Pie. 

4 eggs Grated rind and juice of i 

2 tablespoonfuls of water lemon 

I cup ot sugar 

Bake with two crusts. ^j^g^ ^j_ ^^ KELLOGG. 



Lemon Pie No. 2. 

I large lemon i cup of milk 

Yz cup of sugar 2 eggs 

I tablespoonful of corn i teaspoonful of butter 
starch Pastry for under crust 

A little salt 

Bake under crust. Boil the milk, stir in corn starch 
and the well-beaten yolks of the eggs; add the juice and 
grated rind of the lemon. Turn the mixture into the 
shell and cover with the well-beaten whites of the eggs, 
to which has been added a teaspoonful of sugar. Brown 
m the oven. y^-^^ THOMAS W. PROSCH. 

Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Pies. 



154 CLEVER COOKING 



Orange Pie. 

Make like lemon pie No. 2, using 2 oranges and Yz of 
a lemon in place of one large lemon. 



Cream Pie. 

I tablespoonful corn starch i t%,'g 

I cup granulated sugar 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 

I pint milk sugar 

Mix corn starch and sugar with the yolk of ^^■g ; scald 
the milk and pour over mixture slowly, stirring con- 
stantly. When well mixed turn into an undercrust that 
has been baked. 

Beat the white of 0.%^ with 2 tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar and heap on top of pie ; when it comes from 
oven return and brown the meringue. Have moderate 

°^^"" MRS. L. C. SAULSBERRY. 



Whipped Cream Pie. 

Make a rich cream pie and let get very cold. At serv- 
ing time cover thickly with whipped cream, flavored. If 
you like you can dust the top lightly with sifted maca- 
roon crumbs and it will look like a meringue browned in 
the oven. 

MRS. FRANK MANLEY, Tacoma, AVash. 



English Apple Pie. 

Line the side of a baking dish with pastry, leaving 
the bottom of it bare. Invert a small cup in the center of 
the dish and place around it the apple cut in little 
squares. Season with sugar to taste, a little alspice and 
a tablespoonful of sherry. Add a cup of cold water and 
put on the top crust. Bake until a straw proves the apple 
quite tender. In serving, raise a piece of the top crust 
and slip a knife under the cup. All the juice will be un- 
der the cup. 

Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Cakes. 



PASTRY 155 

Apple Custard Pie. 

I cup of stewed apples i egg, yolk and white sepa- 
^2 cup of sugar rated 

Flavoring (lemon is good) 

Stew the apples without sugar. Press them through 
a sieve, add beaten yolk and beat the mixture thoroughly ; 
then add sugar and flavoring. Bake crust first, then fill 
with the mixture. Put whites on the top. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Green Apple Pie. 

Peel, core and slice tart apples enough for a pie. 
Sprinkle over two tablespoonfuls of sugar, ^^2 teaspoonful 
cinnamon, i teaspoonful flour, 2 teaspoonfuls water, a 
few bits of butter. Put in pie tin lined with pie paste, 
cover with a top crust. Bake almost forty minutes. 

MRS. JOHN ROSENE. 
Mock Cherry Pie. 

One and one-half cups of cranberries, raw and chop- 
ped ; I cup of raisins, i cup of sugar, ^^ cup of water, i 
'scant teaspoonful vanilla. Let stand over night. When 
making sprinkle a little flour on bottom crust of pie plate, 
also on top of mixture before covering. 

MRS. JOHN F. CROWLEY. 

Red Currant and Raspberry Pie. 

iy2 pints of currants 3 large tablespoonfuls of 

I/2 pint of raspberries brown sugar 

5^ pound of short crust 

Strip the currants from stem, put in a deep dish with 
a cup inverted in the middle ; add the berries and sugar. 
Place a border of pastry around the edge of the dish and 
cover the whole with pastry. Ornament the edges, and 
bake from one-half to three-fourths of an hour. Strew 
powdered sugar on before sending to the table. Usually 
served hot, but very good cold. j^j^g^ SILLITOE. 



Use Frye Bnihn's Lard Substitute for Pies. 



156 CLEVER COOKINQ 



Raspberry Meringue. 

Line a pie plate with good light pastry and bake in a 
quick oven. While still warm spread thickly with red 
raspberries. Make a meringue of the whites of 4 eggs, 
beaten stiff with ^ cup of powdered sugar, and when it 
is a froth stir lightly through it Vz a pint of raspberries. 
Heap the meringue on top of the berries in the pie plate 
and brown very delicately in the oven. 

MRS. W. H. de WOLFE. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Sufficient for Two Pies. 
2 cups of strained pump-3 eggs 

kin 3 cups of milk 

I cup of sugar i teaspoonful of cinnamon 

Yz nutmeg Pinch of salt 

Steam the pumpkin after cutting it in pieces, then 
strain, and while warm add the milk, sugar, eggs and 
spices in the order named, having the eggs well beaten. 
Put in pan with under crust only. 

MRS. EDMUND BOWDEN. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

^ cup of grated cocoanut i pint of sweet milk 
Yolks of 3 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

Butter size of hickory nut i tablespoonful of sugar 
Yz saltspoonful of salt 

Beat yolks, add sugar, cocoanut and salt, then stir in 
the milk ; add butter and bake as custard pie. Put whites 
on the top. ^jj^g WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Pineapple Pie. 

I can of grated pineappb 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
or I pineapple grated i cup of sweet cream 
Yz cup of sugar Yolks of 3 eggs 

Put in pan lined with rich crust and bake. Beat 
whites with ^ cup of sugar for meringue. 

Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Pies. 



PASTRY 157 



Delicious Filling for Pie. 



I cup of raisins, stoned and i cup of boiling water 
chopped I cup of sugar 

3 teaspoonfuls of corn Juice of i lemon 
starch 



Lemon Tarts. 

Line patty tin with puff paste and bake. Then fill 
with lemon mixture as made for lemon pie. Cover with 
a meringue and brown in oven. 

Very nice for picnics. 



Strawberry Tarts. 

Bake patty shells and put in them a spoonful of straw- 
berr}^ jam and heap with whipped cream. 



Banbury Tarts. 

I cup sugar i egg 

I cup chopped raisins i cracker, rolled fine 

Juice and grated rind of i lemon 

Stir all ingredients together and bake in pie crust as 
small turnovers. ^^^^^ JOHN F. CROWLEY. 



Almond Tarts. 

Yolks of 3 eggs l4 pound of sugar 

^2 pound of almonds (blanched) 

Beat to a cream the eggs and sugar, adding the al- 
mojids, which have been blanched and pounded to a paste. 
Bake in tart tins, which have been lined with puff paste, 
ten minutes. ^^g_ ^ p_ ^^^^ 

Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Pastry. 



158 CLEVER COOKING 



Chess Cakes. 

Will Make One Dozen. 

I cup of sugar 

Yz cup of butter 

i^ cups of raisins, seeded, chopped fine 

I cup of English wahiuts, chopped fine 

I whole and yolks of 2 eggs 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs, 
raisins and nuts. Mix all thoroughly together. Bake in 
patty tins in pie crust. 

MRS. JOHN ROCKWELL McVAY. 



Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Pastry. 



DESSERTS 



"If you could make a pudding wi' thinking o' the batter, 
it 'ud be easy 'getting dinner." — George Eliot. 



Old English Plum Pudding. 

2 pounds currants 
i/^ pounds seeded raisins 
%. pound citron, chopped 
Tablespoonful of cinnamon 
I nutmeg or half teaspoonful of mace 
I pound kidney suet, rubbed to crumbs 
10 eggs and a little salt 
Flour enough to stick together 

Dredge fruit, after being chopped, with the flour. 
Work into it the beaten yolks of the eggs ; dredge with 
more flour, add the well-beaten whites, more flour if 
needed ; boil four hours. If not eaten at once, wacm the 
day when eaten. 

When pudding is taken from the boiler, as soon as 
cool enough to handle the cloth, untie string and tie up 
tight and make pudding smooth and round. Leave tied 
this way until after second boiling. Hang pudding until 
used. 

Serve with brandy sauce or a hard sauce. 

MRS. S. GILLESPY. 

Plum Pudding No. 2 

1 ^^^ I cup of black molasses 
I cup suet I cup of sweet milk 

2 cups of raisins, stoned i cup of currants 

I teaspoonful of cloves 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon 

3 even cups of flour i teaspoonful of soda 

Steam four hours. MRS. E. P. FERRY. 



160 CLEVER COOKING 



Plum Pudding With Ice Cream. 

Alake the plum pudding as usual and turn out onto a 
flat dish. Pour over it a wineglass of brandy and send 
to the table burning. Have a brick of ice cream frozen 
very hard, and on each slice of the hot pudding lay a slice 
of the cream. Delicious. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 



Christmas Pudding, 

I pint and 3 gills of flour ^ pint of sweet milk 
^ pint of suet, chopped J^ pint of raisins 
Yz pint of molasses ^ teaspoonfuls of soda 

Mix well together, adding the soda dissolved in a little 
of the milk before putting in all the flour. Steam in a 
mould three hours. Serve with wine sauce. This pud- 
ding may be made richer by increasing the quantity of 
raisins and adding a little chopped citron. 

MRS. CALVIN VILAS. 



Suet Pudding. 

Will Serve Eight. 

I cup of suet I cup of molasses 

I cup of milk 2 cups of flour 

I cup of raisins i cup of bread crumbs 

I teaspoonful of soda in i teaspoonful each of cin- 

the molasses namon, cloves and al- 

I teaspoonful of salt spice 

Steam three hours ; chop suet fine ; add molasses, 
milk, bread crumbs, salt and spices ; add flour and the 
raisins ; mix well. Put in greased mould and steam. 
Serve with creamy sauce. 

Candied orange, lemon and citron peel and currants 

mav be added 

may uc acuica. ^^^^ LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 



DESSERTS 161 

Steamed Pudding. 

i^ cups whole wheat flour i level teaspoonful soda 
I cup milk I cup seeded raisins 

Yz cup molasses 

Mix soda with flour, roll the raisins in the flour. Mix 
together. Steam three hours. 

MRS. L. B. STEDMAN. 



Steamed Graham Pudding. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

2 cups of graham flour i cup of milk 

I cup of molasses i cup of raisins 

I t^^ I teaspoonful of soda 

Yz teaspoonful of cloves ^ teaspoonful of cinnamon 

A little nutmeg A pinch of salt 

Put the flour in a basin, then add the other ingredi- 
ents. Mix thoroughly. Flour the raisins. Steam three 
hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

MRS. M. F. BACKUS. 



Date Pudding. 

Will Serve Six. 

I coffee cup brown sugar 
I coffee cup fine bread crumbs 
3 eggs 
Yz teaspoonful salt 

1 coffee cup suet, minced fine 

Ya, pound dates, stoned and chopped 
Y2 glass brandy, good measure 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 

Steam in buttered mould two hours. This needs no 
wetting but the eggs and brandy. 

MRS. WEBSTER BROWN. 



162 CLEVER COOKING 



Nut Pudding. 

I cup molasses 2^^ cups flour 

I cup chopped suet 34 cup citron or figs 

I cup sweet milk i grated nutmeg 

I cup seeded raisins i teaspoonful of soda 

I pound English walnuts, chopped not too fine 

Mix and steam two and one-half hours. Serve with 
whipped cream sauce. ^,jj^s_ s_ ^ CRAWFORD. 

Batter Pudding. 

3 eggs I pint sweet milk 

2 large tablespoonfuls of flour to each egg 

Beat the eggs very light, add flour and milk. Boil in 
pudding cloth one hour. If the water stops boiling the 
pudding will be heavy. Have the cloth wet and have it 
well buttered before it is ready for the batter to be put in. 
Take out when hour is up and serve hot. Serve with 
hard or cottage pudding sauce, j^jj^g g GILLESPY 

Bachelor's Pudding. 

4 ounces grated bread 4 ounces currants 

4 ounces apples 2 ounces of sugar 

3 eggs 14 teaspoonful nutmeg 

Yz teaspoonful lemon essence 

Pare, core and mince the apples very fine, sufficient 
when minced to make four ounces ; add to these the cur- 
rants, the grated bread and sugar; whisk the eggs, beat 
these up with the remaining ingredients, and when all 
is well mixed put in a buttered dish, tie down with a 
cloth and boil for three hours. 

MRS. O. T. O. NUTT. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

3 pints milk 3 gills molasses 

Butter size of an egg 10 heaping tablespoonfuls 

meal 
Scald the meal with the milk, then stir in the butter 
and molasses. Bake four to five hours. 

MRS. S. W. CLARK. 



DESSERTS 163 

Kentucky Roll. 

I pint flour i cup sugar 

I teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful baking pow- 

I cup water der 

Butter size of a duck egg 

Milk enough to make a dough which can be rolled 
like biscuit; cover the sheet of dough with berries or 
any small fruit and roll like jelly cake. Place in a pan 
and pour over the water and sugar. Bake in a moderate 
oven half an hour and serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. BONE. 

Roly Poly Pudding. 

1 cup jam I cup suet 

2 cups flour I teaspoonful baking pow- 
Salt der 

Chop suet fine, mix with flour, salt and baking pow- 
der ; add enough water to make stiff paste ; roll very 
thin. Spread on the jam, roll paste, and tie in floured 
cloth, previously wrung out of very hot water. Tie ends 
securely, leaving room to swell ; put in kettle of boiling 
water and boil fast for two hours. The same paste can 
be used with currants or raisins and served with sweet 
sauce, but do not roll the paste. MRS BONE 

Peach Cobbler. 

Fill a shallow pudding dish with ripe peeled peaches, 
leaving in the pits to increase the flavor ; half fill the dish 
with cold water, sweeten to taste and cover with a rich 
pie crust. Bake in a moderate oven and serve either hot 
or cold, with cream. MRS. O. T. O. NUTT. 



Blackberry Pudding. 

I' egg, well beaten jA cup milk 

I cup flour I heaping teaspoonful bak- 

I small tablespoonful sugar ing powder 

Stewed blackberries 

Fill a dish half full of hot stewed blackberries, sweet- 
ened ; make a batter of the preceding ingredients and 



164 CLEVER COOKING 



drop by spoonfuls on top of the berries. Steam for twenty 
minutes, putting- a cloth under the lid of the steamer. 
Serve with cream. ^j^s_ FRANK MITCHELL. 



Fig Dessert. 

I pound pulled figs 2 cups water 

I pound pecans or walnuts 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
^ pint whipped cream 

Cut off the figs opposite the stem and remove the 
pulp from fig. Chop the nuts fine and mix with the pulp. 
Fill the fig with the mixture and close the opening by 
pressing together. Dissolve the sugar in the boiling 
water and cook the figs in it for twenty minutes. 

Place the figs in a dish for serving and pour the syrup 
over when cool and add the whipped cream. 

MRS. FRED RICE ROWELL. 



Fig Pudding No. i. 

I cup of molasses i pint of figs, chopped 

I cup of suet, chopped Yz nutmeg 

fine I teaspoonful of cinnamon 

I cup of milk I teaspoonful of soda 

3^4 cups of flour 2 eggs 

Steam four hours. MRS. GREGORY. 



Fig Pudding No. 2. 

^ pound of figs Ya, pound of bread crumbs 

I teacup of milk 2^ ounces of sugar 

3 ounces of butter 2 eggs 

Chop the figs fine. Beat the butter, sugar and eggs 
together ; add milk, crumbs and figs. Steam three hours. 

MRS. HATFIELD. 



To Cook Italian Prunes. 

There is as much in the preparation of the prunes 
before cooking as in the quality of the prunes. When- 
ever this is borne in mind, a nice dish of first-class prunes 



DESSERTS 165 

is pleasing to the eye and delicious to the taste. Soak 
the prunes for twelve hours in water enough to cover 
them. Put them in this same water over a slow fire to 
cook, adding a little sugar if not sweet enough for your 
taste. Let them simmer slowly until well cooked. This 
slow cooking will expand them more than the water has 
done, and does not destroy the flavor. 

Another way is equally as good. Wash your prunes 
nicely, as in the first process, put in a porcelain-lined 
stew pan or kettle, pour over them enough cold water to 
cover them. Set them on the back of the cooking range, 
which is supposed to have fire in it, and let them stay 
there, heating through slowly, until nearly ready to serve. 
At the last moment bring them forward to the hot por- 
tion of the range and let them boil up quickly. Some 
prefer this method to the first. Slow heat and the soak- 
ing process, to make the fruit expand, brings out all the 
flavor, and is the secret of disfavor or popularity. 

PACIFIC TREE AND VINE. 



Prune Whip. 

3/2 cup of best prunes, after they are stewed, drained and 

put through a sieve 
Whites of 5 eggs 
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Beat the eggs very light, add the sugar and prunes 
and beat again. Bake half an hour in a moderately quick 
oven. Serve hot with whipped cream. 

MRS. J. D. LOWMAN. 



Prune Float. 

Boil prunes until they are so tender they will fall to 
pieces. Sweeten them and squeeze through a fine sieve. 
Whip cream until stifif, make a round mound of whipped 
cream about the size of a tart, put a tablespoonful of the 
prune substance in the center and serve cold. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



166 CLEVER COOKING 



Stuffed Prunes. 

Wash two pounds of nice prunes, cover with cold wa- 
ter and soak over night. Next morning drain, saving the 
water. Remove the stones without spoiling the shape of 
the prunes. Put an almond in each place from which a 
stone was taken. The almonds must be blanched and 
slightly roasted. Add to the water one teaspoonful of 
vanilla sugar, or a tiny bit of vanilla bean, and a half cup 
of sugar ; bring to a boil and skim. Boil two minutes, 
add prunes ; when hot lift carefully and put aside to cool. 
A tablespoonful of soaked gelatine may be added when 
the prunes are hot. This will give a creamy, clear sauce. 
By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News Co. 



Prune Pudding. 

I cupful stewed and stoned i pint of milk 

prunes ^ cup sugar 

I tablespoonful corn starch 3 eggs 

I tablespoonful butter 

Let the milk come to a boil, then add corn starch, 
sugar, eggs and butter, mixed with a little cold milk ; 
chop prunes, put in a buttered dish and pour the mixture 
over. Bake twenty minutes and serve with whipped 
c^eam. ^/[p_5_ q^ £_ BURNSIDE. 



Batter Fruit Pudding. 

I cup fruit I cup sugar 

I egg 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 

1 cup sweet milk ter 

2 cups flour 3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
A little grated nutmeg der 

Stir the butter, sugar and egg together, add the milk, 
baking powder in the flour, and lastly the fruit dredged 
with flour. Any sort of acid fruit, fresh or preserved, 
may be used, as plums or peaches. Bake about twenty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven and serve with fruit 
^''^"ce. j^/[j^S_ A_ ^,Y_ ENGLE. 



DESSERTS 167 

Dutch Pie. 

I pint of flour i egg 

1 cup of milk I teaspoonful of cream of 
^ teaspoonful of soda tartar 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted A little salt 

butter 

Mix like a batter, pour into a pudding- dish and stick 
quartered apples thickly through it. Sprinkle with sugar 
and bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. Serve 
with hot sauce. j^jSg MALTBY. 

Baked Apples. 

Pare, core and cut in thin slices the apples, sprinkle 
sugar between each layer and bake. They will be can- 
died and excellent. ^^-^^ ^ j pisKEN. 



Apple Scallop. 

Pare and core four good-sized tart apples and cut 
them into slices. Put a layer of bread crumbs into the 
bottom of a pudding dish, then a layer of apples, then a 
layer of chopped English walnuts, then a sprinkling of 
sugar, then crumbs again, and so continue until the dish 
is filled, having the last layer crumbs. Pour over half a 
cup of water, or, if you have it, sweet cider, and bake half 
an hour. Serve hot, plain or with sugar. 
By permission of 
MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News Co. 



Apple Float. 

3 apples, very tart i egg 

I cup of granulated sugar 

Bake the apples with skin on and without water. 
When done scrape out the pulp, mix well with the sugar 
and let get cold. Beat to a stiff froth the white of one 
egg, add to apples and beat for nearly half an hour. 
Serve with soft custard. Looks like a mound of snow 
and tastes fine. ^^-^^^ JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 



168 CLEVER COOKING 



Apple Trifle. 

3 pints apples (pared, cored Y^ pint water 

and quartered) i cup sugar 

Grating- of nutmeg 3 pints whipped cream 

Place the water and apples in stew pan and boil until 
tender; then add sugar and nutmeg and cook for ten 
minutes. Set away to cool. At serving time put apples 
in deep glass dish and heap the whipped cream on top. 
Very delicate and good. MRS C P D \M 

Apple Dessert. 

Wash and core eight tart apples. Boil, until tender 
and remove the skins. Make a syrup of one cup of sugar, 
a little water and the juice of two oranges. Boil until 
thick, pour over the apples and chill before serving. 

GERTRUDE CARPENTER. 

Apple Pudding. 

Will Serve Four. 

4 apples 3 tablespoonfuls water 

2 eggs Sugar, nutmeg 

Pare and quarter the apples and put in a pudding dish ; 
sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Pour over the 
yolks of eggs beaten with the water. Bake. Beat whites 
stift' and put over the pudding as a meringue just before 

^^^^^"§^- MRS. J. K. BROWN. 

Roxbury Pudding. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with strained ap- 
ple sauce, sweetened and flavored with vanilla. Make a 
custard of the yolks of 5 eggs, i pint of milk, the grated 
rind of i lemon and a small pinch of salt. Cook in a 
double boiler until smooth, pour over the apple sauce and 
place in a warm oven until the custard sets. Make a 
meringue of the whites of the eggs and about a pound of 
powdered sugar. Pour this over the custard already 
baked and brown very slightly. Serve cold. 

MRS. LOUISE A. TOMPSON. 



DESSERTS 169 

Baked Pears. 

Put no water into the pan in which the pears are 
baked unless the oven is very hot. Make a syrup of su- 
gar and water and pour over the pears while they are hot. 
Serve with cream. j^^j^g ^ E SHEPARD. 

Walled Peaches. 

Cut off the top of a loaf of stale sponge cake, scoop 
out the inside, leaving enough for a substantial wall ; fill 
with canned peaches, sprinkle with pulverized sugar and 
heap with whipped cream. MRS L H GR\Y 

Porcupines. 

Make little round sponge cakes ; into these stick split 
almonds, blanched. Lay them in a dish and over them 
pour a fine cold boiled custard flavored with vanilla. Al- 
monds blanched and rubbed to a smooth paste can be 
added to the custard. 

Orange Pudding. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs i^ cups of milk 

2 eggs, yolks and whites Grated rind of i and juice 
y2 cup of sugar of 2 small oranges 

Soak the crumbs in the milk until soft and beat to a 
pulp. j\Iix with this the orange rind and juice, the beat- 
en yolks and sugar, and lastly the whites whipped very 
stifif. Bake in a pudding dish or in custard cups set in a 
pan of hot water, in a moderate oven, about fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Serve with golden sauce or whipped 

^^^^^- MRS. HELEN M. HUNT. 

Raisin Puffs. 

2 eggs }i cup of butter 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar i cup of sweet milk 

I cup of seeded raisins, 2 cups of flour 

chopped fine and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking 

floured powder 

Steam in cups one hour, and serve with lemon sauce. 

ANNA BEACH. 



170 CLEVER COOKING 



Snow Balls. 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs light, then add gradually i 
cup of sugar, beating all the time. When very light add 
2 tablespoonfuls of milk, i cup of flour and beat again. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stifT froth, add quickly 
to the batter with i rounded teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. Fill buttered cups two-thirds full and steam twenty 
minutes. Roll in powdered sugar and serve at once with 
hard sauce. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and Arnold & Co. 

Sponge Pudding. 

y2 cup of sugar i tablespoonful of butter 

2 eggs, beaten separately y2 cup of milk 

I teaspoonful of baking i cup of flour 
powder 

Steam in mould three-fourths of an hour and serve 
with brown sauce. j^jsg HOPKINS. 

Sponge Pudding No. 2. 

% cup of sugar 14 cup of butter 

^ (generous) cup of flour Yolks of 5 eggs 
I pint of boiled milk Whites of 5 eggs 

Little cold milk 

Mix the sugar and flour, wet with a little cold milk, 
and stir into the boiling milk. Cook until it thickens and 
is smooth ; add the butter, and when well mixed stir it 
into the well-beaten yolks of the eggs ; then add the 
whites, beaten stifle. Bake in cups or a shallow dish in a 
hot oven. Place the dish in a pan of hot water while in 
the oven. Serve with wine sauce. 

MRS. C. E. SHEPARD (From Mrs. Lincoln.) 

Banana Puffs. 

Will Serve Six. 

I cup of sugar ^ cup of water 

I cup of flour 3 eggs 

I teaspoonful of baking 3 bananas, sliced 
powder 



DESSERTS 171 

Stir the bananas into the batter, half fill buttered cups 
and steam one hour. Serve with liquid sauce or clear 
cream. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cherry Pudding. 

2 eggs i^ cups flour 

Yz cup butter i cup canned cherries, 

^ cup sugar drained free of juice 

I teaspoonful baking powder 

Bake forty minutes. Serve with sweet sauce. 

MRS. JOHN ROSENE. 

Bread Croquettes. 

I pint bread crumbs Whites of 2 eggs (unbeaten) 

I teaspoonful cinnamon Yi cup of chopped walnuts 
Grated rind i lemon 

Rub crumbs fine, add seasoning and eggs, and lastly 
the nuts. Form into croquettes, dip in ^^^ and crumbs 
and fry. Serve with liquid sauce. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Will Serve Six. 

3 tablespoonfuls pearl tap- i quart rich milk 

ioca 3 eggs 

yi cup sugar i pinch salt 

Any flavor desired 

Cover the tapioca with cold water and let stand three 
hours, or over night. Place the milk in a rice boiler, and 
when it has reached the boiling point stir in the tapioca. 
As soon as the latter becomes clear add the yolks, beaten 
to a cream with the sugar and thinned with a little cold 
milk. Stir this in carefully and keep stirring until a thin 
custard is formed. Then pour into a buttered dish, cover 
with a meringue made of the beaten whites, and brown 
in the oven. Serve cold with cream and sugar. 

MRS. C. P. DAM. 



172 CLEVER COOKING 



Tapioca Cream No. 2. 

2 tablespoonfuls tapioca Yolks of 12 eggs 

White I egg i pint ricli milk 

Sugar Flavoring' 

Put the milk on the stove to heat, beat the yolks of the 
eggs, sweeten and flavor to taste ; add the tapioca, which 
has been previously soaked ; add this mixture to the boil- 
ing milk and cook till it thickens (must not boil), stir- 
ring constantly. Pour into a custard dish. IMake a mer- 
ingue of the white of an egg, spread over the top and 
brown lightly. Serve cold. A good way to use the yolks 
of eggs after making angel cake. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Rice Dessert. 

}{l pound rice boiled in one i teaspoonful butter 

quart fresh milk i tablespoonful vanilla 

I tablespoonful gelatine Sugar 
I cup almonds i quart whipped cream 

Boil the rice until very tender, but preserve the grain. 
Before it is cold add the gelatine (dissolved) and butter. 
When very cold add the almonds, blanched and chopped 
very fine ; then add the vanilla and whipped cream. Pour 
in dish and serve verv cold. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Raw Rice Pudding. 

2 quarts rich sweet milk 7^ cup rice 

I cup sugar ^4 teaspoonful salt 

5^ nutmeg, grated 

Wash the rice, drain off the water and add the milk 
and other ingredients. Bake about two hours in a slow 
oven, stirring two or three times the first hour. Serve 

cold. MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 



DESSERTS 173 

Stuffed Bananas. 

6 bananas i tablespoonful gelatine 

I tablespoonful hot water i tablespoonful cold water 
I cup cream Powdered sugar 

Turn back a section of skin from the bananas, scoop 
out the inside and press. Dissolve the gelatine in the 
cold water; when soft add the hot water. Whip the 
cream, add the pulp, gelatine and a little powdered sugar. 
Fill the banana skins, replace the section of skin and 
place on ice. ADELAIDE M. BLACKWELL. 



Snow Pudding, 

34 box gelatine ^4 cup cold water 

I cup boiling water i cup sugar 

^ cup lemon juice WHiites of 3 eggs 

Custard. 

Yolks of 3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1/4 saltspoonful salt; i pint hot milk 

y^ teaspoonful vanilla 

Pour the cold water over the gelatine ; after a few 
minutes pour on the hot water ; add the sugar and lemon 
juice and allow it to boil. Put in wet moulds. When 
serving put the custard around it, and over this the beat- 
en whites, sweetened. ^_ ^^^^^-^ HOWELL. 



Lemon Honey. 

I pound sugar y\ pound butter 

6 eggs Juice and rind of 3 lemons 

Beat the eggs well, cream the butter and add the 
other ingredients. Cook like custard in a double boiler. 
This will keep several weeks and can be used for cheese 
cakes or pies. If it is to be used at once a couple of the 
whites of the eggs may be left out for frosting. 

MISS MALTBY. 



174 CLEVER COOKING 



Floating Island. 

Will Serve Eight. 

I quart milk 5 eggs 

I tablespoonful sugar Flavoring 

Put the milk on in the double boiler and when it boils 
add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten, and the sugar. 
Stir well until the mixture thickens and then add the 
flavoring. Pour into a mould and remove to a cool place. 
When cool pour it into the dish in which it is to be 
served and beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
and drop on the top with bits of jelly. This also makes a 
very nice and wholesome dish for the sick. 

MRS. N. H. LATIMER. 



Chocolate Pudding. 

% cup of milk 2 squares chocolate 

I cup of flour I cup sugar 

4 eggs beaten separately Pinch of cinnamon 
I heaping teaspoonful baking powder 

Cook the milk and chocolate together and cool. Mix 
the remaining ingredients as for sponge cake, add the 
chocolate and steam one hour. Serve hot with whipped 

^^^^"^" MRS. A. L. HAWLEY. 



Chocolate Bread Pudding. 

10 tablespoonfuls of bread 6 tablespoonfuls of grated 
crumbs chocolate 

I pint of sweet milk 4 eggs 

I cup of sugar 

Put crumbs, milk, sugar and chocolate together ou 
stove. When boiling add yolks of eggs and let thicken 
like custard and pour into a pudding dish. Beat whites 
stiflf with sugar, put in oven on a sheet of manila paper 
and brown, then slip carefully off on the pudding. 

MISS NANCY BREWER. 



DESSERTS 175 

Chocolate Custard. 

Will Serve Six. 

Stir into one quart of milk three bars of chocolate, 
grated ; sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Let it boil up 
once or tfice, take from fire and cool ; beat yolks of four 
eggs and stir in, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; 
pour in pudding dish and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 
To be eaten warm. ^j^g^ WEBSTER BROWN. 



Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

Will Serve Six. 

I quart of milk ^ box of gelatine 

3 tablespoonfuls of grated i pint of cream, whipped 

chocolate Sugar 

Dissolve the gelatine in a little of the milk, heat the 
rest, stir in dissolved gelatine, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and sugar to make quite sweet ; pour out, and when set 
but not hard stir in the whipped cream. Put in moulds 
and set on ice in a very cold place. This is delicious. 

MRS. WEBSTER BROWN. 



Chocolate Cream. 

Will Serve Six. 

Yo box of gelatine i pint of milk 

I cup of white sugar ^ pint of cream 

^ cup of grated chocolate i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Dissolve the gelatine in cold water; add to this the 
grated chocolate, sugar and milk. Stir all together and 
cook five minutes in a double boiler. Then add the 
cream and boil one minute. Flavor with vanilla and pour 
into a mould to cool. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. G. W. BOARDMAN. 



17G CLEVER COOKING 



Orange Cream. 

I pint of cream Juice of 3 oranges 

A little of the grated rind i cup of sugar 

Yolks of 3 eggs I ounce of gelatine 

1/2 cup cold water 

Soak the gelatine in half a cup of cold water. Grate 
the rind and squeeze the juice of the oranges. Take half 
the cream and put in a double boiler. Add the beaten 
yolks and sugar ; stir, and when it begins to thicken add 
the gelatine. When it has cooled a little add the orange 
juice and rind, beat and add remainder of cream. Put in 
moulds and serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Corn Starch Pudding. 

Will Serve Six. 

I pint of sweet milk AA'hites of 3 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls of corn 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
starch A little salt 

Put milk in a pan and set in a kettle of hot water. 
When the milk boils add the sugar, then the corn starch 
dissolved in a little cold milk, and the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Beat the mixture and let it 
cook a few minutes, then flavor with lemon, pour in a 
mould and set on the ice. This can be made with water 
instead of milk, in which case add another tablespoonful 
of corn starch, a walnut of butter and flavor with the 
juice of a large lemon. Serve with custard sauce. 

ANNA BEACH. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Mix 3 large tablespoonfuls of corn starch in cold wa- 
ter to dissolve it. Pour on 3 cups of boiling water, stir- 
ring all the time over the fire. Add 2 cups of sugar, 2 
eggs beaten separately, rind and juice of 2 lemons. Bake 
about five minutes. Serve cold with cream. 

MRS. FRANK BEACH. 



DESSERTS 177 

Sponge Whips. 

2 eggs, beaten separately i cup sugar 
^2 cup milk 3 dessert spoonfuls butter 

1 3^ cups flour I teaspoonful cream tartar 

Yi, teaspoonful soda Y^ teaspoonful salt 

Flavor with lemon 

Bake in small round tins. Take off center of tops and 
take out enough of the cake to fill in one tablespoonful of 
whipped cream. Put back covers and frost them. 



Fruit Salad. 

Equal quantities of canned pineapple, oranges and 
bananas, cut in small dice-shaped pieces. To be served 
with a spoonful of powdered sugar on the side of each 

P^^^^- MISS HOPKINS. 



Fruit Jelly. 

34 box gelatine 2 lemons 

6 figs 2 oranges 

9 dates 10 nuts of any kind 

Yz pint boiling water 2 cups sugar 

Y2 pint cold water 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for one hour ; then 
add the boiling water, the juice of the lemons and the 
sugar. Strain and let stand til it begins to thicken. Stir 
in all of the fruit cut into small pieces and let it harden. 
Pour into a mould. 

MRS. FRED RICE ROWELL. 

Fruit juice left after using canned fruits may be util- 
ized by making fruit jelly. Always add the juice of one 
or two lemons. The amount of sugar required depends 
on the fruit used. It requires half a box of gelatine to 
one quart. 

Fresh fruit may be added, raisins, candied fruits or 
nuts. Any combination may be used. Serve with whip- 
ped cream. 



178 CLEVER COOKING 



Orange Charlotte. 

y?, cup cold water y^ box gelatine 

Yz cup boiling water i cup sugar 

Juice of i^ lemons i cup orange juice and 

Whites of 3 eggs pulp 

Soak the gelatine in cold water until soft. Pour in 
the boiling water, add the sugar and lemon juice, also 
orange juice and pulp, with a little of the grated rind. 
Strain and cool in a pan of ice water. Beat whites of 
eggs stifif, and when the jelly begins to harden beat until 
light, then add the whites and beat together until stiff 
enough to drop. Pour into a mould and let stand for a 
couple of hours. Serve with soft custard made from the 
yolks of the eggs. ^^^^ ^ P^ gUSH. 

Charlotte Russe. 

I quart of good cream Yz pound of lady fingers 

Y\. cup of powdered sugar Y2 box of gelatine 
Y2 gill of sherry (if you use i teaspoonful of vanilla 
wine) 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak for 
a half hour. Whip the cream and lay it on a sieve to 
drain. Line two plain two-quart moulds with the lady 
fingers. Now turn the cream into a large basin and place 
it in a pan of cracked ice ; add to the soaked gelatine just 
enough boiling water to dissolve it. Now add the sugar 
carefully to the cream^, then the vanilla and wine, and 
last, strain in the gelatine. Commence to stir immedi- 
ately ; stir from the sides and bottom of the basin until 
it begins to thicken, then pour into the moulds and set 
away on the ice to harden. 

Chopped pistachio nuts may be sprinkled over the top 
just before serving. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and Arnold & Co. 



Parisian Charlotte. 

^ box of gelatine i quart of cream 

I cup of grated cocoanut % lb. of stale lady fingers 

Y pound of macaroons 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
4 eggs 



DESSERTS 179 

Cover the gelatine with cold water and let it soak a 
half hour. Whip one-half the cream and stand it away 
until wanted. Put the remaining half to boil in a farina 
boiler. Beat the eggs and sugar together until light (do 
not separate the eggs), stir into boiling cream and stir 
one minute until it thickens ; add the gelatine, take from 
the fire, add a teaspoonful of vanilla and the lady fingers, 
macaroons and cocoanut, and turn into a basin. Now 
place the basin in a pan of cracked ice, and stir constantly 
until it just begins to thicken; then add the whipped 
cream and stir very carefully until thoroughly mixed. 
Wet a fancy mould with cold water, turn in the mixture 
and stand on the ice to harden. 

Or, cut the center out of a one-pound stale sponge 
cake, leaving a bottom and sides about a half inch thick, 
and pour the mixture into this instead of the mould. 
Serve with sauce. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and Arnold & Co. 

Cocoanut Charlotte. 

Grate one cocoanut, pour over it one pint of boiling 
water. Stir well. When cool wring it in a cheese 
cloth and set this water, or milk, away until cold. Cover 
Yz box of gelatine with ^ cup of cold water. Whip i 
pint of cream, skim the cocoanut cream from the top of 
the milk and add to the gelatine ; add y^ cup of the water 
also and stir over the fire a moment till the gelatine is 
dissolved. Add to the whipped cream ;i cup of pow- 
dered sugar ; then the gelatine and cocoanut cream ; stir 
it at once and stir continually until it begins to thicken. 
Turn in a mould and stand away to harden. When ready 
to serve turn out and garnish with preserved chestnuts. 
Pour over the chestnut syrup as a sauce. This is both 
good and sightly. By permission of 

MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News Co. 

Banana Cream. 

5 large bananas ^ ounce gelatine 

5 ounces sugar y^ cup cold water 

2 lemons ^ cup hot water 

Yi. pint cream ^ wineglass brandy 



180 CLEVER COOKING 



Skin and Avash the fruit, add sugar; soak the gela- 
tine in the cold water until soft ; pour in the hot water. 
Whip the cream stiff, add the fruit, brandy, juice of lem- 
ons, grated rind of one lemon, and the gelatine. Beat a 
few minutes, fill a mould and set on' ice for four or five 

^°"^^- MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Dorchester Club Pudding, 

1 cup of hot milk i teaspoonful of salt 
Yi cup of stale sponge cake i cup of grated apple 

crumbs 2 eggs 

Yz cup of whipped cream i lemon (juice) 

2 teaspoonfuls of powder- Yy cup of sugar 

ed sugar 



Soak the cake in the hot milk until soft. Beat the 
yolks, add sugar, salt, grated rind and juice of half the 
lemon, and stir this into the milk. Whip the cream. 
Grate the apple quickly into the mixture, add the cream 
and turn into a buttered pudding dish and bake about 
half an hour or until it pufTs all over. When slightly 
cooled cover with a meringue made of the whites of the 
eggs, powdered sugar and lemon, and brown in the oven. 

MRS. LINCOLN, 
(In the American Kitchen Magazine.) 

Peach Snowballs. 

yi box Knox's gelatine Whites of 3 eggs 

Juice and rind of i lemon Small pinch of salt 

Flavor with vanilla 

Cover the gelatine with cold water ; when soft add 
boiling water to make a full pint or a little more ; strain 
it on a platter ; when cool break into it the whites of the 
eggs and beat until it begins to stiffen. Add a little su- 
gar, lemon juice and grated rind, salt and vanilla, also 
about half a pint of canned peaches, pineapple or other 
fruit, reduced to a smooth pulp through the colander. 
Have the fruit very sweet. Beat all together until stiff 
and foamy, then mould in cafe or ^%^ cups. Set them 
aside to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 



DESSERTS 181 

Ruby Cream. 

^2 pint tapioca i^A pints water 

Rind and juice of i lemon 4 ounces sugar 

^ pint currant jelly 

Soak tapioca in ^A pint cold water over night; simmer 
the soaked tapioca and lemon rind cut in pieces in one 
pint of water until clear; skim out rind and stir in the 
sugar and jelly and lemon juice; simmer a few minutes 
and pour into dish for serving. Just before serving make 
a snow of sweetened whipped cream or a meringue made 
with the whites of four eggs and powdered sugar, and 
pour over the tapioca cream. 

MRS. CORWIN S. SHANK. 



Fruit Glace. 

Pour over i teacupful granulated sugar J/< pint hot 
water ; let it boil without stirring a few moments ; cut 
oranges into eighths and dip each piece into the syrup ; 
lay on a dish to cool. Take English walnuts and treat 
the same way. When cool pile the nuts in the center of a 
pretty dish and lay the oranges around them. 

MRS. LOUISE A. TOMPSON. 



Vanity Pudding. 

Will Serve Eight. 

Whites of 6 eggs 6 tablespoonfuls powdered 

Jelly or fruit sugar 

Beat eggs to a very stiff froth ; add gradually the su- 
gar, beating not less than thirty minutes. Put in two 
tablespoonfuls of preserved peaches or small fruits and 
beat ten minutes longer; set on ice or in a cool place. 
Serve with rich cream. 

MRS. EDWARD WHEELER. 



182 CLEVER COOKING 



Spanish Cream. 

1 pint milk 14 box gelatine 

2 eggs (yolks and whites) j/^ cup sugar 

Vanilla 

Pour the milk over the gelatine and let stand an hour ; 
strain, put on the stove and let come to a boil ; stir in the 
beaten yolks of the eggs and the sugar ; cook one minute. 
Take from the stove and add the whites whipped stiff; 
flavor, pour into moulds. Serve with whipped cream. 

MRS. HELEN M. HUNT. 



Omelette Souffle. 

Will Serve Six or Eight. 

Whites of 9 eggs Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered 6 macaroons, crumbled fine 
sugar I teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat the yolks very light ; add the sugar, stirring 
them together very thoroughly, then add vanilla. Beat 
the whites very light and carefully and lightly add the 
beaten yolks and sugar, a little at a time. Have ready 
a cold plate onto which pile the mixture, a little at a 
time, but quickly, sprinkling each spoonful with the mac- 
aroons. Make the pile high and dome-shaped. Bake in 
a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 

MRS. J. D. LOWMAN. 

Virginia Caramel Custard. 

I quart milk J4 pound sugar 

5 eggs Pinch of salt 

Flavor, rosewater or almond, i dessert spoonful 
Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs ; beat 
sugar and yolks together, add the well-beaten whites and 
mix with the milk, flavor and pour into a buttered mould 
or tin ; set immediately into a pan of boiling water in a 
moderately hot oven. About half an hour will be re- 
quired to set it firmly. When nicely browned and puffed 
up touch the middle with a knife blade ; if it cuts as 
smooth there as around the sides it is done. Be careful 



DESSERTS 183 

not to overdo. Let the custard stand until perfectly cold, 
turn out gently on a plate, dust thickly with sugar, place 
in upper part of hot oven. The sugar melts at once and 
browns without heating the custard. 

MRS. GEORGE HEILBRON. 



Pineapple Pudding. 

Will Serve Six. 

Pour off the syrup from one can of sliced pineapple, 
add to it one cup of sugar ; cook without stirring until it 
ropes. While this is cooking cut the slices of pineapple 
into small dice, arrange in the serving dish and pour over 
it the syrup. When cold put a layer of lady fingers over 
the pineapple and heap whipped cream on the lady fin- 

S^^^- MRS. HINCHLIFFE. 



Pineapple Pudding No. 2. 

6 eggs 2 cups sugar 

3/2 cup of butter i can grated pineapple 

5 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs 

Add juice the last thing. Bake one-half hour, watch- 
ing carefully, as much depends upon the baking. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. ^^^ ^_ ^ HAWLEY. 



Pineapple Tapioca. 

I cup tapioca (pearl) 3 lemons 

Cold water i can pineapple 

i^ cups sugar ^ cup water 

Whites of 3 eggs 

Soak the tapioca over night in cold water. In the 
morning drain and add the half cup of water, sugar, pine- 
apple and juice of lemons. Cook until clear in double 
boiler. Cool slightly, then add whites, beaten stiff. 
Serve with whipped cream. MRS A. D BISHOP 



184 CLEVER COOKING 



Jelly Cream. 

I Clip jelly (any kind desired) 

1 cup water 

2 tablespoonfiils brown svigar 

Boil together till well dissolved, then add one table- 
spoonful corn starch wet with cold water. Let boil up 
once and serve cold with whipped cream. 

MRS. JOHN F. CROWLEY. 



Strawberry Gelatine. 

1 box of gelatine i quart of strawberries 

2 lemons i>4 cups of sugar 

Yz cup cold water i pint of boiling water 

Soak the gelatine one hour in the cold water. Mash 
half the berries with two-thirds cup of the sugar, add the 
gelatine, lemon juice and the remainder of the sugar, 
and pour boiling water over all. Stir till the gelatine 
is dissolved and strain into a mould, which should not be 
more than half full. When cold and beginning to stiffen 
add the remainder of the berries whole. Put on ice for 
twelve hours or more and serve with whipped cream. 

Peaches, raspberries or blackberries can be prepared 
in the same manner, varying amount of sugar according 
to acid in the fruit. ^^-^<^_ ^j_ p_ BENTON. 



Raspberry Cream. 

Yo box of gelatine Yi cup of cold water 

Y2 cup of boiling water i cup of sugar 

I pint of cream (whipped) i pint of raspberry juice 

Soak the gelatine one hour in the cold water, then put 
it with the sugar and boiling water in the double boiler 
over the fire and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Add 
the raspberry juice, strain and set in a cool place. When 
it has begun to form stir in the whipped cream. Turn 
into the mould and set on ice to harden. 

Strawberries may be used in place of raspberries. 

MRS. W. H. de WOLFE. 



DESSERTS 185 

Cream Glace. 

Will Serve Five. 

Whites of 3 eggs 

6 level tablespoonfuls granulated sugar 

Beat whites to stiff froth ; add the sugar gradually. 
Drop on greased brown paper and bake in slow oven, to 
brown in about ten minutes and left in oven to cool off 
for three-quarters of an hour. Can be served in two 
ways : First, puncture the top and fill with whipped 
cream ; second, crush in bottom, fill with ice cream and 
put two together, concealing the ice cream. 

MRS. ROBERT PALMER. 



Washington Pie. 

Will Make Two Pies. 
Cake. 

1 large cup sugar i large cup flour 
3 tablespoonfuls milk 3 eggs 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- Vanilla flavoring 

der 

Filling. 

I pint milk i/4 cup sugar 

I egg I tablespoonful corn starch 

y2 lb. blanched almonds Vanilla flavoring 
A little salt 

For cake mix the sugar and yolks together ; add milk, 
flour, whites of eggs, beaten stiff, and lastly the baking 
powder. Bake in two large jelly tins in moderate oven. 

For filling, mix milk, sugar and corn starch together ; 
add egg, well beaten. Cook in double boiler to the con- 
sistency of custard. When cool add flavoring and nuts, 
chopped fine. 

Split open each cake with a sharp heated knife and 
fill with the custard. Make a meringue flavored with al- 
mond. Spread over smoothly and dot the top with 
mounds of the meringue, with an almond on each. Brown 

"' °^^"' MRS. A. F. McEWAN. 



186 CLEVER COOKING 



Lemon Jelly. 

^ l)ox o-elatiiu' ^ cu[) of lemon juice 

I scant cup of cold water i square inch stick of cin- 

I pint of boiling- water namon 
I cup of sugar 

Soak the gelatine in cold water till soft, shave the 
lemon rind thin, using none of the white; steep it with 
the cinnamon in the pint of boiling water ten minutes, 
then add the soaked gelatine, sugar and lemon juice, and 
when dissolved strain. 

MRS. LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 



Wine Jelly. 

Uncooked. 

Yz box of gelatine J/S cup cold water 

I pint boiling water Juice of i lemon 

I cup sugar i cu]i sherry wine 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water about fifteen min- 
utes or until soft ; add the boiling water, lemon juice, 
sugar and wine. Stir well, strain through a napkin into 
a shallow dish ; keep in a cool place or in ice water until 
hard. When ready to serve break up lightly with a fork. 
If you wish to mould it add oidy two-thirds of a pint of 
boiling water. 

If you wish to mould fruit into it (candied cherries 
are especially nice), pour a layer of the jelly into the 
mould, let it harden, then put in a layer of fruit, then 
another layer of jelly, and so on until the mould is full. 
During the process keej:) the muised jelly where it will 
remain in a liquid state. 

MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Coffee Jelly, 

Soak half a box of gelatine in a little cold water; pour 
over it one pint of boiling colTee ; sweeten to taste. Stir 
till all is dissolved ; strain and mould. Serve very cold 
wdth whipped cream. ^, ,.^_ ^^ ^ _y_ KELLOGG. 



DESSERTS 187 

Cream Puffs. 

This Makes Fifteen Pufifs. 
I cup hot water y> cup butter 

Boil the water and butter together and stir in i cup 
of dry flour while boiling. When cool add 3 eggs not 
beaten ; mix well. Drop by tablespoonfuls on buttered 
tins. Bake in a quick oven tw^enty minutes. 

Filling. 

I cup milk y2 cup sugar 

I ^^^ 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add the flour and stir 
into the milk while boiling. Flavor when cool. 

MRS. A. W. EXGLE. 

Tipsy Cake. 

Will Serve Ten or Twelve. 

I dozen lady fingers i pint of milk 

I dozen macaroons 3 eggs 

13/2 doz. blanched almonds i teaspoonful of corn starch 
Yz cup of brandy 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Yz cup of sherry 2 teaspdonfuls of vanilla 

Yz pint firm raspberry jam 2 tablespoonfuls of powder- 
Y2 pint of thick cream to ed sugar 

Avhip 

Alix the sherry and brandy, split the lady fingers, dip 
12 halves one by one quickly in the liquor and spread 
them on the bottom of a deep glass dish, completely cov- 
ering the bottom. In each piece stick half a blanched al- 
mond. Then treat the macaroons in the same way and 
place a layer of them on the lady fingers and finish with 
another layer of lady fingers, using almonds in each 
layer. Make the upper layer of the lady fingers very even 
and spread the raspberry jam smoothly over them. 

^lake a soft boiled custard thus : Bring the milk to 
a boil (reserving two tablespoonfuls to mix with the 
corn starch) ; add the sugar; let boil up again. Stir the 
corn starch into the two tablespoonfuls of milk ; stir this 
into the well-beaten eggs and add slowly to the boiling 
milk. Let it come just to a boil, stirring constantly. Re- 



188 CLEVER COOKING 



mo\'e from the fire and when cool add one teaspoonful of 
vanilhi. When cold ])iit it spoonful by spoonful on the 
jam, making- the top smooth. Set in a cold place for an 
hour. Have the cream very cold, whip very stiff, put in 
the powdered sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla and 
heap on the custard, making- a trifle higher in the center. 
Serve very cokl. ^^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^.^^^^.^^ 



To Make a Trifle. 

l'"or the Wliip. 

T ])int of cream 3 ounces of powdered sugar 

A small glass of cherry or Whites of 2 eggs 
raisin wine 

¥o\- the Trille. 

A custard made with 8 eggs to a pint of milk 
6 small sponge cakes or 6 slices of sponge cake 
12 Macaroons 
2 dozen ratafias 
2 ounces of sweet almonds 
Grated rind of i lemon 
A layer of raspberry or strawberry jam 
1/2 pint of sherry or sweet wine 
6 tal)lespoonfuls of brandy 

The whip to lay over the top of the triile should be 
made the day before it is required, as the flavor is bet- 
ter, and it is much more solid than when prepared the 
same day. 

Put into a large bowl the powdered sugar, the whites 
of the eggs, which should be beaten to a stiff froth, the 
wine and the cream. Whisk these ingredients well in a 
cool place and take off the froth with a skimmer as fast 
as it rises and put it on a sieve to drain ; continue the 
whisking until there is sufficient of the whip, which must 
be put away in a cool place to drain. 

The next day place the sponge cake, macaroons and 
ratafias in layers in the trille dish; pour over them the 
wine mixed with the l)randy, and should the proportion 
of wine not be found sufficient add a little more, as the 



DESSERTS 189 

cakes should be well soaked. Over the cake put grated 
lemon rind and sweet almonds, blanched and cut into 
strips, and a layer of jam. 

Make the custard with the eggs and milk ; let this 
cool a little, then pour it over the cake, etc. Heap the 
whip lightly in a mound over the top and garnish if de- 
sired with strips of currant jelly or crystallized sweet- 

"''^^^^" A/[RS. A. F. McEWAN. 

(From Mrs. Beetan's English Cook Book.) 



Superior Short Cake. 

1 egg Yi. cup of milk 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar i tablespoonful of butter 
i^ teaspoonfuls of baking 2 cups of flour 

powder A little salt 

Nice with warm apple sauce and cream. 

MRS. JAMES CURTIS. 



Strawberry Short Cake. 

Make dough as for rich baking powder biscuits ; roll 
into two layers about one-half inch thick and size of cake 
desired. Place one layer in baking pan, spread with but- 
ter and slightly dredge with flour. Cover with the re- 
maining layer of dough and bake in a quick oven. When 
baked separate the layers and place between and on top 
the strawberries, prepared in the following manner: To 
two quarts of strawberries add one cup of granulated 
sugar ; heat in stew pan but do not cook. Place largest 
berries on top, sprinkle slightly with powdered sugar, 
heap whipped cream around the short cake and garnish 
with fresh berries. To be served hot. 

EVA MERRY. 



190 CLEVER COOKING 



PUDDING SAUCES 



Rich Cream Sauce. 

1 pint of water 3 tablespoonfuls of flour 
Yz cup of butter 2 cupfuls of sugar 

2 eggs Yx nutmeg 

Yz pint of sherry or brandy- 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs, 
well beaten, then the nutmeg. Heat the brandy as hot 
as possible without boiling ; bring the water to a boil in 
another vessel and stir in the flour (rubbed smooth with 
a little cold water), and cook it well, for about two min- 
utes. ]\Iix well the ingredients off the fire. 

MRS. LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 



Cream Sauce. 

Y2 cup of powdered sugar 4 tablespoonfuls of cream 
Y\ cup of butter " 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

Beat butter and sugar until very light and creamy, 
then add the wine and cream gradually. Beat very thor- 
oughly. At serving time place the bowl over the tea- 
kettle and stir from the bottom until it begins to look 
smooth, then take from the fire and beat till all is very 
smooth and creamy. The heat of the bowl is sufficient 
after the mixture begins to get smooth. This sauce must 
not stand after heating. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



USE CARNATION CREAM for Sauces, Gravies, etc. 




192 CLEVER COOKING 



Cream Sauce No. 2 

I cup of butter 2 cups powdered sugar 

Yolk of I egg 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry- 

Beat the butter to a cream, then add gradually the 

powdered sugar, and the yolk of egg with the sherry last. 

Serve on a glass dish and cover with the following when 

prepared : 

Whites of 2 eggs Sugar to thicken 

^ teaspoonful of lemon ex- i teaspoonful of vanilla 
tract 

Whip the whites to a stiiff froth ; add enough sugar to 
thicken, flavor with the lemon and vanilla and cover the 
6,rst part of sauce with it. Set away in a cool place until 
it stiffpn<? 

MRS. FRANK C. SHARP, Tacoma. 



Foam Sauce. 

y2 cup of butter i cup 'of powdered sugar 

White of I egg ^ cup of boiling water 

3 tablespoonfuls of brandy or lemon juice 
Beat the butter to a cream, gradually add sugar, then 
white of egg unbeaten, and water a little at a time. Cook 
about two minutes until smooth. 

MRS. GEORGE NEWLANDS. 



Hard Sauce. 

j4 cup butter ^4 teaspoonful vanilla 

^2 cup powdered sugar 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the flavor- 
ing- 



CARNATION CREAM is a Prepared Substitue for 
Fresh Milk. 




PUDDING SAUCES 193 



Brandy Sauce. 

I cup sugar i tablespoonful corn starch 

I cup water i teaspoonful butter 

I tablespoonful brandy- 
Boil water and sugar and thicken with the corn starch ; 
put in a little cold water; add the butter. Just before 
serving put in the brandy. 

Wine Sauce. 

I cup of sugar i egg 

4 tablespoonfuls of boiling i wineglass of wine 
milk 
Beat the sugar and eggs together until white ; stir in 
the milk and add the wine, ^j^g f^. E. SHEPARD. 

Whipped Cream Sauce. 

Beat to a cream ^ cup butter and i cup powdered 
sugar; whip i cup of cream and beat into the butter and 
sugar ; put the whole into a double porcelain kettle over 
the fire ; heat until it looks foamy and smooth. Serve 
hot and just as it is brought to the table add a wine glass- 
ful of sherry and half as much good brandy. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Fruit Sauce. 

I cup sugar White i egg 

}4 cup butter i cup fruit juice 

Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the white of egg, 
beaten light, and lastly the fruit juice. 

MRS. A. W. ENGLE. 

Maple Sugar Sauce. 

j4 pound of maple sugar j^ cup of water 
I lemon Whites of 2 eggs 

I cup of cream 

Grate the sugar, add the water and boil until it hairs. 



USE 'CARNATION CREAM for Sauces, Gravies, etc. 




194 CLEVER COOKING 



Add the juice of the lemon. Beat whites of eggs stiff and 
gradually add the syrup. 

Pudding Sauce. 

I egg 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Vanilla 

Beat the white and yolk of the egg separately, add 
sugar to yolk and thoroughly beat, then add vanilla and 
then the white. Beat all together thoroughly and serve 

^^ ^^^^- MRS. L. G. BANNARD. 

French Pudding Sauce. 

4 ounces of butter J4 ounce of brown sugar 

Yolk of I egg I gill of wine 

Nutmeg. 

Beat butter to a cream, stir in sugar, add yolk and 
wine. Place on stove, stirring until it simmers. Grate 
nutmeg over it before sending to the table. 

THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Sauce. 

I cup of sugar i egg 

y2 cup of butter 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling 
I lemon, juice and grated water 

rind 

Cook in double boiler till thick. 

MRS. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 

Sauce for a Plain Pudding. 

Cover I teacupful of sugar with J/> cup of water and 
l)oil to a syrup ; add butter size of walnut and 2 eggs, 
beaten light, whites and yolks together. Stir very quick- 
ly until it is the consistency of cream. Flavor with 
brandy or sherry and use immediately. 



Don't forget that you are Pledged to A,sk Your Grocer 
for CARNATION CREAM. 




PUDDING SAUCES 195 



Golden Sauce. 

I cup powdered sugar 1/3 cup of cream 

4 tablespoonfuls of wine Yz cup of butter 

Yolks of 2 eggs 

Cream butter and sugar, add one at a time the un- 
beaten yolks ; beat until very light. Add wine and 
cream alternately, a little at a time, beating constantly. 
When mixed place the bowl in a pan of hot water over 
the fire and stir just three minutes; it will curdle if left 
too long. Use cold. Vanilla, lemon or orange juice may 
be used instead of the wine. 

MRS. HELEN M. HUNT. 

Brown Sauce. 

lA cup brown sugar 2 tablespoonfuls syrup 

I small cup water i tablespoonful butter 

Cinnamon, nutmeg and lemon. 

Boil till thick. ^^jj5S HOPKINS. 

Custard Sauce. 

One pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, the beat- 
en yolks of 3 eggs, thinned Avith I tablespoonful of milk. 
Boil and stir until thick. Flavor with 2 teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla and cool. ^-^^^ BEACH. 



Cottage Pudding Sauce. 

I cup of powdered sugar 

^ cup of butter 

1 egg, well beaten 

2 tablespoonfuls boiling water 
Yz teaspoonful vanilla extract 

Beat the butter and sugar until they become creamy ; 
add one well-beaten egg and beat again. Then add boil- 
ing water, putting sauce pan on the top of the teakettle, 
which has boiling hot water ; beat about ten minutes, all 
the time stirring. Add vanilla extract and serve imme- 

'^^^^^^y- MRS. S. GILLESPY. 



196 CLEVER COOKINQ 



DO YOU WANT TO KNOW 

How to Cook, How to Practice Household 
Economy, How to Decorate Your Home, 
How to Build a House, How to Manage Your 
Servants, How to Beautify Your Garden, or 
How to Do Any Other Useful Thing? 

WE HAVE BOOKS THAT TELL YOU ALL ABOUT IT 



ENQRAVINQ 

We operate the best Copperplate Engraving plant on 
the Pacific Coast, and can produce the finest work at short 
notice. Calling Cards and Wedding Invitations, Mono- 
grams and Coats of Arms, and engraved stationery for 
every social function. 

LOWMAN 6i HANFORD 

STATIONERY AND PRINTING CO. 

616 FIRST AVENUE PIONEER. PLACE 

ST. MARK'S GUILD 

Orders Promptly Filled for Comforters, Aprons, 
Hemming, Hemstitching and Embroidery 

TRY THEM 



Clever Cooking No, 2 

For Sale at LOWMAN L HANFOFD, SEATTLE 

or by the GUILD 
Address 

WOMEN'S GUILD OF ST. MAFK'S GHURGH 

SEATTLE, WASH. 
A Welcome Gift for Absent Friends 

Price SI, 00 per Copy Postage ISc Extra 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 



'I always thought cold victuals nice — 
My choice would be vanilla ice." — rfolmes. 



Foundations for Ice Cream. 

The two principal foundations for ice creams are Phil- 
adelphia and Neapolitan, and nearly all the principal 
creams may be made from these by varying the flavoring, 
with the addition of fruits (fresh, candied or preserved), 
nuts, small cakes, wines, etc., and by various methods of 
moulding and combining a bewildering variety of de- 
licious ice creams may be made. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream is made with pure cream. To 
a quart of cream, scalded not boiled, add a cup of sugar ; 
stir till dissolved ; add the flavoring, strain and freeze. 
Or, whip the cream, let it stand a few minutes, skim ofif 
the whipped part, put sugar and flavoring with the un- 
whipped part, which has been scalded, and when partly 
frozen add the whipped cream and finish freezing. This 
will give a larger quantity when frozen, and it will be 
very light and delicate. If fruits are to be used it is bet- 
ter to scald the cream, as that will prevent curdling. A 
quicker way is to use the cream without either scalding 
or whipping, but the ice cream will not be so rich or del- 
icate. 

Neapolitan Ice Cream is made by adding eggs, in the 
proportion of four to a quart of cream. The cream should 
be scalded, the eggs thoroughly beaten separately, the 
sugar added, then the hot cream, and the mixture cooked 
like soft custard. Or the custard mav be made with tiie 




CARNATION CREAM. "The Cream of Creams." 



198 CLEVER COOKING 



yolks alone, and the stiffly beaten whites added when the 
cream is partly frozen. Flavorings should be added 
when the custard has cooled. 

Vanilla, Lemon, Fruit Creams and Bisque. 

For vanilla ice cream, add about two tablespoonfuls 
of vanilla extract, according to strength, to either of the 
above foundations. 

For lemon ice cream, mix about two tablespoonfuls 
of lemon juice wih a half cup i^f the sugar, stir into the 
mixture, strain and freeze. 

For fruit creams, add about a pint of strained fruit 
juice, mash a quart of fresh fruit to a pulp, press through 
a sieve and add to the prepared cream. More or less 
sugar must be added, according to the acidity of the 
fruit, and in almost all instances the juice of a lemon is 
an improvement. 

For bisque ice cream, add about a cupful of any kind 
of fine dried sweet crumbs, preferably macaroons, lady 
fingers or fancy wafers. Flavor the cream with almond, 
vanilla or caramel, not too strong, and after adding the 
crumbs a slight flavoring of sherry may be added to ad- 
vantage. MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Peach, Chocolate, and Baked Apple. 

For Peach Ice Cream — To a quart of plain ice cream 
add about a dozen peaches. Mash half of them to a pulp 
and cut half of them in quite .small pieces. Sweeten to 
taste and add to the cream. 

For Chocolate Ice Cream — To a quart of ice cream 
use two bars of sweetened chocolate. Melt the chocolate 
in a little milk or water and add to the cream. Vanilla 
is the best flavoring with chocolate. 

For Baked Apple Ice Cream — To a quart of cream use 
from four to eight apples, according to size. Bake well 
and mash through a sieve. Sweeten to taste and add to 
the cream. This is delicious. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 199 

Caramel Cream. 

I quart of boiling milk i cup of sugar, browned to a 
I large tablespoonful flour caramel 

3 pints of cream A very small piece of butter 
Vanilla to flavor 

Mix the flour into the sugar and add to the boiling 
milk with the butter. Boil until thick and remove from 
the fire. When perfectly cold add the cream and the 
vanilla and freeze. If not sweet enough add plain sugar 
(too much of the brown sugar will make the mixture 
bitter) . 

One cupful of blanched almonds may be added. 

Caramel Ice Cream No. 2. 

Will Serve Twenty-five. 

I gallon cream 4 teacups powdered sugar 

5 tablespoonfuls caramel 

For the caramel, put in a sauce pan i teacup brown 
sugar and ^ cup of water; stew over a hot fire until it 
burns. When cold put into the mixture of cream and 

MRS. A. J. FISKEN. 



freeze. 



Banana Ice Cream. 

Will Serve Eight. 

iy2 pints milk Sugar 

4 eggs Vanilla 

I pint cream 4 bananas 

Make a custard of the milk and eggs, sugar and 
vanilla. Set away to cool. Freeze slightly, then add the 
cream whipped stiff, and the banans, mashed. When 
frozen remove dasher and pack until needed. 

MRS. MAURICE McMICKfeN. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

Will Serve Six. 

I pint cream Sugar i quart berries 

Mash the berries and add sugar to make quite sweet; 
then add the cream and freeze. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



200 CLEVER COOKING 



Lemon Cream. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

2 quarts cream 4 lemons 

I pound powdered sugar 

Add the sugar to one pint of the cream, then the 
grated rind and juice of the lemons; beat well and add 
to the remainder of the cream. Strain and freeze. 

MRS. RIPLEY. 

Coffee Ice Cream. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

3 pints cream i cup black coffee, verv 
2 cups sugar strong and clear 

2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot wet up with cold milk 
Heat half the cream nearly to boiling, stir in the sugar 
and when this is melted the coffee, then the arrowroot. 
Boil all together five minutes, stirring constantly. When 
cool, beat up very light, whipping in the rest of the cream 
by degrees; then freeze. ^j^g c. J. SMITH. 

Bisque. 

Will Serve Five. 
I pint cream, whipped 
I cup sugar beaten with yolks of 3 eggs 

Beat whites separately ; flavor and beat all together. 
Put in mould and cover with ice and salt ; pack and let 
stand until frozen. 

One cup crushed macaroons may be added. 

ISABEL JONES. 

Strawberry Mousse. 

Will Serve Five. 
Wash I quart of strawberries, press through a sieve, 
add powdered sugar to taste and set on ice till very cold. 
Add I pint of whipped cream, turn into a mould and 
freeze as above. j^RS. FRANK MITCHELL. 

(From Mrs. Hinckley's Portland Cooking Class.) 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 201 

Chocolate Mousse. 

I quart cream 3 tablespoonfuls powdered 

I ounce chocolate sugar 

I cup powdered sugar i tablespoonful boiling wa- 

ter 
Whip the cream stiff and place in a basin of ice. Grate 
the chocolate, add the 3 spoonfuls of sugar and boiling 
water. Stir over hot fire till smooth. Add six table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream and cool. Then add the rest 
of whipped cream, not any of the liquid at the bottom. 
Stir in the cup of sugar, pack in mousse tin and put a 
buttered strip of muslin around the edge. In packing a 
mousse put a layer of ice, then a thick layer of salt till 
mould is covered. Freeze from four to six hours. Serve 
on very cold plates. j^j^g FRANK MITCHELL. 

Foundation for All Ices. 

Will Serve Ten. 

I quart water i pint or i pound sugar 

Juice of 4 lemons Whites of 2 eggs 

Dissolve sugar in i quart of boiling water, add lemon 
juice, let cool, then freeze ; when half frozen add the 
whites, beaten stiff. To make raspberry, strawberry, 
pineapple or plum ice add to the above i pint of either 
juice before freezing. While fresh fruit is preferable, a 
very good substitute for use in winter is the juice from 
choice canned goods, or jelly dissolved in hot water. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Cherry Ice. 

Will Serve Fifteen. 

I pint of granulated sugar i quart of hot water 

1 pint of rich cherry juice 5 lemons 

2 tablespoonfuls of pulver- Whites of 2 eggs 

ized sugar 

Dissolve sugar in the hot water, add cherry juice, 



Don't allow your grocer to Substitute Other Cream 
for Carnation. 




202 CLEVER COOKING 



lemon juice and grated yellow rind of two lemons and 
set away to cool. 

While the mixture is cooling whip the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and gradually beat the pulverized 
sugar with it. Freeze the cooled mixture until it begins 
to adhere to the sides of the freezer; then add whites of 
eggs and freeze until stiff. Pack in the freezer and let 
stand half an hour before serving. 

MRS. ALEXANDER F. McEWAN. 



Lemon Ginger Sherbet. 

Will Serve Eight Persons Bountifully. 

4 lemons i large pint of granulated 

i^ pints of boiling water sugar 

I dessert spoonful of gel- Vi pint of cold water 
atine 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water; shave off the 
peel of two lemons, being careful to take none of the rind 
beneath the oil cells ; put the parings into a bowl ; add 
boiling water ; let stand ten or fifteen minutes ; cut the 
lemons in half, remove the seeds, squeeze out the juice 
and add the gelatine and sugar to the boiling water ; 
strain into freezer. Just after putting into freezer add 
ginger extract to taste. It should be pretty strong. When 
frozen pack to ripen. 

MRS. EDWIN HINCHLIFFE. 



Ginger Sherbet. 

To one pint of lemon ice add three ounces of pre- 
served ginger cut into small pieces, and a little of the 
ginger syrup. Stir the ginger into the frozen ice and 
pack for an hour or so. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 




Ask for CARNATION CREAM. There is no other 
"Just as Good." 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 203 



Pomegranate Sherbet. 

Will Serve Six. 

f^ tablespoonful of gela- >4 cup of cold water 

tine 13^ cups of sugar 

y2 cup of boiling water 6 blood-red oranges or i 
I lemon pint. of juice 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water, add the boiling 
water, and when dissolved add the sugar and orange 
juice. Strain when the sugar is dissolved and freeze. 

MRS. E. A. STROUT. 



Tutti Frutti Ice. 

Make an ice after the rule for lemon ice, using peach 
(or raspberry) juice in place of lemon, and then add the 
juice of I lemon. When frozen add the beaten white of 
I egg, and I cup of peaches, candied cherries and nuts 
cut in small pieces. Any preferred combination of fruits 
may be used, such as the French candied fruits or the 
candied fruits and nuts, angelica, citron and fresh 
oranges ; or dates, figs, currants, raisins and citron. 
Canned fruits may also be used in various combinations 
and the canned tutti frutti. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Sherbet "Three of a Kind." 

3 oranges 3 lemons 

3 bananas 3 cups of water 

3 cups of sugar Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat whites of eggs and put in freezer when the rest 
is partly frozen. (Pineapple or other fruits may be sub- 
stituted.) 

MRS. H. C. HENRY (from Miss Hubbard). 



USE CARNATION CREAM for Ices, Cakes, Pud- 
dings, etc. 



204 CLEVER COOKING 



Milk Sherbet. 

Will Serve Six. 

3 pints of milk Yi pint of cream 

2 cups of sugar fi box of gelatine 

3 lemons 

Scald the milk, adding cream and the gelatine dis- 
solved in a little milk. Pour it over the sugar and strain. 
When half frozen add juice and a little of the rind of the 

^e™o"S- MRS. THOMAS GREEN. 

Water Ice. 

Enough for Six Persons. 

To I pint of cold w^ater add the chopped peel of 4 
lemons ; boil. While this is boiling take i quart of cold 
water and add the juice of the 4 lemons and i pint of 
sugar. When the first mixture is cold add to the last and 
strain. When ready to freeze add the whites of 3 eggs 
beaten to a froth. ^j^S ^^ WOLFE. 

Claret Ice. 

I quart of claret 4 lemons 4 oranges 

Sweeten to taste and freeze. Excellent. 

" MRS. H. K. L. WHITNEY. 

Pineapple Ice. 

I cup of grated pineapple i pint of sugar 

I quart of water (scant) i lemon, i orange 

Freeze a little, then add the whites of two eggs, beat- 
en to a stiff froth. ^^5^ GREGORY. 

Orange Sherbet. 
Will Serve Ten. 

Take i pint of sugar, pour over it i pint of boiling 
water and let it boil just twenty minutes (no longer) ; 

WIRTH'S— Importer of Favors for Parties. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 205 

then take it off, pour into an earthen dish and add the 
juice of 4 oranges and 2 lemons. Set away to cool, and 
when ready for freezer add i pint cold water and the 
whites of 2 eggs, well beaten, j^j^g j g BROWN. 



Lemon Sherbet. 

Will Serve Twelve. 

I quart milk i pint sugar Juice of 4 lemons 

Stir together and freeze as ice cream. One pint of 
cream is an improvement. 

Mint Sorbet. 

Will Serve Six. 

2 lemons i pint boiling water 

I cup sugar White of i egg 

Mint 

Pare the yellow rind from the lemons, taking care to 
get none of the white ; put this into a bowl with a good 
handful of mint, which has been well bruised with the 
sugar ; add the boiling water and let stand several hours, 
covered close. Taste to see that the flavor of mint is 
strong enough, as the stalks vary in size and strength. 
Add the lemon juice and strain into the freezer and freeze 
slightly; it should almost pour. Just before serving add 
the stiffly beaten white of egg and beat in well. " The 
glasses in which it is to be served should be well chilled. 
Very nice as a slibstitute for mint sauce with spring lamb. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Cranberry Sorbet. 

Will Serve Ten. 

I pint of cranberry juice i pound of sugar 

I pint of boiling water Juice of i lemon 

Boil the sugar and water together for five minutes. 
When cool add the juice of the cranberries and lemon, 
strain and freeze ten minutes. If more sugar is required 



206 CLEVER COOKING 



add it before straining and stir till dissolved. At serv- 
ing time add the white of an egg, beaten stiff, and beat 
until it is all light and frothy and will almost pour. Serve 
in glasses wiih roast turkey instead of cranberry jelly 
or sauce. ^j^g^ RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Romaine. 

Boil together i quart of water and i pint of sugar for 
half an hour; add the juice of 6 lemons and i orange; 
strain and set away to cool. Then prepare the following: 
Boil I gill of water and one of sugar eighteen minutes. 
While the syrup is cooking beat the whites of 4 eggs very 
stiff, and into these pour the hot syrup very slowly, beat- 
ing all the time, and continue to beat a few minutes after 
it is all in. Set this away to cool. Place the first mix- 
ture in the freezer and freeze by turning it all the time 
for twenty minutes. Then take off the cover, remove the 
beater and add i gill of sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls Jamaica 
rum and the meringue, mixing this well with a spoon 
into the frozen mixture. Cover and set away until time 
to serve. Serve in punch glasses as a course between 
roast and entrees. ^j^g POTTER PALMER. 

(In the Columbian Exposition Cook Book.) 



Bonanza Punch. 

Will Serve Seventy-five. 

5 quarts water 4^ pounds sugar 

Juice of 12 lemons 3 oranges 

I can pineapple 3^ pint gin 

I pint white wine 

Grate the rinds of 3 lemons and 2 oranges into a bowl 
with the juice of all ; put 2 quarts water, 2 pounds sugar 
and juice of the pineapple on the fire and make a hot 

CARNATION CREAM is a Prepared Substitute for 
Fresh Milk. 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 207 

syrup of it; then pour this on the grated rinds and juices 
to draw the flavor. Chop the pineapple, add to the mix- 
ture and strain all into the freezer; add remainder of 
sugar, water and the liquors and freeze. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Roman Punch. 

I quart lemon ice Yz pint brandy 

Yz pint Jamaica rum i gill sherry 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Have the ice frozen hard. Just before wanted for 
serving stir in the liquors and beat hard. Add the stiffly 
beaten eggs last. The addition of Yz pint of champagne 
is an improvement. This must be frothy and not frozen 
very hard. Should almost pour. 



Frozen Egg Nog. 

I dozen fresh eggs i pint of sweet milk 

I pound of granulated sugar ^4 pint of Jamaica rum 

I pint of thick cream, whip- lA pint of brandy 

ped stiff Ya grated nutmeg 

Beat eggs separately until very light ; beat sugar well 
with the yolks, add milk and beaten whites, then the 
liquor, lastly the whipped cream and grated nutmeg. Put 
immediately in freezer and freeze, but not hard. Serve 
in punch cups with whipped cream, slightly sweetened 
and flavored with rum, on top. This recipe will make 
one gallon. ^^-^<^ j (^ HAINES. 



Baked Ice Cream. 

Use a brick of hard-frozen ice cream (not ices) ; place 
in a dripping pan on a piece of stale plain cake the size 
of the brick of cream ; have the cake about an inch thick. 
Cover the ice cream with a dressing made of the whites 
of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth with six tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Place in a red-hot oven two minutes and serve. 

MISS C. 



208 CLEVER COOKINQ 



Cocoanut Ice Cream. 

Allow one grated cocoanut to two quarts of cream, 
sweetened with three-quarters of a pound of sugar; add 
the milk of the cocoanut. When the cream is partially 
frozen add the cocoanut, with the beaten whites of two 

^^^^' MRS. W. B. GAFFNEY. 



Chocolate Sunde for Ice Cream. 

Mix I cup of grated Baker's chocolate and 2 cups of 
granulated sugar; add 2 even tablespoonfuls of butter 
and >4 cup of boiling water. Stir all together. Put in a 
piece of cinnamon bark and cook for a few minutes, until 
it becomes the consistency of thin boiled icing. Remove 
cinnamon and pour over ice cream. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Claret Sauce for Ice Cream. 

Boil I cup of sugar and ^ cup of water together for 
eight minutes. Remove from fire, cool slightly and stir 
in 5 tablespoonfuls of claret wine. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Maple Sugar and Chopped Walnut Sauce for Vanilla 
Ice Cream. 

Boil together for eight minutes i>{> cups of maple 
syrup and ^ cup of brown sugar; add i large cup of 
English walnut meats cut rather fine. Stir well and 
serve hot with each portion of ice cream. 

MRS. J. C. HAINES. 




CARNATION CREAM is Absolutely Pure. Have you 
lii^l Tried It? 



ICE CREAM AND ICES 209 

Custard Sauce for Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Soak I tablespoonful of gelatine in 3 tablespoonfnls 
of cold water. Put i pint of thin crearn over the fire in a 
double boiler. When it is very hot — but not boiling — 
stir in one-third of a cup of granulated sugar and the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Add the soaked gelatine, stir 
until it is all dissolved, remove from fire, stirring con- 
stantly, until the custard becomes pretty cool. Then add 
I wineglassful of sherry, or flavor with vanilla if pre- 
ferred. Place in ice box until perfectly cold. Serve with 
chocolate or other ice cream. MRS T C HAINES 



Rum Sauce for Ice Cream. 

Boil together for eight minutes i^ cups of granulated 
sugar and ^ cup of water, to which has been added a 
strip of the thin yellow rind of a lemon. When this 
syrup has boiled eight minutes drop a little in cold water. 
If it hardens, remove from fire. Take out the lemon 
rind, stir in ^ cup of Jamaica rum and serve hot over ice 

^^^^^- MRS. J. C. HAINES. 



Grape Sherbet. 

2 cups water 2 cups grape juice (Con- 

Juice of 2 lemons cord grapes best) 

Sweeten to taste. When partly frozen add beaten 
whites of two eggs. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



USE CARNATION CREAM for Ices, Cakes, Pud- 
dings, etc. 




210 



CLEVER COOKING 




Bolly CaKe and Pastry flour 

Made from Wheat grown in the 
State of Michigan, which is the 
best in the world for the purpose. 
This Wheat is carefully selected, 
cleaned, milled and refined by the 
latest scientific process. Every 
package guaranteed to please the 
mos^ critical expert in the culi- 
nary art. 

Sold in 5 lb. packages only. 



Bolly Self Rising BucKwheat 

In 2 lb. cartons. Made from 
the very best material in the 
world. 

Guaranteed to be pure and fresh, 





« « 



Bolly fierm lUeal 



Fresh from our rolls to the 
Grocers' shelves. A most de- 
licious breakfast dish. Made from 
the choicest wheat grown in the 
State. 

For sale in 2 lb. cartons and 
5 lb. and 10 lb. bags. 



LILLY, BOGARDUS & CO. 

MILLERS 
SEATTLE, _ _ - WASH. 



CAKES 



"Aye, to the leavening, but here's yet in the word here- 
after the kneading, the making of cake, the heating of the oven, 
and the baking. Nay, you must stay the cooling, too, or you 
may chance to burn your mouth." 



Delicate Cake No. i. - 

Yz cup of butter 2 cups of sugar 

I cup of sweet milk 2j4 cups of flour 

ij4 teaspoonfuls of baking Whites of 4 eggs 
powder 

Cream the butter and the sugar, add the milk, the 
flour and baking powder and the eggs. This recipe can 
be used for layer or loaf cake. LILY GUION 



Delicate Cake No. 2 

Delicious. 

2 cups powdered sugar Yz cup butter 
5 eggs (whites) i cup milk 

3 cups flour I teaspoonful cream tartar 

Yz teaspoonful of soda 

Filling. 

I cup sweet cream, whipped stiff 
3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar 
Y2 cup grated cocoanut stirred in lightly at the last 
I teaspoonful rosewater 

A very nice cake, but must be eaten soon after it is 
"^^^^- MRS. F. A. BUCK. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



212 CLEVER COOKING 



White Cake No. i. 

2 cups flour ^ cup butter 

1% cups pulverized sugar i teaspoonful baking pow- 

Whites of 6 eggs der 

Mix butter and flour together to a smooth paste ; beat 
eggs and sugar together, then mix and bake. Almond 
flavoring. y^-^^^ ^_ ^j_ BROOKES. 



White Cake No. 2. 

Ij4 cupfuls of sugar 2^ cupfuls of sifted flour 

fi cupful of butter Whites of 5 eggs 

y^ cupful of corn starch 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
fi (scant) cup of milk powder 

I teaspoonful of extract 

Work the sugar and butter to a cream ; add the eggs 
beaten stiff ; stir and beat until light as foam, then add 
the corn starch dissolved in a little sweet milk. Stir in 
the milk. Put the baking powder into the flour, sift twice 
and add to the above. One teaspoonful of extract com- 
pletes a delicious cake, which is improved by being kept 
three or four days. ^^^^_ q_ ^_ BOARDMAN. 



Gold Cake No. i. 

4 eggs (beaten separately) i cup sweet milk 
2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 

^ cups of butter 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der 

Put flavoring in whites of eggs. Cream butter and 
sugar ; add yolks of eggs, then the milk. Mix baking 
powder thoroughly in the flour and add the flour and 
whites of eggs alternately. Beat a moment after all the 
ingredients are in. ' ^^^^ j p WAGNER. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 213 

Gold Cake No. 2. 

i^ cups of sugar ^ cup of milk 

Yi cup of butter 2^/2 cups of flour 

I small teaspoonful soda 2 small teaspoonfuls of 
Yolks of 8 eggs cream of tartar 

May be flavored with vanilla or lemon ; or ^ cup of 
nuts and Yz cup of raisins may be used. A good spice 
cake is made by adding i tablespoonful of lemon juice, i 
tablespoonful of mixed spices and a cup of seeded raisins. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Silver Cake. 

I cup of butter 2 cups of sugar 

35^ cups of flour I cup of milk 

Yo teaspoonful of soda i teaspoonful of cream of 

Whites of 8 eggs tartar 

Bitter almond 

Bake in sheets or layers. Also makes a loaf cake by 
adding candied cherries, citron, figs, angelica and a few 
blanched and chopped almonds. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Lady Cake. 

Delicious. 

I cup of butter 2 cups of powdered sugar 

3 cups of flour Y'i cup of thin sweet cream 

Whites of 10 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of 

I teaspoonful of soda tartar in flour 

In mixing put the butter and sugar together ; beat 
until light ; then add cream and about two-thirds of the 
whites ; mix well ; then add flour and beat until very 
light ; then soda, which has been dissolved in a part of 
the cream ; flavor with bitter almond ; add the remainder 
of whites. In baking, after it has raised sufficiently, make 
the stove a trifle hotter so as to stiffen it quickly. 

MRS. F. A. BUCK. 
Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



214 CLEVER COOKING 



Whipped Cream Cake. 

Make sponge cake; bake half an inch thick in jelly 
pans and let them get perfectly cool. Take ^ pint of 
thickest cream, beat until it looks like ice cream, make 
very sweet and flavor with vanilla. Blanch and chop i 
pound of almonds, stir into cream, and put very thick 
between each layer ; the top may be iced. It is a queen 
of ^^^es. MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Lemon Sponge Cake. 

2 cups of sugar i tablespoonful baking pow- 
2^ cups of flour der 

I cup hot water i teaspoonful lemon flavor- 
Yolks of 6 eggs ing 
Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat constantly for fifteen minutes the sugar and 
eggs. Herein lies the success of the cake. Add the other 
ingredients and bake in sponge cake pan. 



Sponge Cake No. i. 

12 eggs Weight of 9 in sugar 

Weight of 6 in flour Juice and rind of i lemon 

After weighing the sugar and flour, separate the eggs ; 
beat the yolks and sugar together until very light. Now 
add the juice and rind of the lemon. Beat the whites 
very stiflf, then add to the sugar and yolks. Beat very 
hard ; add the flour, a very little at a time ; stir slowly 
and pour into greased cake pan. 

MRS. H. C. HENRY. 



Sponge Cake No, 2. 

I pint sugar ^4 tumbler of cold water 

I pint of flour (small tumbler) 

6 eggs 

Beat yolks, sugar and half the water, then add re- 
mainder of water and beat again. Beat the whites stifif 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 215 

and add them with the flour gradually, being careful not 
to stir more than enough to mix thoroughly and quickly. 
Put in flavoring and a pinch of salt before the whites and 
flour. 

Cream for This Cake if Baked in Layers. 

Scald I tumbler of milk in double boiler, stir in i ta- 
blespoonful of sugar and a pinch of salt. Wet i table- 
spoonful corn starch with a little cold milk; add to the 
milk and stir till it thickens, then pour on to the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs ; flavor. Put between two layers. 

MRS. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 



Sponge Cake No. 3. 

5 eggs I cup of sugar 

I cup of flour I teaspoonful of vanilla 

Beat eggs separately very light, fold in the whites the 
last and bake immediately as whites raise the cake. 

MRS. SAULSBERRY. 



Episcopal Cake. 

Yi. pound of flour 5^ pound of powdered sugar 

4 eggs 

Beat eggs for ten minutes, add sugar and beat ten 
minutes more ; then add flour and beat ten minutes 
longer. Butter a mould and bake an hour or longer. 

MRS. HENDERSON. 



Black Chocolate Cake. 

2 cups of sugar yi cup of butter 

Yolks of 5 eggs Whites of 2 eggs 

Yi cake of chocolate (^4 lb.)i cup of sour milk 

I teaspoonful of soda 2^ cups of flour 

Cream the butter and sugar ; mix the soda with the 
flour; add grated chocolate, and lastly the whites of the 
eggs. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



216 CLEVER COOKING 



Filling. 
I 

I pound of sugar ■ i cup of water 

Whites of 3 eggs Yz cake chocolate (^ lb.) 

I cocoanut, grated 

Boil sugar, water and chocolate until quite thick. 
Pour over the beaten whites and add the cocoanut. 

MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



"Maud S." Cake. 

lYz cups of coffee sugar i/< (scant) cup of butter 
Yz cup of milk Yi. cup of flour 

3 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately 

Rub the butter and sugar to a cream ; add milk and 
flour, and then the eggs. Into this mixture stir a choc- 
olate custard made as follows : 

8 tablespoonfuls of Baker's chocolate, grated 

5 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar 
Y> cup of milk 

Cook until it thickens a little and beat until cool. Stir 
the custard thoroughly into the cake mixture and add : 

i^ cups of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

lYz teaspoonfuls of vanilla powder 

Bake in a moderately hot oven in three layers. Put 
boiled icing between the layers. 

MRS. J. D. LOWMAN. 



Devil Cake. 

I cup brown sugar ^^ cup of milk 

I cup granulated (Chocolate 

Put together in small saucepan, set over the teakettle 
and stir until perfectly dissolved ; then set aside to cool. 
When cool stir into the cake. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 217 



Cake. 



I cup brown sugar ^ cup (small) butter 

Yz cup milk 2 cups flour 

Yolks of 3 eggs i teaspoonful soda, sifted 

Vanilla with flour 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs whole and 
beat till very light and creamy; add the milk gradually, 
and the flour ; beat thoroughly and quickly ; add the 
chocolate and flavoring and bake in layers or sheets. 
Frost with chocolate frosting. Difflcult, but very good. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 

Royal Chocolate Cocoanut Cake. 

1 cup butter ^ grated cocoanut for frost- 
23^ cups flour ing 

2 cups white sugar i cup sour milk or cream 
I cup grated chocolate i teaspoonful soda 

5 eggs Vanilla 

Yz grated cocoanut for cake 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add beaten yolks, 
then grated chocolate ; put cocoanut into flour and add 
alternately with the whites of eggs. If sour cream is 
used put it into a large bowl, beat stiff, add soda and mix 
quickly into the cake. Bake in layers or loaf. 

Filling. 

One pound granulated sugar with water enough to 
dissolve ; boil syrup till it strings ; stir in a cupful of 
grated chocolate and boil five minutes longer; then stir 
in quickly well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. When cool add 
a teaspoonful of vanilla. Spread the layers and sprinkle 
cocoanut through frosting. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 

Cocoa Cake. 

1 large coffee cup sugar i heaping teaspoonful of 
Yi cup of butter baking powder 

2 eggs 2 large cups flour 

Yi cup of sweet milk 4 teaspoonfuls cocoa 

I teaspoonful of vanilla 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



218 CLEVER COOKING 



Mix together as quickly as possible. Bake as a layer 
or loaf cake, using boiled icing between layers, or on top, 
adding 3 teaspoonfuls of cocoa to boiled icing. 

MRS. W. B. GAFFNEY. 



Mocha Tart. 

I cup flour I cup powdered sugar 

I teaspoonful baking pow- i^ tablespoonfuls Mocha 

der extract 

4 eggs 

Beat yolks and sugar very light ; add Mocha extract. 
Beat whites very stiff and add last. Bake in layers. 

Filling. 

Whip one pint of cream, sweeten to taste and add 2^ 
tablespoonfuls of Mocha extract. 



Another Filling. 

One cup of powdered sugar and add water a teaspoon- 
ful at a time, until thin enough to spread. Flavor with 
two tablespoonfuls of Mocha extract. 

MRS. SAULSBERRY. 



Pork Cake. 

I pound salt pork J/^ pint water 

I cup molasses 2 cups sugar 

3 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

I pound raisins 4^ cups flour 

The pork must be chopped fine and boiled two min- 
utes in y^ pint water. Flavor with cloves, cinnamon and 
nutmeg to suit the taste. BESSIE CARKEEK. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 219 



Lemon Cake. 



Yz cup of butter 3 cups of flour 

2 cups of sugar 3 eggs 

I cup of milk 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder 
Bake in three layers. 

Filling. 

Grated rind and juice of 2 i tablespoonful of flour or 

lemons corn starch 

I ^^^ I cup of sugar 

I teaspoonful of butter J^ cup of water 

Boil and stir until thick. MRS H D KLINE 



Orange Cake. 

2 cups brown sugar i cup butter 

1 cup milk 4 cups flour 

4 eggs beaten separately 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla der 

Cream butter and sugar; add yolks, then 2 cups of 
flour and the milk ; mix well. Then add balance of flour 
with baking powder, and last the vanilla and whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Filling. 

Grate rinds of 3 oranges and i lemon, and to that add 
the juice of the fruit and 3 cups of pulverized sugar. 

MRS. R. C. WASHBURN. 



Puff Cake. 

3 eggs 2 cups sugar 

3 cups flour i^ cups milk 

Butter size of an ^^'g 2 teaspoonfuls cream tar- 
Flavor with lemon tar 

Rub butter and sugar well together; add eggs, well 
beaten, i cup of milk and 2 cups of flour. Beat light. 
Now add the last cup of flour with the cream of tartar, 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



220 CLEVER COOKING 



and lastly ^ cup of milk with soda ; flavor. Bake in two 
tins in a quick oven. This will seem very thin, but do not 
add any more flour or it will not puff as it should. 

MRS. F. A. BUCK. 

Almond Cake. 

Yz cup of butter (scant) i]/^ cups pulverized sugar 

y2 cup of milk yYz cups of flour 
i^ teaspoonfuls of baking Yi cup corn starch (scant) 

powder Whites of 8 eggs 

Filling. 

I cup of cream, whipped stiff 
I tablespoonful of pulverized sugar 
I pound of almonds, blanched and chopped 

MRS. CHARLES STIMSON. 

French Almond Cake. 

6 ounces of sweet almonds 14 eggs 
3 ounces of bitter almonds i pound powdered sugar 
3 ounces of sifted and dried 12 drops lemon extract 
flour 

Blanch and dry the almonds and pound in a mortar, 
both bitter and sweet ones, adding a little rosewater oc- 
casionally. This should be done the day before making 
cake. Beat the yolks of eggs till thick, add sugar grad- 
ually, beating hard, and the whites of the eggs, beaten 
till stiff, slowly and carefully ; stir in flour as lightly as 
possible. Bake in a quick, even oven and cool on a sieve. 

MRS. GILBERT S. MEEM. 

Charlotte Russe Cake. 

1 cup powdered sugar 

4 eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately) 

2 tablespoonfuls cold water 

lYi. teaspoonfuls baking powder in 
ij4 cups flour 

Bake in layers. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 221 

Filling. 

I pint cream ^ cup powdered sugar 

I teaspoonful vanilla 

Whip till stiff. Spread between layers and on top 
shortly before serving. 

Imperial Cake. 

I pound of sugar i pound of flour 

^ pound of butter lo eggs 

I pound of almonds, 3^ pound of citron 

blanched and cut fine Yt. pound raisins 

Rind and juice of i lemon i nutmeg 

This is very delicious and will keep for months. 

MRS. S. J. HOWELL. 

Very Rich Fruit Cake No. i. 

i^ pounds brown sugar i pound butter 

8 eggs well beaten i pound flour 

Juice and rind 2 lemons "i teaspoonful soda 

I teaspoonful cream tartar i nutmeg, grated 

1 tablespoonful of ground i tablespoonful cinnamon 

cloves I cup jelly or preserve 

2 pounds raisins, stoned syrup 

and chopped i pound currants 

^ pound citron, sliced 
Roll fruit in flour ; mix with the hands. Makes three 
loaves. Bake two and one-half hours in a moderate oven. 
Paper the pans with thick paper. 

MRS. M. H. YOUNG. 

This is an old Massachusetts recipe, and better tha.n 
wedding cake, we think. 



Fruit Cake No. 2. 




English. 


I pound flour 


I pound sugar 


I pound butter 


4 pounds raisins, stoned 


2 pounds currants 


Yz pint brandy 


I pound citron 


12 eggs 


I ounce nutmeg 


I teaspoonful cloves 


I cup molasses 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



222 CLEVER COOKING 



Almond Paste for Top. 

Y2 ounce gelatine 3 pounds powdered almonds 

3 wineglasses brandy i pound sugar 

Dissolve gelatine in ^ pint of water; add almonds 
and sugar, then brandy. Spread on cake. 

MRS. W. VAUGHAN. 



White Fruit Cake. 



I 


cup of butter 2 cups of sugar 


2V2 


cups of flour I pound of raisins 


I 


pound of figs i pound of dates 


I 


pound of blanched al- ^ pound of chopped citron 




monds Whites of 8 eggs 



2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

Cream the butter and sugar, then add the whites of 
the eggs and then the flour ; add the fruit the last thing 
mixed with part of the flour. The fruit should be chop- 
ped very fine. This makes a very large cake and requires 
a long time to bake — about one and three-fourths or two 
hours. Bake slowly and cover with paper if it seems to 
brown too fast. 

MRS. ALBERT T. TIMMERMAN. 

Nut Cake. 

I cup of sugar ^3 cup of chopped walnuts 

I heaping cup of flour i small teaspoonful of 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter cream of tartar 

Yz teaspoonful of soda 2 tablespoonfuls of milk 

3 eggs MRS GREGORY. 

My Mother's Cup Cake. 

Yi, cup of butter 2Y2 cups of powdered sugar 

3 cups flour (well sifted) 4 eggs 
I cup of sweet milk i small teaspoonful soda 

I lemon, juice and rind grated 

Bake slowly, as the quality of this cake depends 
greatly upon careful baking. 

MRS. MARY M.- MILLER. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 



223 



12 eggs 



Jelly Roll. 

Will Make Two Cakes. 

I pound powdered sugar 
^ pound flour 



Beat the yolks, stir in the sugar, then the flour, and 
lastly the beaten whites. Spread to the thickness of half 
an inch in papered ungreased pans, and bake. When 
done remove from oven, turn out, moisten with hot water 
to remove paper, spread with jelly and roll up in a nap- 
kin or towel. Roll as quickly as possible after the cake 



leaves the oven. 



MRS. C. P. DAM. 



Ribbon Cake. 

White Part. 

^ cup of butter 
3 cups of flour 
3 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder 

Take out enough for one layer and add to the remain- 
der for the 



2 cups of sugar 
Whites of 3 eggs 
I cup of sweet milk 



Yolks of 3 eggs 
I cup of flour 
I cup of raisins 



Dark' Part. 



Yz cup brown sugar 
Yz teaspoonful of soda 
Spice to taste 

MRS. J. F. WAGNER. 



One-Egg Cake. 

I ^^z I teaspoonful of baking 

I cup of sugar powder 

I large tablespoonful butter Yi cup of sweet milk 
yYi cups of flour Flavoring 

Very fine hot, with sauce. 

IVAH H. KLINE. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



224 CLEVER COOKING 



Cheap Cake. 

1 cup white sugar ^ cup butter (scant) 
Yz cup milk i^ cups flour 

2 eggs I teaspoonful baking 
Yi. teaspoonful flavoring extract powder 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add milk, then eggs 
well beaten, then flour and baking powder mixed to- 
gether, and last flavoring extract. Bake in ordinary cake 
tins in hot oven. MRS. LATIMER. 



Caraway Seed Cake. 

Yi cup butter i cup sugar 

2 eggs 2 level cups flour 

2 teaspoonfuls baking Pinch salt 

powder 2 tablespoonfuls caraway 

seeds 

Stir butter and sugar together, add the two beaten 
eggs ; then add flour with baking powder sifted through 
it, salt and caraway seeds. Bake in moderate oven hfty 

"^^""^^^- MRS. M. P. ZINDORF. 

Snow Drops. 

I cup butter 2 cups sugar 

I small cup milk 3 full cups prepared flour 

Whites of 5 eggs 

Flavor with vanilla and nutmeg. Bake in small round 

*^"^- MRS. HATFIELD. 

Good Spice Cake. 



Yz cup sugar 


Y2 cup butter 


2 eggs 


Y2 cup sour cream 


2 cups sifted flour 


Yi cup New Orleans mo- 


I scant teaspoonful soda 


lasses 


Y2 teaspoonful cinnamon 


Y2 teaspoonful ginger 


and nutmeg 


Grated rind of i lemon 


I cupful 


seeded raisins 




MRS. J. D. CURTIS. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 225 

Blackberry Cake. 

I cup of sugar 4 tablespoonfuls of sour 

Yi cup of butter milk 

i/^ cups of flour 4 eggs 

I cup of stewect black- i teaspoonful of soda 
berries (wild berries preferred) 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, 
the milk and soda, then the berries, and lastly the flour. 
Bake in a loaf forty minutes in a moderate oven, and ice 
with boiled icing; or bake in two layers with icing be- 

^^^^"- MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 

Blackberry Jam Cake. 



I cup sugar 


[ teaspoonful soda 


Yi cup butter ] 


[ teaspoonful cloves 


3 eggs 


[ teaspoonful alspice 


2 tablespoonfuls sour 


[^ cups flour 


cream ] 


[ cup blackberry jam 



Stir blackberry jam in last. Bake in layers and put 
icing between. ^^j^S j q COOPER. 

Apple Cake. 

1 cup of butter , 3 cups of dried apples soak- 

2 cups of sugar ed over night, chopped 

1 cup of milk fine and stewed two 

2 eggs hours in 2 cups of mo- 
2 teaspoonfuls of soda lasses ; cooled before put- 
5 cups of flour ting into cake 

2 cups of raisins Spices 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream and add milk, in 
which dissolve the soda. Lastly add raisins and apples 
and spices of all kinds, MRS C T SMITH 

Portsmouth Pound Cake. 

I pound of butter i pound of sugar 

I pound of flour, weighed 10 eggs 

after sifting i teaspoonful of lemon 

3^ teaspoonful of mace juice 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



226 CLEVER COOKING 



Beat the butter to a smooth cream ; add the sugar 
gradually; beat very light for about twenty minutes. 
Break in one egg at a time, beating five minutes between 
each one, until all are used. This is the best pound cake, 
receipt, but it can be spoiled by not beating sufficiently. 
Bake in loaf pans lined with greased paper, in a moder- 
ate oven, for fifty minutes. 

MRS. GEORGE H. HEILBRON. 



Angel Cake. 

Whites of 1 1 eggs i tumbler flour, sifed five 

i^ tumblers powdered su- times 

gar, sifted once i teaspoonful cream tartar 

Vanilla. 

Beat eggs very light ; add sugar slowly, then flavor- 
ing. Lastly fold in the flour and cream tartar. Bake in 
slow oven fifty minutes. Remove and turn upside down 
in baking pan until cool. The pan should be bright and 
not greased. ^^j^5_ jy^^^ HYLAND. 



Sunshine Cake No. i. 

Whites of 7 small fresh eggs Yolks of 5 eggs 

I cup of granulated sugar ^3 cup of flour 

ys teaspoonful of cream of A pinch of salt 
tartar 

Sift, measure and set aside flour and sugar. Beat 
yolks of eggs thoroughly. Beat whites about half, add 
cream of tartar and beat until very, very stiff; stir in 
sugar lightly, then beaten yolks thoroughly, then add 
flour. Put in tube pan and in the oven at once. Will 
bake in thirty-five to fifty minutes. 

MRS. ROBERT PALMER. 

The nicest flavoring for Sunshine Cake is orange. To 
this size cake add grated rind of half an orange and one 
tablespoonful of orange juice. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 227 

Sunshine Cake No. 2. 

Whites of II eggs 12 ounces granulated sugar 

Yolks of 6 eggs Peel of i^ oranges (grated) 

3 teaspoonfuls orange juice 6 ounces flour (sifted three 
I teaspoonful cream tartar times) 

Add the sugar to the beaten whites ; beat yolks and 
orange peel and juice ; add this to the whites, then stir 
in gradually the flour, into which the cream of tartar" has 
been put. Bake fifty minutes. MRS H R CT TSF 

Molasses Cakes. 

Three-fourths of a cup of beef drippings, melted ; a 
little salt, I cup sugar, i cup molasses, i cup milk, 2 
eggs, 2^ cups of flour, or a little more, i level teaspoon- 
ful soda dissolved in a little hot water, i teaspoonful cin- 
namon, I teaspoonful cloves. Bake in muffin pans. 

MRS. HENRY DRISLER. 

Ginger Cake. 

I cup of molasses Yo cup of brown sugar 

^ cup of butter 2 teaspoonfuls of soda in i 

2.y2 cups of sifted flour cup of boiling water 

I teaspoonful each of cin- 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger 
namon, cloves, alspice 2 eggs 

Add the well-beaten eggs the last thing before baking. 
Put molasses, sugar, butter and spices into the mixing 
bowl ; put soda in a cup and fill up with boiling water ; 
pour this over first mixture ; add flour, then the eggs. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

MRS. LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 

Ginger Bread. 

Excellent. 

1 cup of molasses ^ cup of sugar 

^ cup of butter i cup of hot water 

2 eggs 3 cups of flour after it is 
2 teaspoonfuls of soda sifted 

Ginger and spices as preferred 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



228 CLEVER COOKING 



Mix sugar and butter together, then molasses ; add 
eggs beaten light, then flour and water and spice. This 
makes enough to be baked in a good-sized pan, but not 
too hot an oven. ^^j^S. F. A. BUCK. 



Sponge Ginger Cake. 

I cup of shortening, butter 2 cups of molasses 
or lard 4 cups of flour 

I cup of sour milk or coffee 2 eggs 

I tablespoonful of ginger i teaspoonful of cloves, and 

I teaspoonful of soda dis- salt 

solved in the milk 

MRS. EDWARD WHEELER. 



Marguerites. 

Make a boiled icing; stir into it coarsely chopped 
nuts. Spread the mixture on Long Branch wafers and 
put in the oven to brown. 

Chopped raisins may be added to the nuts. 

MRS. J. F. WAGNER. 



Chocolate Macaroons. 

Whites of 5 eggs ; if very large only 4 
I pound of powdered sugar 

1 pound of chopped almonds 

2 sticks of chocolate 

I teaspoonful of alspicc 
I teaspoonful of cinnamon 

Beat the whites of eggs very light, add sugar and 
beat stiff, then the almonds, blanched and chopped fine, 
and last of all the chocolate, alspice and cinnamon. Mix 
all together and bake on buttered tins. 

MRS. L. H. PONTIUS. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 22!) 

Cocoanut Macaroons. 

'J'liis Will Make Eighteen Macaroons. 

34 cu]) of ,Kugar Whites of 2 eggs 

I tablespoonful of corn ^j package of grated cocoa- 
starch nut 

Place the beaten whites in a ])()wl, add salt and beat 
to a stiff froth, and stir in the sngar. I Mace the bowl in 
a i)an of hot water, and when the mixture is lukewarm 
stir in the corn starch. Stiffen with cocoanut. drop in 
small bits on buttered tins and bake in slow oven until a 
delicate brown. ^,y>_^_ (-^_ p_ ^^^^^^_ 



Hickory Nut Macaroons, 

Will Make Seventy-Five. 

Whites of 3 eggs 3^ pound powdered sugar 

j/j pound hickory nut meats, 1 tablespoonful flour 
ch9pped 

Beat the whites and sugar together, adding the sugar 
gradually and beating well on a platter. Add meats and 
flour, mixing well, and stand in a cool place about one 
hour to thicken ; then drop on greased pan about a half 
teaspoonful of the mixture at a time, and bake in a slow 

°^'^"- MRS. FRANK C". SHARP, Tacoma. 



Lemon Cakes. 

1 pound flour 5^ jxMmd ])utter 
V2 pound sugar 4 eggs 

2 lemons i teaspoonful baking 

])owder 

Cream butter and sugar and add the flotn". Beat the 
whites and yolks of eggs separately, then mix and add 
the grated rind and juice of the lemons. Beat thoroughly 
and add to the flour, etc. But in tin in small rough pieces 
and bake in a quick oven. ^^jj^,,^ HENDERSON. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



230 CLEVER COOKING 



Chocolate Gems. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter iy> cnps flour 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoonfuls cocoa 
^2 cup water i teaspoonful vanilla 

2 eggs I teaspoonful baking 

powder 
Add the sugar to the butter, then the water and flour. 
Beat thoroughly and add the cocoa, vanilla, baking pow- 
der and the eggs, well beaten. Pour into greased gem 
pans and bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. 
By permission of 
MRS. S. T. RORER and The Household News Co. 

Shrewsbury Cakes. 

y2 pound flour Jj pound butter 

^2 pound sifted sugar i egg (yolk) 

Rub sugar, butter and flour together ; beat well and 
add the yolk of the egg. Roll out very thin, 'cut in squares 

^"^ ^^^^- MRS. HENDERSON. 

Sand Tarts. 

1/4 pounds Ijuttcr 2 ]:>oun(ls brown sugar 

2 pounds flour 3 eggs 

Cream the butter and stir in the well-beaten eggs ; 
add the sugar and then the flour ; mix thoroughly. Roll 
very thin and cut in diamond shape. Place in buttered 
pans ; moisten each one with well-beaten egg and dust 
over each tart granulated sugar made very brown with 
cinnamon. Then place two halves of blanched almonds 
on eacli tart. Bake quickly in a very hot oven. Let them 
cool on platters before puting them in the tin box. 

MRS. MONTGOMERY RUSSELL. 

Kisses. 

Whites of two eggs beaten stifle. Into this stir all the 
powdered sugar it will contain. Blanch and chop fine as 
many almonds as desired and mix with the paste. Drop 
by the spoonful on a buttered pan and bake a light brown. 

MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 231 



Walnut Chocolates. 

Whites of 3 eggs i cup Baker's chocolate, 

^4 Clip granulated sugar (grated) 

I cup walnuts, chopped fine 

Beat whites of eggs until very stiff; add sugar grad- 
ually, then the chocolate and nuts. Beat well and drop 
in small teaspoonfuls on buttered paper. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven about fifteen minutes. 

MRS. A. HANKERSON. 



Cream Cookies. 

I cup butter 4 eggs 2 cups sugar 

Flour to make stiff enough to roll very thin. Flavor 
to taste. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. FRANK MITCHELL. 



Excellent Cookies. 

2 cups of sugar ^ cup of lard 

y2 cup of butter i cup of sweet milk 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking ^ teaspoonful of soda 
powder ]/> teaspoonful of vanilla 

Make your dough as soft as possible to roll out. 

MRS. W. V. RINEHART, Jr, 



Lemon Cookies. 

4 cups of sifted flour i cup of butter 

2 cups of sugar 3 eggs whipped light 

I lemon, the juice and grated rind 

Beat thoroughly each ingredient, adding after all is 
mixed Vo teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a tablespoonful 
of milk. Use no other wetting. Roll and cut thin. 

MRS. THOMAS GREEN. 
Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



232 CLEVER COOKING 



Boston Cookies. 

13^ cups brown sugar 3 eggs 

Yz cup of butter ^ teaspoonful each of soda, 

Yo cup of lard cinnamon, cloves, and 

13/2 cups chopped raisins nutmeg 

Flour enough to make very stifif 

Drop on tin and bake in hot oven. 

MRS. SYDNEY C. LOUGH. 



Sour Cream Cookies. 

1 cup white sugar yi cup sour cream 

lA. cup butter (scant) i teaspoonful soda (scant) 

2 eggs (well beaten) i teaspoonful vanilla 

Sift soda with the flour and add enough flour to make 
a soft dough. Roll out and bake in a quick oven. The 
secret in making these cookies is to have the dough very 

^°^^- MRS. EMILY SATTESTHWAIT. 



Cocoanut Jumbles. 

2 cups sugar ^ cocoanut grated 

I cup butter 2 .eggs 

Make just stifl:' enough to roll thin. 

MRS. T. F. WAGNER. 



Ginger Cookies. 

2 eggs I teaspoonful soda 

I cup of brown sugar i cup of New Orleans 

I cup of butter and lard molasses 

(equal proportions) i tablespoonful of ginger 

Boil about ten minutes, then add the soda. When 
cool add eggs and flour to stiffen. Roll thin and bake in 

^"'^^' °^'^"- MRS. B. F. BUSH. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 233 

Ginger Snaps No. i. 

I cup of butter and lard i tablespoonful of ginger 

I coffee cup of sugar i tablespoonful of cinna- 

I cup of molasses mon 

I teaspoonful of cloves ^2 cup of hot water 

I teaspoonful of soda 

Dissolve the soda in the hot water. Flour enough to 
make soft dough. Roll and bake in quick oven. 

MRS. F. W. PARKER. 

Ginger Snaps No. 2. 

2 cups of molasses 2 tablespoonfuls ginger 

I cup of sugar i teaspoonful of soda 

I cup of lard A little nutmeg 

Put molasses, sugar and lard on the stove and boil 
three minutes ; cool slightly ; add soda, nutmeg, and flour 
enough to make a rather stiff' dough, putting it in while 
mixture is quite hot. ^,jj^s_ j^ L. BISHOP. 

Nut Cookies, 

Will Make Three Dozen. 

^4 cup butter i cup sugar 

I egg, well beaten i cup flour 
y2 pound English walnuts, weighed in the shells 

Cream the butter and sugar, add eggs, then flour. 
Chop the nuts very fine and add them to the mixture. 
Roll out as thin as possible, and after putting in the but- 
tered pans flatten with a wet stamp. The bottom of a 
glass will answer. ^^^^ DAVID BAXTER. 

Walnut Wafers. 

1 cup walnuts, chopped i cup brown sugar 

2 eggs 3 heaping tablespoonfuls 

flour 

Do not chop the nuts too fine ; put into pan in small 
teaspoonfuls, for it spreads. Wach carefully in baking. 

MRS. MAURICE McMICKEN. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



234 CLEVER COOKING 



Peanut Wafers. 

i^ cups of sugar ^ teaspoonful of soda 

% cup of butter 1^2 teaspoonful of salt 

I egg I cup of peanuts, chopped 

3 tablespoonfuls of milk fine 

Flour enough to roll very thin 

Dissolve soda and salt in milk. Bake in a quick oven. 

MRS. F. W. GILBERT. 

Oatmeal Cookies. 

1^4 cups Quaker oats 3^2 cup sugar 
^ cup butter, melted i scant cup flour 

I teaspoonful milk i even teaspoonful soda 

I egg 2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Stir the sugar into the oatmeal, pour in the melted 
butter, add the beaten egg, the milk, the vanilla, and 
lastly the flour, to which the soda and cream of tartar 
must have been added, dry. Roll out, sprinkle lightly 
with the oats and bake in a moderate oven. 

MRS. DONWORTH. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

y2 pound grated cocoanut ^ pound loaf sugar 

Whites of 3 eggs 

Beat the whites of the eggs stiff, gradually add the 
sugar, then the cocoanut. Drop on buttered papers and 

'^^1^^- MRS. M. A. KELLOGG. 

Yeast Doughnuts. 

Scald I quart of sweet milk and pour over ^ cup of 
lard and the same of butter and i^ cups of sugar. When 
melted stir in enough flour (about i quart) to make a 
sponge ; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast and set away 
for the night. In the morning work it down, adding two 
eggs. Let rise second time. Be careful ; do not use too 
much flour. After cutting them out let rise again. When 
fried roll in powdered sugar. 

MRS. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



CAKES 235 

Doughnuts in Rhyme. 

(Ladies' Home Journal.) 
One cup sugar, one cup of milk, 

Two eggs beaten fine as silk ; 
Salt and nutmeg (lemon'll do), 

Of baking powder, teaspoonfuls two. 
Lightly stir the flour in. 

Roll on pie board, not too thin ; 
Cut in diamonds, twists or rings. 

Drop with care the doughy things 
Into fat that swells 

Evenly the spongy cells ; 
AVatch with care the time for turning. 

Fry them brown, just short of burning; 
Roll in sugar, serve when cool. 

Price- — a quarter for this rule. 

MRS. M. P. ZINDORF. 



Doughnuts. 

1 quart flour (scant) i cup sour milk 

I level teaspoonful baking i level teaspoonful soda 

powder 5 tablespoonfuls of melted 

1 cup sugar lard 

2 eggs ^4 nutmeg 
Saltspoonful salt 

Sift baking powder with the flour into the baking 
bowl, making hollow in center, into which put sugar, 
well-beaten eggs, salt, nutmeg, sour milk, into which has 
been dissolved the soda. Mix into this flour enough to 
form a batter. Then add the melted lard. Finish mix- 
ing and proceed as with other doughnuts. 

MRS. A. B. C. DENNISTON. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



236 CLEVER COOKING 



Doughnuts No. 2. 

Delicious. 

1 small teacup sugar i cup sweet milk 

2 eggs 3 genei'ous teaspoonfuls 

3 cups flour (about) melted butter 

3 tablespoonfuls baking Vi teaspoonful nutmeg, 

powder grated 

Salt 

Drop from spoon into boiling lard. 

MRS. JOSEPH SHIPPEN. 



Fried Cakes. 

About Three Dozen. 

I cup powdered sugar i piece butter size of an 
3 teaspoonfuls baking q^^ 

powder 1-3 nutmeg 

I cup milk 2 eggs 

Yi teaspoonful salt 3^ cups flour (generous) 

Beat butter, sugar and eggs together fifteen minutes ; 
add the milk, then the flour, with the baking powder and 
salt. ]\lix very soft, roll out one-half inch thick, cut with 
cutter with hole in the middle, and fry quickly. Roll 
them in powdered sugar as needed. This will keep them 
fresh much longer than if all are rolled at one time. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 



Boiled Icing No. i. 

I Clip powdered sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls l^oiling water 

Boil sugar and water (without stirring) till it hairs, 
and pour in a thin stream onto beaten eggs, stirring all 
the time. Beat till it creams. Add flavoring. 

MRS. BENTON. 

Boiled Icing No. 2. 

3% pound sugar i small spoonful gelatine 

3 tablespoonfuls of water dissolved in the water 

Whites of two eggs 

Boil until it ropes. Stir well before adding to the 
well-beaten whites of eggs. j^iRS. J. O. COOPER. 



Soft Icing. 

Dissolve r tablespoonful of gelatine in ^2 cup of boil- 
ing water, flavored with rind of lemon. Beat in 10 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and juice of one lemon. 

MRS. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 

Soft Cream Icing. 

3 cups of powdered sugar i teaspoonful of vanilla 
I cup of very thick dream i teaspoonful of vinegar 

Boil well until thick ; take from the stove, add a gen- 
erous pinch of tartaric acid. Beat hard and pour over 
cake. Tartaric acid is excellent to add to icing, when it 
will not harden. • ^^^^5^ SAULSBERRY. 



238 CLEVER COOKING 



Frosting. 

White of I egg (not beaten) 2 tablespoonfuls ice water 
Juice of 3^ lemon 

Stir in powdered sugar until stiff enough to spread on 
cake ; add y^ teaspoonful of vanilla the last thing. This 
recipe will do for two cakes. MRS H C HENRY 



Maple Sugar Frosting, 

3/2 pound maple sugar i cup granulated sugar 

Enough water to melt 

Boil sugar till it strings from spoon, then pour over 
the whites of 2 eggs and beat with Dover beater. Do not 
stir the. susfar while cookinsf. 



Caramel Filling No. i, 

I cup of cream or milk ^ cup of butter 

I cup of brown or maple Flavor with vanilla 

sugar 

Boil until thick. Set on ice and stir until cold. 

MRS. B. W. BAKER. 



Caramel Filling No. 2. 

4 cups brown sugar 3^ cup butter 

I cup new milk 

Boil until thick as honey (about twenty minutes). 
Pour out on buttered dish and beat until light-colored. 
If too thick thin with cold milk. 

AIRS. MONTGOAIERY RUSSELL. 



There are no Germs or Preserving Acids in CARNA- 
TION CREAM. 



■ Cb«ah 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS 239 

Chocolate Filling. 

5 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, with enough 

cream or milk to wet it 
I cup of sugar 
I egg, well beaten 

Stir the ingredients over the fire ; let them boil a few 
minutes and flavor with vanilla. Spread on cake when 

^°°^- MRS. LEWIS H. SULLIVAN. 



Chocolate Frosting. 

1 cup of sugar i bar of chocolate 

2 tablespoonfuls of boiling i egg (white only) 

water Vanilla 

Grate the chocolate ; put in a sauce pan with one- 
third of the sugar ; add the remainder of the sugar to the 
white of egg and stir (not beat) until mixed ; add the 
boiling water to the chocolate and sugar and boil till 
smooth and glossy. Pour this gradually upon the egg 
and stir till a little cool. Flavor well with Vanilla and 
spread on the cake. It will seem thin, but will harden. 
A half cup of nuts, almonds, walnuts or pecans, chopped 
rather coarse, added, makes a change and is delicious. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Fruit Fondant Filling. 

Make one rule of cooked fondant as for candy. (See 
rule for candy.) Place half the fondant in a kettle and 
heat over steam until melted, then add ij^ cups of chop- 
ped figs, dates, seeded raisins and citron. Spread be- 
tween layers. Ice the cake with the other cup of fondant 
melted as above. S F W 

Almond Icing. 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs until foamy ; then sift in 
gradually i cupful of powdered sugar, beating until 
glossy and so firm that it can be cut with a knife. Take 



240 CLEVER COOKING 



y^. pound of almond paste and work into it one or two 
whites of eggs, unbeaten, until soft enough to be mixed 
with the icing. Beat well together and it is ready for use. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 
(From Table Talk.) 

Marshmallow Filling No. i. 

]\Take boiled frosting, and when nearly boiled drop 
the marshmallows into the syrup and let them melt. Then 
beat into the whites of two eggs (which have first been 
beaten to a froth), and continue beating the mixture until 
cold ; then spread between la3^ers. 

MRS. R. W. EMMONS. 
(From ]\Iiss Emma Libby, Port Townsend.) 

Marshmallow Filling No. 2. 

While making the boiled icing put 25 cents worth of 
marshmallows into- the oven. Heat until they begin to 
melt, then stir into the icing as the sugar is being beaten 
into the eggs. ^jj^g g_ L. CRAWFORD. 

Lemon Filling. 

I cup sugar (Iratcd rind and juice of I 

3. teaspoonfuls corn starch lemon 

Juice of one orange 

Grate rind of lemon: add to this the juice of lemon 
and orange; stir with this the C(M-n starch. ])our in the 
sugar; lastly add the cup of boiling water. Boil till thick 
enough to spread. Stir constantly to prevent burning. 
When cold s|)read between the layers of cake and sift 
sugar over the top. ^^,,.^ AURl-LRTS K. SHAY. 

Fig Filling. 

Choj) 8 figs into small pieces ; cover them with water 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; let simmer slowly on back 
of stove until thick like jelly, h'rost the cake and spread 
the figs over the frosting. LAURA K. YOTT. 



ICINQS AND FILLINGS 241 



Fig Filling No. 2. 

^ pound figs Yz pound raisins 

Chop fine, add two taljlcspoonfuls of sugar, the juice 
of two lemons. Boil this mixture until it jellies, stirring 
constantly. Cool and spread between layers of cake. 

MRS. J. F. WAGNER. 

Chopped Raisin Filling. 

To any recipe of l)oilcd icing add one-half cup of 
stoned raisins, chopped fine. 

Banana Filling. 

Make a boiled icing. Mash one banana and sprinkle 
with lemon juice and add to the icing. Cut one banana 
in very thin slices to garnish the cake. 

Cocoanut Filling. 

Use fresh cocoanut, grated. To a boiled icing add 
from one-half to three-fourths of a cup of the cocoanut, 
and sprinkle the top freely with it. It makes a cake 
sightly to put the cocoanut on top in little mounds, 
pressed through a pastry bag. 

Suggestions for Filling. 

To a plain boiled icing add : 

Chopped walnuts or pecans or candied fruit. Cherries 
or ginger are particularly fine. 

Flavor with almond extract and add sliced almonds. 

When cake is baked in sheets it may be garnished 
with half-walnuts. 

To chocolate frosting add chopped walnuts and gar- 
nish with halves of the nuts. 




Don't forget that you are Pledged to Ask Your Grocer 
for CARNATION CREAM. 



242 CLEVER COOKING 



HOW TO KEEP HOUSE WITH ONE SERVANT 



The problem of how to get on with one servant at 
times confronts most housekeepers, and particularly 
young housekeepers. 

To be successful, one must be systematic and must 
require that the work be done, as near as practicable, at 
the designated time. However, too much must not be 
demanded, and, although requiring the table to be always 
carefully served and the house kept in order, the house- 
keeper may, by a little attention to details, arrange her 
work so that on days when it falls heaviest her menus 
will consist of dishes most easily prepared and served. 
On such days she may assist materially by dusting and 
attending to minor matters, which, while not laborious, 
require considerable time. 

In the first place it is essential to provide good uten- 
sils, of which by far the most important is a reliable 
stove or range. The servant should rise at least one and 
one-half hours before the breakfast, when much of the 
routine work of the house, such as building the fires, air- 
ing the rooms> taking up ashes, etc., can be done. 

After the breakfast is cleared away the house should 
first be put in order and all of the rougher work attended 
to ; after luncheon the lighter and neater work, such as 
baking, ironing, etc., can be done. This will enable the 
servant to be more neatly dressed to answer the door 
when most likely to be summoned ; although at all times 
a fresh white apron must be kept in a convenient place 
so that it can be easily put on when she is called from the 
kitchen for any purpose. 

Dinner being over, the kitchen should be put in order 
and arrangements made for the morining's breakfast. 



CARNATION CREAM— Large Can— Full Pint— loc. 




244 CLEVER COOKING 



After this the servant, as far as practicable when the mis- 
tress is at home, should l)e free to occupy her time as she 
pleases. The answering of the door may then be done by 
some member of the family. 

The manner of preparing and serving should be as 
follows : The table should be carefully laid in ample 
time and always furnished with fresh linen. Require the 
same care and attention when the family is alone as when 
guests are present, by doing which confusion will be 
avoided if strangers come unexpectedly. Have every- 
thing for the proper serving of the meal in readiness and 
arrange conveniently the dishes required for the various 
courses. The first course should be placed upon the table 
and the water glasses filled before the dinner is an- 
nounced. After serving this the next course should be 
prepared for the table and kept warm, if necessary, until 
the first course has been removed, and each course in its 
turn in the same manner. 

The maid should stand at the left of the host or host- 
ess, who is serving, and take the plate on her tray, plac- 
ing it from the left, directly in front of each person. 
Anything, such as bread, vegetables, celery, etc., should 
be offered from the left in such a position that it ma}^ be 
easily taken. 

In removing a course, take first the dish from which 
the host or hostess has been serving, and then the plates, 
removing them from the right, one or two only at a time. 
Have the crumb knife used as often as required. In 
serving be careful to avoid unnecessary noise and haste. 
As the various dishes are removed they should be care- 
fully placed on a table in the kitchen, set aside for that 
purpose. 

Servants will not find it difficult, after a little experi- 
ence, to do the work of an ordinary household in a sj^ste- 
matic manner, having a time for everything as well as a 
place for everything. 

A simple menu, carefully cooked and served, will be 
found much more appetizing and attractive than an elab- 
orate one poorly cooked and carelessly served. 



Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Cakes. 



SANDWICHES 



"A crust of bread and liberty." — Horace. 



The secret of a sandwich is entirely in the manipula- 
tion. Given good bread and good butter, and the rest is 
largely a matter of patience. The bread must be deli- 
cately thin and crustless, the butter must be soft and 
evenly spread, cheese must be finely grated, and meat or 
fish chopped or pounded to a paste. The best bread is 
bakers' water bread a day old, though the loaf must not 
be cut before using. Brown bread, being much more 
moist, may be used on the day of baking. Sandwiches 
should never be made long before serving. If, however, 
they must stand any length of time, their freshness is 
insured by wrapping them in a thick brown paper, over 
which a double napkin wnmg out in cold water is folded, 
and setting them in a cold place. — Harper's Bazaar. 



Cheese Sandwiches. 

jMix cheese (Deilcatesse or Club House) with mayon- 
naise or prepared mustard, and with some hard-boiled 
eggs chopped exceedingly fine. Put this mixture into 
a mortar and rub together into a paste. Spread on but- 
tered squares of bread, or thin crackers, or, best of all, 
thin slices of buttered toast. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 
Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



246 CLEVER COOKING 



Walnut Sandwiches. 

One pound English walnuts ; cut kernels in small 
pieces ; cover with a nice mayonnaise dressing. Cut 
bread in fancy shapes, round, square or triangular, and 
spread with the mixture. Set in cool place till nearly 
ready to serve. ^/^^^^ y_ ^^ ritON. 



Sardine Sandwiches. 

Chop the sardines very fine and mix with Worcester- 
shire sauce or with mayonnaise dressing. Spread on 
small squares of thin bread and butter. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Peanut Sandwiches. 

Mash peanuts in a mortar to a paste, or chop as fine 
as possible. Thoroughly mix with Worcestershire sauce ; 
spread on thin slices of bread and butter cut small. A 
good "appetizer" and nice to serve at "5-0'clock tea." 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Oyster Sandwiches. 

Will Make Sixty. 

Chop one quart of oysters very fine ; seacon with pep- 
per", salt, and a little nutmeg. Mix with 5^ cup melted 
butter, the same of rich cream, whites of 3 eggs, beaten, 
and 8 ordinary round crackers, powdered. Heat in dou- 
ble boiler until a smooth paste ; set away until cold. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread. 



Roast Beef Sandwiches. 

Chop rare roast beef very fine ; season with salt, 
pepper, a very little mustard and a dash of Worcester- 
shire sauce. Use plenty of salt. 



SANDWICHES 247 



Mixed Sandwiches. 

Chop fine cold ham, tongue and chicken. Mix with 
I pint of meat, Yz cup of melted butter, i tablespoonful 
of salad oil, i tablespoonful of mustard, yolk of i egg, 
beaten, a little pepper. Spread on lettuce leaf between 
slices of bread and butter. 



Lobster Sandwiches. 

Chop the meat of a fresh or canned lobster very fine ; 
add a few drops lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, and mix 
quite soft with mayonnaise. A tablespoonful of finely 
chopped capers, cucumber pickles or olives improve it 
greatly. Spread between thin buttered slices of brown or 
graham bread. ^j^g^ RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Salmon Sandwiches. 

Free cold canned salmon from all skin and bone, shred 
fine with a silver fork; add a squeeze of lemon juice, 
a little paprika and tomato catsup. Mix to a paste with 
melted butter. 

Baked Bean Sandwiches. 

Rub cold baked beans through a sieve ; add salt and 
pepper to taste and mix with mayonnaise to a smooth 
paste. Add finely chopped Celery leaves or a little celery 
salt and spread between buttered brown bread. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. . 



Cottage Cheese Sandwiches. 

Rub cottage cheese to a paste ; add olives or capers, 
finely minced, and a little Worcestershire. Should be 
well salted. Spread between buttered white or brown 
bread. 



Egg Sandwiches. 

Chop hard-boiled eggs ; season with 



Chop hard-boiled eggs ; season with salt, cayenne 
and a little vinegar ; mix to a paste with soft butter. Add 



248 CLEVER COOKING 



pickles chopped fine, and a little deviled meat of any 
kind, or a little minced ham, tongue or chicken. Spread 
between slices of white bread or finger rolls. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



Anchovy Sandwiches. 

3 anchovies 4 ounces butter 

I hard-boiled egg Salt and pepper 

A little nutmeg 

Bone the anchovies and pound them with the butter, 
egg, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Slice bread very thin ; 
spread with the paste and roll. — Harpers' Bazaar. 



Chicken Jelly Sandwiches. 

Make chicken jelly the day before wanting the sand- 
wiches ; cut in thin slices and lay between thin slices of 
buttered bread. The bread should be spread with soft- 
ened butter before cutting. 

MRS. RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



American Sandwiches. 

Chop half a pound of ham very fine, together with two 
chopped pickles ; mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Beat 
six ounces of butter to a cream, add the chopped ham 
and mix well. Cut thin slices of bread, spread with the 
mixture, press together, cut into diamonds and garnish 
with parsley. — Harper's Bazaar. 



Valentine Sandwiches. 

Chop together one cup of chicken meat, 6 button 
mushrooms ; add salt and pepper and 5^ pint of mayon- 
naise dressing. Spread .on thin slices of buttered bread, 
cut into hearts and garnish with parsley. — Harper's 
Bazaar. 



SANDWICHES 249 



Ripe Olive Sandwiches. 

Stone the olives and mash them. Mix thoroughly 
with mayonnaise dressing- and spread as usual. 



Cheese and Nut Sandwiches. 

Mix grated cheese with butter enough to form a 
paste. Season with pepper and add salted nuts, sliced 
thin, not chopped. Serve on slices of bread without 
crusts, cut very thin and without butter. 

MRS. E. A. STROUT. 



Suggestions for Sandwiches. 

Thin slices of fruit or pound cake between brown 
bread. 

Lettuce leaves with mayonnaise between thin slices 
white bread and butter. 

Tender nasturtium leaves or cresses in same manner. 

Chestnuts, boiled, rubbed to a paste, with mayon- 
naise. 

Any nut meats, chopped, pounded and mixed with 
mayonnaise. 

Chestnuts, boiled, sprinkled with sugar and seasoned 
with vanilla. 

Graham bread spread with crabapple jelly and pre- 
served ginger, chopped. 

Raisins, figs, dates and nuts, chopped in equal parts, 
or in any combination. 

Veal, ham and hard-boiled eggs, equal parts, chop- 
ped and seasoned with salt, cayenne and lemon ; mixed 
with soft butter. 

Salted almonds, chopped and pounded. 

Any jelly or jam. If tart, mixed with a little finely 
chopped preserved ginger, or ginger syrup. 

Chicken and ham, chopped and pounded ; season with 
salt, pepper and a little mace. 



250 CLEVER COOKING 



Cold roast turkey, beef, boiled tongue and ham, equal 
quantities, chopped and pounded ; add finely minced 
pickles, olives and capers ; mix with mayonnaise. 

Cold veal and hard-boiled eggs, chopped ; season with 
salt, pepper and catsup ; mix with creamed Initter. 

Anchovy paste. 

Thin slices of rare roast beef, salted freely. 

Fromage de Brie, or cream cheese, spread thinly on 
bread ; add a little paprika. 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 



'Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. 



Canning. 

Have the jars and tops in hot water, and the rubbers 
in cold water. Cook only enough syrup at one time for 
one can, and by using two kettles no time is lost by hav- 
ing the syrup for the second can cooking in one kettle, 
while the fruit for' the first can cooks in the other. 

For sfuall fruits make a thin syrup of i cup of sugar 
to I cup of water for each can ; ])ut in enough fruit for 
the one can, allow it just to come to a boil, pour into the 
can and seal at once. Be sure the can is brimming full. 
If the syrup was a little short fill the can with boiling 
water. 

For large fruits make a syrup of ij^ cups of sugar to 
I cup of water. When it boils put in the fruit and let it 
cook until nearly tender. Seal quickly. 

In the evening screw the tops as tight as possible and 
again in the morning; then set in a cool, dark place. 

If large cans are used proportionately more syrup 
must be made. 

Blackberries and Raspberries. 

Blackberries and raspberries require one tcacupful 
each of water and sugar to every quart (by actual meas- 
urement) of fruit. Make a thin syrup of the water and 
one-half of the sugar. When it boils, skim and add the 
fruit. Let it simmer gently for five minutes, add the rest 
of the sugar, let it come to a boil again, can, and seal at 
once. Press the berries gently under the syrup while 
cooking, but do not break or mash them. 



252 CLEVER COOKING 



Canned Blueberries. 

Can blueberries exactly as directed for blackberries, 
only adding the juice of one lemon to every three quarts 
of the fruit. 

Elderberries and Currants. 

Can elderberries as directed for blackberries, omit- 
ting- half the amount of water. Currants should be 
washed, drained and stemmed. To each quart add one 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar ; mix well and allow to 
stand two hours. Place over the fire, bring quickly to 
the boiling point, let simmer five minutes and seal. 

Gooseberries. 

For canned gooseberries allow one-half cupful of 
water and two cupfuls of sugar to each quart of fruit, 
either green or ripe. Make a syrup with the sugar and 
water, add the fruit, bring quickly to the boiling point, 
simmer very gently for five minutes ; seal at once. The 
stems and buds should be removed from gooseberries. 

Cherries. 

Sour cherries should be stoned and then measured. 
For every quart allow one and one-half cupfuls of sugar 
and one cupful of water. Put the fruit and sugar into a 
preserving kettle in layers and let it stand one hour. 
During this time simmer in the water to be added one 
tablespoonful of cherry stones for every quart of fruit ; 
strain and add sufficient boiling water to make up for the 
amount that has boiled away. Add this to the fruit, boil 
steadily for eight or ten minutes, then seal at once. For 
ox-hart cherries allow one cupful of sugar and two cup- 
fuls of water for each quart of fruit. Do not stone, but 
puncture each cherry three times with a fine darning 
needle. Cook in the syrup for ten minutes. 

Damsons and Green Gages. 

Damsons, green gages and yellow gages require one 
teacupful and a half of sugar to each quart of fruit. Punc- 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 253 

ture each plum three times with a darning needle. Bring 
slowly to the boiling point and let simmer until the fruit 
is tender, but not broken. Skin and seal. 

Peaches. 

Peaches should be thinly pared, or skinned in boiling 
water, halved, stoned, and thrown into cold water. For 
every four quarts of peaches make a syrup with two cup- 
fuls of sugar and four cupfuls of water. When it boils, 
drain the peaches from the cold water and put them in 
syrup. Bring quickly to boiling point, then remove to 
back of range and let simmer very gently until tender, 
but not soft. Seal at once. 

Pears. 

In canning pears use same proportions of fruit, sugar 
and water as directed for peaches. Pare and halve the 
pears, cook in boiling water until tender, drain, and add 
them to the boiling syrup. Let simmer for five minutes 
and seal. 

Apricots. 

Apricots should be treated same as peaches, only the 
skin is not removed. Wash them in cold water, wipe 
gently, halve and stone them. Can as directed for 

Pe^^^i^s- MRS. W. B. GAFFNEY. 



Canned Peaches. 

Make a syrup of i pint of sugar and Yi pint of water 
to a quart of fruit. Boil syrup till clear, skimming care- 
fully ; put in the fruit, cook till tender and seal at once. 

MRS. F. W. PARKER. 

Tutti Frutti. 

Put in a two-gallon jar one quart of brandy and three 
pounds of granulated sugar. . As various kinds of fruit 
are obtained, add one pound of sugar for each pound of 



254 CLEVER COOKING 



fruit. Begin with strawberries, cherries stoned, bananas, 
pineapples cut in pieces, etc. Keep in a cool place and 
stir every few days until the last of the fruit has been 
added. The quantity of brandy and sugar mentioned at 
first will bear seven or eight pounds of fruit and extra 
sugar. Put in small cans or jars, or cover with a paper 
wet in brandy, and tie a second paper over the first. This 
is an easy way to preserve fruit so that it will retain its 
natural flavor, and is delicious for tutti frutti ice cream, 
or for jellies or sauces. 

Preserves. 

Pears, quinces, and clingstone peaches should be firsi 
cooked in clear water until almost tender. Drain and 
add ^ pound of sugar and J^ pint of water (in which 
fruit was cooked) to each pound of fruit. After skim- 
ming add fruit a little at a time to avoid crushing, and 
cook till clear. When all is cooked boil the syrup down 
and seal. If the fruit is not to be sealed use a pound in- 
stead of ^ of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. 
Care should be taken to skim the syrup frequently, t.j 
keep clear. - j^jj^g^ p_ ^y_ pARKER. 



Preserved Strawberries. 

Take one cup of sugar with a little water and boil it 
until it shreds. Into this thick syrup put one cup of 
strawberries and gently lift the syrup around them. Boil 
hard for a few minutes. The juice of the berries will 
thin the syrup and it should boil until the colored syrup 
shreds. Remove and pour in glasses. The secret of hav- 
ing the color light lies in doing a small amount. Three 
vessels may be. kept going and in that way expedite the 

^"^^^^^ ^IRS. J. F. WAGNER. 



Strawberry or Raspberry Jam. 

To use the pnlp the jelly is made from ; let the berries 
after being cooked drain over night, but do not squeeze 
any more juice out; put the pulp through a sieve of "a 
potato masher; add as much currant or apple juice as 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 255 

you have pulp ; add to this a little more than three- 
fourths as much sugar as you have pulp and juice. Cook 
until it jellies — about half an hour. 



Wild Blackberries. 

Wild blackberry juice jellies without being mixed with 
any other juice. If desired, use the pulp for jam, fix the 
same as the strawberries, but add apple juice to it. 



Apricot Jelly. 

A delicious jelly can be made by mixing apricots with 
crabapples, using about one-quarter as much crabapple 
as apricot. Crack a cupful of the apricot seeds, so as to 
get the flavor of the kernels. Cook all together, drain, 
and make the same as crabapple jelly. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



A Few Hints About Jelly Making. 

Cook only five or six glassfuls at a time if you want 
the fruit to jelly quickly and be clear. 

Have measuring cup full of juice but not quite full 
of sugar. 

Cook until the jelly strings from the spoon. 

Strawberry Jelly. — To three cupfuls of strawberry 
juice take two cupfuls of currant juice. 

Raspberry Jelly. — To three cupfuls of raspberry juice 
take two cupfuls of currant juice. If you cannot get cur- 
rants, the juice of either sour apples or crabapples will do. 

Concord Grape Jelly. — To half a box of crabapples 
take one basket of Concord grapes. Stem the grapes, cut 
the crabapples in half, barely cover with water, cook 
luitil well done, strain and make the same as crabapple 
jelly. This carries all the flavor of the grape. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



256 CLEVER COOKING 



Currant Jelly. 

Pick over but do not stem the currants. Mash them 
a little ; add a cup of water if necessary to keep them 
from burning and cook gently (do not let them boil) un- 
til they look ragged. Put in a bag made of two thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth and let them drip over night. 
Next morning strain the juice thus obtained, measure it 
and weigh the sugar — a pound of sugar for every pint of 
juice. While the juice is heating put the sugar in shal- 
low dishes and set in the oven, stirring occasionally. Boil 
the juice just ten minvites, skimming until clear; then 
put in gradually the hot sugar and stir constantly until 
it is dissolved. As soon as it comes to a boil again re- 
move from the fire and pour into glasses. When cold 
lay neatly-fitted rounds of white paper, dipped in brandy, 
next the jelly, taking care to exclude the air bubbles and 
to entirely cover it. Then paste paper covers over the 
tops of the cups. The currants are better for not being 
very ripe. A clear day is preferable for jelly-making. 
Many people like a little raspberry juice mixed with the 
currant juice. ^^^<^^ CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Crabapple Jelly. 

Select fruit not too ripe. Cut apples into quarters and 
cover freely with boiling water. Cook until they fall to 
pieces, keeping well covered with hot water. Allow the 
juice to drip, then allow as usual one bowl of sugar to 
one bowl of juice. 

The pulp may be squeezed and a second quality of 
jelly made, which, while not so clear, is very good for 
cooking purposes. 

A sprig of rose geranium dipped in the crabapple jelly 
just before putting into glasses gives a pleasant flavor. 

MRS. T. M. DAULTON. 



Plum Jelly. 

Cut the plums into pieces and cover with boiling wa- 
ter and cook. Prepare the same as for crabapple jelly. 
Boil the juice five minutes before adding the sugar. 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 257 

i\pricot or peach marmalade is improved by mixing 
one-third as much crabapple juice as you have pulp. To 
this add two-thirds as much sugar. 

MRS. S. L. CRAWFORD. 



Orange Marmalade No. i. 

12 oranges (medium size) 2 quarts water 

2 lemons 9 pounds sugar 

Wash the oranges clean, wipe dry and cut in thin 
slices (just as you would slice potatoes for frying), using 
peel and pulp but rejecting the seeds. Pour over them 
two quarts of cold water and boil until very tender (about 
an hour and a half) ; add nine pounds of sugar and boil 
an hour or a little longer. MISS MALTBY. 



Orange Marmalade No. 2. 

Take the juice and pulp of 12 oranges ; add the grated 
rinds of six. Put equal weight of sugar and oranges to- 
gether and boil slowly to the consistency of thick syrup. 
If the bitter taste is preferred, the rind of the six oranges 
may be sliced in extremely thin strips and boiled until 
tender, changing the water several times, and then added 
to the boiling fruit about ten minutes before it is taken 
from the stove. Bottle while very hot. 

MRS. BANGS. 



Brandied Peaches, 

3 pounds peaches i pound sugar 

Boil syrup until it shreds. Add peaches, letting them 
remain until tender. Remove the peaches to jars. Boil 
syrup five minutes longer, then pour over fruit. Put four 
tablespoonfuls of brandy in each jar. 

MRS. J. F. WAGNER. 



268 CLEVER COOKING 



Pickled Peaches or Pears. 

Prepare a syrup in proportion of : 

3 pounds sugar i pint vinegar 

I tablespoonful each of 4 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 

whole and ground cloves 

to each gallon of fruit. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices 
five minutes. Pare the fruit, cut in. halves and core. Pvit 
part at a time into the syrup and cook till a silver fork 
will pierce it easily. Skim out the fruit and put in a stone 
jar. When all the fruit is cooked boil the syrup ten min- 
utes longer and pour over all. In the morning drain ofif 
the syrup and cook fiften minutes and pour over the fruit 
again. Repeat three mornings. The third morining 
thoroughly heat the fruit and boil the syrup till like ma- 
ple syrup ; pour over the fruit ; tie the covers down with 
cloth. Not necessary to seal, ^^j^g^ p_ y^_ PARKER. 



Peach Mangoes. 

Use large, solid peaches. Cut in halves, removing 
stones and keeping the two halves of each peach together. 
Chop celery or cabbage very fine; mix into it white mus- 
tard seed, celery seed and a little salt. Let this stand 
while preparing the peaches. Then squeeze it with the 
hands, getting all the juice. Fill the center of the 
peaches with the mixture and tie them together with 
cheese cloth or muslin. ]\Iake a syrup with 

1 cup vinegar 2 sticks cinnamon 

jA cup water 2 dozen whole cloves 

2 cups sugar 

Tie the spices in a bag and boil all together. Put in 
the peaches just long enough to be tender. Put the 
peaches in jars, boil the syrup about five minutes and 
pour over the fruit. Seal. j^y^j^g | p WAGNER. 



Spiced Plums or Prunes. 

7 pounds plums i pint sour vinegar 

4 pounds sugar i tablespoonful mace 

2 tablespoonfuls each of cloves and cinnamon 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 259 

Put sugar and vinegar on to boil ; add spices, in a thin 
muslin bag, and boil fifteen minutes. Put in the plums 
and just heat through; skim them out into jars. Let the 
syrup boil down a few minutes longer, then pour over the 
plums and seal the jars. j^j^g p ^Y PARKER. 



Currant Catsup, 

Take 2 quarts of ripe red currants, stem and put them 
in a stewpan with lA pint of boiling water ; let them boil 
ten minutes ; strain through a colander. Then add Yz 
pint of best vinegar, i pound of brown sugar, i table- 
spoonful each of mace, ground cloves and cinnamon, i 
teaspoonful of alspice. Boil quickly for half an hour ; 
bottle and seal for use. This is delicious and improves 
with age. ^jj^S_ A_ ^y_ eNGLE. 



Spiced Currants. 

5 pints ripe currants after stripping from stem. 
3 pints sugar 
I pint vinegar 

I tablespoonful each of cloves, cinnamon, alspice 
and Ijlack pepper. 
Yj tablespoonful salt 

Boil all together until sufficiently thick. 

MRS. H. C. HENRY. 



Spiced Gooseberry. 

8 pounds berries 4 pounds sugar 

I pint vinegar 2 ounces whole cloves 

2 ounces cinnamon 

Boil four hours and seal carefully. 

If you wish the berries whole boil the vinegar and 
spices to a thick syrup first and pour over the berries. 
The next morning heat the syrup again and pour over 

^^e ^^^i^- MRS! WINFIELD R. SMITH, 



260 CLEVER COOKING 



Apricot Catsup, 

I gallon sliced ripe apricots i teaspoonful corn starch 

I tablespoonful alspice 2 tablespoonfuls salt 

I pint best cider vinegar i tablespoonful black pep- 

6 red peppers per 

I small onion or a table- V2 teaspoonful cloves 

spoonful of onion juice 2 teaspoonfuls dry mus- 
tard 

Cook 2^ hours, then cool and run through a colander. 
Put in a kettle and boil (careful not to burn), then add 
the corn starch dissolved in a little vinegar. After it 
comes from the stove add the cloves, or same amount of 
mace. Bottle. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

3 dozen cucumbers 12 onions 
3.-2 pint salt I teacup mustard seed 

Yz teacup ground black pepper 

Pare and chop the cucumbers and onions very fine, 
sprinkle over them the salt, put the whole in a sieve or 
bag and let drain over night. Mix well with the mustard 
seed and pepper; place in jars and cover with vinegar. 
This is delicious with oysters. It is better if kept from 
the light. Mj^s_ EDWARD WHEELER. 



Tomato Catsup. 

I gallon tomatoes i teaspoonful cayenne 

I tablespoonful mustard J/ tablespoonful of whole 

seed cloves 

Small stick cinnamon i tablespoonful whole al- 

spice 

Stew and strain the tomatoes, then cook again till 
thick. When about half thick enough add spices tied 
loosely in a thin muslin bag; also i tablespoonful of su- 
gar, I cup of strong vinegar, and salt to taste. If onions 
are liked they should be put in while stewing. This will 
not be discolored by spices, but as bright as stewed to- 
matoes. If liked more highly colored, like the prepared 
catsups, a little fruit red and mandarin yellow fruit paste 
may be used. ^j^g^ RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 261 



Spiced Tomatoes. 

5 pounds green tomatoes 2 pounds brown sugar 

I pint best cider vinegar >< ounce whole cloves 

I ounce stick cinnamon ^4 ounce mace 

Cut the tomatoes into small pieces and boil them with 
the sugar, vinegar and spices (in a muslin bag) until 
cooked through ; then remove the fruit, leaving the spices 
and syrup to be boiled together until the syrup is suffi- 
ciently spiced. This is then poured over the fruit, the 
spices being left in the syrup to further flavor it. 

MRS. S. W. R. DALLY. 



English Mustard Pickle. 

24 medium sized cucumbers i quart small onions, 
2 cauliflowers 6 green peppers 

Cut all into small pieces ; put in salt water over night ; 
scald in the same water. Drain them and put into three 
quarts of boiling vinegar with 2 cups of sugar, 4 tea- 
spoonfuls of celery seed, >4 pound of ground mustard, % 
cup of flour, Yo ounce of tumeric. Boil all together fifteen 
minutes ; then cool and bottle. 

MRS. FRANK BEACH. 

Sauce for the Goose. 

Yi peck ripe tomatoes i cup chopped celery 

1 cup chopped onions i cup brown sugar 
y-i cup salt I nutmeg, grated 

I teaspoonful ground cloves i teaspoonful cinnamon 
I teaspoonful white pepper 3 green peppers, chopped 
I quart good vinegar 

Peel and chop the tomatoes ; then drain two hours. 
Mix all well together; add the vinegar and seal. No 
cooking required. ^^^j^g ^ LUDLOW MOORE. 

Chili Sauce No. i. 

12 large ripe tomatoes 4 peppers 

2 onions 2 tablespoonfuls salt 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar i tablespoonful cinnamon 
3 cupfuls vinegar • 



262 CLEVER COOKING 



Peel the tomatoes and chop fine, then add the onions 
and peppers, chopped very fine. Boil one and one-half 
hours. One quart can of tomatoes may be used with the 
other ingredients instead of the ripe tomatoes. 

MRS. ALBERT T. TIMMERMAN. 



Chili Sauce No. 2. 

I peck ripe tomatoes 6 onions, medium size 
5 large red peppers i^ cups sugar 
y^ cup salt I even teaspoonful each of 

I pint vinegar ground alspice, cloves 

and cinnamon 

After the tomatoes are cooked and strained add spices 
and other ingredients. Boil gently until thick. 

MRS. A. F. McEWAN. 



Sweet Tomato Pickles. 

I peck green tomatoes i teaspoonful black pepper 

4 large onions 2 tablespoonfuls whole 

1 cup salt cloves 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon 2 quarts cider vinegar 
2 tablespoonfuls alspice 2 pounds sugar 

I tablespoonful ginger 

Slice the tomatoes and onions, add the salt and let 
stand over night. In the morning cover with cold water 
and drain well. Put the spices in a muslin bag and soak 
in the vinegar over night. In the morning add the sugar 
and simmer two hours. Then add the tomatoes and 
onions and ]:)oil forty minutes. AIRS GREGORY 



Spiced Green Tomatoes. 

I peck green tomatoes, sliced 
12 large onions, sliced 

Leave in salt and water twenty-four hours ; then 
drain and add : 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 263 

14 pound mustard seed i ounce cloves 

I ounce cinnamon i ounce alspice 

I ounce whole black pepper i^ pounds sugar 

Cover with vinegar and boil till transparent. Using 
whole spices makes the pickle look better. 

MRS. A. M. BROOKES. 



Green Tomato Pickles. 

20 pounds green tomatoes 3 tablespoonfuls of salt 
6 large onions i^ pints of sugar 

1 quart good cider vinegar 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls mustard 

black pepper 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls alspice 

cloves 2 heaping tablespoonfuls 

I heaping tablespoonful cinnamon 

mace 

Celery seed and mustard seed to taste 

Slice the tomatoes and sprinkle through them the salt. 
Let stand over night. In the morning drain thoroughly, 
add to them the onions, sliced, the other ingredients, and 
cook until tomatoes are clear and tender. Stir frequently 
but gently to prevent burning. 

MRS. A. J. FISKEN. 



Piccalilli. 

1 peck green tomatoes, chopped fine 

2 dozen cucumbers, peeled and chopped fine 
I small head of cabbage, chopped fine 
Vinegar 

Sprinkle salt over each and let stand over night. In 
the morning drain perfectly dry; mix all together and 
heat enough vinegar to cover the 'mixture ; pour over it 
and let stand over night. After draining off the vinegar 
in the morning add six or eight Chili peppers, chopped 
fine, I pound of white mustard seed, i cup of sugar, i 
tablespoonful of cloves, i ounce of alspice, salt to taste. 
Cover with vinegar and cook several hours until tender. 
Put in air-tight jars. ^^g^ WARBASS. 



264 CLEVER COOKING 



Watermelon Pickle. 

3 pounds brown sugar i scant quart vinegar 

Cut watermelon rinds in squares, soak in alum water 
over night ; in the morning drain. Put vinegar and sugar 
on the stove, and when boiling add watermelon and boil 
until syrup is as thick as honey and the rinds are clear. 

MISS NANCY BREWER. 



Cucumber Pickle. 

1 3^ dozen old cucumbers J/^ dozen onions (small) 
Olive oil I ounce white mustard seed 

Pare and slice cucumbers, leaving out the seeds ; chop, 
sprinkle well with salt and let stand over night ; onions 
the same way, separately. Next morning rinse thor- 
oughly in cold water, mix in cucumbers, onions and mus- 
tard seed, pouring over all enough vinegar to cover. 
When in jars, cover to about the depth of one inch with 
olive oil and seal. ^j^g^ ^^ A_ STROUT. 



Chow Chow. 

2 quarts beans 4 dozen cucumbers 

2 quarts onions 2 dozen green peppers 

2 quarts green tomatoes ^2 dozen ears corn 

I head cabbage 2 pounds cauliflower 

34 pound mustard seed ]A pound mustard 

]/x pound celery seed 4 ounces tumeric 

Vinegar j/^ bottle olive oil 

Cut the vegetables into small pieces, sprinkle thickly 
with salt and let stand over night. In the morning rinse 
with cold water and drain. Add the whole spices and 
enough vinegar to make of it a good consistency. Mix 
mustard and tumeric with cold vinegar and stir in while 
boiling. Cook thirty or forty minutes, or imtil vege- 
tables are tender. ^^j^g 5 ^ CLARK. 

Centennial Best Flour, Specially for Family Use. 



PRESERVES, PICKLES, ETC. 265 

Mustard Pickle. 

Will fill a five or six-gallon crock. 

300 small cucumbers 8 green peppers 

1 quart silverskin onions i quart yellow pod beans 

2 gals, white wine vinegar 3^4 pound tumeric 

14 lb. white mustard seed J4 pound black mustard 
I or 2 heads cauliflower seed 

I pint mustard as prepared for the table 

Boil cauliflower and beans in weak salt water until 
tender. Put cucumbers, peppers, beans, onions and caul- 
iflower into brine strong enough to float an egg and let 
stand for twenty-four hours. Drain well. Into the vine- 
gar put the tumeric and mustard and let boil. When 
thoroughly cold pour over the pickles, which have been 
placed in a stone crock. ^^g_ ^_ g_ STEDMAN. 



266 CLEVER COOKING 



CONFECTIONERY 



"A wilderness of sweets." 



Fondant. 

I pint granulated sugar Yi pint (scant) cold water 

Mix well together and put on to boil, being careful 
not to disturb until done. {Never stir it.) After ten min- 
utes of boiling gently try it with a fork, and if it hairs 
keep close watch of it, trying it in cold water until it 
forms a soft ball. Remove quickly from the stove, pour 
into an earthen bowl and set away to cool. At blood 
heat a thin icing will have formed on top, which should 
be gently lifted ofif with a wide-tined fork, in order that 
not a bit remain and none of the syrup be wasted. When 
this is done beat hard with a fork until stifT ; then take in 
the hands and work until smooth and creamy. Not a 
grain should remain. This will keep for weeks in a cool 
place. If a quantity of fondant be made the skimmings 
may be all boiled over, with the addition of a little water. 

To insure success in making, close watch must be 
kept during the boiling, and quick judgment used as to 
the time for removing from the fire. Boiling sugar is 
full of whims and is better than any barometer in fore- 
casting the weather. Therefore watch it! On a windy 
day the syrup is likely to grain ; on a damp day it may 
take much longer to boil and may refuse even to stiffen, 
and will need a second boiling. 

These minute directions may discourage some from 
attempting fondant, but with a little practice one soon 
learns to avoid "breakers" and becomes fascinated with 
the infinite possibilities for variety. Individual inge- 
nuity will devise new kinds, so we give but a few which 
have alreadv been tested : 



268 CLEVER COOKING 



Peppermints or Wintergreen. 

Take a portion of the fondant aiid melt again by put- 
ting it into a small bowl set in boiling water. When 
melted flavor with one or two drops of oil of peppermint 
and drop on paraffiine paper. For wintergreens use oil of 
wintergreen and color a delicate pink. 



Orange Creams. 

Grated rind of i orange i tablespoonful juice 

Confectioners' sugar to stififen 

Roll into small balls and dip into fondant melted as 
for peppermints. If the fondant stiffen again with the 
continued heat, add a drop or two of boiling water. Use 
a wide-tined fork for dipping in order that the surplus 
fondant may fall back into the bowl. It will harden al- 
most at once on the paraffine paper. Variety of form and 
color is desirable, so we suggest that these creams be 
made round and small, giving the coating a tinting of 
prange. 

Lemon creams are made the same way, using lemon 
in place of orange. These may be moulded into oblong 
pieces. 

Cocoanut Creams. 

Mix shredded cocoanut into some fondant and flavor 
with vanilla. Form into cones, dip in fondant and 
sprinkle with cocoanut. 

l"'or Fig creams use chopped figs in place of cocoanut. 

Nut creams are made by using chopped nuts in place 
of cocoanut ; flavor with almond, color green. Chopped 
citron, raisins, dates, raspberry jam or chocolate may be 
used instead. ^jvRS. CALVIN E. VILAS. 

French Fondant. 

White of one egg and equal amount of cold water 
beaten briskly ; one teaspoonful of vanilla (or any pre- 
ferred flavoring) and sufficient confectioners' sugar to 
make it stifl' enough to form into balls. Before it is quite 



CONFECTIONERY 260 



Stiff it can be divided and the various portions flavored 
and colored according to fancy. Those balls to be cov- 
ered with chocolate should stand several hours before 
covering. We have found vanilla or pineapple better for 
walnut creams ; vanilla with figs or dates. A mixture of 
flavorings is very nice, such as lemon and cinnamon. 

Flavorings and coloring can be varied according to 
taste. Candied fruits cut in small pieces may be encased 
in the fondant or used on top of ball. 

Th.t fruit colorings are preferable and can be obtained 
at a grocers. 

French fondant is the simplest way of making candy, 
but wc much prefer the cooked fondant, made as above. 

Chocolate Fondant for Dipping. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate to about 
one pound of fondant. Melt the chocolate and stir the 
fondant into it. Nut balls and fig balls dipped in this 
are delicious. 

Walnut Creams. 

Cook some fondant, flavor with pineapple or vanilla, 
make into balls and put half a walnut on the top. 

Date Creams. 

Remove the stone and fill with fondant. 

Stuffed Dates. 

Remove the stones ; have ready blanched walnuts. 
If you leave the nuts in halves use two dates to one piece. 
Place one date on each side of the nut and pinch together, 
completely covering the nut, or use one-quarter of a wal- 
nut and but one date. Roll in powdered sugar. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Stuffed Dates No. 2. 

Remove stones, fill with German breakfast cheese and 
roll in powdered sugar. MRS. E. A. STROUT. 



270 CLEVER COOKING 



Maple Creams. 

I cup water 2 cups maple sugar 

Butter size of a hickory nut 

Boil water and sugar until it hairs ; add butter. Place 
candy pan in a pan of cold water and stir until it becomes 
a waxen substance. Make into balls and put a waliuit on 

"^"'^ ^^'^^^- MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Butter Scotch. 

2 cups sugar 3^ cup A'incgar y^ cup butter 

I'x^il until brittle when tested in water. 

MRS. W. B. GAFFNEY. 

[I'^or I'^ruit Glace See Page 181.] 

Crystallized Strawberries. 

Select large berries with the stems on. Grust each 
berry thickly with fondant made from either receipt 
given in this book. As you fix them put about ten on 
each plate. Let the crust harden and they are ready to 

^^'^^'^- MRS. S. L. GRAWFORD. 

Crystallized Orange Peel. 

Nice as a Confection for Teas, Receptions, Etc. 

Gut oranges lengthwise, take out pulp and most of 
the white part. Put into a strong solution of salt and 
water for six days ; then boil them in a quantity of wa- 
ter till tender and drain. Make a thin syrup of sugar and 
water (a pound of sugar to a quart of water) ; put in the 
peel ami \>o\\ one-half hour, or until it looks clear. Have 
ready a thick syrup of sugar and just water enough to 
dissohe it ; put in the rinds and boil slowly until you see 
the syrup candy about them. Take then\ out and roll 
one by one in granulated sugar. 

MRS. GEORGE OSGOOD, Tacoma. 



CONFECTIONERY 271 

Peanut Caramel. 

1^2 cups granulated sugar i cup chopped peanuts 

Have the pan hot ; pour in the sugar, stirring con- 
stantly until it is caramel, when quickly add the nuts ; 
stir once and pour into buttered tins ; mark into squares. 
This candy hardens very quicky, so it must be marked 
very soon after it is poured out. 

MRS. HINCHLIFFE. 

Vassar Fudgies. 

2 cups white sugar Yo cup hot water 

I cup sweet milk 2 squares unsweetened 

Butter size of small ^^^ chocolate 

I teaspoonful vanilla 

Put sugar and water in a kettle on the back of the 
stove until the sugar is dissolved ; then set the kettle 
over the fire and add the milk and the chocolate. Cook 
until you can make a soft ball in water. It will 
need to boil about fifteen minutes. Add the butter a few 
minutes before it is done, and the last thing add the 
vanilla. Pour it into a buttered pan to cool. When cooi 
but not cold beat vigorously with a fork until it is stiff 
enough to cut into squares. If this is cooked too much it 
will be sugary and hard. 

MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 

Pinochee. 

3 cups finest light brown i cup of cream 

sugar Butter size of walnut 

I tablespoonful vanilla i cup walnuts, broken a little 

Boil sugar, cream and butter about twenty minutes 
until when it is dropped in a cup of cold Avater it can be 
gathered into a ball, soft but not sticky ; then remove 
from fire and add vanilla. Put the kettle of candy into 
a pan of cold water and stir until it begins to grain ; stir 
in the nuts and pour quickly into buttered pans. Cut 
into squares when cold. If it is stirred too long it will 
be too hard to mould in the pans ; if, on the other hand, 



272 CLEVER COOKING 



it has been poured into the pans too soon, before it is 
sugared, if a fork is run through it in .the pans for a few 
moments, it will help it grain. Milk ca7i be used by add- 
ing more butter, but it is not as good, as the candy will 
not be as creamy. When the candy is on the stove do not 
stir at first, and only enough at the last to keep from 
burning. ^jjgg BOYER, Walla Walla, Wash. 

Maple sugar may be used in place of brown sugar by 
melting it first in a very little water ; then use a little less 
butter, as it is rather rich, but is delicious. 



Nut Candy. 

2 cups granulated sugar J^ cup water 

y^ teaspoonful cream tartar i pound nuts 

Boil sugar and water without stirring until it forms 
soft ball. When cool stir until it creams, flavor and add 
nuts. Drop on waxed paper. 

MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Molasses Nut Candy. 

I cup granulated sugar 4 tal^lespoonfuls molasses 

4 tablespoonfuls water 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Butter size of an egg i pound nuts 

Boil all together, except nuts, until it makes a soft 
ball in water. Take from fire and add nuts. Pour on 
buttered plates. Score before it hardens. 

MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 



Molasses Taffy. 

2 cups brown sugar i cup molasses 

I tablespoonful vinegar -)4 cup water 

Boil until it makes a crisp ball in cold water. Stir in 
half a teaspoonful of soda. Pour on buttered plates to 
cool, then pull. 



CONFECTIONERY 273 



Pulled Sugar Candy. 

4 cups sugar 5^2 cup vinegar 

Yz cup water 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

Boil without stirring over a quick fire ; when it be- 
gins to rope from the spoon drop a small quantity into 
a cup of cold water ; if it hardens it is ready to be poured 
upon a buttered dish. Flavor with vanilla. Begin to 
pull as soon as it can be handled, using only the fingers. 

MRS. THOMAS GREEN. 



Chocolate Caramels. 

2 pints brown sugar i^ squares Baker's choco- 

I cup new milk late 

Butter size of a walnut 

Boil quickly, stirring all the time. Just before remov- 
ing from the fire add vanilla. Try in cold water ; if brit- 
tle, it is done. Pour in buttered tins to cool. When 
nearly cold mark in squares. yr ^ BLUM 



Turkish Delight. 

I ounce imported sheet i orange (rind and juice) 

gelatine i lemon (juice) 

I cup cold water i tablespoonful rum 
I pound granulated sugar 

Break gelatine and soak in half a cup of the water for 
two hours. Mix the sugar and remaining water and 
bring to boiling .point. Add the soaked gelatine and boil 
for 20 minutes. Remove from fire and flavor with the 
orange and lemon and rum. Wet tin in cold water and 
pour in the mixture to about an inch thick. When it is 
jellied cut in pieces and roll in powdered sugar. Chopped 
nuts may be added if desired and fruit coloring may be 
used. It is better after two or three days. 

MRS. IVAN HYLAND. 



274 CLEVER COOKING 



Butter Scotch. 

1 cup molasses i cup sugar J/2 cup butter 

Boil until it hardens in water. 

MRS. V. A. RITON. 

Hickory Nut Candy. 

2 cups sugar Flavoring Yz cup water 

Boil without stirring until thick enough to spin a 
thread. Set the dish into cold water ; stir quickly until 
white. Stir in one cup hickory nuts ; turn into a flat tin. 
When cool cut into squares. MRS V A. RITON 



Popcorn Candy. 

2 cups shelled corn 2 tablespoonfuls lard 

2 cups molasses 

Pop the corn in the lard when it is smoking hot in a 
deep kettle. Boil molasses until it threads ; add i table- 
spoonful of butter and i teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour 
over corn, stirring constantly. Pack tightly the corn in 
a deep, narrow bread tin. When cold it will slice nicely. 

MISS N. BREWER. 



THE SICK ROOM 



"A few strong instincts and a few plain rules." 



Recipes for Invalid Cooking. 

Beef Tea. — Free a pound of lean beef from fat, ten- 
don, cartilage, bone and vessels ; chop up fine ; put into 
a pint of cold water to digest two hours. Simyner on the 
range or stove three hours, but do not boil. Make up for 
water lost by adding cold water, so that a pint of beef tea 
represents one pound of beef. Press beef carefully and 
strain. 

Beef Juice. — Cut a thin, juicy steak into pieces one 
and one-half inches square ; brown separately one and 
one-half minutes on each side before a hot fire ; squeeze 
in a hot lemon squeezer ; flavor with salt and pepper. 
May add to milk or pour on toast. 

Mutton Broth. — Lean loin of mutton, i^^ pounds, in- 
cluding bone ; water 3 pints. Boil gently till tender, 
throwing in a little salt and onion, according to taste. 
Pour out broth in basin ; when cold skim off fat. Warm 
up as wanted. 

Chicken Broth. — Skin and chop up small a small 
chicken or half of a large fowl. Boil it, bones and all, 
with a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley, i tablespoonful 
of rice, and a crust of bread in a quart of water, for an 
hour, skimming it from time to time. Strain through a 
coarse colander. 

Clam Broth. — AVash thoroughly six large clams in 
shell ; put in kettle with one cup of water ; bring to boil 
and keep there one minute ; the shells open, the water 
takes up the proper quantity of juice, and the broth is 
ready to pour off and serve hot. 



276 CLEVER COOKING 



Cream Soup. — Take one quart of good stock (mutton 
or veal), cut i onion into quarters, slice 3 potatoes very 
thin, and put them into the stock with a small piece of 
mace ; boil gently for an hour ; then strain out the onion 
and mace; the potatoes should by this time have dis- 
solved in the stock. Add one pint of milk, mixed with a 
very little corn flour to make it about as thick as cream. 
A little butter improves it. This soup may be made with 
milk instead of stock, if a little cream is used. 

Apple Soup. — Two cups of apple, 2 cups of water, 2 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, i^A tablespoonful of sugar, i 
saltspoonful of cinnamon and a bit of salt. Stew the 
apple in the water until it is very soft, then mix together 
into a smooth paste the corn starch, sugar, salt and cin- 
namon with a little cold water ; pour this into the apple 
and boil for five minutes. Strain it and keep it hot until 
ready to serve. 

Raw Meat Diet. — Scrape pulp from a good steak, sea- 
son to taste, smear on thin slices of bread. Sear bread 
slightly and serve as sandwich. 

Nutritious Coffee. — Dissolve a little gelatine in water, 
put 5^ ounce of freshly ground cofifee into sauce pan with 
I pint of new milk, which should be nearly boiling before 
the coffee is added ; boil both together for three minutes ; 
clear by pouring some of it into a cup and dashing back 
again ; add the gelatine and leave it to settle for a few 
minutes. Beat up an tgg in a breakfast cup and pour 
the coffee upon it. If preferred, drink without the egg. 

Rum Punch. — White sugar 2 teaspoonfuls ; i &gg 
stirred and beaten up ; warm milk, large wineglassful ; 
Jamaica rum, 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls ; nutmeg. 

Champagne Whey. — Boil half a pint of milk, strain 
through cheese cloth ; add one wineglass of champagne. 

Toast Water. — Toast three slices stale bread to dark 
brown, but do not burn. Put into pitcher, pour over 
them one quart of boiling water ; cover closely and let 
stand on ice until cold ; strain. May add wine and sugar. 

Rice Water. — Pick over and wash 2 tablespoonfuls of 
rice. Put into granite saucepan with i quart of boiling- 
water ; simmer two hours, when rice should be softened 



THE SICK ROOM 277 



and partially dissolved ; strain, add i saltspoonful of salt ; 
serve warm or cold. May add sherry or port, 2 table- 
spoonfuls. 

Barley Water. — Wash 2 ounces (wineglassful) of 
pearl barley with cold water ; boil five minutes in fresh 
water ; throw both waters away. Pour on 2 quarts of 
boiling water ; boil down to one quart. Flavor with thinly 
cut lemon rind; add sugar to taste. Do not strain un- 
less at patient's request. 

Koumiss. — Take ordinary beer bottle with shifting 
cork ; put in i pint of milk }6 cake of Fleischmann's, 
yeast or i tablespoonful of fresh lager beer yeast (brcAV- 
er's), y2 tablespoonful of white sugar reduced to syrup: 
shake well and allow to stand in refrigerator two or three 
days, when it ma}^ be used. It will keep there indefinitely 
if laid on its side. Much waste can be saved by prepar- 
ing the bottles with ordinary corks wired in position and 
drawing off the koumiss with a champagne tap. 

Wine Whey. — Put 2 pints of new milk in a sauce pan 
and stir over a clear fire until nearly boiling; then add 
I gill (2 wineglassfuls) of sherry and simmer a quarter 
of an hour, skimming off curd as it rises. Add i table- 
spoonful more of sherry and skim again for a few min- 
utes ; strain through coarse muslin. May use 2 table- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice instead of wine. 

Junket. — Take ^2 pint of fresh milk, heated lukewarm, 
and I teaspoonful essence of pepsin, and stir just enough 
to mix. Pour into custard cups, let stand until firmly 
curded. Serve plain or with sugar and grated nutmeg. 
May add sherry. 

Baked Flour Porridge. — Take i pint of flour and pack 
tightly in a small muslin bag ; throw into boiling water 
and boil five or six hours ; cut oft' the outer sodden por- 
tion ; grate the hard core fine. Blend thoroughly with a 
little milk and stir into boiling milk to the desired thick- 
ness. 

Rice Jelly.^ — Alix i heaping tablespoonful of rice with 
cold water until it is in a smooth paste ; add i scant pint 
of boiling water, sweeten with loaf sugar, boil until 
quite clear. Flavor with lemon juice. 



27S CLEVER COOKING 



Egg-Nog.— One egg, i tablespoonful of brandy, i 
tablespoonful of sugar, scant ^ glass of milk. Beat the 
white and yolk of egg separately ; put brandy, sugar and 
milk in glass and stir thoroughly, then add the beaten 
eggs and serve. 

Rye Coffee. 

When one is not allowed coffee or tea a good substi- 
tute can be made by browning rye as coffee is browned ; 
then to I cup of rye add i cup of cold water. Let it boil 
slowly for ten minutes, then add 2 cups of boiling water 
and serve with sugar and cream. 

Egg Broth. 

Beat an egg up high in a broth basin. When quite 
frothy stir into it 3^ pint of good mutton or veal broth, 
quite hot, a little salt and serve with toast. 

Tapioca. 

Soak over night 2 tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 2 cups 
of water. In the morning add i pint of milk, sugar to 
taste and a pinch of salt ; simmet until soft, stirring fre- 
quently. When dished add i tablespoonful of wine and 
grate over a little nutmeg. M^^, A. J. FISKEN. 



Blanc Mange. 

Mix I tablespoonful of corn starch in a little cold wa- 
ter, add Yo pint of boiling water and boil for a few mo- 
ments. Take from the fire and when cold add the well- 
beaten white of an egg, sugar and flavoring (lemon, wine 
or brandy), and pour into a mould to set. Serve with a 
custard made of Yi cup of milk, the 3^olk of the egg, sugar 
and flavoring. t^jj^S_ SILLITOE. 



Crackers and Cream. 

y\ nicely toasted cracker, with sweet cream poured 
over it, is delicate and nourishing for an invalid. 

MRS. A. J. FISKEN. 



THE SICK ROOM 279 



Iced Egg. 

Beat very light the yolk of one egg with a tablespoon- 
ful of sugar ; stir in tumblerful of very finely crushed ice ; 
add a tablespoonful of brandy and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat together and drink immediately. 

MRS. A. J. FISKEN. 

Beef Tea. 

Take two pounds of lean beef and cut it up in pieces 
half an inch long. Put in a double boiler and cover with 
cold water for half an hour ; then press with potato 
masher. Add a pinch of salt and cook for two hours in 
the double boiler. ^,^j^^ MURRAY. 

Bread Soup. 

Cut bread in half-inch cubes ; melt one tablespoonful 
of butter in skillet. When hot put in cubes and stir con- 
stantly until they are brown. Remove cubes. Into the 
pan put rich milk, a pinch of salt, dash of pepper. When 
thoroughly heated pour over cubes and serve at once. 
Very appetizing. ^^^^^ j p_ WAGNER. 

Prune Jelly. 

Stew prunes initil perfectly tender and squeeze out 
the juice ; add gelatine (dissolved) in the proportion of 
half a box to three cups of juice. Sweeten to taste. Very 
nice for invalids and little children. 

MRS. NATHANIEL WALDO EMERSON, Boston. 



Chicken Jelly. 

Clean and disjoint a chicken, removing all the fat, 
and cut the meat into small pieces ; break the bones ; 
lay the feet in boiling water, then remove the skins and 
nails. Put the meat, bones and feet into a granite sauce 
pan, cover with cold water, heat gradually and simmer 
till the meat is tender; strain and when cold remove the 
fat ; add salt, pepper, lemon juice and the shell and 



280 CLEVER COOKING 



white of an egg. Put it on the stove, stirring well till 
hot. Boil five minutes, skim and pour it through a fine 
cloth. Set aside in a mould. Turn out and garnish and 
serve with thin slices of bread and butter. 

MRS. PETERS. 

Panada for a New-Born Infant. 

Take ^ a soda cracker or 2 tiny oyster crackers ; roll 
them as fine as possible ; add a bit of butter the size of 
a pea ; sweeten to taste ; add a bit of nutmeg. Set this 
upon the stove and add y^ pint of boiling water and stir 
until it forms a complete jelly. After the babe is two 
months old the butter may be omitted and 2 spoonfuls of 
thick cream added while it is warm. This is the recipe 
of a celebrated physician of Albany, N. Y., and is much 
better than cows' milk for a young infant. 

MRS. RIPLEY. 
Panada. 

Boil one tablespoonful of cracker crumbs five minutes 
in one cup of boiling water, slightly sweetened, salted 
and flavored with lemon. 

Food for Infants. 

Dissolve a pinch of Cox's gelatine in enough cold wa- 
ter to cover it, then pour over it i^ pint of boiling water ; 
mix to a paste with a little milk, i teaspoonful of arrow- 
root, I teaspoonful of granulated sugar and a little salt. 
Add this to the water and gelatine, then add sufficient 
milk to make a pint in all. Put it over the fire and let it 
come to a good boil, stirring often. It is then ready for 
use. To improve this add i teaspoonful of cream. The 
proportion of milk may be increased, also the cream to 2 
tablespoonfuls as the child grows older. This food is 
very easily digested and is particularly good for a baby 
whose digestive organs are weak. ]\IRS. PETERS. 

Mustard Plaster. 

Mix with boiling water vinegar or white of an egg to 
the same consistency as when prepared for table use. If 



THE SICK ROOM 281 



too strong, add a little flour. Spread one-half of a thin 
muslin cloth with the prepared mustard and cover the 
mustard with the other half of the cloth, or put mustard 
on cloth and put over it a thin piece of gauze. Apply, 
and when removed wash the skin with a soft sponge and 
apply a little sweet cream or oil to the skin. 



Mustard Poultice. 

Take eight teaspoonfuls of flaxseed meal, flour or corn 
meal ; one teaspoonful of mustard ; pour on boiling wa- 
ter until it is of the consistency of mush ; spread on cloth 
the same as in mustard plaster recipe, and moisten the 
side of the cloth next to the skin and apply warm. 



Soda Mint. 

• In 2 quarts of warm water dissolve ^ pound of bicar- 
bonate of soda. When cold add ^ large tablespoonful of 
essence of peppermint. Cork tightly. Good for indiges- 
tion. 

Cough Mixture No. i. 

An English physician's prescription for a cough or 
weak lungs : 

2 ounces honey 2 ounces cod liver oil 

Juice of 2 lemons 

Put all together in a bottle and shake until thor- 
oughly mixed. Take i tablespoonful directly after meals. 
It is an excellent remedy if persevered with. 

MRS. M. P. ZINDORF. 



Cough Mixture No. 2. 

2 ounces juniper berries 2 sticks licorice 

3 grains opium i pint New Orleans mo- 
I pint water lasses 

Put all but the opium in a granite vessel and let it 
simmer half a day on the back of the stove. Strain off 



282 CLEVER COOKING 



the liquor, add the opium, boil up once and bottle. The 
opium is to soothe the irritation of the throat. 

MRS. DOUGLAS YOUNG. 
(From an Old Sea Captain.) 



For insomnia, a glass of very hot milk has a most 
soothing effect. 

For burns, use a cream made of lime water and olive 
oil. Place the oil in a bowl and add the lime water grad- 
ually, beating with a silver fork all the time. This will 
make a cream which is very cooling. 

Stings of insects may be relieved by the application 
of ammonia or common table salt, well rubbed in. 

For Cold in the Head. — When you first feel the cold 
coming on, put a teaspoonful of sugar in a glass, pour 
upon it six drops of camphor, stir and fill the glass half 
full of warm water. Stir this until the sugar is dissolved, 
then take a dessert spoonful every twenty minutes until 
relieved. This remedy is good if carefully followed. 

For burn from iodine use a plaster made from flour 
and water. 



BEVERAGES 



'Fayre ladye drink, 
But leave a kiss on ye brim." 



Palace Hotel (San Francisco) Coffee Blend. 

40 per cent best Old Government Java 
40 per cent best Costa Rica 
20 per cent Mocha 

MR. HOMER F. NORTON. 



Coffee. 

Allow one large tablespoonful of coffee to one cup. 
Put the coffee in the pot and first cover with cold water ; 
stand over the fire until it comes to a boil, then move 
back on the stove where it will just keep below the boil- 
ing point. Add to it, a little at a time, sufficient boiling 
water to make the required amount. Do not boil. It 
needs no clearing. ^^-^^^ WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Coffee No. 2. 

Allow one tablespoonful of coft'ee to every cup of cold 
water and one tablespoonful for the pot. Mix the coffee 
and one Q%g (shell and all) with a little water, add the 
number of cupfuls of water required and bring to a boil. 
Stir thoroughly, bring to a boil again, clear with a little 
cold water and serve. ^^-^<^^ £_ A_ STROUT. 



284 CLEVER COOKING 



Chocolate. 

Allow for each large cup (coffee cup) of chocolate i 
tablespoonful of chocolate, i coffee cup of milk, heated, 
I teaspoonf ul of brandy or i tablespoonful of sherry ; 
sugar to taste if the unsweetened chocolate is used. Add 
enough water to the chocolate to dissolve it ; add the 
sugar, if needed, and let come to a boil ; add the hot milk, 
and when it boils up again pour into the chocolate pot 
onto the brandy or sherry, and if the chocolate is unfla- 
vored, a little vanilla. Serve at once. 

To make thick add a little corn starch dissolved in 

"^^^'''- AIRS. CALVIN VILAS. 

Cocoa. 

Cocoa Milk Vanilla 

For each cupful wanted take i teaspoonf ul (good) of 
cocoa ; dissolve it in enough boiling water to make it 
about the consistency of cream. For each spoonful of 
cocoa used take i cupful of good rich milk (one-third 
water may be used if preferred) and let it come to the 
boiling point ; add the cocoa, stirring carefully, and let it 
boil two minutes. Sweeten to taste, usually about i tea- 
spoonful of sugar to a cup of cocoa, just before removing, 
and when it is taken oft' the fire flavor with a little vanilla. 
This is improved by serving with whipped cream. 

AIRS. CHARLES I. RILEY. 



Raspberry Shrub. 

4 quarts raspberries i quart cider vinegar 

Put berries and \'inegar together and let stand forty- 
eight hours. Strain and add one ])ound of sugar to each 
pint of juice. Boil about ten minutes. Bottle and cork 

^^^^^^- MRS. HOMER F. NORTON. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

vSquceze blackberries enough to make a quart of juice ; 
add to it a pound of loaf sugar and let it dissolve, heating 



BEVERAGES 285 

slowly. Add to it one teaspoonftil each of cloves, cinna- 
mon and nutmeg'. Boil all together twenty minutes. On 
removing from the fire add a wineglassful of brandy. Put 
in bottles while hot and seal. Use a teaspoonful for a 
glass of iced water. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ DE WOLFE. 



Blackberry Wine. 

Wash the berries and pour on one quart of boiling 
water to each gallon of berries. Let the mixture stand 
twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally ; then strain and 
add 2 pounds of sugar and i pint best rye whiskey, or jA 
pint alcohol, to each gallon of juice. Cork tightly and let 
stand until October, when rack off and bottle. 



Cherry Wine. 

ID quarts cherries (sour) 8 pounds white sugar 
4 quarts water ^< slice bread 

I cake compressed yeast 

Squeeze the cherries, pits and all, and leave with su- 
gar and water in large crock for three days. Rub through 
a cloth and then through a colander, and again through 
a cloth. Spread the bread with the yeast, dip in the 
juice and lay on top, having put the juice in a crock 
large enough to hold all. Leave for eight or ten days. 
Skim two or three times a day and leave for two days 
after there is nothing to skim. Bottle. Keep in a cool 

P^^^^- MRS. WINFIELD R. SMITH. 



Scotch Ginger Beer. 

2 gallons water 2 pounds white sugar 

2 ounces ginger root 4 lemons 
jA yeast cake Whites of 2 eggs 

Cut the lemons and bruise the ginger root, mixing 
them with the sugar and water ; boil, strain, and set to 
cool ; then add the yeast. Let it stand thirty-six hours, 



286 CLEVER COOKING 



then add the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bottle, 
tightlv cork, and in two days it will effervesce and be 
ready for use. ^jj^c; THO^^IAS W. PROSCH. 



Lemon Beer. 

2 large lemons i pound sugar 

I gallon boiling water ^3 cup of yeast 

Slice the lemons, pour over them the boiling water, 
and when lukewarm add the yeast. Let stand over night 
and bottle in patent bottles, or if corks are used tie down 
very securely. The beer will be ready for use on the day 
following, and during the first night should be kept as 
warm as dough for bread. ^j^.^^ q_ q_ hALLER. 



Grape Juice. 

To every five pounds oi Eastern Concord grapes, 
picked from the stems, add one quart of water. Place in 
kettle and crush slightly; scald well for a few minutes 
and strain thoroughly through a flannel bag. Allow ji 
of a pound of sugar to every 5 pounds of the fruit. Re- 
turn to the kettle, bring to a boil, bottle immediately and 
seal thoroughly. Will not keep longer than two days 
when opened. Is delicious frozen. 

MRS. C. R. COLLINS. 



Punch. 

Pare very thin the yellow rind of 12 large lemons. 
Put 2 pounds of sugar in a large bowl ; squeeze over it 
the juice of the lemons and add i quart of best rum and 
^S pint of brandy; cover this mixture and let stand two 
or three hours: add ^S pint of wine (sherr\' or Madeira). 
Half an hour before the punch is to be served boil the 
vellow rind of the lemons in i quart of water, throwing 
in 6 teaspoonfuls of the best green tea, just before taking 
from the fire. Strain this liquor into the punch and add 
2 quarts of boihng water. .^jj^g jj q HEXRY. 



BEVERAGES 287 

"Ne Plus Ultra" Punch. 

For Small Punch Bowl. 
Enough for Ten People. 
I quart of uncolored Japan tea (cold) 
13^ wineglassfiils of Jamaica rum 

Yz wineglassful of Grenadine 
I pint of Reisling wine 
3 wineglassfuls of brandy 

Yi wineglassful of Mareschino 
I lemon (juice only) 
I small cup of sugar 

Let stand not less than six hours before using^. When 
ready to serve add : 

I sliced orange Y\ sliced pineapple 

I pint of champagne 

Serve with large lump of ice in bowl. If too strong 
add cold tea. ^^-^^ HOMER F. NORTON. 

Christmas Punch. 

Boil I pound of sugar and i quart of water together 
for five minutes ; add the grated rind of 2 lemons and 4 
oranges ; boil ten minutes ; strain and add i quart of cold 
water and some cracked ice. Strain in the juice of the 
lemons and oranges and add i gill of candied cherries 
cut in halves, 24 white grapes split, a few pieces of pine- 
apple and I large banana, sliced. Add i quart of claret. 

MRS. C. E. SHEPARD. 

Christmas Egg-Nog. 

12 eggs I glass brandy 

I glass whiskey 3 pints cream 

Beat the eggs in the punch bowl till very light ; stir 
in as much white sugar as they will dissolve and pour in 
the brandy very gradually to cook the eggs ; then add 
the whiskey, the cream, which may be whipped slightly, 
and I nutmeg, grated. The nutmeg may be omitted if 
not liked. MRs_ RICHARD C. STEVENS. 



288 CLEVER COOKING 



HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY 



"For nothing lovelier can be found in a woman than to 
stud}' household good." 



No one can entirely solve for some one else, if they 
ever do for themselves, the difficult problem of house- 
hold economy; but w^hen it has passed into a proverb 
that "A French family can live on what an American 
family throws away," it is time for us to give the subject 
more attention. The economical management of the 
household is not accomplished without "eternal vigil- 
ance" on the part of the mistress, and the woman who 
delegates to a servant duties that belong to the mistress 
only, and who does not personally supervise every de- 
partment of her household, can never hope to be a good 
manager. 

Hoping that they may be found useful, we give the 
following suggestions for the care of food and a few 
ways of utilizing the "left-overs :" 

MufBns left from breakfast may be split into halves 
and toasted for lunch. 

Cold mashed potatoes may be saved for croquettes or 
potato puff. One cupful makes six croquettes. 

Small pieces of plain or puff paste trimmed from 
pies or patties may be used for cheese sticks. 

Fat from stock, suet from chops and steaks should 
be saved, tried out, clarified and strained into the drip- 
ping pail for use in frying. It is preferable to lard. 

Save every scrap of bread for crumbs to use for bread- 
ing croquettes, chops, scollop dishes, etc. 

Use Frye Bruhn's Lard Substitute for Cakes. 



290 CLEVER COOKING 

It is well to have two kinds of crumbs, using the 
white ones for outside of fried articles, as they give a 
better color. To prepare the crumbs, dry them slowly on 
the shelf of the range. When dry, roll, sift and place 
them in glass preserve jars until wanted. 

When an egg is opened for the white alone, drop the 
yolk carefully into a cup, cover the cup with a wet cloth, 
and keep it in the ice box until wanted. When whites 
are left over make a small angel cake, or cover any des- 
sert with meringue. 

Oatmeal, hominy, cracked wheat and other cereals 
which are left over can be added next day to the fresh 
supply, for they are improved by long boiling. 

Any of the cereals make good pancakes, or a small 
amount added to the ordinary pancake batter improves 
it. It can also be moulded and used for fried mush. 

Sour milk can be used for cottage cheese and makes 
good biscuits or pancakes. 

When fruits show signs of deterioration stew them at 
once instead of letting them decay. 

Grate cheese which becomes dry and use for pies or 
soup ; or it can be served with crackers, or bottled and 
kept for future use. 

Lard is hot when a blue smoke arises from it. 

To freshen stale crackers put them into a hot oven 
for a few minutes. 

To prevent flour from lumping, add a little salt before 
mixing with milk or water. 

Chop the tough ends of steaks very fine, season and 
form them into balls or cakes. 

Everything good too small to utilize in other ways 
should be put into the soup kettle — the French woman's 
stronghold — and should be boiled up, in winter, twice a 
week, and in summer every day. A spoonful of gravy or 
rice, any kind of vegetables, the bones from roasts, 
steaks, chops or poultry, the tough end of a steak, the 
trimmings from roasts, steaks and chops, which will be 
sent with the meat if asked for, all should go into that in- 
valuable soup kettle, and will give a stock far richer in 
flavor and more nutritious than if prepared in the usual 



HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY 291 

manner. It will, of course, not do for clear soups, but 
for thick soups or tomato, bean or vegetable soups, 
sauces, minces, scollops, meat pies and the like, it is most 
excellent. 

The coarse stalks and roots of celery make a good 
vegetable when cut in pieces and boiled, or they make a 
good cream of celery soup. 

The leaves are valuable in the soup kettle for flavor ; 
are also useful for garnishing. 

To Clean Currants. 

Add one cup of flour to every quart of currants and 
rub them well between the hands. This will free them 
from stems and stones. Then turn them into a colander 
and shake until the stems have passed through. Now 
put them in a pan of cold water, thoroughly drain and 
wash a number of times. Spread on boards or flat dishes 
and stand in a warm place to dry. 

To Make a Pastry Bag. . 

Fold a piece of very strong muslin (one foot square) 
from two opposite corners ; fell the edges tightly to- 
gether, thus forming a triangular bag. Cut off the point 
to make an opening large enough to insert a tin pastry 
tube. It is better to have two or three pastry bags, each 
fitting their respective tubes. 

To Use the Pastry Bag. 

Put the tin tubes into the bag and fit it into the open- 
ing. Fill the bag with the mixture, close the top of the 
bag, give it a twist and hold it tightly with the right 
hand. Put the point of the tube close to the place where 
the mixture is to be spread ; press with the left hand and 
guide the mixture into any shape desired — eclaires, lady 
fingers, etc. 



Ask for CARNATION CREAM. There is no other 
"Just as Good." 




292 CLEVER COOKING 



MISCELLANEOUS 



"There's lots of religion in a beefsteak, if you give it to the 
right man at the right time." — Jerry McAuley. 



Kitchen and Laundry Soap. 

One bar of good laundry soap shaved thin, 3 pints of 
water, 2 large tablespoonfuls of salsoda and i of borax. 
Let this boil until all is dissolved ; then take from the 
stove and add i tablespoonful of turpentine and i^ of 
ammonia. ^jj^g j^ ^ WASHBURN. 

Soft Soap. 

I can Babbit's lye 3 pounds fat 

2j4 gallons boiling water 

Dissolve the lye in the water, put in fat and cook ten 
hours. One hour before taking off the fire add, 2 gallons 
more water, and after it is taken off add as much more 
water as you have of this mixture, which will make about 
nine gallons of soap. ^j^g NEUFELDER. 

White Laundry Soap, 

5 pounds fat i quart water 

I can Babbit's lye 3 tablespoonfuls borax 

Save all small bits of fat, straining into a 5-pound lard 
pail until full. Dissolve lye and borax in water. Warm 
fat and pour slowly into the lye mixture, and stir C()n- 
tinuously until it thickens. Be careful to have fat just 
warm. Pour into a square pan, which has been inter- 
lined with a wet cloth. When nearly cold cut in squares. 
Let stand over night. ^^g_ ^^_ ^^ ^_ DENNISTON. 



294 CLEVER COOkINQ 



Celery Vinegar. 

Soak I ounce of celery seed in Yz pint of vinegar ; bot- 
tle it and use to flavor soups and gravies. 

THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Baking Powder. 

9 ounces cream of tartar 4I/S ounces bicarbonate soda 
2^ ounces flour or corn starch 

Sift thoroughly several times and keep in a dry place. 

C. HOWELL KIRBY. 



Cleansing Fluid. 

^ ounce chloroform Yi ounce ether 

54 ounce oil of wintergreen i ounce alcohol 

Shake well and add one-half gallon of deodorized ben- 
zine. One-half this quantity makes a large bottle full. 
This mixture is highly inflammable and should not be 
used at night or near a fire. Is especially nice for clenn- 
ing gloves. j^j^S_ ^^ P_ BACKUS. 



To Wash Blankets. 

Use warm (not hot) water and add to each gallon a 
tablespoonful of ammonia and the same quantity of pow- 
dered borax. Put the blankets in and rub through the 
hands and rinse up and down. Wring by hand. Prepare 
another tub of water of the same temperature in the 
same way, using a little less ammonia and borax : the 
last tub (and three are usually required) need not con- 
tain any and ought to look entirely clean when the blank- 
ets come out. Choose a bright day. 

MRS. CHARLES E. SHEPARD. 

To Wash Flannels. 

Two bars of Ivory soap, 4^/2 gallons of soft water, 2 
ounces of borax, ammonia enough to give a strong odor. 



MISCELLANEOUS 295 



Use a cupful of the preparation in tepid water when 
washing flannels. It will remove all dirt and the flannels 
will not shrink. ^j^S^ H_ C_ HENRY. 



To Remove Stains. 

Take an ounce of hartshorn and one of salts of tartar; 
mix them well ; add a })int of soft water and bottle for 
use. Keep very tightly corked always. To iise, pour a 
little of the liquoid in a saucer and wash in it white arti- 
cles which are stained with ink, mildew, fruit or wine. 
Rinse carefully in cold water, after the stains are re- 
moved ; then wash in the usual manner. 

MRS. RIPLEY. 

White stains on polished tables may be removed with 
spirits of camphor. 

To remove iron-rust, wet the spot, cover with salts 
of lemon and lay in the sun. Keep wet until gone. 

Ink spots, when fresh, may be removed by washing 
in sweet milk. 

A little salt rubbed on a discolored egg spoon will 
remove the stains. 

To take out fruit stains, stretch the stained part over 
a bowl and pour on boiling water. 

To Take Grease From Cloth. 

Make a paste of Fuller's earth and turpentine. Rub 
on fabric until turpentine evaporates and a white powder 
remains. The latter can be brushed off, and the grease 
will have disappeared. 

To remove tar or pitch, rub well with clean lard ; 
afterwards wash with soap and warm water. For either 
hands or clothing. 

Library Paste. 

This will not sour and will keep indefinitely. One 
tablespoonful of flour mixed dry with y^ teaspoonful of 
powdered alum. Mix smoothly with a teaspoonful of 
cold water ; then set on the stove and pour in about 2 



296 CLEVER COOKING 



teaspoonfuls of boiling water. Cook until very thick, 
taking care not to let it burn. A few drops of perfume 
may be added. Put in a wide-mouthed bottle. 

Furniture Polish. 

Yz pint raw linseed oil i gill alcohol 

I gill strong coffee 

Shake well and add one gill of soft water. 

MRS. A. W. ENGLE. 



Chilblaines. 

Rub thoroughly and frequently with oil of lavender; 
or with coarse common salt. 



Lotion for the Skin. 

I part glycerine 6 parts rosewater 

Yz part tincture benzoine 

This is good for sun-burn, wind-burn, or chaps. It 
makes a milky mixture. Keep tightly corked. 



Hair Wash. 

I ounce borax Y2 ounce camphor 

Powder these ingredients fine. Dissolve them in one 
quart of boiling water. When cool, the solution is ready 
for use. Dampen the hair frequently. The camphor 
will form into lumps after being dissolved, but the water 
will be sufficiently impregnated. 

MRS. ISAAC H. JENNINGS. 

Cold Cream. 

i^ drachms white wax iJ/4 drachms spermaceti 

y^ ounce oil of sweet almonds 

Melt the spermaceti and wax together; add the oil; 
then beat up into this mixture 30 minims tincture of 
benzoine, 2 tablespoonfuls rose water, attar of roses or 
any perfume desired. Beat with a Dover ^^g beater until 
the cream thickens. ^4^5^ CURTIS. 



MISCELLANEOUS 297 



To destroy odor when cooking cauliflower, cabbage, 
etc., put a slice of stale bread in the kettle. 

To take fish odors from pans, wash with strong soda 
water. 

A teaspoonful of vinegar in the water when boiling 
sweetbreads and brains will blanch them. 

Mix a mustard plaster with the white of an egg to 
prevent blistering. 

To keep silver bright rinse in hot water with house- 
hold ammonia ; one teaspoonful to one quart. 

"A Sweet Disposition — Three grains common sense, 
I large heart, i good liver, plenty of fresh air and sun- 
light, I bushel contentment and i good husband. Do 
not bring to a boil." 

Corn starch is a good substitute for eggs in cookies 
and doughnuts. One tablespoonful is equal to an egg. 

A very good substitute for cream in coffee may be 
made by pouring one cup of scalded milk onto a beaten 
egg and adding a bit of butter the size of a pea. 

To keep glass jars from breaking when pouring in 
boiling fruit, wrap a cold wet cloth around the jar. 

In making corn bread always have the bowl you mix 
it in hot. 

To keep fruit from raising to the top of the jar, cook 
in a thick syrup and lay the can on its side. 

If a clove of garlic is kept in salad oil it will give the 
hint of garlic desirable in salad, and keep the oil from 
getting rancid. — Mrs. T. M. Daulton. 

Lime water is an important factor in the nursery, and 
no mother would neglect its use if she realized its effect 
on the bones and teeth of growing children. — Mrs. L. L. 
Moore. 

Strew the store room shelves with a few cloves to 
drive away ants. 

Clean white ivory knife handles or white marble with 
damp salt. 

Clean the outside of windows in cold weather with 
kerosene. 



298 CLEVER COOKING 



For new windows use alcohol ; it cuts the putty and 
oil. 

Put a few drops of ammonia on a moist cloth to clean 
windows. Vinegar is also good for the same purpose. 

One lemon is usually equal to two tablespoonfuls of 
juice. 

Who Shall Be First. 

There are different opinions regarding the propriety 
of serving first the most distinguished guest — the lady at 
the right of the host or the hostess herself. The custom 
of serving the hostess first which obtains so largely has 
its origin far back in the olden times when poisoning was 
much in vogue, and it was deemed wiser and safer to ob- 
serve whether the hostess partook of a dish before one 
tasted it oneself. j^j^g^ j)_ ^_ GARRETT. 



The Expert Waitress says ; There are good reasons 
for serving the lady of the house first, although this rule 
is often waived to do honor to the distinguished guest 
for whom luncheon or dinner is given. In a country 
house several distinguished guests or dear friends are 
entertained at one time ; to serve the hostess first and 
follow in regular order along the table makes no dis- 
tinction. Novelties are often introduced, both in food 
and in service. Dishes are served before which a guest 
hesitates as to which fork or which spoon to use until he 
glances at his hostess to see which one she takes up. 
* * * A hostess who takes pride in having her forks 
made to suit special courses, like asparagus, and who has 
several forks laid by each plate before dinner is served, 
finds its necessary to take up the right one before her 
guests make a choice. I have in mind a dinner where the 
hostess delayed the tasting of a course, the absent- 
minded host took the wrong fork, some guests took an- 
other and some another. The butler did his best to re- 
place the right ones ; but after all his efforts somebody 
had a wrong fork to the end of the dinner. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



2 teaspoonfuls of dry ingredients. . equals i tablespoonful 

4 teaspoonfuls of liquid equals i tablespoonful 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid equals J^ gill, ^ cup 

or I wineglassful 

I tablespoonful of liquid equals ^ ounce 

1 pint of liquid equals I pound 

2 gills of liquid equals i cup or ^ pint 

I kitchen cup equals ^ pint 

I heaping quart of sifted flour .... equals i pound 

4 cups of flour equals i quart or i pound 

I rounded tablespoonful of flour. . . . equals Y-z ounce 

3 cups of corn meal equals i pound 

ij^ pints of corn meal equals i pound 

I cup of butter equals J/2 pound 

I pint of butter equals i pound 

I tablespoonful of butter equals i ounce 

Butter the size of an egg equals 2 ounces 

Butter the size of a walnut equals i ounce 

1 solid pint of chopped meat equals i pound 

ID eggs equals i pound 

A dash of pepper equals y% teaspoonful 

or 3 good shakes 

2 cups of granulated sugar equals i pound 

I pint of granulated sugar equals i pound 

1 pint of brown sugar equals 13 ounces 

2j^ cups of powdered sugar equals i pound 

An ordinary tumbler equals Y^ pint 

2 tablespoonfuls equals i fluid ounce 



300 



CLEVER COOKING 



THE KNACK 

of good Cooking is greatly helped by a good Range, and none can compare with the 

GREAT MAJESTIC 

Nothing is so discouraging as to liave all calculations spoiled by an unreliable range. 

THE MAJESTIC 

will do more and better work than a Range of cheaper 
construction. 

If you like a GOOD RELIABLE Range, call 
upon us and we will be glad to explain why THE 
MAJESTIC is such. 

FREDERICK & NELSON 

(incorporated) 

SEATTLE, - - WASH. 




GENERAL INDEX 



Page. 

A LITTLE DINNER 75 

BEVERAGES — 

Blackberry Cordial 284 

Blackberry Wine 285 

Cherry Wine 285 

Chocolate 284 

Cocoa 284 

CofEee 283 

Egg-Nog 287 

Ginger Beer 285 

Grape Juice 286 

Lemon Beer 286 

Punches 286, 287 

Shrub 284 

BREAD — 139 

Biscuit, Baking Powder 149 

Biscuit, Premium 149 

Biscuit, Tea 144 

Biscuit, Virginia Beaten. . . 144 

Blueberry Cake 145 

Bread 139, 140 

Bread, Boston Brown 142 

Bread, Cinnamon 143 

Bread, Currant 144 

Bread, Graham 143 

Bread, Oatmeal 141 

Bread, Salt Rising 140 

Bread, Whole Wheat 141 

Buckwheat Cakes 150 

Corn Bread, Spoon 146 

Corn Bread, Southern 146 

Corn Dodgers 147 

Corn Meal Gems 147 

Graham Gems 147 

<iraham Muffins 147 

Griddle Cakes 150 

Huckleberry Muffins 146 

Muffins 148 

Parker House Bolls 141 

Pop-Overs 148 

Ragmuffins 145 

Rice Cakes 150 

Rolls 139, 140 

Sally Lunn 145 

Waffles 149 

Yeast, Potato 139 



Page. 

BREAKFAST AND LUNCH- 
EON — 119 

Anchovy Toast 130 

Beef Loaf 123 

Brains 124 

Calf's Head, Mock 122 

Chicken, Hollandaise 125 

Chicken Timbales 125 

Codfish 128 

Codfish Balls 128 

Codfish Croquettes 128 

Codfish and Eggs 128 

English Pasty 120 

Frogs, Creamed 125 

Ham, Minced 121 

Ham Patties 120 

Hash 120 

Hash, Beet 121 

Hash, Chicken 121 

Hash, Corned Beef 121 

Hash, Turkey 121 

Hegeree 119 

Jambalaya 127 

Lancashire Pie 124 

Mackerel Balls .■-... 129 

Mushrooms, Creamed 131 

Mushrooms on Toast 130 

Mutton, Escalloped 119 

Pork and Beans 122 

Potted Herring 129 

Potted Salmon 129 

Pressed Meat 124 

Prune Toast 130 

Sausage 120, 130 

Savory Pyramids 127 

Scrapple 127 

Sweetbread Timbales 126 

Tomato Toast 120 

Veal, Jellied 122 

Veal Loaf 123 

Wheat Flakes 131 

CAKES — 211 

Almond 220 

Angel 226 

Apple 225 

Banana 241 

Blackberry 225 



302 



GENERAL INDEX 



CAKES — Continued. 

Blackberry Jam 225 

Caraway 224 

Charlotte Russe 220 

Cheap 224 

Chocolate 215 

Chocolate Cocoanut 217 

Chocolate Gems 230 

Chocolate Macaroons 228 

Cocoa 217 

Cocoanut 241 

Cocoanut Drops 234 

Cocoanut Jumbles 232 

Cocoanut Maccaroons 229 

COOKIES — 231 

Cookies, Boston 232 

Cookies, Cream 231 

Cookies, Ginger 232 

Cookies, Ginger Snaps 233 

Cookies, Lemon 231 

Cookies, Nut 233 

Cookies, Oat Meal 234 

Cookies, Peanut 234 

Cookies, Sour Cream 232 

Cookies, Walnut 233 

CAKE— Cup 222 

Delicate 211 

Devil 216 

Doughnuts 234, 235 

Episcopal 215 

Pried Cakes 236 

Fruit 221 

Ginger 227 

Ginger Bread 227 

Ginger Sponge 228 

Gold 212 

Imperial 221 

Jelly Roll 223 

Kisses 230 

Lady 213 

Lemon 219 

Lemon Cakes 229 

Lemon Sponge 214 

Maccaroons, Chocolate 228 

Maccaroons, Cocoanut 229 

Maccaroons, Hickory Nut. . 229 

Marguerites 228 

Maud S. 216 

Mocha Tart 218 

Molasses Cakes 227 

Nut 222 

One Egg 223 

Orange 219 

Pork 218 

Pound 225 

Puff 219 

Ribbon 223 

Sand Tarts 280 

Shrewsbury Cakes 230 

Silver 213 



CAKE — Continued. Page. 

Snow Drops 224 

Spice 224 

Sponge 214 

Sunshine 226 

Walnut Chocolates 231 

Whipped Cream 214 

White 212 

White Fruit 222 

CHAFING DISH— 79 

Cheese Omelette 81 

Clams, Curried 84 

Corned Beef Hash 82 

Crab a la Newburg 82 

Eggs, Scrambled 80 

English Monkey 80 

Lobster a la Newburg 82 

Omelette 80 

Omelette, Oyster 81 

Omelette Peas 81 

Oysters, Creamed 84 

Oysters, Curried 84 

Oysters, Fricassee 83 

Oysters, Toast 84 

Sweetbreads 81 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 81 

Sweetbreads with Peas .... 82 

CHEESE DISHES— 71 

Cheese Balls 74 

Cheese Crackers 72 

Cheese Fondu 73 

Cheese Sauce 74 

Cheese Souffle 73 

Cheese Sticks 72 

Cheese Straws 73 

Cottage Cheese Balls 74 

Genoa Ramaquins 72 

Welsh Rarebit 71 

CONFECTIONERY — 267 

Butter Scotch 270, 274 

Chocolate Caramels 273 

Chocolate Fondant 269 

Cocoanut Creams 268 

Crystallized Orange 270 

Crystallized Strawberries.. 270 

Date Creams 269 

Fondant 267. 268 

Fudgies 271 

Hickory Nut Candy 274 

Maple Creams 270 

Molasses Nut Candy 272 

Molpsses Taffy 272 

Nut Candy 272 

Orange Creams 268 

Peanut Caramels 271 

Peppermints 268 

Pop-Corn Candy 274 

Stuffed Dates 269- 



GENERAL IN^JEX 



303 



CONFECTIONERY — Continued. Page 

Sugar Candy 273 

Turkish Delight 273 

Walnut Creams 269 

Wintergreens 268 

DESSERTS— 159 

Apples, Baked 167 

Apple Dessert 168 

Apple Float 167 

Apple Pudding 168 

Apple Scallop 167 

Apple Trifle 168 

Bachelor's Pudding 162 

Banana Cream 179 

Bananas, Stuffed 173 

Banana Puffs 170 

Batter Pudding 162 

Batter Fruit Pudding 166 

Blackberry Pudding 163 

Bread Croquettes 171 

Caramel Custard 182 

Charlotte Russe 178 

Cherry Pudding 171 

Chocolate Pudding 174 

Chocolate Blanc Mange.... 175 

Chocolate Bread Pudding. . . 174 

Chocolate Cream 175 

Chocolate Custard 175 

Christmas Pudding 160 

Cocoanut Charlotte 179 

Coffee Jelly 186 

Corn Starch Pudding 176 

Cream Glace 185 

Cream Puffs 187 

Date Pudding 161 

Dorchester Pudding 180 

Dutch Pie 167 

Fig Pudding 164 

Floating Island 174 

Fruit Glace 181 

Fruit Jelly 177 

Fruit Salad 177 

Graham Pudding 161 

Indian Pudding 162 

Jelly Cream 184 

Kentucky Roll 163 

Lemon Honey . 173 

Lemon Jelly 186 

Lemon Pudding 176 

Nut Pudding 162 

Omelette Souffle 182 

Orange Cream 176 

Orange Charlotte 178 

Orange Pudding 169 

Parisian Charlotte 178 

Peach Cobbler 163 

Peach Snowballs 180 

Pears, Baked 169 

Pineapple Pudding 183 



DESSERTS — Continued. Page. 

Pineapple Tapioca 183 

Plum Pudding 159, 160 

Porcupines 169 

Prune Float 165 

Prune Pudding 166 

Prunes, Stuffed 166 

Prunes, to Cook 164 

Prune Whip 165 

Raisin Puffs 169 

Raspberry Cream 184 

Raw Rice Pudding 172 

Rice Pudding 172 

Roly Poly 163 

Roxbury Pudding 168 

Ruby Cream 181 

Shortcake 189 

Snowballs 170 

Snow Pudding 173 

Spanish Cream 182 

Sponge Pudding 170 

bnonge Whips 177 

Steamed Pudding 161 

Strawberry Gelatine 1«4 

Suet Pudding 160 

Tapioca Cream 171 

Tipsy Cake 187 

Trifle, A 188 

Vanity Pudding 181 

Washington Pie 185 

Walled Peaches 169 

Wine Jelly 186 

EGGS— 133 

Eggs, Baked 137 

Eggs, Curried 136 

Eggs, Deviled 136 

Eggs, Fricassee 135 

Eggs on Toast 136 

Egg Patties 135 

Eggs, Russian 137 

Eggs, Stuffed 136 

Egg Timbales 137 

Golden Rod Pie 135 

Omelette 131 

Omelette, Ham 134 

Omelette, Oyster 134 

Omelette, Quaking 134 

Omelette Souffle 135 

Omelette Tomato 133 

ENTREES — 57 

Almonds, Salted 70 

Apricot Fritters 69 

Banana Cakes 70 

Banana Fritters 69 

Chicken Blanquette 61 

Chicken, Creamed 61 

Chicken Croquettes 61 

Chicken Jelly 60^ 

Chicken Patties 67 



304 



GENERAL INDEX 



ENTREES — Continued. Page. 

Chicken Terrapin 60 

Crab Chops 67 

Crab Cutlets 68 

Croquettes, Chestnut 62 

Croquettes, Chicken 61 

Croquettes, Fish 23 

Croquettes, Turkey 61 

Croquettes, Veal 62 

Croustades, Asparagus .... 66 

Curry, Hawaiian 37 

Fritters 69 

Fruit Entree 67 

Kidneys 62 

Kidney Pudding 63 

Lobster Baskets 67 

Macaroni 58, 59 

Mushrooms, Baked 66 

Mushroom Entree 66 

Potato Patties 65 

Russian Entree 58 

Salmon Cutlets 69 

Sweetbreads 63 

Sweetbreads, Breaded 65 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 64 

Sweetbread Fritters 65 

Sweetbreads, Mock 65 

Sweetbread Patties 64 

Veal Croquettes 62 

Veal Olives 58 

Veal with Macaroni 59 

FISH AND SHELL FISH— 17 

Clams, Deviled 24 

Clams, Pot-pie 25 

Clams, Steamed 24 

Crabs, Deviled 31 

Crabs, a la Rol 32 

Fish, Baked 18 

Fish, Boiled 17 

Fish. Broiled 19 

Fish, Creamed 20 

Fish Croquettes 23 

Fish Cutlets 20 

Fish, Fried 18 

Fish, Steamed . . 20 

Fish, to Select 17 

Fish Turbot 19 

Halibut a la Poulette 22 

Halibut, Bscalloped 22 

Oysters a la Poulette .... 30 

Oysters, Celeried 29 

Oysters, Creamed 26 

Oysters, Cocktail 25 

Oysters, Deviled 27 

Oysters en beure noir 27 

Oysters, Escalloped 29 

Oysters, Fricassee 26 

Oysters, Fried 28 

Oysters, Frizzled 26 

Oysters, in Blankets 29 



FISH AND SHELL PISH — 

Continued. Page. 

Oysters, in Shells 27 

Oyster Kabobs 29 

Oysters on Toast 28 

Oyster Pate a la Creole... 32 

Oyster Patties 32 

Oysters, Toasted 28 

Oysters with Mushrooms. . . 31 

Salmon, Baked 21 

Salmon, Moulded 21 

Salmon Timbales 23 

Smelts 19 

ICE CREAM AND ICES— 197 

Baked 207 

Baked, Apple 198 

Banana 199 

Bisque 198, 200 

Caramel 199 

Chocolate 198 

Chocolate, Mousse 201 

Coffee 200 

Foundations for 197 

Fruit 198 

Lemon 198, 200 

Neapolitan 197 

Peach 198 

Philadelphia 197 

Sauces for 208 

Sauces, Chocolate Sunde . . . 208 

Sauces, Claret 208 

Sauces, Custard 209 

Sauces, Maple Sugar 208 

Sauces, Rum 209 

Strawberry 199 

Strawberry Mousse 200 

Vanilla 198 

ICES— 201 

Bonanza Punch 206 

Cherry 201 

Claret 204 

Cocoanut 208 

Cranberry Sorbet 205 

Egg-Nog, Frozen 207 

Foundations for 201 

Ginger 202 

Grape (Sherbet) 209 

Lemon (Sherbet) 205 

Lemon Ginger 202 

Milk (Sherbet) 204 

Mint Sorbet 205 

Orange (Sherbet) 204 

Pineapple 204 

Pomegranate 203 

Romaine 206 

Roman 207 

Three of a Kind (Sherbet). 203 

Tutti Frutti :i03 

Water 204 



GENERAL INDEX 



305 



Page. 

ICINGS AND FILLINGS— 237 

Icing. Almond 239 

Icing. Boiled 237 

Icing, Cream 237 

Icing, Soft 237 

Pilling, Banana 241 

Filling, Caramel 238 

Filling, Chocolate . . . .• 239 

Filling, Cocoanut 241 

Filling, Fig 240 

Filling, Fruit Fondant 239 

Filling, Lemon 240 

Filling, Marshmallow 240 

Filling, Raisin, Chopped... 241 

Frosting 238 

Frosting, Chocolate 239 

Frosting, Maple Sugar 238 

MEATS— 35 

Beef. Braised 36 

Beef. Corned 38 

Beef, Fillet 36 

Beef, Roast 35 

Beef, Spiced 43 

Boiled Dinner 37 

Calf's Liver 43 

Chicken, Fried 38 

Chicken, Pie 46 

Chicken, Roast 39 

Dressing 48 

Dumplings 47 

Egg Dumplings 47 

English Dobe 42 

English Pie 41 

Game BLi-ds 46 

Ham. Boiled 44 

Lamb 36 

Mock Duck 42 

Mutton, Crown 36 

Mutton, Curried . . .* 40 

Mutton, Leg 37 

Mutton, Stew 41 

Pigeons 45 

Pork Tenderloins 44 

Pot Roast 41 

Quail 46 

Ragout 44 

Tongue 39 

Tongue, Jellied 40 

Turkey 39 

Veal, Blanchette 42 

Veal Cutlets 38 

Veal, Jellied 43 

Venison 44 

Wild Duck 45 

Yorkshire Pudding 47 

MEAT AND FISH SAUCES — 49 

Allemande 52 

Anchovy 50 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES— 

Continued. Page. 

Bernaise 51 

Bechamel 55 

Bordelaise 53 

Bread 53 

Brown 49 

Caramel 50 

Celery 50 

Chestnut 55 

Drawn Butter 49 

Hollandaise 51 

Horse Radish 51 

Lemon 53 

Meat 54 

Mint 50 

Onion 54 

Parsley 51 

Tartare 54 

Tomato 54 

Vegetables 53 

MISCELLANEOUS HINTS— 293 

Baking Powder 294 

Celery Vinegar 294 

Chilblains 296 

Cleansing Fluid 294 

Cold Cream 296 

Furniture Polish 296 

Hair Wash 296 

Kitchen Soap 293 

Laundry Soap 293 

Library Paste 295 

Lotion for Skin 296 

Soft Soap 293 

To Remove Stains 295 

To Wash Blankets 294 

To Wash Flannels 294 

Useful Suggestions 297 

White Laundry Soap 293 

Who Shall Be First? 298 



PASTRY— 



151 



PIE- 



Apple, Custard 155 

Apple, English 154 

Apnle. Green 155 

Cherry, Mock 155 

Cream 154 

Currant 155 

Cocoanut 156 

Filling for 157 

Lemon 153 

Mince Meat 152 

Orange 154 

Pie Crust 151 

Pineapple 156 

PuEE Paste 151 

Pumpkin 156 



306 



GENERAL INDEX 



TIE- Continued. Page. 

Raspberry Meringue 156 

Whipped Cream 154 

TARTS — 

Almond 157 

Banbury 157 

Chess Cakes 158 

Lemon 157 

Strawberry 157 

PRESERVES AND PICKLES— 251 

Apricots 253 

Apricot Catsup 255 

Apricot Jelly 255 

Brandied Peaches 257 

Blackberries 251 

Canning 251 

Cherries 252 

Chili Sauce 261 

Crab Apple Jelly 256 

Chow-Chow 264 

Currants 252 

Currant Catsup 259 

Currant Jelly 256 

Currants, Spiced 259 

Cucumber Catsup 260 

Cucumber Pickles 264 

Damsons 252 

Elderberries 252 

Gooseberries 252 

Gooseberries, Spiced 259 

Green Gages 252 

Green Tomato Pickles .... 263 

Green Tomatoes, Spiced.... 262 

Mustard Pickles 261, 265 

Orange Marmalade 257 

Peaches 253 

Peaches, Pickled 258 

Peach Mangoes 258 

Pears 253 

Pears, Pickled 258 

Piccalilli 263 

Plums 252 

Plum Jelly 256 

Plums, Spiced 258 

Preserves 254 

Raspberries 251 

Raspberry Jam 254 

Strawberries 254 

Strawberry Jam 254 

Tomato Catsup 260 

Tomatoes, Spiced 261 

Tomatoes, Sweet 262 

Tutti Frutti 253 

Watermelon Pickles 264 

\v lid Blackberries 255 

PUDDING SAUCES— 191 

Brandy 193 

Brown 195 



PUDDING SAUCES — Continued. 

Page. 

Cream 191 

Cream, Whipped 193 

Cottage Pudding 195 

Custard 195 

Foam 192 

Fruit 193 

Golden 195 

Hard 192 

Lemon 194 

Maple Sugar 193 

Pudding 194 

Wine 193 

SALADS — 89 

Apple 97, 100 

Asparagus 96, 98 

Banana 100 

Beet 98 

Cabbage 101 

Cauliflower 101 

Cherry 100 

Chestnut 99, 103 

Chicken 93, 102 

Cottage Cheese 98 

Cucumber 100 

Egg 93 

Fruit, Macedoine 99 

Herring 96 

Lobster 95 

Macedoine 96 

Mushroom 102 

Nut and Cheese 104 

Nut Jelly 103 

Orange 102 

Oyster 102 

Pear 100 

Pecan 103 

Peppers 98, 100 

Potato 97 

Radishes, Stuffed 104 

Raspberry 101 

Salmon 95 

Sardine 94 

Shrimp 94 

Sweetbread 99 

Tomato 98 

Tomato Baskets 102 

Tomato Jelly 97 

Truffle 101 

Veal 94 

Waldorf 97 

SALAD DRESSING — 92 

Salad Dressing Boiled 91 

Salad Dressing, Cold Slaw. . 92 

Salad Dressing, Cooked.... 91 

Salad Dressing, Cream 90 

Salad Dressing, French.... 92 



GENERAL INDEX 



307 



SALAD DRES'^mQ— Continued. 

Page. 

Salad Dressing, Fruit 93 

Salad Dressing, Lactirola. . . 91 

Salad Dressing, Mayonnaise. 89 

Salad Dressing, Sour Cream. 90 

SANDWICHES— 245 

American 248 

Ancliovy 248 

Baked Beans 247 

Cheese 245 

Cheese and Nut 249 

Chicken Jelly 248 

Cottage Cheese 247 

Egg 247 

Lobster 247 

Mixed 247 

Oyster 246 

Peanut 246 

Ripe Olive 249 

Roast Beef 246 

Salmon 247 

Sardine 246 

Valentine 248 

Walnut 246 

SOUPS— 1 

Asparagus 11 

Bean, Black 12 

Bean, Turtle 12 

Bouillon 1 

Bouillon, Chicken 2 

Bouillon, Oyster 7 

Brown 2 

Celery 13 

Cheese 4 

Chicken, Mock 5 

Clam Broth 8 

Clam Chowder 8 

Ciaret 8 

Corn Chowder 8 

Crab 6 

Crab Bisque 7 

Croutons 15 

Egg Dumplings for 15 

Green Turtle 5 

Mutton, Cream 4 

Noodles 15 

Okra 5 

Oyster 6 

Pea, Green 10 

Pea, Split 9 

Potato 13 

Printannier Maigre 11 

Sago 10 

Spice 3 

Spinach 11 

Tomato 14 

Veal 3 

Vert pre 10 



SOUPS — Gontinued. Page. 

Wine 9 

Yellow 10 

THE SICK ROOM — 275 

Apple Soup 276 

Barley Water 277 

Beef Juice 275 

Beef Tea 275, 279 

Blanc Mange 278 

Bread Soup 279 

Champagne Whey 276 

Chicken Broth 275 

Chicken Jelly 279 

Clam Broth 275 

Coffee 276 

Cough Mixture 281 

Crackers, Creamed 278 

Cream Soup 276 

Egg Broth 278 

Egg, Iced 279 

Egg-Nog 278 

Flour Porridge 277 

Junket 277 

Koumiss 277 

Mustard Plaster 280 

Mustard Poultice 280 

Mutton Broth 275 

Panada 280 

Rice Jelly 277 

Rice Water 276 

Rice Coffee 278 

Tapioca 278 

Toast Water 276 

Wine Whey 277 

VEGETABLES — 

Bananas, Baked 117 

Brussels Sprouts 110 

Cabbage, Boiled 109 

Cabbage, French 109 

Carrots, Creamed 110 

Catachis 113 

Cauliflower au Gratin .... 116 

Cauliflower, Creamed 116 

Celery 112 

Corn Dodgers 114 

Corn Fritters 116 

Cucumbers, Boiled 113 

Cucumbers, Fried 113 

Egg Plant 114 

Macaroni, Baked 117 

Macaroni, Boiled 117 

Onions, Baked Ill 

Onions, Fried 112 

Onion Tart 112 

Oyster Plant 110 

Papas Rellenas 113 

Pilaf 116 

Potatoes au Gratin 105 



308 



GENERAL INDEX 



VEGETABLES — Continued. Page. 

Potatoes, Creamed 108 

Potatoes, Croquettes 106 

Potatoes, Duchesse 106 

Potatoes, Escalloped ...106, 107 

Potatoes, French Fried. . . . 107 

Potatoes, Moulded 108 

Potatoes, New 105 

Potatoes, on Half Shell 106 

Potato Puff 105 

Potatoes, Sweet 108 

Potato Timbales 107 



VEGETABLES— OonfwMed. Page. 

Potatoes with Eggs 107 

Rice, Fricassee Ill 

Rice, with Cheese Ill 

Salsify Patties 110 

Spinach 109 

Squash, Baked Ill 

Succotash 109 

Tomatoes, Creamed 115 

Tomatoes, Escalloped 115 

Tomato Sauce 115 

Tomatoes, Stuffed 114 



INDEX 



A Page. 

Accompaniments for Meats 48 

Almonds, Salted 70 

Almond Cake 220 

Almond Tarts 157 

Anchovy Toast 130 

Anchovy Sandwiches 248 

Angel Cake 226 

Apples, Baked 167 

Apple Cake 225 

Apple Custard Pie 155 

Apple Dessert 168 

Apple Float 167 

Apple Pie 154, 155 

Apple Pudding 168 

Apple Salad 97, 100 

Apple Scallop 167 

Apple Soup (Invalid) 276 

Apple Trifle 168 

Apricots, Canned 253 

Apricot Catsup 260 

Asparagus Croustades 66 

Asparagus Salad 96, 98 

B 

Bachelor's Pudding 162 

Baked Apple Ice Cream 198 

Bananas, Baked 117 

Banana Cakes 70 

Banana Cream 179 

Banana Ice Cream 199 

Banana Puffs 170 

Banana Salad 100 

Bananas, Stuffed 173 

Banbury Tarts 157 

Barley Water (Invalid) 277 

Batter Pudding 162 

Batter Fruit Pudding 166 

Beef, Braised 36 

Beef, Fillet 36 

Beef Juice (Invalid) 275 

Beef, Loaf 123 

Beef, Roast 35 

Beef, Spiced 42 

Beef Tea (Invalid) 275, 279 

Beet Hash 121 

Beet Salad 98 



Page. 

Beverages 283 

Birds 46 

Biscuits, Baking Powder 149 

Biscuits, Premium 149 

Biscuits, Tea 144 

Biscuits, Beaten 144 

Bisque Ice Cream 198, 200 

Blanc Mange (Invalid) 278 

Blackberry Cake 225 

Blackberries, Canned 251 

Blackberry Cordial 284 

Blackberry Pudding 163 

Blackberry Wine 285 

Blaci>.oerries, Wild 255 

Blanquette, Chicken 61 

Blueberry Cake 145 

Blueberries, Canned 252 

Boiled Dinner 37 

Bouillon 1 

Bouillon, Chicken 2 

Brains 124 

Brandy Sauce 193 

Bread 140 

Bread, Brown 142 

Bread, Cinnamon 143 

Bread, Currant 144 

Bread, Graham 143 

Bread, Oatmeal 141 

Bread, Salt Rising 140 

Bread, Whole Wheat 141 

Bread Croquettes 171 

Bread Padding 174 

Breaa Soup (Invalid) 279 

Brown Sauce 195 

Brussels Sprouts 110 

Buckwheat Cakes 150 

Butter Scotch 270. 274 

C 

Cabbage 109 

Cabbage Salad 101 

Cake 211 

Cake, Almond 220 

Cake, Angel 226 

Cake, Apple 225 

Cake, Banana 241 



810 



INDEX 



Page. 

Cake, Blackberry 225 

caKe, Blackberry Jam 225 

Cake, Caraway 224 

Cake, Charlotte Uusse 220 

Cake, Cheap 224 

Cake, Chocolate 215 

Cake, Chocolate Cocoanut 217 

Cake, Chocolate Gems 230 

Cake Chocolate Maccaroons .... 228 

Cake, Cocoa 217 

Cake, Cocoanut 241 

Cake, Cocoanut Jumbles 232 

Cake, Cocoanut Maccaroons . . . 229 

Cake, Cup 222 

Cake, Delicate 211 

Cake, Devil 216 

Cake, Doughnuts 234, 235 

Cake, Episcopal 215 

Cakes, Fried 236 

Cake, Fruit 221 

Cake, Ginger 227 

Cake, Ginger Bread 227 

Cake, Ginger Sponge 228 

Cake, Gold 212 

Cake, Hickory Nut Maccaroons. 229 

Cake, Imperial 221 

Cake, Jelly Roll 223 

Cake, Kisses 230 

Cake, Lady 213 

Cake, Lemon 219 

Cake, Lemon Sponge 214 

Cake, Maccaroons 228 

Cake, Maud S 216 

Cake, Marguerites 228 

Cake, Mocha Tart 218 

Cakes, Molasses 227 

Cake, Nut 222 

Cake, One Egg 223 

Cake, Orange 219 

Cake, Pork 218 

Cake, Pound 225 

Cake, Puff 219 

Cake, Ribbon 223 

Cake, Sand Tarts 230 

Cakes, Shrewsbury 230 

Cake, Silver 213 

Cakes, Snowdrops 224 

Cake, Spice 224 

Cake, Sponge 214 

Cake, Sunshine 226 

Cakes, Walnut Chocolates 231 

Cake, Whipped Cream 214 

Cake, White 212 

Cake, White Fruit 222 

Cakes, Buckwheat 150 

Cakes, Griddle 150 

Cakes, Molasses 227 

Cakes, Shortcake 189 

Calf's Head, Mock 122 



Page. 

Calf s Liver 43 

Canning 251 

Caramel 50 

Caramels 273 

Caramel Custard 182 

Caramel Ice Cream 199 

Carrots, Creamed 110 

Catachis 113 

Catsup, Apricot 260 

Catsup, Cucumber 260 

Catsup, Currant 259 

Catsup, Tomato 260 

Cauliflower, au Gratin 116 

Cauliflower, Creamed 116 

Cauliflower Salad 101 

Celery 112 

Celery, Creamed 112 

Celery Soup 12 

Chafing Dish 79 

Charlotte, Cocoanut 179 

Charlotte, Parisian 178 

Charlotte Russe 178 

Cheese Dishes ^ 71 

Cheese Balls ' 74 

Cheese Crackers 72 

Cheese. Cottage 74 

Cheese Fondu 73, 85 

Cheese Omelette 81 

Cheese Sandwiches . 245 

Cheese Sauce 74 

Cheese Souffle 73 

Cheese Sticks 72 

Cheese Straws 73 

Champagne Whey (Invalid) ... 276 

Cherries, Canned 252 

Cherry Ice 201 

Cherry Pie 155 

Cherry Pudding 171 

Cherry Salad 100 

Cherry Wine 285 

Chess Cakes 158 

Chestnut Salad 99, 103 

Chicken, Blanquette 61 

Chicken, Bouillon 2 

Chicken Broth (Invalid) 275 

Chicken, Croquettes 61 

Chicken, Fried 38 

Chicken, Hash 121 

Chicken, Hollandaise 125 

Chicken Jelly 60 

Chicken Jelly (Invalid) 279 

Chicken Patties 67 

Chicken Pie 46 

Chicken, Roast 39 

Chicken Salad 93, 102 

Chicken Sandwiches 247, 248 

Chicken Terrapin 60 

Chicken Timhales 125 

Chill Sauce 261 



INDEX 



311 



Page. 

Chocolate 284 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 175 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 174 

Chocolate Caramels 273 

Chocolate Cake 215, 216, 217 

Chocolate Creams 269 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 175 

Chocolate Custard 175 

Chocolate Fondant 267 

Chocolate Fudgies 271 

Chocolate Gems 230 

Chocolate Ice Cream 198 

Chocolate Maccaroons 228 

Chocolate Mousse 201 

Chocolate Pudding 174 

Chocolate Sunde 208 

Chow-Chow 264 

Chowder, Clam 7 

• Chowder, Corn 8 

Clam Broth (Invalid) 275 

Clam Broth 8 

Clam Chowder 7 

Clams, Deviled 24 

Clam Pot-Pie 25 

Clams, Steamed 24 

Claret Ice 204 

Claret Sauce (Ice Cream) 208 

Claret Soup 8 

Cocoa 284 

Cocoa Cake 217 

Cocoanut Cake 241 

Cocoanut Ice Cream 208 

Cocoanut Maccaroona , 229 

Cocoanut Pie 156 

Codfish 128 

Codfish Balls 128 

Codfish Croquettes 128 

Codfish and Eggs 128 

CoflEee 283 

Cofifee (Invalid) 276,278 

Coffee Blend 283 

Cofifee Ice Cream 200 

Coflfee Jelly 186 

Cold Slaw 92 

Confectionery 267 

Cooked Salad Dressing 91 

Cookies, Boston 232 

Cookies, Cocoanut 232 

Cookies, Cream 231 

Cookies, Ginger 232 

Cookies, Lemon 231 

Cookies, Nut 233 

Cookies, Oatmeal 234 

Cookies, Peanut 234 

Cookies, Sour Cream 232 

Cookies, Walnut 233 

Corned Beef 38 

Corned Beef Hash 82, 121 

Corn Bread 146 



Page. 

Corn Chowder 8 

Corn Dodgers 147 

Corn Fritters 116 

Corn Meal Gems 147 

Corn Starch Pudding 176 

Cottage Cheese 74 

Cottage Cheese Balls 74 

Cottage Cheese Salad 98 

Cottage Cheese Sandwiches .... 247 

Cottage Pudding Sauce 195 

Cough Mixture 281 

Crab a la Newburg 82 

Crab a la Roi 32 

Crab Chops 67 

Crab, Curried 84 

Crab Cutlets 68 

Crab, Deviled 31 

Crab Patties 32 

Crabapple .Jelly 256 

Cranberry Sorbet 205 

Creams 268, 269, 270 

Creams, Chocolate ....268, 269, 270 

Creams, Cocoanut 268, 269, 270 

Creams, Date 268, 269, 270 

Creams, Maple 268, 269, 270 

Creams, Orange 268, 269, 270 

Creams, Peppermint... .268, 269, 270 
Creams, Wintergreen. . . 268, 269, 270 

Cream Glace 185 

Cream Pie 154 

Cream Puffs 187 

Cream Salad Dressing 90 

Cream Sauce 191, 192 

Cream Soup (Invalid) 276 

Croquettes, Chestnut 62 

Croquettes, Chicken 61 

Croquettes, Codfish 128 

Croquettes, Fish 23 

Croquettes, Veal 62 

Croutons 15 

Crystallized Fruits 270 

Cucumbers, Boiled 113 

Cucumber Catsup 260 

Cucumbers, Fried 113 

Cucumber Pickles 264 

Cucumber Salad 100 

Cup Cake 222 

Currant Catsup 259 

Currant .Jelly 256 

Currant Pie 155 

Currants, Spiced 259 

Curry, Hawaiian 57 

Custard, Caramel 182 

Custard, Chocolate 175 

Custard Sauce 195 

Custard Sauce (Ice Cream) 209 

D 

Date Pudding ; 161 

Dates, Stuffed 269 



312 



INDEX 



Page. 

Delicate Cake 211 

Dorchester Club Pudding 180 

Doughnuts 234, 235, 236 

Drawn Butter 49 

Dressing, Mutton 48 

Duck, Mock 42 

Duck, Wild 45 

Dumplings, Egg 47 

Dumplings for Soup 15 

Dumplings for Stew 47 

E 

Eggs 133 

Egg Broth (Invalid) 278 

Eggs, Curried 136 

Eggs, Deviled 136 

Egg Dumplings for Soup 15 

Egg Dumplings for Stew 47 

Eggs, Fricasseed 135 

Egg-Nog 287 

Egg-Nog (Invalid) 278 

Egg-Nog, Frozen 207 

Eggs, Omelette 80 

Egg Patties 135 

Egg Plant, StufEed 114 

Eggs, Russian 137 

Egg Salad 93 

Egg Sandwiches 247 

Eggs, Scrambled 80 

Eggs, Stuffed 136 

Egg Timbales 137 

English Dobe 42 

English Monkey 80 

English Pasty 120 

Entrees 57 

P 

Fig Pudding 164 

Fillet of Beef 36 

Fillings (See Icings) 237 

Fish 17 

Fish, Baked 18 

Fish, Black Cod 23 

Fish, Boiled 17 

Fish, Broiled 19 

Fish, Creamed 20 

Fish, Creamed Cutlets 20 

Fish, Croquettes 23 

Fish, Flaked, Steamed 20 

Fish, Fried 18 

Fish, Halibut 22 

Fish, Salmon, Baked 21 

Fish, Salmon, in Mould 21 

Fish, Salmon, Timbales 23 

Fish, Smelts 19 

Fish, Turbot 19 

Fish Sauces 49, 55 

Floating Island 174 

Foam Sauce 192 



Page. 

Fondant 267, 268 

French Dressing 92 

Fried Cakes 236 

Fritters 69 

Fritters, Apricot 69 

Fritters, Banana 69 

Frogs, Creamed 125 

Frostings (See Icings) 237 

Fruit Cakes 221 

Fruit Dressing 92 

Fruit Entree 67 

Fruit Glace 181 

Fruit Jelly 177 

Fruit Macedoine 99 

Fruit Salad 177 

Fruit Sauce 193 

Fudgies 271 

G 

Game Birds 46 

Gems, Corn Meal 147 

Genoa Ramaquins 72 

Ginger Beer 285 

Ginger Bread 227 

Ginger Cake 227 

Ginger Sherbet 202 

Golden Sauce 195 

Gold Cake 212 

Gooseberries, Canned 252 

Gooseberries, Spiced 259 

Graham Bread 143 

Graham Gems 147 

Graham Pudding 161 

Grape Jelly 255 

Grape Juice 286 

Green Pea Soup 10 

Green Turtle Soup 5 

Griddle Cakes 150 

H 

Halibut a la Poulette 22 

Halibut, Escalloped 22 

Ham, Boiled 44 

Ham, Minced 121 

Ham Omelette 134 

Ham Patties 120 

Ham Sandwiches 247 

Hard Sauce 192 

Hash 120 

Hash, Corned Beef 82 

Hawaiian Curry 58 

Hegeree 119 

Herring's Potted ] 29 

Herring Salad 96 

Hollandaise Sauce 51 

Horse Radish Sauce 51 

Household Economy 289 

How to Keep House witli One 

Servant 243 

Huckleberry Muffins 140 



INDEX 



313 



I Page. 

ce Cream and Ices 197 

ce Cream, Baked Apple 198 

ce Cream, Banana 199 

ce Cream, Bisque 198, 200 

ce Cream, Caramel 199 

ce Cream, Chocolate 198 

ce Cream, Cocoanut 208 

ce. Cream, CofEee 200 

ce Cream, Fruit 108 

ce Cream, Lemon 198, 200 

ce Cream, Neapolitan 197 

ce Cream, Peach 195 

ce Cream, Philadelphia 197 

ce Cream, Strawberry 199 

ce Cream, Vanilla 198 

ce Cream Sauces 208, 209 

ces (Sherbets) 201 

ce. Bonanza Punch 206 

ce, Cherry 201 

ce. Claret 204 

ce. Cranberry 205 

ce. Ginger 203 

ce. Grape 209 

ce, Lemon 205 

ce, Lemon Ginger 202 

ce. Milk 204 

ce. Mint 205 

ce, Orange 204 

ce. Pineapple 204 

ce, Pomegranite 203 

ce, Romaine 206 

ce, Roman Punch 207 

cings 237 

ndian Pudding 162 



nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 
nval 



d Cooking 275 

d Apple Soup 276 

d Barley Water 277 

d Beef Juice 275 

d Beef Tea 275, 279 

d Blanc Mange 278 

d Bread Soup 279 

d Champagne Whey 276 

d Chicken Broth 275 

d Chicken Jelly 279 

d Clam Broth 275 

d Coffee 276 

d Cough Mixture 281 

d Crackers, Creamed 278 

d Cream Soup 276 

d Egg Broth 278 

d Egg, Iced 279 

d Egg-Nog 278 

d Flour Porridge 277 

d Junket 277 

d Koumiss 277 

d Mustard Plaster 280 

d Mutton Broth 275 

d Panada 280 

d Rice Jelly 277 



Page. 

Invalid Rice Water 276 

Invalid Rum Punch 276 

Invalid Rye CofEee 278 

Invalid Tapioca 278 

Invalid Toast Water 276 

Invalid Wine Whey 277 

J 

Jam, Raspberry 254 

Jam, Strawberry 254 

Jambalaya 127 

Jellies, Fruit 255 

Jellies, Apricot 255 

Jellies, Currant 256 

Jellies, Grape 255 

Jellies, Raspberry 255 

Jellies, Strawberry 255 

Jellies, Gelatine 184 

Jellies, Cream 184 

Jellies, CofCee 186 

Jellies, Lemon 186 

Jelly Roll 223 

Junket (Invalid) 277 

K 

Kentucky Roll 163 

Kidneys 62 

Kidney Pudding 63 

Kisses 230 

Koumiss Invalid) 277 

L 

Lactiola Dressing 91 

Lamb, Leg of 36 

Lancashire Pie 124 

Laundry Soap 293 

Lemon Beer 286 

Lemon Cake 219, 229 

Lemon Honey 173 

Lemon Ice Cream 198, 200 

Lemon Jelly 186 

Lemon Pie 153 

Lemon Pudding 176 

Lemon Sherbet 205 

Lemon Sauce 194 

Lemon Tarts 157 

Library Paste 295 

Lobster a la Newburg 82 

Lobster Baskets 67 

Lobster Salad 95 

M 

Macaroni 59, 117 

Maccaroons, Chocolate 228 

Maccaroons, Cocoanut 229 

Maccaroons, Hickory Nut 229 

Macedoine Salad 96 

Mackerel Balls 129 

Maple Sugar Sauce (Ice Cream). 208 



314 



INDEX 



Page. 

Maple Sugar Sauce 193 

Marguerites 228 

Marmalade, Orange 257 

Mayonnaise 89 

Meats 35 

Meats and Accompaniments 48 

Meat Pie 41 

Meat. Pressed 124 

Meat Sandwiches 247, 249 

Meat Sauces 49 

Mince Meat 152 

Mint Sorbet 205 

Mint Sauce 50 

Miscellaneous Hints 293 

Mock Duck 42 

Molasses Cakes 227 

Molasses Candy 272 

Mousse, Chocolate 200 

Mousse, Strawberry 200 

Muffins 148 

Muffins. Graham 147 

Muffins, Huckleberry 146 

Mushrooms 86 

Mushrooms, Baked 66 

Mushrooms, Creamed 131 

Mushroom Entree 66 

Mushroom Salad 102 

Mushrooms on Toast 130 

Musta a Pickle 261, 265 

Mustard Plaster 280 

Mutton Broth (Invalid) 275 

Mutton, Crown 36 

Mutton, Curried 40 

Mutton Dressing 48 

Mutton, Leg of 37 

Mutton, Scallop 119 

Mutton, Stew 41 

N 

Noodles 15 

Nut Cake 222 

Nut Candy 272 

Nut and Cheese Salad 104 

Nut Jelly Salad 103 

Nut Salad 103 

Nut Pudding 162 

Nut Sandwiches 246 

O 

Okra Soup 5 

Olive Sandwiches 249 

Omelette 133 

Omelette 80 

Omelette, Cheese 81 

Omelette, Ham 134 

Omelette, Oyster 81, 134 

Omelette, Peas 81 

Omelette, Quaking 134 

Omelette, Souffle 135, 182 



Page. 

Omelette, Tomato 133 

Onions, Baked Ill 

Onions, Fried 112 

Onion Sauce 54 

Onion Tart 112 

Orange Cake 219 

Orange Charlotte 178 

Orange Cream 176 

Orange Marmalade 257 

Orange Pie 154 

Orange Pudding 169 

Orange Salad 102 

Orange Sherbet 204 

Oysters a la Poulette 30 

Oysters beure noir 27 

Oyster Blankets 29 

Oyster Bouillon 7 

Oysters, Celeried 29 

Ovster Cocktail 25 

Oysters, Creamed 26, 84 

Oysters, Curried 84 

Oysters, Deviled 27 

Oysters, Bscalloped 29 

Oysters, Fricassee 26, 83 

Oysters, Fried 28 

Oysters, Frizzled 26 

Oyster Kabobs 29 

Oysters and Mushrooms 31 

Oysters on Toast 28 

Oyster Patties 32 

Oyster Salad 102 

Oyster Sandwiches 249 

Oyster Sauce 85 

Oyster Soup 6 

Oysters In Shells 27 

Oyster Toast 84 

Oysters Toasted 28 

Oyster Plant 110 

P 

Panada 280 

Parsley Butter 51 

Pastry 151 

Patties, Oyster 31 

Patties, Crab 32 

Patties, Potato 65 

Pea Soup (Green) 10 

Pea Soup (Split) 9 

Peaches, Brandied 257 

Peaches, Canned 253 

Peach Cobbler 163 

Peach Ice Cream 198 

Peach .Telly 253 

Peach Mangoes 258 

Peach Snowballs 180 

Peaches, Walled 169 

Pears. Baked 169 

Pears, Canned 253 

Pear Salad 100 



INDEX 



315 



Page. 

Pecan Salad 103 

Peppers (Salad) 100 

Peppermints 268 

Piccalilli 263 

Pickles 251 

Pickles. Chow-Chow 264 

Pickles, Cucumber 264 

Pickles, Mustard 261, 265 

Pickles, Tomato 263 

Pickles, Sweet 257, 263 

Pie, Apple 154 

Pie, Custard 155 

Pie, Cherry 155 

Pie, Cocoanut 156 

Pie, Cream 154 

Pie Currant 155 

Pie, Lemon 153 

Pie, Mince 152 

Pie, Orange 154 

Pie, Pumpkin 156 

Pie, Pineapple 156 

Pie Crust 151 

Pigeons, Stewed 45 

Pilaf 116 

Pineapple Ice 204 

Pineapple Pie 15 

Pineapple Pudding 183 

Pineapple Tapioca Pudding. . . . 183 

Pinoche 271 

Plums, Canned 252 

Plum Jelly 256 

Plum Pudding 159. 160 

Plums, Spiced 258 

Pomegranate Sherbet 203 

Popcorn Candy 274 

Pop-Overs 148 

Pork and Beans 122 

Pork Tenderloins 44 

Pot Roast 41 

Potatoes, au Gratln 105 

Potatoes, Creamed au Gratin. . . 108 

Potatoes, Creamed 105 

Potato Croquettes 106 

Potatoes, Duchesse 106 

Potatoes and Eggs 107 

Potatoes, Escalloped 106 

Potatoes, French Fried 107 

Potatoes, Half Shell 106 

Potatoes, Moulded 108 

Pototo Patties 65 

Potato Puffs 105 

Potato Salad 97 

Potato Soup 13 

Potatoes, Sweet 108 

Potato Timbales 107 

Potato Yeast 139 

Pound Cake 225 

Preserves 251 

Prunes, to Cook 164 



Page. 

Prune Float 165 

Prune Jelly (Invalid) 279 

Prune Pudding 166 

Prunes, Stuflfed 166 

Prune Toast 130 

Prune Whip 165 

Pudding Sauces 191 

PufE Paste 151 

Pumpkin Pie 156 

Punches, Frozen 206 

Punches (Invalid) 276 

Punch 286, 287 

Q 
Quail 46 

Radishes, Stufifed 104 

Ragout 44 

Raisin Puff 169 

Ramaquins 72 

Rarebit, Welsh 71 

Raspberries, Canned 251 

Raspberry Cream 184 

Raspberry Jam 254 

Raspberry Meringue 156 

Raspberry Salad 101 

Raspberry Shrub 284 

Ribbon Cake 223 

Rice Cakes 150 

Rice, Dessert 172 

Rice, Fricassee Ill 

Rice Jelly (Invalid) 277 

Rice Pudding 172 

Rice Water (Invalid) 276 

Rice with Cheese Ill 

Rolls 139, 142 

Rolls, Parker House 141 

Roly-Poly 163 

Roman Punch 207 

Romaine 206 

Roxbury Pudding 168 

Ruby Cream 181 

Rum Sauce (Ice Cream) 209 

Russian Entree 58 

S 

Sago Soup 10 

Salads 89 

Salad, Apple 97, 100 

Salad, Asparagus 98 

Salad, Banana 100 

Salad, Beet 98 

Salad, Cabbage 101 

Salad, Cauliflower 101 

Salad, Cherry 100 

Salad, Chestnut 99 

Salad, Chicken 93, 102 

Salad. Cottage Cheese 99 

Salad. Cucumber 100 



310 



INDEX 



Page. 

Salad, Egg 93 

Salad Herring 96 

Salad, Lobster 95 

Salad, Macedoine 96, 99 

Salad, Mushroom 102 

Salad, Nut 103 

Salad, Nut and Cheese 104 

Salad, Orange 102 

Salad, Oyster 102 

Salad, Pear 100 

Salad, Pecan 103 

Salad, Peppers 98, 100 

Salad, Potato 97 

Salad, Raspberry 101 

Salad. Salmon 95 

Salad, Sardine 94 

Salad, Shrimp 94 

Salad, Sweetbread 99 

Salad, Tomato 98 

Salad, Tomato Baskets 102 

Salad, Tomato Jelly 97 

Salad, Truffle 101 

Salad, Veal 94 

Salad, Waldorf 97 

Salad Dressing 92 

Salad Dressing, Boiled 91 

Salad Dressing, Cooked 91 

Salad Dressing, Cold Slaw 92 

Salad Dressing, Cream 90 

Salad Dressing, French 92 

Salad Dressing, Fruit 93 

Salad Dressing, Lactiola 91 

Salad Dressing, Mayonnaise.... 89 
Salad Dressing, Sour Cream .... 90 

Salmon, Baked 21 

Salmon, Cutlets 69 

Salmon, Moulded 21 

Salmon, Potted 129 

Salmon Salad 95 

Sally Lunn 145 

Salsify 110 

Salted Almonds 70 

Sand Tarts 230 

Sandwiches 245 

Sardine Salad 94 

Sauces, Fish 49 

Sauces, Ice Cream 208, 209 

Sauces, Meat 49 

Sauces, Pudding 191 

Sausage 129, 130 

Savory Pyramids 127 

Scrambled Eggs 80 

Scrapple 127 

Sherbets (See Ices) 201 

Sherbet, Ginger 202 

Sherbet, Lemon 205 

Sherbet, Milk 204 

Sherbet Orange 204 

Sherbet, Pomegranate 205 



Page. 

Sherbet, Three of a Kind 203 

Short Cake 189 

Shrimps a la Creole 85 

Shrimps a la Poulette 85 

Shrimp Salad 94 

Shrub, Raspberry 284 

Sick Room (See Invalid Cook- 
ery) 275 

Silver Cakp 213 

Smelts 19 

Snowballs 170 

Snow Pudding 173 

Soap, Laundry 293 

Soap, Soft 293 

Sorbet, Cranberry 205 

Sorbet, Mint 205 

Souffle, Cheese 73 

Souffle, Egg 135 

Souffle, Omelette Pudding 182 

Soups, Asparagus 11 

Soups, Bean, Black 12 

Soup, Bean, Turtle 12 

Soup, Bouillon 1 

Soup, Bouillon, Chicken 2 

Soup, Bouillon, Oyster 7 

Soup, Brown 2 

Soup, Celery 13 

Soup, Cheese 4 

Soup, Chicken, Mock 5 

Soup, Clam Broth 8 

Soup, Clam Chowder 8 

Soup, Claret 8 

Soup, Corn Chowder 8 

Soup, Crab 6 

Soup, Crab Bisque 7 

Soup, Green Turtle 5 

Soup, Mutton Cream 4 

Soup, Okra 5 

Soup, Oyster 6 

Soup, Pea (Green) 10 

Soup, Pea (Split) 9 

Soup, Potato 13 

Soup, Printannier Maigre 11 

Soup, Sago 10 

Soup, Spice 3 

Soup, Spinach 11 

Soup, Tomato 14 

Soup, Veal 3 

Soup, Wine 9 

Soup, vert pre 10 

Soup, Yellow 10 

Spanish Cream 182 

Spice Cake 224 

Spinach 109 

Spinach Soup 10 

Sponge Cake 214, 215 

Sponge Pudding 170 

Sponge Whips 177 

Stains, to Remove 295 



INDEX 



317 



Page. 

Squash, Summer Ill 

Strawberries, Canned 254 

Strawberry Jam 254 

Strawberries, Preserved 254 

Strawberry Ice Cream 199 

Strawberry Gelatine 184 

Strawberry Mousse 200 

Strawberry Short Cake 189 

Strawberry Tarts 157 

Steamed Pudding 161 

Succotash 109 

Suet Pudding 160 

Sunshine Calie 226 

Sweetbreads, Breaded 65 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 64, 81 

Sweetbread Fritters 65 

Sweetbreads, Moct 65 

Sweetbread Patties 64 

Sweetbread Salad 99 

Sweetbread Timbales 126 

Sweetbreads with Peas 82 

Sweet Pickles 260. 265 

Sweet Potatoes 108 

T 

Tapioca Cream 171 

Tapioca (Invalid) 278 

Tapioca, Pineapple 183 

Tartare Sauce 54 

Tarts, Almond 157 

Tarts, Banbury 157 

Tarts, Lemon 157 

Tarts, Mocha 218 

Tarts Strawberry 157 

Tenderloins, Pork 44 

Terrapin Chicken 60 

Timbales, Chicken 125 

Timbales, Egg 137 

Timbales, Salmon 23 

Timbales, Sweetbread 126 

Tipsy Cake 187 

Toast Water (Invalid) 276 

Tomato Baskets 102 

Tomato Catsup 260 

Tomatoes. Creamed 115 

Tomatoes, Escalloped 115 

Tomatoes, Green, Spiced 262 

Tomato Omelette 133 

Tomato Pickles, Sweer 262 

Tomato Salad 97, 98 

Tomato Soup 14 

Tomatoes, Spiced 261 

Tomatoes, Stuflfed 114 

Tomato Toast 120 

Tongue 39 



Page. 

Tongue, Jellied 40 

Trifle, A 88 

Trufhe Salad 101 

Turbot 19 

Turkey Croquettes 61 

Turkey Hash 121 

Turkey, Roast 39 

Turkish Delight 273 

Tutti Frutti 254 

Tutti Frutti Ice 203 

V 

Vanity Pudding 181 

Veal Blanchette 42 

Veal Croquettes 62 

Veal Cutlets 38 

Veal, Jellied 43, 122 

Veal Loaf 123 

Veal Olives 58 

Veal Salad 94 

Veal Soup 3 

Veal with Macaroni 59 

Vegetable Oyster Soup 13 

Vegetable Sauce 53 

Vegetable Soup H 

Venison Steak 44 

Vert Pre Soup 10 

W 

Wafers, Peanut 234 

Wafers, Walnut 233 

Waffles 149 

Waldorf Clam Broth 8 

Waldorf Salad 97 

Washington Pie 185 

Water Ice 204 

Watermelon Pickle 264 

Welsh Rarebit 71 

Wheat Flakes 131 

White Cake 212 

White Fruit Cake 222 

White Sauce 52 

Wild Duck 45 

Wine Jelly 186 

Wine Sauce 193 

Wine Soup 9 

Wine Whey (Invalid) 277 

Wines, Blackberry 285 

Wines, Cherry 285 

Y 

Yeast, Potato 139 

Yellow Soup 10 

Yorkshire Pudding 47 



<$> 
<$> 




from Libbj's f imous Hygienic kitchens, 
where purity prevails. All meats used in 

LIBBY'S 
Natural Flavor 
Food Products 

are V. S. Government Inspected. 

Keep in the house for emergencies — for 
suppers, for sandwiches — for any time 
when you want something good and want 
it quick. Simply turn a key and the can 
is open. An appetizing lunch is ready in 
an instant. 

t LIBBY, McNeill & LIBBY, CHICAGO. 

Write for our free booklet, "How to Make 
Good Things to Eat' 



^ 



<s> 




Great 

American Importing 

Tea Company 



)PER_AT1NG 


lOO STOR-E 


Teas 


Chinaware 


Coffees 


Crockery 


Spices 


Glassware 


Baking 


Platedware 


Powder 


Enamelware 


Chocolates 


Household 


Cocoas 


Goods 


1 PORTERS 


DISTRIBUTOF 



908 Second Ave. 

Phone Blue 801 Seattle, Wash. 



It Pays to Shop 




At ©L Relia-ble CARPET 
aLAd FUR.NITUR.E Store 



We furnish houses complete, 
cheaper and better than any 
house in the state. 



Daulton Carpet Co. 

Established in business in Seattle 15 years 

Cor. First Avenue and Spring Street 



HOLYOKE BLOCK 



WE ARE SOLE AGENTS 



FOR.- 



Lililiey Gut Glass 
Roojdwood Art Pottery 
Edgerton Gliina 



Our many lines of Haviland 
and other French Chinas will give 
you an extensive choice when 
selecting a dinner set. 

New arrivals in choice Vases, 
Bric-a-Brac, Fine Lamps, Etc. 



M. SELLER & CO. 

First Ave. and Madison St. 

SEATTLE, WASH. 



319 



D. I. BUKKHART, D. D. S. 

A. B. Palmer, D. D. S. 

BURKHART & PALMER 

DENTISTS 

Lumber Exchange, Second Ave. and 
Seneca St. 



Telephone, Red 876 



Seattle 



THE CURTIS STUDIO 



SEATTLE 



HAYNES 

CANDY STORE AND ICE CREAM 
PARLORS 



Luncheon Specialties 

Cream Wafers. Salted Nuts, Fancy 
Paper Cases, Doileys, Chop Frills, etc- 



Phone, Main 1111 813 Second Ave 



SILVERFIELD FUR 
MANUFACTURING CO. 

THE LEADING FURRIERS OP THE 
WEST 

1330 Second Ave. 



DR. CECIL L.TENNY 
DENTIST 

214-215 Lumber Exchange Bldg. 
Tel. James 2681 Seattle, Wash. 



C. A. HOLMES, D. D. S. 



Rooms 36 and 27 Colman Building 

Telephone Black 741 

Seattle, Washington 



SHERMAN, CLAY & CO. 

MUSIC 

Small Instruments and Musical 
Merchandise 

PIANOS AND ORGANS 
FINE PIANO TUNING 

Phone, Main 415 711 Second Ave. 



E. B. EDGERS.D.D.S. 

220-221 Bailey Building 



Seattle, 



Washington 



PATRONIZE 

OUR 

ADVERTISERS 



G. MCGREGOR 
DENTIST 

First and Madison Globe Block 



320 

CHAFING DISHES 



SILVER AJJD CUT GLASS 
^ ^ TABLE ^VARE ^< ^ 



V 



LATVRENCE L. MOORE CO. 

DIAMONDS. WATCHES. JEWELRY 

705 SECOND AVENTJE - - _ - SEATTLE, WASH. 

KENNEDY DRUG CO, 

SUCCESSORS TO 

STEWART & HOLMES RETAIL 

FOOT OF CHERRY STREET 

Our Drug Store is convenient, we want you to make it so, 

TPT PPnnNF<i / SUNSET, MAIN 35 
JbLbfHUNbb I jj^DEPENDENT 35 

Special Facilities for Ladies City Calls Promptly Answered 

Physician in Attendance 

Battle £mk Sanitarium 

TREATMENT ROOMS 612 THIRD AVE. TELEPHONE RED 3096 

A NEW DEPARTMENT 

Ear, Throat and Lung Treatment by Latest Scientific Apparatus 
OUR. SPECIALTIES 

Massage, Electricity, Salt Glows, Electric Light and Russian Baths, 
Packs, Fomentations, etc, 

SEATTLE, - - - WASHINGTON 

PHONE 

THE SEATTLE TRANSFER CO. 

FOR 

CARRIAGE, Main 41. Ind. 41 

BAGGAGE. Main 41. Ind. 41 

or FREIGHT AND FURNITURE MOVING 

Main 46, Ind. 46 



321 




DON'T FORGET 

That it requires no preparation or 
coaxing to make 

Cbc 6arland 
$tove$ and Ranges 

WORK 

They are always ready, and with 
them "it is simply impossible to do 
poor baking. You will not he able to 
find their equal. 

SOLE AGENTS 

^ GEORGE H.WOODHOUSE CO. 

^ 1409 SECOND AVE 

^ Tel. Main 944 TIN WORK AND PLUMBING 



J. A, Baillargeon d Co, 



DRY GOODS 



SECOND AVENUE AND JAMES STREET 



Ttie Coffee that's Alw^ays Good 

G0LO SHIELD 

SCHWABACHER BROS. & CO., (Inc.) 
SKATPT^LK, - " - WASH. 



IMPORTER OF DIAMONDS 



RICH CUT GLASS 



ALBERT HANSEN 

WATCHES ^ JEWELRY ^ SILVERWARE ^ ETC. 

Fine Watcln and Je>A/elry Repairing 

706 FIRST AVE. SEATTLE 



;S 



-/, 



f 



DEC 7 -1903 

322 

NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA 

(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP CO ) 

CAPITAL, YEN 22,000,000 
FLEET, TONS, - 242,000 

HEAD OFFICE, TOKIO, JAPAN 

Telegraphic Address, "Morioka, Tokio" 
A. L and A. B. C. Codes Used 

HONG KONG-AMERICA LINE 

FORTNIGHTLY SERVICE BETWEEN 

SEATTLE AND HONG KONG 

IN CONNECTION WITH 

THE GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO. 



I THE CHEAPEST RATES FOR ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS 



THE SERVICE is maintained with six steamers, of which the 
"Aki Maru," the "Shinano Maru," the "Kaga Maru," and "lyo Maru" 
are new twin screw steamers over 6,300 tons. 

Of the above mentioned steamers, the "Aki Maru" is the newest; 

having been completed in February of this year. She has superb 

accommodation for fifty first-class passengers amidship on the upper and 

1 bridge decks, while the whole of the upper bridge deck, with the excep- 

.* tion of the captain's cabin and a smoking room, is devoted to promenad- 

^ ing purposes. The spacious and elegantly fitted dining saloon on the 

^ upper deck and the luxuriously furnished library above with walls 

panelled in cut velvet pictures representing noted scenic beauties of 

Japan, are worthy of special attention. A well qualified surgeon on 

I board each of the six steamers attends gratis to passengers, and stew- 

« ardesses are employed on the four vessels enumerated above. 

I OTHER SERVICES OF THE NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA 

' EUROPEAN LINE, Fortnightly; AUSTRALIAN LINE, Four Weekly; 

BOMBAY LINE, Four Weekly; YOKOHAMA-SHANGHAI LINE, Weekly; 
KOBE-VLADIVOSTOCK LINE, Fortnightly; KOBE-COREA-NORTHCHINA 
LINE>, Fortnightly; KOBE-TIENTSIN LINE, Fortnightly; KOBE-TIENTSIN 
DIRECT LINE, Twice a Month; KOBE-NEWCHWANC LINE, Fortnightly; 
i, KOBE-OTARU LINE, Eastern Route Every Three Days, Western Route 

i Weekly; KOBE-KEELUNC LINE, Four Times a Month. 

i^ AGENTS 

F, M. STUDLEY, A. B. C. DEN NISTON, 

Local Manager, N. Y. K. G.W.P.A., G.N.Ry., 612 First Ave , Seattle, Wash. 

S. J. ELLISON, 

G. A. (1. N. Ry. Co., 4i:i liroadvvay, New York. 
In the Principal Cities of America the Agents of the Great Northern R'y Represent the Nippon Yusen Kaisha 



21 1« 



K^°^ 



i^^-n^ 



<^'=U. 



%;»-\/^ V»V V«-'y-\ V^^ 








'o.-^f'*/ -V--^'./ %*'^-*/ **^'T?^ 















/^,'^^'\ <.°*.is£l.>o /\-i;:^'\ c-" -^^ 






*- !•* .-A^A'. %..^ :W&'. **..** .-^tS^'. V.^" 



*<•<*' 
,/\. 



V<^^ 







rr>* A 



*^ ' • - "^^ ^0 «. "» " " * O JJ 



















o 







.^^ 



^^r^ 




