
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 




Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 



r 



y Google 



y Google 



y Google 



THE " QUEEN " COOKERY BOOKS. 



y Google 



LIST OP PREVIOUS PARTS. 



No. 1. Soups. 

„ 2. Ices. 

„ 3. Pickles and Preserves. 

„ 4. Entrees. 

„ 5. Meat and Game. 

„ 6. Sweets (Part 1). 
» 7. „ (Part 2). 

„ 8. Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. 

„ 9. Salads, Sandwiches, and Savouries. 

„ 10. Vegetables. 

„ 11. Cakes and Biscuits. 

„ 12. Fish (Part 1). 

These will he followed hy : 
Fish (Part 2). Household Hints. 



y Google 



THE "QUEEN" COOKERY BOOKS. 



No. 12. 

FI S H. 

(PART I.) 

COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED B7 

S. BEATY-POWNALL, 

Departmental Editor " Housewife and Cuisine," Queen Newspaper, 
and Author of " A Book of Sauces." 



LONDON : 

HORACE COX, 

'QUEEN" OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, 

BEEAM'S BUILDINGS, E.G. 

1903. 



y Google 



I/>H\. L:^ 
V. iJ 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE* BREAM'S BUTLDINQS, B.C. 



y ^ , )iaitiz«d by 



Google 



PEEFAOE. 

Little, if any, originality is claimed for the 
following recipes, most of which have appeared in 
the Cookery columns of the Qtieen during the 
last eight or nine years, from whence they have 
been collected at the request of many readers of 
the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not 
always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- 
ever, been given, to bring this little work as much 
up to date as possible; but all these, like the 
previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are 
all (as I know from practical experience) well within 
the capacity of any ordinary "good plain cook," 
gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. 
I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- 
ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of 
standard foreign cookery books, and also to ofEer 
my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and 
several other well-known chefs, whose kindness 
has so materially helped and rendered possible my 
work in these last years. 

S. Beaty-Pownall. 

May, 1903. 



y Google 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. PAGE 

Fish in Greneral 1 

CHAPTER n. 

Fish in General (continued) 16 

CHAPTER III. 
Fish in Particular ... ... 44 

CHAPTER IV. 

Fish in Particular (conttnu^d) 76 

CHAPTER V. 

Shell Fish 130 

CHAPTER VI. 

Garnishes, Sauces, &c. 152 



y Google 



Advertisements. 



^^' 



nent to the 
le Prince of 
les. 



. ills 

D. S. F. 

MUSTARD. 

See that Colman*8 name is on the Tin. 



CORN FLOUR. 

For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. 



Self-Rising 
Flour. 

For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Paddings. 
Scones, jcc. 



io8, CANNON STRBBT, LONDON, 
and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FISH. 



CHAPTEE I. 
FISH IN GENEEAL. 

It is probable tliat few cooks, or, for that matter, few 
housekeepers of any degree, fully realise '"he value of 
fish as a food, and still lees do they grasp the infinite 
variety of methods by which it may be treated. It may 
be granted at once that the amount of flesh-forming 
material it supplies compares unfavourably with 
that contained in butcher's meat or even poultry; 
but as against this, flsh is rich in phosphorus 
(of which it contains a large proportion), a substance 
which all know is invaluable as a brain food. Needless 
probably to remark that the nutritive value, and the 
digestibility alike, of fish vary in the different kinds. 
The class known as oily fish, for instance, such as 
herring, salmon, &c., contain the largest amount of 
nourishment; whilst white fish, such as turbot, 
flounders, plaice, whiting, haddock, &c., contain the 
least; per contra, these are the lightest of digestion, 
and it is easy to supply additional food value by the 
method of cooking, or when, as in this country, they 



y Google 



2 PISH. 

are plain boiled, by the sauce served with them. Hence 
the raison d^itre of our fiayo^lrite "melted bn€fcer." 
Fish such as salmon, eels, mackerel, and any of the 
herring tribe, are rendered indigestible by the amount 
of oily fat about them, which, even when fresh, 
disagrees with persons of delicate digestion, and if the 
least overkept becomeB absolutely unwholesome, not 
to say poisonous. As a general principle fish cannot 
be eaten too fresh. I am aware that fishmongers will 
not agree with me, and quite admit that to many 
persons a certain amount of keeping improves the 
flavour. This, of course, is a matter of individual taste 
and local convenience ; but the fact remains that, from 
a digestive point of view, fish loses steadily with every 
hour it is out of water. The same rule applies to 
shellfish, though even at their very freshest the digesti- 
bility of lobsters, crabs, and the like cannot be 
guaranteed. Some may eat them with impunity, but 
others emphatically do not I 

Local oonvenience, as said before, may require 
that fish should be kept before use, inland especi- 
ally, and far this purpose fishmoDgers recommend 
the laiiger fish, asserting that they require a few 
days to "mellow." What that means with salmon, 
ask a Highlander, who thinks the royal fish uneatable 
unless the flesh is firm, crisp (needing to be actually 
bitten), and sti'eaked between the flakes with a creamy 
curd, which disappears within twenty-four hours or so 
of the fish being "grassed." Strange as this may 
appear, the same remark applies also to turbot, ood, 
and, indeed, to all fish in good condition, though few 
people have the luck to taste these fish absolutely fresh 
out of the water. Moreover, all these fish retain so 
much flavour that 1 have known even gourmets intro- 
duced to salmon or turbot for the first time in their 
absolutely fresh condition, complain of a lack of 
mellowness in the fish as compared with that obtainable 
in town ! We all probably know the story of the Scotch 



y Google 



PISH IN GENERAL. 3 

laird who, meeting with this complaint from a valued 
Southern guest, and divining its origin, quietly sent 
the salmon intended for the evening meal for a ride 
in front of his groom on a hot summer's day, and was 
rewarded — ^f or what was, to him, almost sacrilege — by the 
pleasure of his friepd on getting a "really first-rate 
fish, my dear sir I" It is to this keeping (which is, in 
truth, the initial stage of decomposition) that a great 
deal of the indigestibility attributed to salmon, Ac, 
is due. Herring and its kin, to say nothing of mackerel, 
resent the attempt to keep them, and revenge this 
attempt so fiercely that one usually gets them in a 
(more than less) fresh state; but, unfortunately, this 
does not apply to other kinds, which we, in consequence, 
often eat when in a condition perilously near to being 
" unfit for human food." 

If, however, fish must be kept for a day or two, core 
must be taken in the storing. Many cooks par-cook 
their fish, and after drying them thoroughly, pat them 
aside in a cool place till wanted. Where fish has to be 
kept for over twelve or twenty-four hours, another plan 
is to scale the fish well and quickly with a sharp knife, 
split it up carefully, removing the gall entirely and 
thoroughly cleansing the fish inside, scraping the back- 
bone till perfectly clean and free from blood, rinsing 
out the fish again and again with plenty of cold water, 
finally rubbing it lightly all over inside with a little fine 
salt. It may now be either wrapped in a delicately 
clean cloth, freshly wrung out of strong salt and water 
(abroad special cloths are always kept for this purpose), 
and laid on a slab in a cool place, or it may be set, 
uncovered, on a slate or a block of ice. If to be kept 
longer it is best, after washing and drying the. fish, to 
rub it all over internally with a little fine salt and 
caster sugar, and store as before. In no case steep fish 
in plain cold water 1 Another point is never to store 
fish near other food, as it will certainly cause trouble.^ 

We nowadays seldom make the use of freshwater fish 
B 2 



y.Googk 



4 FISH. 

our anoestore did, when, ti'aiisit being difficult, sea fish 
could seldom be got in good condition, fresh, save just 
on the coast; so that if salted fish became monotonous 
the rivers, ponds and fish stews had to be utilised for 
fast days and vigils when the orthodox were bound to 
abstain from flesh. For this reason fish ponds are 
almost invariably found (or, at all events, the remains 
of thean) near the ruins of monasteries and convents, 
and even old mansions, though modern cooks despise 
the fish thus provided, dubbing them " coarse " and 
uneatable. In this, however, they make a mistake, as 
foreign cooks would speedily teach them, for abroad 
the list of eatable freshwater fish is not, as with us, 
confined to trout, salmon, and perhaps pike. The great 
secret in preparing this class of fish for the table lies 
in their being cleaned and cooked as soon as possible 
after they are caught. They should be killed directly 
they are landed, split open, the inside and any food left 
in the throat, &o., removed at onoe (the liver only 
Ishould be saved), and the whole fish well rinsed in the 
coldest water available. All large fish, such as salmon, 
pike, Ac, should, directly they are killed and cleansed, 
be "crimped," i.e-, cut several times with a sharp knife 
across the sides, at two inches intervals, before the 
rigor mortis or stiffening of the muscles sets in, as this 
makes the fish eat much crisper and firmer than if this 
process is neglected. Many people very justifiably will 
not touch crimped fisli, because in old days, rightly 
or wrongly, fishermen were supposed to gash the fish 
in this way directly it was landed, whilst yet alive ; but 
nowadays every fisherman worthy the name kills his 
fish the moment it is caught, with a stunning blow at 
the back of the neck at the juncture of the head and 
spine. 

Freshwater fish should always be taken from clean, 
and, if possible, running water, or it will be found to 
have a muddy taste which is very difficult to get rid 
of. To obviate this put the fish, such as bream, carp, 



y Google 



riSH IN GENERAL. 5 

chub, ar tench in a bath of salted, acidulated wat€«r (a 
good handful of salt and a gill of vinegar to the gallon 
of water), and let it steep in this for a little ; then rinse 
it well and use. 

To tell the freshness of fish examine them carefully ; 
the eyes should be bright and clear, and the gills a rosy 
red (both these signs, however, can be artificially 
produced, so beware of so-called " cheap" fishmongers !) ; 
the flesh should be firm and elastic, giving little or not 
at all when pressed with the finger; whilst if properly 
fresh no fish lies perfectly flat on the slab, but still 
retains some of the death stiffness. Many people say 
bruised or rubbed-off scales are a sign of staleness,'but 
this cannot always be relied on, as rough, handling or 
careless packing might account for it. 

As a general rule, if a fish is absolutely fresh and 
in prime condition, the more plainly it is cooked and 
the simpler the sauces, the better will be the result. 
If, however, the freshness of the fish is not so indisput- 
able (without actually accusing it of staleness), or if 
by nature the fish is somewhat dry or tasteless, the 
ccturt'houiUon for boiling, or more elaborate methods 
of cooking such as stewing, braising, &c., and rich and 
strongly-flavoured sauces, may be adopted. But the 
best Scotch or Christchurch salmon never tastes better 
than when served either plainly boiled, with a garnish 
of nicely cooked potatoes and a boatful of the water 
in which it was cooked ; or sliced, broiled over a clear 
fire, and sent to table with a cut lemon and a coralline 
or Nepal pepper caster as accompaniments. If you wish 
for filets de saumon a la anything you please, choose good 
Dutch or frozen fish, which will supply the required 
consistency and be improved by the additional flavour 
of the garnish or sauce chosen, though this would destroy 
the delicacy of the home-grown fish. Indeed the same 
rule may be applied to all fish. 

To hoil fish, choose a kettle that will just contain the 
pgh comfortably, for the less water used in boiling th© 



y Google 



« PISH. 

better will the fish be. For this reason many kitchens 
are furnished with two or more fish kettles to suit the 
different fish, and, indeed, the practice is not so 
extravagant as many housewives imagine. Having 
chosen your kettle, lay in the fish on the strainer that 
accompanies the kettle, and pour in sufficient water to 
oome between 2 to 3 inches above the fish; if more 
water is used the skin of the fish will crack and its 
flavour boil out into the water (which, being by many 
cooks thrown away as useless, is a distinct waste) ; this 
is the reason why the kettle should fit the fish. When 
laying the fish, if large, on the strainer, it is well to 
lace it down to the strainer with thin soft string, as 
this prevents all risk of its shifting and consequently 
breaking in the cooking. When boiling white fish a 
couple of teaspoonfuls of salt and a tablespoonful of 
good vinegar (or the juice of half a lemon) for each quart 
of water used makes the flesh beautifully white and 
adds to its firmness. The water used for fish should 
be boiling, for the cold water draws out the juices of 
the fish, thus enriching the liquid at the expense of the 
fish itself, which, unless the water in which the fish 
is boiled is used as a foundation for the accompanying 
sauce, is a waste. Let the wat«r boil up well in the 
kettle, then lay in the fish, and let the water reboil ; 
now draw the pan a little to the side, and keep its 
contents at a steady simmer till they are cooked. Ten 
minutes for the pound and a minute or two over is the 
average cooking time given, but this must, of course, 
be modified to suit the fish. For instance, a thick fish 
like a salmon will take, pound for pound, longer than 
a flat fish. So it is best to test the fish before lifting 
it out of the pan, and for this purpose Soyer's mode 
mAy be recommended; gently push a wooden skewer 
into the fish at the thickest part. If it goes in easily 
it is ready. In boiling, or rather, simmering, the fish, 
remember it must be carefully skimmed from the 
jpoment the scum begins to rise till |io niore wn be 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 7 

discovered, or the appearance of the fish will be utteriy 
spoilt. The moment the fish is cooked it must be lifted 
out of the cooking liquid, for if left to steep it wfll be 
woolly and tasteless ; at the same time it must be care- 
fully drained. For this lift it out of the pan with the 
strainer, and let it rest crosswise on the kettle, and 
if it has by any accident to wait longer, owing to 
unpunotuality, leave it in this position, covered with a 
doubled, hot, clean doth. Novices find considerable 
difficulty in lifting out the fish on to the dish it is to 
be served on, and frequently break it in the process. 
(This is often due either to over long or overfast boiling, 
for, unless simmered as advised above, fish is pretty sure 
to crack and break.) To avoid this a very ingenious 
strainer waa some time since put on the market, made 
to fold in the middle by bringing the handles together ; 
as long as they were apart the strainer was flat, but 
when they were closed the strainer itself separated and 
let the fish slip gently and unhandled on to the dish it 
was to be served on. If by any chance you have no 
strainer to your kettle, take a length of clean butter 
muslin, lay the fish on this, and so lower it gently into 
the kettle, allowing the ends to hang out under the 
kettle lid on both sides ; by this means it can be lifted 
out as in a hammock, when ready. The water in which 
a good fish was cooked should be strained and put aside 
for use when boiling other and perhaps less first-rate 
fish. For this purpose, however, or if the fish liquor is 
to be used for making the sauce, discretion must be 
observed in the amount of salt added to the liquor in the 
first instance. 

For inferior, or freshwater, and possibly somewhat 
coarser fish, if they are boUed, it is wisest to follow 
the French fashion and use a court-houiUon, of which 
there are several kinds. The best known are: I. — 
Ordinary c(mrt-houiU(m, made by putting into the kettle 
the requisite amount of water to cover the fish, as said 
above, adding to this a claret glassful of light whit^ 



y Google 



8 FISH. 

wine (French for choice) or half a claret glassful of 
strained lemon juice or vinegaXj a tahlespoonful of salt, 
a few peppercorns, a good bouquet (thyme, parsley, 
bayleaf, Ac), a sliced carrot, a sliced onion, and one 
stuck with two or three cloves. Let this all boil 
together for fifteen to twenty minutes, then well rub 
the fish to be cooked with lemon juice and lay it in the 
pan as before. As soon as the fish is cooked throw a 
tumblerful of cold water into the pan to throw the 
liquid off the boil; lift out the fish and serve. If not 
required for a few minutes the fish will take no harm 
if left in this liquor once it is thrown off the boil, though 
a prolonged soaking in any liquid spoils fish. This 
addition of cold water should, properly speaking, be 
always made to the liquid, whatever its nature, in which 
fish is oooiked. II. ib usually known as Court-houiUon 
au hleUf and is made by using equal parts of fish stock 
and light claret, with the addition of a good pat of 
butter. The red wine gives a dark-bluish tinge to the 
liquid (whence its name) and a pearly, almost opalescent, 
whiteness to the flesh of the fish thus cooked, which is 
much appreciated by connoisseurs. Indeed, gourmets 
aver that to be eaten in perfection red mullet should 
always be stewed in claret. III. — Court-houiUon a la 
Nantaise is a mixture of equal parts of milk and water, 
seasoned to taste with pepper and salt. This is much 
recommended for salt water fish, and salted fish 
especially, by French cooks. Of course, these three 
processes may be varied to suit tastes and circumstances, 
but they are the most usual ones. Lastly, there are fish 
and vegetable stocks moat useful for fast day or vege- 
tarian cookery. For the first, take the trimmings, such 
as the heads, tails, bones, cooked or raw (of course, if 
made of raw bones, &c., the stock will be the richer), 
of any firm white fish, such as cod, haddock, whitings, 
&c. , adding to these the shells of lobster, the heads and 
tails of shrimps left from sauce-making, &c., according 
to what you have ; a good bouquet, sliced carrots an4 



y Google 



nSH IN GENERAL. 9 

onions, a spoonful of lemon juice (the size of the spoon 
depends on the quantity of stock), a morsel of thinly- 
pared lemon rind, two or three cloves, and, if liked, a 
small piece of mace (these may be tied up in the bouquet 
or in a bit of muslin), with a few peppercorns and 
sufficient cold water to cover it all generously. The 
proportions for this stock are a quart of water, 2ioz. 
onions, the same of carrots, ^oz. of salt, and ioz. of 
pepper, for each pound of fish bones. I give the weight 
of the vegetables because to novices the words " small," 
" large," or " medium " are apt to be confusing. Bring 
this all well to the boil, skim it well, and allow it to 
simmer steadily, without boiling hard, at the side of 
the fire for rather over an hour ; then strain it off, leave 
it till cold, when it may be freed from fat, and is ready 
for use as a foundation for sauces, hisqiieSf or for cooking 
fish. It is also an excellent foundation for wat-er-souche, 
or, if clarified in the same way as meat consomme, with 
4oz. to 6oz. of raw white fish and the whites and shells 
of two or three eggs to the quart of stock, will make an 
excellent fish consomme. (Few people appear to know 
that a good fish stock made from a cod's head and 
trimmings, or lib. or 21b. of conger eel, is as good a 
foundation for mulligatawny as ever a fowl can be.) If 
this stock is required brown you fry the carrot, onion, 
herbs, &c., in a little butter, and when lightly browned 
lay in the fish (first carefully drying it on a clean cloth), 
and fry the whole togetlier for fifteen minutes, after 
which you pour in tlie cold water and finish the stock off 
as before. (Manifestly the court-houiUon used for cooking 
the fish will make a very good foundation for this fish 
stock.) Some cooks add a pinch of sugar to the 
vegetables before frying them, a practice which, if care- 
fully done, adds to the appearance, without affecting the 
flavour, of the stock. 

Fish glaze is made precisely like meat glaze by boiling 
down strong fish stock till reduced to a semi-liquid 
paste ; but always make the fish stock used for this 



y Google 



FISH- 
p..,p«e with vegetable t*^!j«^.i^»« j^ 

one part »S^\^"^" -Y.-ee homs or so; then w»— ^^ 

«d ««on«g may be ^ to fish cookery 

'^«. orfoTceme.t>a»»*«\^,^:Jt^t Jiaifficnlt 

cavenne, atew drops of e^e"*! ° ^^i^g the next , wtt^ 
^ woridng each m ^«*l^;°'Tit well with a ftdl win^ 
S,«nooth sieve it. and hW^^^^ P^«^„.d^ 

gla««fnl of white sauce ««• T^°^^Wesome) farce « mf** 
^re delicate W dso more troub ^^^jo ^ when 
by pounto* ilb. ^ ^^^ ^^d a winegh^rfid of t^" 
smooth the white <rfaa effi seasoning of s*^*'"*" 
donhle cream, with a hgW s«» ^xist be very 

pepper, and nutmeg, if hked. 1 H made with 

whiting, or with «^'»'? S'^eemayhe wed, and they 
qneneBeg) ; indeed any fish f aree 



PISH IN GENERAL. 11 

make such an attraotive garnish, it is well to practice 
the easily-acquired knack of making them. For soups, 
for instaoioe: Choose any nice fish farce, put this in a 
forcing bag with a pipe to suit the size you wish the 
quenelles to be, then force it out on to a well-buttered 
saute pan in little balls, pour in sufficient boiling water 
or clear fish stock, gently, to cover them, and iKMtch them 
from four to five minutes upwards, according to size. 
For soup garnish they should be the size of a pea. For 
larger quenelles take two spoons of the same size (this 
depends on the use you wish to make of your quenelles, 
and may vary from the smallest teaspoon to large table- 
spoons) and dip one in hot water till well heated ; then 
fill the other with the farce, smoothing this with a hot 
wet knife into a dome shape, having as much above the 
spoon as you have in the bowl. Now lay the hot, wet 
spoon over this dome, reverse the oold spoon, leaving 
the quenelle in the hot one, smooth the surface exposed 
lightly with the hot, wet knife, then gently turn the 
quenelles, as formed, into a buttered pan, being careful 
they do not touch, and pour in, very gently, at the side, 
sufficient boiling stock or water to cover them; watch 
this liquid reboil, then draw the pan to the side, and 
only allow the water to simmer till the quenelles are 
cooked, which they should be in from eight to twelve 
minutes according to size. (N.B. — In making quenelles 
it is always best to make a small one first, as then you 
can judge of the consistency of the mixture ; if too soft 
a little more of the pounded puree may be incorporated ; 
or if too stiflf — the most usual mistake — add either a 
little more sauce or a spoonful of whipped cream if 
handy.) 

Besides these farces, which may, of course, be made of 
any fish, shellfish or otherwise, in exactly the same way, 
there are simpler forms, such as the plain stuffing used 
for baked haddock, &o. For this, mince some nioe suet 
finely till you have just 2oz., then mix with this 3oz. 
of fine, freshly-made white breadcrumbs, a small table* 



y Google 



12 FISH. 

spoonful of herbs (either plain parsley or a mixture of 
bay leaf, parsley, and thyme, only keep the whole 
quantity the same in either case), season with a little salt 
and white pepper (adding, if liked, either a little essence 
of anohovy or a washed, boned, and minced anchovy), 
mix with one or two eggs, and work it all to a nice 
smooth mixture. This stuffing may be varied by adding 
to the above half a dozen minced sauce oysters, or some 
shelled shrimps or prawns, or some lobster carefully 
minced, the anchovy flavouring recommended, a very 
little milk, and a squeeze of lemon juice. In fact, 
forcemeats or stuffings may be varied almost infinitely 
according to the cook's taste and the materials at hand. 
In preparing forcameats, however, it is well to bear in 
mind the proper proportions of the ingredients, which 
are, roughly speaking, one part pounded meat, fish, Ac, 
one part panade, two-thirds of a part of suet or butter 
(in France calf s udder was always used for quenelles, 
but butter is now more generally liked), and rather 
less than one-eighth of a part of seasoning, such as salt, 
herbs, &c. Each ingredient should be well worked and 
pounded, first separately, then together, a process which, 
troublesome as it sounds, is in reality a great time and 
labour saver. Remember, intelligence must be used 
in quenelle making. For instance, if thick or whipped 
cream is mixed in, do not use as much butter or suet ; 
if a coarse or tasteless fish is used for the farce (as it 
often is), be a trifle more generous with your seasoning 
and flavouring than if a more delicate fish is in question, 
and so on. This will, of course, be the merest ABC 
to the professed cook ; but for such erudite persons this 
booklet is not intended ! It may, by the way, be men- 
tioned that panade is made thus: Put on half a pint of 
water with loz. of butter and a pinch of salt ; bring this 
well to the boil, and when boiling mix in four large table- 
spoonfuls of fine sifted flour, and cook this altogether to 
a thick, smooth paste at the side of the stove for about 
five minutes, stirring it occasionally. Use when cool, 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 13 

If a richer flavour is desired, this panade may be made 
with milk or stock instead of water. It is practically a 
firm kind of white roux. As its name implies, panade 
was originally (and still often is) made with bread, 
scalded with milk, stock, or water, wrung out, and again 
worked up with liquid and pounded, but, personally, the 
first method appears to me best. In either case the 
mixture should be cooked, stirring it well, till it will 
come quite dear from the sides of the pan, and must 
never be used till cold. 

Fishy to Clean. — Fish bought in towns are natur- 
ally sent home cleansed and trimmed, but in 
the country this caimot be depended on, especially 
in a house whose head is an euthusiafitic fisher- 
man, so it may be well to remember a few rules on 
this subject. Flat fish, such as soles, &c., are cleansed 
through the gills, or else by means of a cut made across 
the dark side of the fish close to the gill covers. Fish 
which swim vertically, i.e., back up, are cleansed by 
slitting down the abdomen. After i^moving the inside, 
well wash out the fish with several waters to get it quite 
fresh and dean, being particularly careful to break 
through a skin which lies under the backbone and 
contains a quantity of blood, which must, of course, be 
waahed away. If small fish contain roe this is left in, 
but if the fish is large it must be taken out and cooked 
separately to ensure its being properly done. When 
the fish is not skinned it must be scaled, which is done 
by holding it by the tail and scraping off tlie scales 
upwards towards the head with a knife. The best plan 
with fish whose scales adhere very tightly, as do those of 
most freshwater fish, is to dip them first into absolutely 
boiling water, aa this loosens the scales. All fins are 
trinmied off with a strong pair of scissors (a special make 
may be had, but any really strong pair answers), with the 
exception of'turbot and skate, whose thick, gelatinous 
fins are by many considered a great delicacy. 

To skin fish you generally begin from the tail end, 



y Google 



14 FISH. 

but here again there are exceptions, such as haddodL, 
whitiug, &o., which must be skinned from the head 
towards the tail, or the flesh beneath would come off in 
flakes. For haddocks, &o., after removing the fins, you 
slip your fingers, previously well dipped in salt, under 
the skin close by the head, and, turning back the skin, 
draw it back towards the tail like a turned-out glove. 
For whiting you make a cut right down the middle of 
the back, when the skin will draw off in two halves. 

For flat fish the fins are first removed, then a out is 
made straight aorose at the root of the tail; next slip 
your thumb between the skin and the flesh, and pass it 
all round the edge of the fish. Dip the thumb and 
fingers of both hands in salt (to prevent slipping), grip 
the tail tightly with your left hand, and with the right 
lift a flap of skin large enough to hold on to, and draw 
this down towards the head. A sole is fairly easy to 
skin, though even that requires a little knack at first ; 
but some flat fish, notably plaice, are not at all easy to 
manage, the skin sticking so very tightly that very often, 
if only to be baked or fried, skinning is omitted ; if they 
are to be filleted, when, of course, the skin must be 
removed, the best way is to fillet the fish first and then 
lay the fillets on a board and, with a sharp knife, cut off 
the skin. 

Cooks are beginning to realise at last that there is no 
great difficulty for a neat-handed, intelligent woman in 
filleting fish. Formerly the services of the fishmonger 
were always called in, and neither mistress nor maid 
seemed to understand that the services thus rendered 
must be paid for, and they cheerfully sent to the fish- 
monger's for "fish cuttings" when fish soup was required, 
never apparently considering that these same cuttings 
were, in all probability, in part what had been trimmed 
off their own fish fillets, &c. Even if you cannot induce 
your oook to fillet the fish herself, insist on the trim- 
mings being sent with them, as even if you do not want 
to make soup, these trimmings will produce a gill or so of 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 16 

good fish stock that will vastly improve the quality of the 
melted butter sent to table with the fillets. French 
people are perfectly aware of this fact, and seldom, if 
ever, serve what we call melted butter with their fish, 
preferring what they would term veLouU maigre, i.e., 
melted butter made with fish stock, which can be 
flavoured, garnished, and enriched to any degree, and by 
any method used for vdoute gras, i.e., melted butter 
made with meat stock. 

To Fillet a Flat Fish. — ^After removing the fins close 
to the fish, you cut right through the flesh down to the 
bone, which marks the middle of the fish ; then slip the 
point of the knife along the bone under the flesh, 
working it backwards and forwards till you have lifted 
the flesh quite free from the bone and can get each fillet 
off whole on both sides of the spine ; then turn the fish 
over and repeat the process on the other side. This 
will give you four good fiUete, which, of course, may be 
subdivided to taste. For fish which swim back upwards 
you pass the knife right through the middle of the back, 
easing off the flesh downwards over the ribs; this, of 
course, only produces two fillets. With herring and 
mackerel there is also another way which may be 
adopted, for which you cut off the head and split the fish 
right down to the tail along the under side, spreading 
it back upwards on the board. Now press and rub up 
and down the whole length of the backbone till you feel 
it loosening from the flesh, when it can be generally 
lifted out whole, ribs and all. Filleting is an especially 
good way of treating herring, whose unpopularity is 
caused fully as much by their bones as by their cheapness ; 
for few people i^ist the charms of herring fillets d la 
d^uxeUe, d VAnvers, &c., though relatively few would 
look on broiled fresh herring with mustard sauce (good 
though this is, especially if the herring hails from Loch 
Fyne) as a dish to set before their friends on state 
occasions. 

Many fish of the coarse kind, and freshwater fish 



y Google 



16 FISH. 

especially, are stuffed, i.e., after deansing and well 
wiping out the interior, a stuffing or farce is packed into 
the fish, which is then gently smoothed back into shape, 
and, the cut edges being brought together, it is sewn up 
with some soft cotton, and cooked in whatev^er way 
desired, the sewing thread being, of course, removed 
before sending the fish to table. This is the ordinary 
method, but some French chef adopted a method which 
has much to recommend it on the score of simplicity and 
neatness. Having cleansed and wiped out the inside of, 
say, a haddock or a gurnet, fill it with whatever stuffing 
you prefer, smooth it into shape, drawing the out sides 
of the fish nicely together, and with clean steel pins 




(the large-headed so-called bonnet pins of a small size 
answer admirably), or small steel skewers according to 
the size of the fish, proceed to pin the two sides together, 
putting the heads and the points alternately so as to 
keep the strain even, then pass a fine soft string round 
the pins alternately from tail to head, fastening them in 
a secure bow at the end. When the fish is cooked you 
untie the bow and remove each pin separately, freeing 
the string at the same time, thus avoiding any chance 
of either tearing the fish in drawing out the thread or 
else leaving stray bits of string embedded in the fish. 
The accompanying illustration shows dearly the method 
of procedure, and requires no further explanation. 



y Google 



CHAPTEE II. 

FISH IN GENERAL (Continued). 

Though almost every kind of fish may have some special 
fashion of cookery best adapted to itself, there are 
many methods which may be applied to all fish, for whioh 
reason it seems best to give such general recipes before 
proceeding to the preparation of fish in particular. The 
following will give some idea of the varieties of suoh 
methods, though naturally, in a book of this size, one 
can only indicate a very limited number. 

Directions for boiling fish have already been fully 
given in the preceding chapter, so we may proceed at 
once to: 

Fishy Baked. — There are various ways of doing this, 
the commonest method being that adopted for haddock, 
bream, gurnet, &o. For this, scale and deanse the fish 
without cutting it open more than you can avoid, theiQ 
fill it with a good forcemeat, and sew or pin up the 
slit; now brush over with egg, set it in a well-buttered 
baking tin, dust it plentifully with sifted breadorumbB, 
and set it in the oven, basting it well all the time it is 
cooking, with butter. Lift it out on to a hot dish, and 
serve garnished with parsley and quartered or sliced 
lemon, sending to table with it either a good brown 
gravy, plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. As a 
matter of fact, the sauce is a question of taste, and, like 
the forcemeat, may be varied to suit the fish baked. It 



y Google 



18 FISH. 

will take from, fifteen to forty-five minutes according to 
size. The stuffing is generally plain veal stuffing, made 
with 4oz. of suet, the rind of half a lemon, a teaspoonful 
of minced parsley (and, if liked, the same of minced 
mixed herbs), 6oz. of freshly-made white breadcrunibs, 
two eggs, a well-waahed and minced anchovy, with a 
little salt, pepper, and, if liked, mace to taste. For 
drier fish, such as bream, gurnet, &c., it will be found 
an improvement to use the following : Two ounces of ham 
or bacon fat, 6oz. to 8oz. of freshly-made white bread- 
crumbs, 2oz. or 3oz. of suet, a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, six or eight sauce oysters minced (or an equal 
amount of shelled shrimps), a teaspoonful or so of 
essence of anchovy, a little milk, and one large or two 
small eggs; mince and blend well all the ingredients, 
adding the egg and milk in last to work it to a nice 
consistency. (Well-clarified dripping is fully as good for 
haddock, &c., as butter.) Remember, however, when 
baking dry fish, such as the above, basting, both careful 
and regular, is a sine gua non» 

Another way of baking fish is to place the fish in a 
buttered baking dish, pouring in gently at the side 
sufficient milk or fish stock to come even with the 
surface of the fish without actually covering it; it is 
then covered with a buttered paper and baked. The 
time this will take naturally depends on the size of the 
fish. A chicken turbot, small brill, large plaice, or lemon 
sole, is particularly good done this way, especially if the 
milk, Ac, used in cooking it is employed in making the 
sauce served with it, either creme, h^hamdy or fmes herhes 
being especially popular. The third way of baking fish is 
au gratin. For this the fish may be either whole, shoed, 
or filleted, the process being the same in either case. 
Well butter a fireproof china dish, strew it, not too 
plentifully, with a mixture of freshly-made and seasoned 
white breadcrumbs, minced i)arBley, chives or shallot, 
and mushrooms if at hand. For this the proportions are 
3oz. to 4oz. of breadcrumbs, the same of minced mush- 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 19 

rooms, 2oz. of minoed parsley, and loz. of minoed ohives 
(or, failing these, shallot). Lay in the £sh, dusting it 
lightly with the mixed minoe, add a wineglassfol of fish 
stock flavoured with lemon juioe or the same quantity of 
light French (white) wine, being careful not to over- 
moisten the dish (the liquid should not show at the top 
of the fish), and bake in a moderate oven. This form of 
baked fish may be as plain or as elaborate as you please. 
Breadcrumbs, duly seasoned with salt and freshly- 
ground black pepper, a spoonful or two of minced poreley, 
and a little lemon juice mixed with a few drops of essence 
of anchovy, used as above with the fish, some tiny 
morsels of butter being strewed over the surface of the 
dish, will produce a most appetising gratin; or you may 
add mushrooms, truffles, shellfish, &c., according to what 
you have. Cold cooked fiah is excellent en rechauffe done 
in this style ; but for this use the simplest form and do 
not over cook it. Many cooks in this case add a light 
dusting of grated cheese to the mince when reheating 
fish. A variante of this method is to fillet a fish, keeping 
the two sides whole, then lay the under fillet on a well- 
buttered baking tin, spread it with a layer of any nice 
lobster or shrimp farce, and cover it with the top fillet 
so that it looks like a whole fish. It is then either 
sprinkled lightly with lemon juice, or brushed over with 
egg and strewn with breadcrumbs, and baked under a 
buttered paper. It may be served either hot or cold; 
in the former case with any nice sauce from which it 
takes its name or in the latter case with any form of 
mayonnaise preferred. If only cooked with the lemon 
juioe, &o., a nice hollandaise or fines herhes sauce is pre- 
ferred; when baked with breadcrumbs, &c., it is gener- 
ally served in the dish it was cooked in, the sauce being 
served separately in a boat. 

It may be well to warn young cooks that it is not 

always easy to lift a baked fish from the baking dish 

without breaking it. The best way is to pass a broad 

knife blade (a palette knife is best) carefully under the 

c 2 



y Google 



20 FISH. 

head and shoulders, then tilt the baking tin, and, helped 
in this way by the knife, the fish will slip out whole. 
When fillets, whole or divided, are in question slip the 
knife under the middle slantingly. Flat fish oooked in 
this way is often stuffed before baking, by passing the 
knife straight down the white side (the fish for this 
should not be skinned) close along the backbone, loosen- 
ing the flesh on each side quite back to the edge, without, 
however, cutting through this ; then fill the two pockets 
thuB produced with any farce to taste, till the fish looks 
round and plump, pressing the surface into shape, and 
bringing the cut edges as much together as possible, and 
finish cooking as before. In dishing it remember to 
arrange a line of parsley, or other garnish to taste, down 
the bone to hide these cuts. 

It is well to remember also that very small fish, or 
cut pieces of fish, too small to boil properly, should be 
either steamed, or, better still, baked ; either, like the 
haddock, egged and crumbed, and covered with a sheet 
of buttered paper ; or the piece rolled or folded in a sheet 
of buttered paper, either plain, or seasoned and covered 
on one side with a spoonful of any thick sauce to taste, 
then laid in a buttered baking tin, and baked in a 
moderate oven. 

Broiled. — Many fish are excellent broiled. 

They may be treated thus: Take, say, a nicelynsoaled 
trout, or a large red or grey mullet, trim off the fins, and 
cleanse it, well wash in salt and water, and dry well on 
a dean cloth. Now make transverse cuts, obliquely, 
through the skin of the fish, from the backbone, about 
three-quarters of an inch apfirt, season the fish freely with 
salad oil, ooiialline pepper, and a little salt; well warm a 
grid, brush it over with oil or butter, and lay on it 
twelve or fourteen straws (longer than the fish) which 
have been dipped in oil, lay the fish on these, and griU it 
over a clear fire, slanting the grid a little aa you cook the 
fish, to prevent the fire smoking. Keep the fish well 
basted whilst cooking, by brushing it over with oil or 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 21 

liquefied butter. Only turn onoe during the oooking, 
and when ready it should be perfectly crisp and firm and 
of a delicate golden brown. Lift it oarefully off tJie grid 
with a palette knife, and serve on a very hot dish. The 
grid should be kept pretty dose to the fire or the fish 
will be flabby and soft. The oiled straws are to prevent 
the skin sticking to the grid and making the fish look 
unsightly when dished. Red or grey midlet^ whiting, 
herring, Ac, may all be cooked in this way. Or the fish 
when cleansed, Ac, may be split open, well dried on a 
clean cloth, lightly dusted with flour or fine batmeal, and 
broiled on the grid, either with, or without, straws. 
Other cooks, after drying the fish, brush it over with 
a little liquefied butter or oil, and season with salt and 
black pepper, before grilling it. Fish fillets are often 
grilled thus: Cut up the fish into neat and not too 
thioik fillets, marinading them for half an hour or so in 
a little salad oil, vinegar or lemon juice, minoed 
shallot, paisley, pepperooms, and some thinly-pared 
lemon lind. Now lift out the fillets, and lay each 
on a heart-shaped and well-oiled piece of paper, with a 
little of the marinade, or a spoonful of any good thick 
sauce (d'uxeUes, fines herhes, tomato, mushroom, &o,, 
as you prefer), fold the paper over, lulling the edges 
well together to keep the sauce in place, and grill on 
a well-oiled grid, being careful the paper does not catch. 
When the latter browns lightly and puffs out they are 
ready. These papered fillets may also be baked in a 
buttered baking tin if preferred. Fish steaks cut from 
any large fish, such as salmon, cod, &c., are also good 
if brushed over with salad oil or butter, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and broiled plain over a clear fire. 
Serve at once, with lemon and coralline pepper handed 
round. Salmon is particularly good thus. 

a la Turque. — Clean any fish nicely, and 

scald it in boiling water. Now lay it on a well-oiled 
grid over a clear but moderate fire, and broil it, turn- 
ing it now and again until both sides are nicely 



y Google 



22 FISH. 

brown^; then lay it in a lightly-buttered baking tin 
strewn with minced parsley, season it with salt and 
pepper, pour to it a tumblerful of dear fish stock and 
two tablespoonfuls of good vinegar, and cook till all 
the liquid has evaporated. Serve very hot on a dean, 
hot dish. 

Boudins. — Boil up half a pint of water with 

a pinch of salt and a small pat of butter. Directly it 
boils, stir in enough flour to make a stiff, smooth 
paste, and to this, when cold, add twice as much raxv 
fish (whitings, flounders, plaice, &c.), previously 
pounded and sieved, and half as much butter, as there 
is of past^ altogether. Mix this all thoroughly, season- 
ing it with white pepper, salt, nutmeg, one or two 
spoonfuls of bechamel, and as many eggs (using two 
yolks for each white) as will bind the mixture. Pound 
this all till perfectly smooth, then fill some small 
buttered moulds with the mixture, steam or poach them 
for fifteen to twenty minutes, then turn out, and serve 
with white or anchovy sauce over them. Some cooks 
vary this by scooping the centre out of the moidd when 
filled, replacing it with any lobster or prawn ragoiity 
oovering this again with a little of the white fish 
puree, and finishing as before. In short, it is a foxm 
of the gueneUes fourrees. 

BomUe-d-Baisse. — ^Take about 41b. of fish 

(any ooarse rock fish does as a foundation), adding a 
small sole, a red mullet, and a lobster (in short, vary 
the fish as much as you can). Put all this into a lax^ge 
pan, with a sliced or chopped onion, a dove of garlic, 
three or four bay leaves, paraley, a green onion, or use 
a large bouquet garni, with some peppercorns, a large 
pinch of saffron, three or four tomatoes, and salad oil 
to taste. Let these all fry gently together in a casse- 
role till nicely coloured and slightly flavoured by the 
saffron. Now pour in sufficient water to cover it all 
well, and boil together over a sharp fire for a few 
minutes. Then turn it out into a large, deep dish, on 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 23 

to slices of bread. Or, brown two large onions in 
a gill of good salad oil, moisten with a quart of strong 
fish stock, add a bouquet garni (thyme, parsley, bay 
leaf, basil, and thinly-pared lemon rind), and two cloves 
of garlic, peeled but not cut (in Provence quite double 
this quantity of garlic is used, finely minced, and strewn 
through the whole mixture). Now slice down a small 
eel, a small bass or rock cod, and a small lobster, with 
any firm fish, such as red mullet, rock fish, Ac, handy 
(say 41b. or 51b.), as you cannot have too great a 
variety. Lay these into the pan with the onions, 
together with a pinch each of freshly-ground black 
pepper, saffron, and salt, two or three ripe sliced 
tomatoes, a slice or two of lemon cut straight through 
pulp and skin, with a gill of light French white wine, 
adding a little fish stock, if necessary, to ensure the 
fish, Ac, being perfectly covered. Boil this up softly 
for fifteen minutes, then lay some sliced bread into a 
deep dish, arrange the fish neatly on this, and pour the 
rest, after removing the bouquet, over and round it. 
If preferred, the fish may be served separately on a hot 
dish, just sprinkled with some of its liquor, the rest of 
the liquid being dished in a tureen as soup. 

in Casserole. — Scale or skin, cleanse, dry, 

and out up neatly any kind of fish, rubbing each piece 
well with salt, then let it stand for a little. Peel and 
slice four good onions, and put them in a casserole, 
with two tablespoonfuls of finely-minced parsley, and 
toss them over a quick fire till nicely coloured in an 
ounoe or two of fat, or four tablespoonfuls of good salad 
oil. Now lay in the fish, covering this, by means of a 
spoon, with some of the onion, parsley, oil, Ac, add 
a good bouquet, and not quite half a pint of water or 
fish stock, with a slice or two of lemon (peel and all), 
and allow it all to stew gently either on the hot plate 
or in the oven, covered with a buttered paper. Pin 
a clean napkin round the casserole and serve. This 
dish may be varied almost indefinitely; for instance, 



y Google 



24 FISH. 

mushrooms may be added with the fish stock, or prawns, 
shrimps, crab, filleted anchovies, &c., to taste, or, if 
liked, a little boiled rice may be added just at the last. 
Abroad green peppers, aubergines, and various kinds 
of vegetables are stewed thus with the fish. If, after 
colouring the onions and laying in the fish, you add 
three or four quartered tomatoes and a slice or two of 
lemon, moistening it with a gill of cold water or weak 
fish stock, and half a gill of light white wine, and 
covering it all with a buttered paper and the lid of the 
casserole, then cook it in a moderate oven gently, but 
steadily, for twenty minutes or so, according to the 
size of the casserole, • and serve it in the same, this is 
known as fish en casserole a la Portuguaise, and is a 
capital way of using up bream, hake, or any ordinary 
coarse fish. It is not unlike bouiUe-k-baisse, but in that 
case the frying medium must be oil. Needless to say, 
the more delicate the fish the more tempting (and 
expensive) will be the casserole. 

Caveached. — Cut the fish into fillets, slices, 

or convenient sized pieces, sprinkle them with pepper 
and salt (using white pepper for delicate fish), and fry 
them in oil. When cooked, drain well, and put them 
aside to cool. Boil some vinegar (enough to cover the 
fish generously) with enough white peppercorns, a few 
cloves, a blade or so of mace, and salt, to flavour the 
vinegar well. When this is cold pour about a gill of 
good salad oil to it (this is enough for the caveaching 
of half a good sized salmon or cod). Now place a layer 
of very thinly-sliced onion in a jar, then a layer of the 
cold fried fish, then more onion, and so on till the 
dish is full, pouring the vinegar and oil (strained) on 
to it, cover down well, and let it stand for at least a 
day or two before using, though it will keep, if required, 
for some considerable time if well covered down. If 
taken too fresh from the pickle the fish is apt to break. 
This dish, very popular in Scotland, is really of 
Spanish origin, and is said to have been brought to the 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 25 

North by the shipwreoked sailors of the Annada. Any- 
way, this method of preparing fish is still common in 
Spain and Portugal, with, however, a plentiful addition 
of garlic and bay leaves. Many Scotch cooks also add 
bay leaves, peppercorns, or sliced green ginger to the 
pickle. It is excellent cold, but also very nice if lifted 
out from the pickle and slightly stewed in a rich brown 
fish sauce, to which you have added a small quantity 
(to taste) of the marinade. 

Chowder, — ^The name of this American dish 

is said to be derived from the French ehattdikre) or 
cauldron, in which the Canadian and Nova Scotian 
fishermen used to stew the inferior fish for their own 
use. There are many recipes for this. Perhaps the 
following (a purely American one) is as good as any: 
Cover the bottom of a stewpan with a layer of thinly- 
sliced and lightly-fried salt pork, arrange on this a 
fairly thick layer of any firm-fleshed fish, such as bass, 
<ft;c., cut into pieces, season to taste with salt and 
pepi)er, and strew liberally with finely-minced onion 
and powdered "crackers" or hard biscuit, repeating 
these layers of fish, biscuit, Ac, till your pan is sufl&- 
ciently full. Then dredge it all thickly with flour, and 
pour in sufiicient tepid water or milk to cover the fish 
well, bring it all sharply to the boil, stirring it well 
together, draw it to the side, and let it stew gently 
for half an hour or more, according to the quantity, 
till the fish is ready. It may now be simply ladled out 
into a dish as it is, or the fish may be picked out, 
arranged neatly in the centre of a hot dish, with the 
softened "crackers," sauce, &c., poured round it. As 
said before, this dish may be varied according to 
the taste of the cook and the materials at hand, 
potatoes, tomatoes, &c., being all added to it; but it 
is well to remember, and adhere to, the original sim- 
plicity of the fishermen's recipe, which in itself is bad 
to beat. At all events, the wine, seasonings, Ac, added 
by some ambitious chefsy though producing doubtless a 



y Google 



26 FISH. 

sufficiently praiseworthy casserole, are entirely out of 
keeping with fish chowder. 

Covlibiac. — ^This is a form of Russian pasty 

not often seen in this country, but usually much liked. 
Bone, skin, and mince finely a pound of any kind of 
fish. Have ready boiled till dry lioz. rice (boil in 
milk, stock, or water, as you please); now put on 
to a pastry board ^Ib. of good flour, make a hollow in 
the centre with your knuckles, and pour into this 
hollow a tefuspoonful of yeast powder and a saltspoon- 
ful of salt mixed together, and work it all to a light 
dough, with the beaten wliite of one egg and a little 
water. Dredge the board lightly with flour, well 
knead and roll the paste out thinly, then dot it all over 
with an ounce of butter, broken up small, fold it in 
three, and again roll it out as thin as you can get it. 
Repeat this twice more, using, however, l^oz. butter 
instead of loz. (4oz. altogether). The last time roll 
the pasite out into a large square, as thin as you can 
possibly get it, put the cooked rice on this, flattening 
it out evenly, then cover it with two sliced hard-boiled 
eggs, and lastly the fish, seasoning it well with salt, 
pepper, minced parsley, and chives, if liked. Brush the 
edges of the paste with a little beaten egg yolk, and fold 
the paste over, pressing the edges well together to keep 
in the contents. Brush the pie all over with beaten 
egg yolk, set it on a buttered baking tin, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour in a quick oven. This can 
also be made in small pasties if preferred, or* many 
cooks divide the paste when ready into two large rounds, 
covering one as described above, leaving about an inch 
margin all round, brushing this over with the egg yolk, 
and covering it with the second round, rolling the edges 
well together, and baking as before. Of course, the 
success of this dish depends on the flavouring. Most 
Russian cooks mix cut up eel with the other fish, as 
they consider this enriches the dish, sometimes even 
using salted eels (one of their national dishes) for the 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 27 

purpose, while shellfish of any kind, filleted anchovies, 
mushrooms, and even halls of herh farce (made like 
veal forcemeat, with the addition of minced chives or 
shalot) are each and all freely used. 

Creams. — These may be made from any fish,. 

whether coarse or delicate, and vary from the simplest 
to the most extravagant form, altering the name accord- 
ing to quality. For instanoe, here is the ordinary 
household fish cream : Free a nice piece of any firm fish 
from akin and bone, mince and pound 8oz. of this in 
a mortar with a little butter till it is a sti£P paste ; now 
sieve it well, work in an ounce of freshly-made white 
breadcrumbs, salt, freshly-ground black and a little 
coralline pepper to taste, a dust of nutmeg (if liked)^ 
the yolks and whites of two eggs beaten up separately^ 
a gill of milk, half a gill of any white sauce handy (the 
remains of any shrimp or oyster sauce from the previous 
day's dinner is a great addition), and a squeeze of 
lemon juice. Put this mixture into a buttered mould, 
cover with a buttered paper, steam for two hours, turn 
out, and serve with any sauce to taste over it. Or, 
scrape the meat from the bones of }lb. of cod, salmon, 
or lobster, lay it in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and 
cook it over a gentle fire till the fish is done. Now 
paund it with the crumb of a fresh roll, previously well 
scalded in boiling milk, season to taste with salt, 
pepper, and, if Uked, a dash of nutmeg and mace ; then 
stir in two strained and well-beaten eggs, fill a buttered 
pudding basin with the mixture, and either bake or boil 
foi' three-quarters of an hour, then turn out, and serve 
with rich anchovy or any other sauce to taste. This 
can be equally well made with cooked fish, of course 
omitting the original stewing. Only a little butter 
should be worked into the fish during the pounding, and 
it is well to add rather more flavouring than is necessary 
with the raw fish. A lighter form is prepared thus: 
Put into a pan ioz. to loz. of butter and 2oz. sifted 
flour, adding the latter as the butter dissolves, and let 



y Google 



28 FISH. 

it oook gently orer the fire, stirring it wdl together, 
till it fbims ft smooth paste. Now dilate it gTadnaUy 
witii ft gill of boiling water, milk, or fidi stock, and let 
this all oo<^ together till it is smooth and leares the 
sides of the pan, when yon lift it off and let it oool. 
Meanwhile, free any delicate raw fish, sach as whiting, 
smdts, red mnllet, Ac, from skin and iKme, and mb 
this flesh throngji a sieve. To every 4os. of the panade 
<the floor, hotter, Ac.) allow 80s. of the fish puree, and 
ponnd it w^ into the panade, in a mortar, seasoning it 
carefolly with salt and white pepper, and moistening it 
with loe. of hotter, one raw egg, and a tablespoonfol 
of ridi white sance or thick cream f<»- the quantity of 
fish and panade given above. When finished it should 
be of about the consistency of andiovy paste. Of 
conrse, this poree may be flavoured to soit tiie cook's 
taste and the sort of fish nsed. For instance, if smelts 
^tre nsed, take salt, white pei^ier, a few drops of lemon 
juice, and, if Uked, a tiny dost of powdered nntmeg or 
maoe; for salmcm, lobster, Ac., lemon juice, coralline 
pepper, and a drop or two of tabasco, and so on. 
This puree may be used for quenelles and also for 
borders.. To mould this puree, well butter the mould 
chosen, and fill it carefully either by means <^ a 
forcing bag with a plain pipe, or with a spoon or a knife, 
being very particular in the latter case to knock the 
mould sharply against the edge of the table now and 
again whilst filling, or when turned out the surface of 
the cream or quenelle will not be smooth and even. If 
filled with a pipe, a sharp knock just at the last to settle 
it, is all that is needed. The mould should be rather 
more than just filled, so that the surface may be 
smoothed over with a hot wet knife into a dome shape 
before setting it to cook. To cook these creams take a 
deepish stewpan, lay a sheet of buttered paper in this, 
place the mould (if of the small or queneUe kind) on the 
paper, and pour in at the side gently just sufiicient 
boiling water or a dear fish stock to cover the mixture ; 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 2^ 

watoh this water re-boil, tlien let it simmer very gently 
far fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of 
the moulds. If the water is allowed to boil fast, it will 
shake the quenelles and make them ragged. For larger 
moulds and borders it is best not to cover the mixture 
with the water, but only to pour in sufficient to reach 
two-thirds the height of the mould, covering the latter 
with a buttered paper, and cook the latter as you would 
a steamed pudding. Remember in both cases a 
doubled paper must be laid below the mould, or the 
under part, which will later be the top, will be hard 
and leathery. The time of cooking these creams must 
neoessarily depend on the size of the moulds, and may 
take any time from half to one hour. When the oream or 
quenelle is ready the centre will feel firm if lightly 
touched with the finger. Cooks often make what they 
call timbales or g^ene^le8 fourries by filling the mould 
chosen, if a small one, and then hollowing the centre 
with a teaspoon or their finger dipped in hot water, the 
cavity thus left being filled with any ragout, &o., to 
taste. For instance, delicate white fish quenelles may have 
a seasoned oyster or a little rich, thick lobster or mush- 
room sauce inserted, this being covered over with some 
of the faroe removed in hollowing it out, the whole being 
then smoothed over with a hot, wet knife. To stuff a 
larger mould : Dip the handle of a large tablespoon into- 
hot water, push it down about two-thirds the depth o£ 
the mould, and twist it round and round till you get a 
cavity of the size you require, and fill this with any 
ragotlt or thick sauce to taste, and finish as before. 
A erhne de poisson is usually somewhat more delicate than, 
the household cream (or pudding) of the first recipe, and 
is made either by using the oarefuUy-pounded fish with. 
an equal quantity of thick cream, treating it as before 
(this requires knack and great care in the turning out), 
or else you use equal parts of fish puree and rich 
bechamel, and a raw egg or two, for each ilb. of raw 
fish puree; or ilb. fish pur^e to half a pint of thick. 



y Google 



30 FISH. 

cream, a gill of rich beohamel or Teloate, and two raw 
eggs. This is often served as a monsse or mousseline, 
and is a very delioate way of serving fish. 

Croquettes. — For these take any cold cooked 

fish, carefully removing all skin and Ixmes, and mince it 
rery finely by hand (mindng in the mincer is apt to 
ii«ake the mixture stodgy) ; now add from ^. to ^oe, oi 
fresh batter to half a pint of rich bechamel or v^onte, 
mixing with this quantity 4oz. of the minced fish, and 
fitir it all over the fire, seasoning it as you do so with 
pepper (red or white), salt, and a few drops oi lemon 
juice and of essence of anchovy. When this is all well 
blended turn it out smoothly about f inch to 1 inch 
thick on a large dish, and leave it tiU perfectly cold and 
«et. (This paste is far better if made the day heiare it 
is wanted, as it is then easier to handle.) When per- 
fectly cold shape it with your well-floured hands into 
balls, corks, or cutlet shapes as you please (in the latter 
•case insert a piece of parsley stalk or a lobster's feeler in 
the thin end to represent the bone), brush th^n ov^r 
with beaten egg, and coat them weU with dried and 
«ifted breadcrumbs or broken up vermicelli, and fry a 
golden brown in plenty of hot fat. Drain well on a piece 
of kitchen paper, and serve garnished with fried parsley. 
Croquettes, outlets, rissoles, &o., made in this way are, 
when served, quite soft and creamy in the centre. Some 
-cooks prefer to make them stiff er, using only half a pint 
c^ sauoe to ilb. of minced fish, but this is apt to eat tough 
and heavy, and the previous recipe will be found well 
worth the little extra trouble involved. Tinned lobster 
or salmon are especially good prepared in this way. 

Devilled. — Mix together well a teaspoonful 

of English mustard flour, a dessertspoonful of French 
mustard, the same of minoed chutney, a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy, four washed, boned, and minoed 
anchovies, a pinch of salt, and a dust of coralline pepper. 
Steep the fish to be devilled in a little warm butter, then 
mask it with the previous mixture worked to a smooth 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 31 

paste ; sprinkle the fish then with a few browned bread- 
crumbs and some tiny morsels of butter, and cook in the 
oven for ten to fifteen minutes according to the size of 
the fish. Serve garnished with parsley and coralline 
pepper. Fresh haddock, &o., is good thus, or any cold 
cooked fish may be used up in this way. 

Curried. — Bone, skin, and flake up any good, 

cold cooked fish if large, or fiUet or prepare it whole if 
small. Put into a pan loz. or 2oz. of butter according 
to the amount of fish, and toss in this an onion sliced 
in rings, with one or two tomatoes peeled and seeded, 
and fry these till the onion is nearly cooked and is very 
lightly coloured ; then in the same pan fry a tablespoon- 
ful of curry for a few minutes. Now moisten it all with 
haif a pint of milk, or single cream, mixed with the 
yolks of two eggs, and let it all get as hot as possible, 
without actually boiling. Next add the fish, and when 
this is all very hot, dish in a wall of nicely-boiled rice, 
garnished with quartered hard-boiled eggs, and shreds of 
red chillies, and a good squeeze of lemon juice. Some 
people like half fish stock, half milk, instead of the plain 
milk, and others stir lightly into the mixture at the 
first a full tablespoonful of either minced chutney or 
pickles. 

Curried. — Remove all skin and bones, and 

flake neatly some cold cooked fish. Stir together over 
the fire 2oz. of butter, loz. of flour, and a good dessert- 
spoonful of curry powder to a smooth paste, dilute this 
with half a pint of milk, or fish stock and milk as most 
convenient, then stir in a good spoonful (the size of 
this is a matter of taste) of mango chutney, with a pinch 
of salt; as soon as it boils lay in the fish with 2oz. of 
boiled rice and two sliced hard-boiled eggs. Mix this 
all very gently together, and serve when piping hot. 

Essence. — Put into a pan fib. each of gurnet 

and sole cut up (any good firm and well-flavoured fish 
may be used for this), with two shallots, two onions 
(each stuck with a clove), a small carrot, a good bouquet, 



y Google 



32 FISH. 

half a pint of light, white, French or Rhine wine, with 
pepper and salt to taste. Let this all boil up two or 
three times, then add a quart of fish stock, and simmer 
it all gently till the fish is cooked. Now strain o£P the 
liquor into a stoneware basin, skim off all the fat, and 
set it aside for use. This is the stock used for fish 
supreme. The remains of the fish may be utilised for 
Croquzttes de poisson d la Sotibise, in this way: Take of 
the fish when minced or pounded, say, 7oz., 6oz. of 
panade, and 2oz. of rich thick puree Soubise (thiok 
onion sauce), mix it well together, dust the board and 
your hands with flour, shape it into balls, or any shape to 
taste, and finish off like any other croquettes. 

FiUets.—The method of filleting fish has 

been already explained, but it may be well to say a few 
words concerning the cooking thereof. Having obtained 
the fillets, trim them, bat them out with a heavy, wet 
knife, and keep them whole, or out into pieces, as best 
suits your requirements. They may now be arranged in 
a weU-buttered saute pan or baking dish (after well 
washing and drying them), strain the juice of a lemon 
over them, season lightly with white pepper and a very 
little salt, cover with a buttered paper, and cook them 
in a moderate oven for eight to twelve minutes, accord- 
ing to the thickness of the fillets. Drain them for a 
minute or two, then serve on a hot dish with any rioh 
or plain sauce to taste. If to be used cold, lift them out 
when cooked, set them on a dish with another lightly 
weighted, reversed over them, and let them press till 
perfectly cold, when they can be masked with any sauce 
to taste. Or: Bat out the fillets, season with a little 
lemon juice, coralline pepper, and salt. Put the fillets 
in. a pan with a wineglassful c^ white wine and rather 
over a gill of good fish stock; watch this reboil, then 
simmer it gently ten or twelve minutes till the fish is 
cooked, when it is lifted out on to a hot dish, the liquor 
in the pan, with about one-third of a pint of white sauce 
(melted butter made with flavoured milk or fish stook)^ 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 38 

being boiled up, flavoured to taste with essence of 
anohovy, lemon juice, essence of mushrooms, Ac, as 
you please; an egg yolk beaten up with one or two 
spoonfuls of cream, or a pat of butter broken up small, 
bein^ added at the last. A variante on both these ways 
is not to cut the fillet, but, after trimming and batting 
it out, spread half with either a minoe or a farce of 
shrimps or lobster, or a d'uxelles mixture, folding the 
other half over, kite fashion ; cook as before, and serve 
with any sauoe to taste. Fillets may also be fried, full 
directions for which will be given in the next para- 
graph. If preferred, the fillets may be rolled up into 
little rolls, spreading the inner side with a d'uxelle, or 
any nice fish farce or mince, or not, as you choose, before 
rolling it, fastening it into shape with a band of buttered 
paper, and either baking or stewing it as above. 

Another way is to trim the fillets neatly, so that they 
will just go round either a piece of potaix> or a carrot 
trimmed to the size of a wine cork, fasten with the 
buttered paper, and bake or stew them as above for 
twelvo or fifteen minutes; then take up and leave till 
cold, when the potato may be slipped out. (If this is 
attempted whilst the fillets are hot they will infallibly 
break.) Have ready some rich white stock (rather thick), 
flavoured to taste and mixed with one raw yolk of egg 
and a quarter of a pint of minoed lobster, crab, or 
shrimps, and fill up the fillets with this with a bag and 
pipe. Remove the paper, flour the fillets, then egg and 
breadcrumb them in the usual way, twice, and fry in 
plenty of hot fat to a golden brown. Serve with fried 
parsley, and, if liked, tomato sauce. These rolled fillets 
(whether of fish, flesh, or fowl) are known on menus as 
paupiettes, whether farced or not. 

Fried. — ^The whole secret of frying consists 

in the temperature of the frying fat, and this is a point 
specially to be noticed with fish. Unless the fat is hot 
enough to coat the fish at once with a kind of crisped 
surface the fish will inevitably be greasy and messy. 



y Google 



34 FISH. 

Most of ns have oome across unfortunate fish, pale and 
flabby looking, the coating of egg and crumbs dropping 
off in patches. This is simply due to insufficiently heated 
flying fat and carelessly prepared crumbs. First, be 
sure the fish is perfectly dry, wiping and pressing it in a 
soft clean cloth ; then dust lightly with flour, shaking off 
whaib is loose, in which state it may be dry-fried or saute 
in a f i^ng pan ; fried in deep fat ; or it may then either 
be dipped in batter or finished off with egg and bread- 
crumbs as described below. Always remember that fish 
for frying, either in fillets or whole, should be trimmed 
very neatly. 

Where fish is much used fried the cook should always 
keep a couple of wide-mouthed, closely-stoppered bottles 
pf ciumhs, one white, the other lightly coloured. To 
prepare these take any pieces of crumb, carefully remov- 
ing the crusts, and set the former in a slack oven till 
they are crisp through and through, but not in the 
least coloured. Now crush these to a fine powder, either 
in the mortar or with a bottle, then sift them, and store 
in a bottle. For the dark crumbs take all the pieces of 
crust, toast, Ac, left over, and brown these delicately, 
finishing them off when thoroughly crisp as for white 
crumbs. 

Having prepared and trimmed your fish, whether whole 
or in fillets, dry well in a clean cloth, and paint all over 
(with a pastry brush kept for the purpose) with well- 
beaten whole egg (raw) ; have the crumbs spread thickly 
on a sheet of paper, and lay the fish on this, then lift the 
paper by the two comers and jerk the crumbs all over the 
fish as evenly and gently as possible, patting the crumbs 
down lightly on the fish with a knife. The prepared 
fish should now be allowed to rest a little before frying. 
Some cooks aver that the coating adheres better if the 
fish be floured before egging it. DirecUy the fish is 
nicely coloured and crisp lift it out either in the frying 
basket or with a fish slice, and set it for a minute or two 
on a sheet of kitchen or coarse blotting paper on a 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 35 

reversed sieve to drtun, near the fire. When dry dust 
lightly with fine salt or coralline pepper, and serve 
garnished with fried parsley, and any sance to taste 
in a boat. Fried fish should always be served dry, on a 
napkin, which, if the fish is properly fried and drained, 
will show no spot of grease. (To fry parsley for garnish : 
When the fish is lifted out draw the kettle back a little 
to reduce the heat; have ready the parsley (picked and 
well dried), and as soon as only a pale blue vapour rises 
•from the fat drop in the paraley, only leaving it long 
enough to crisp but not to discolour, which it will do if 
fried too long, or in too hot fat.) 

Another way of frying is to dip the fish, after batting 
and trimming it, in milk, and then dredging it with fine 
sifted flour, shaking it lightly to get rid of all superfluous 
flour, and finishing it off as before. Or, if preferred, 
have ready good fiying batter, bat and trim the fish, 
drying it as before ; then dip it in batter, and fry a golden 
brown in plenty of hot fat. When crisped and nicely 
coloured, drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve with fried 
parsley, and tomato sauce hand^ round. This dish is 
known as sole (or whatever fish, flesh, or fowl is used) 
en orlie. Flaked fish covered with farce, or little cakes 
of prepared forcemeat as for croquettes, &c., dipped in 
this same batter, lare known as heignets, or fritters of 
fish. For the frying hatter mix two yolks of eggs with 
two tablespoonfuls of best salad oil, then blend with 
this 3ioz. flour and half a saltspoonful of fine salt. Work 
this to a smooth paste with tepid water till it is as thick 
as very thick cream, and beat it all well together for at 
least ten minutes longer. The batter is right when it 
will coat the spoon evenly all over, though still showing 
the shai>e. Now set it aside in a warm place (not a hot 
one !) for an hour or two if possible. When wanted for 
use, work in lightly the stiffly-whipped white of one egg 
and use. Remember, for batter the flour should be dry, 
sifted, and is best if slightly warmed. Moreover, in 
frying anything, the temperature of the fat must be 
D 2 



y Google 



36 FISH. 

carefully watched. Undoubtedly the best frying medium 
is pure salad or olive oil, but the price of this is, in 
England, practically prohibitive. The next best thing 
(though many cooks would almost die rather than admit 
it) is dripping, beef or veal for choice, though, if properly 
heated, mutton dripping is quite as good ; in fact, if it 
betrays its origin it also tells tales of the cook's care- 
lessness. If you have not enough the butcher will 
always supply fat for "rendering downy" as the process 
is called. For this: Cut the fat, either cooked or raw, 
into small pieces about the size of a nut, put it in a 
pan with sufficient water to thoroughly cover it; bring 
this to the boil, and keep it just below actual boiling 
point till all the fat is dissolved, the skin, (fee, has sunk 
to the bottom, and the pure fat floats on the surfaoe like 
clear oil. When this oil is perfectly clear, and the little 
bits of skin, &c., have shrivelled and browned, but not 
burned, draw the pan from the fire, let the fat cool for 
a minute or two, then run it through a strainer, or a 
piece of muslin, into a china bowl or basin, and leave it 
to set. This will produce a delicately clear white fat, 
far better for oulinaiy purposes than any so-oalled 
" cooking butter." This fat may be used over and over 
again, as long as it does not get actually burned ; only 
remember each time after use let it cool, then strain it 
off as above. Wet frying, as thb process is called to 
distinguish it from the frying-pan frying of the average 
good plain cook, is really nothing but boiling in oil or 
liquid fat instead of water; oil reaches boiling point at 
600°, dripping and liquefied fat at about 400° (though 
it then needs watching), whilst butter and lard (the 
latter for most purposes the worst frying medium 
extant) will actually bum at a much lower temperature. 
Fat is ready for use when it is perfectly still ; as long as 
it is still bubbling all the water is not extracted, and 
the heat is only that of boiling water, viz., 212°. To 
test fat throw in a small piece of crumb of bread; if 
this will brown whilst the cook counts twenty, and the 



y Google 



FISH IN GENERAL. 37 

fat bubbles round it freely in large bubbles with a 
fizzing noise, the temperature is 380°, the right heat 
for fritters, croquettes, rissoles, egged and crumbed fish, 
parsley, &o. At this period, if the fat is examined closely 
sideways, a faint blue mist will be seen rising from the 
surface of the fat; if left a few minutes longer this 
vapour will be more distinctly blue and thick, and the 
fat will have reached the height of 400°, the temperature 
needed for filing and crisping whitebait, potato chips, 
&o. The fat needs careful watching now, for a few 
seconds only are needed to bring it past this and. raise 
it to burning point, which may be known by the blue 
vapour beginning to lose its blueness and turning to 
actual smoke, when it will blacken and bum anything 
put into it. It is for this reason oil is so much the best, 
as it does not reach this burning point till 600°. Be 
careful in wet frying never to fill the pan more than 
half or, at most, two-thirds full, for it boib up and over 
with terrible suddenness. 

Mould, — Remove the flesh from any cold 

cooked fish, free from skin and bone, and pound a break- 
fastcupful of this fish in a mortar; now add to this an 
equal quantity of fine white breadcrumbs, previously 
soaked in milk or fish stock and squeezed dry, and 
pound this all into a smooth mass with the fish. Now 
turn it all into a pan with 2oz. of butter, and stir it 
over the fire for a minute or two, after which stir into it 
two lightly-beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, 
a morsel of finely-minced shallot, pepper, salt, and a 
grate of nutmeg, and stir it all well together. Pour this 
mixture into a well-buttered mould, cover over with a 
buttered paper, and steam it gently for one hour and 
a quarter. Turn out, and serve hot, with a creamy 
vdouU maigre poured over it (i.e., melted butter made 
with clear fish stock seasoned with salt, white pepper, 
and lemon juice, to which you have, at the last, added 
a liaison of an egg yolk beaten up in a spoonful or two 
of cream). This is for household cookery ; if a somewhat 



y Google 



38 FISH. 

more elaborate dish is required, oook the puree in a 
border mould, turn out, and cover with veloute sauce, 
but fill up the centre with a rich and rather highly- 
coloured lobster sauce. 

Orlies. — These consist of small fillets or 

flakes of fish (oooked or raw) marinaded for an hour or 
two, then dipped in batter (given in the paragraph on 
fish frying, fry to a golden brown in plenty of hot fat. 
drain, and sen^e garnished with fried parsley, tomato 
sauce being handed round in a boat with it. For the 
marinade, take the juioe of a lemon, a small sliced onion 
or a shallot, two or three sprays of parsley, salt, pepper, 
and, if liked, a teaspoonful of salad oil ; lay the fish in 
this for an hour or so, turning them frequently. The 
marinade is not supposed to cover the fish ; in fact, it 
barely comes level, so that to ensure its being properly 
flavoured the fillets, fish, (fee, must be turned 
repeatedly. It is this marinading and tlie tomato sauce 
which really compose the orlie, many cooks applying 
the name to fish that has been simply egged and bread- 
crumbed, instead of being dipped in batter, as long as 
the maiinading process and the sauce are adhered to. 

PapUlottes. — ^These are also called "fish in 

cases," though the term is not strictly correct, for papU- 
lottes imply that tfie paper has covered the fish, (fee, and 
been twisted up. The usual plan is to cut a round or 
heart-shaped piece of white pai>er, brush it over with oil, 
and let this dry. On one half of this put a spoonful of 
any sauce (tomato, d^uxeUes, fines herheSt mushroom, &o.) 
to taste, lay the fish on this, cover with another spoonful 
of the sauce, then fold over the edges of the paper 
tightly to keep in the sauce, and bake, or broil, over a 
clear fire till the paper puffs out, when the fish is ready. 
Fish thus treated is usually served in the paper it was 
cooked in. 

Paupiettes. — This is a term applied to fillets 

K.i fish, which, after being spread with any farce to taste, 
are rolled up and fastened into shape with a band of 



y Google 



PISH IN GENERAL. 3d 

buttered paper; they are then stewed, or baked as 
advised for fillets, allowed to get oold, then egged and 
breadcrumbed apd fried ; or, if to be served cold, masked, 
when cold, with any good chaufroix sanoe to taste. 
Paupiettes can also be served hot just as they come from 
the baking dish, only removing the paper, and pouring 
«ny rich sanoe to taste round or over them. 

Pie a la Busse. — ^Flake lib. of cold cooked 

fish free from skin and bone, boil two eggs hard, throw- 
ing them at once into cold water to preserve their 
colour, and have ready 6oz. of nioely-boiled and dried 
rioe. Now melt loz. of butter, and stir into it till 
perfectly blended loz. of fine dried flour, moistening it 
as you do so with half a pint of good fish stock or milk, 
or a gill of each, as is most convenient; let this boil 
together for ten or twelve minutes, seasoning it with 
salt, white pepper, a dessertspoonful of essence of 
anchovy, and a spoonful of capers. Butter a pie dish, 
and arrange in it a layer of the flaked fish, then one of 
the rice, moistening this with some of the sauce, and 
cover this all with a layer of the sliced hard-boiled eggs, 
repeating these layers till the dish is full, being careful 
to finish with the egg layer. Strew this all over lightly 
with tiny pieces of butter, or carefully clarified drip- 
ping, and set it in the oven till perfectly hot. 

Boasted. — ^This is an excellent way of treat- 
ing any fairly good fish, such as haddock, &c. ; a good 
cut from the middle of a large salmon or a large cod is 
also excellent. The fish must be stuffed as recom- 
mended for baking, wrapped in buttered paper, and 
tied carefully to the spit, keeping it well basted all the 
time with a little butter and vinegar ; remove this paper, 
of course, before sending it to table. Where there is no 
convenience for roasting in front of the open fire, it may 
be laid on a buttered dish or tin, and baked either in an 
ordinary oven, or in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, as 
you choose, only see that it is regularly and steadily 
basted. Flat fish, such as dory or briU, can also be 



y Google 



40 FISH. 

cooked in th's way. tf the fish is coarse or rather 
tasteless, baste it with the following: Take a sufficient 
quantity of fish stock, to which add a teaspoonful of 
essence of anchovy and a wineglassful of either French 
red vinegar or light French wine, either white or red. 
The fish must, of course, be served in the dish it was 
cooked in. v 

Smoked. — ^Well wash, cleanse, and diy the 

fish, removing the bones, and either spreading it out 
flat or filleting it as you choose. Have ready a good 
charcoal fire, and sprinkle this freely with bran and 
brown sugar, stand a well-oiled grid over this, and lay 
the fish (previously brushed over with oil or liquefied 
butter) on to it, covering it down with the lid of any 
cooking pan of a suitable size to keep in the smoke; 
leave it till the fish is of a rich red brown (this will take 
about ten minutes), then turn it over, and when the 
other side is similarly coloured serve at once with a 
small pat of anchovy butter on each fish or fillet. The 
amount of smoke will depend on the bran used, and tlio 
fire must be kept constantly fanned. This is an excel- 
lent way of cooking flat fish, especially small brill, 
chicken turbot, Ac. 

Water Souche. — Trim off the heads and tails 

of some small flounders, plaice, dabs, or lemon soles, 
according to what you have, and bat them into neat 
pieces; put the trimmings of the fish into a pan witli 
some peppercorns, half a dozen sliced parsley roots, a 
handful of parsley, a blade of mace, and salt to taste. 
Cover it all with cold water, bring it to the boil, then 
draw it to the side, and simmer steadily for two hours. 
Strain off this stock, arrange the cut-up fish in a pan, 
with some finely-shred parsley roots, and cover with the 
fish stock. Let this reboil, then cook for ten minutes, 
when you add some well-washed and minced parsley, and 
simmer it for five minutes longer. Now lift the fish 
carefully on to a hot, deep dish, and serve with enough of 
its own liquor to cover it, garnished with some sliced 



y Google 



PISH IN GENERAL. 41 

lemon, or have sliced brown bread and butter, quartered 
lemons, and coralline pepper handed round with it. 
Water souohe may be made with any fish cut into fillets, 
from soles and salmon upwards and downwards. This 
isi a Flemish or Dutch dish, and ifi almost as much soup 
as it is fish. A very inexpensive way of making this is 
to prepare the stock as above with any fish trimmings 
handy, the fish for cooking being small fillets of any 
better fisE that you may like to use, such as salmon, sole, 
&o. Many people add a spoonful (the size of this 
depends on the quantity of the fish) of very finely-shaved 
horseradish to the stock. 

Spiced. — ^Put into a fish kettle one pint of 

water, two quarts of good vinegar, ioz. of black pepper, 
and ioz. of cloves, bring this all to the boil ; then lay into 
it the fish to be used (cut into neat slices or fillets), watch 
it reboil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove 
and let it simmer gently till the fish is perfectly cooked, 
when you may either eat it hot with a cucumber sala<? 
or leave it till it is perfectly cold, when it should be 
packed into a torrino, allowing a bayleaf or two and two 
or three peppercorns for each layer of fish. Serve gar- 
nished with fennel or parsley as you please. Cucumber 
salad should accompany this dish whether hot or cold. 
Any fish are good prepared in this fashion, and have 
the advantage of keeping well, but salmon, grilse, 
or large sea trout are especially satisfactory in this 
way. 

Steamed. — This is the best way of cooking 

either small or cut fish which cannot conveniently be 
boiled or fried. Take, for instance, a small piece of 
cut turbot, rub it all over with lemon juice, roll it in a 
sheet of buttered paper, tying or pinning this up tightly, 
and place this either in a proper steamer, or, failing 
this, between two plates on the top of a large panful of 
boiling water, and let it cook. It may, when made up 
into a packet in this way be laid on a well-buttered 
baking tin, another dish inverted over it so as to cover 



y Google 



42 FISH. 

it thoroughly, the whole being then baked in a 
moderately hoi oven. 

SUwed. — This is a Scotch method of treating 

haddocks, whiting, codling, &c. Bemove the heads, 
tails, fins, and skin from, and cHean well, the requisite 
number of fish; put all these trimmings, a couple of 
onions, a bouquet, and a strip of lemon peel, into a pan 
with suflScient water or fish stock to cover them 
generously, and let it all cook steadily together till you 
have obtained a sufficient quantity of good fish stock; 
then thicken with brown roux (using l^oz. of rouac to 
each pint of stock), season highly with mixed spice and 
mushroom catsup, and strain it into another pan ; when 
it boils up, and has been well skimmed, lay in the fish 
(previously cut into fillets or pieces and browned in the 
frying pan). Take out the fish when cooked and set it on 
a hot dish, pouri'Jig round the sauce, which should be 
brown, smooth, and thick. This dish is often served 
with fried croutons spread with anchovy butter, oysters 
warmed in the sauce of the fish (their liquor should be 
added to the stock), shrimps, or fish or herb forcemeat 
balls. 

a la Juive, — Put a little minced parsley, a 

chopped onion, a very small piece of green ginger, and a 
tiny piece of saffron (previously dissolved in half a wine- 
glaasf ul of water) at the bottom of a saucepan ; lay the 
fish (cut up into not too small pieces) on to this, season 
well with pepper and salt, cover it with water, and let 
it all cook very slowly till almost ready ; beat the yolks 
of seven eggs thoroughly, adding gradually the strained 
juice of five lemons, and pour this very slowly over the 
boiling fish, gently shaking the pan to prevent it curd- 
ling ; when the sauce thickens it is ready. This is a purely 
Jewish recipe, and is nicest made with sliced cod, hali- 
but, or salmon, or even a salmon's head. It is a festival 
dish, and usually the Jewish housekeeper makes the well- 
known Jewish lemon cream or silver cake with the egg 
whites left over. 



y Google 



FISH In general. 43 

Stewed with Kleis, Jewish Fashion » — Slice 

an onion, and put it on in a pan with a pint of milk and 
a good seasoning of salt and butter ; bring it to the boil^ 
and simmer steadily till the onion is tender. Have 
ready washed, dried, and filleted 31b. of fish, lay this in 
the milk, (fee, and simmer it gently for half an hour. 
Make a batter with two well beaten eggs, three or four 
spoonfuls of sifted flour, and a pinch of salt, and drop 
this by small teaspoonfuls at a time in with the fish, 
when the latter haa cooked for ten minutes or so, and 
let them cook for twenty minutes. Just before serving 
dust with minced parsley. 

a la Victoria. — Fillet 21b. of any nice white 

fish, season the inside of the fillets with lemon juice, 
white pepper, salt, and a little minoed parsley; roll the 
fillets up, and pack them tightly in a pie dish, after 
dipping each fillet into a gill of milk flavoured with a 
few drops of anchovy; strew over the fish 2oz. of fine 
breadcrumbs seasoned with a tablespoonful of minced 
parsley, pepper, and salt, place a tiny pat ef butter on 
each roll of fish, and bake twenty minutes. Serve at 
once. 

Vd-au-Vent. — This is (a dish that the 

average ''good plain cook" looks upon as an impossi- 
bility ; yet, in truth, there is no great difficulty about 
it. The baker will always supply the requisite pastry 
case, supposing your cook refuses to make it, and the 
filling is a very easy matter, as the following will show : 
Say that you have a pound or so of cooked salmon, or 
turbot. or any other good fish, flake it into small neat 
pieces; dissolve 2oz. of fresh butter in a delicately clean 
pan, and stir in, till thoroughly blended, a full dessert- 
spoonful of fine sifted flour ; add gradually a gill of the 
liquor in which the fish was boiled and a gill of new milk ; 
then stir in salt, pepper, and a morsel of mace, and 
simmer it all gently together for a few minutes; now 
lay in the flaked or filleted salmon, and heat it, together 
with a pint of shrimps, oysters, crawfish, or prawns 



y Google 



44 PISH. 

as you please, together with some tiny quenelles of fish 
forcemeat. Let this all get thoroughly hot, and pour 
it gently into the Yol-au-vent case, dusting it as you do 
so with minced parsley and coralline pepper, and serve 
at once. Of course, the fish may be cooked on purpose 
for this, and the sauce may be varied to taste, but if 
the sauce be nic&ly flavoured and the mixture carefully 
prepared, the above directions produce a very satisfac- 
tory, if inexpensive, form of vol-au-vent. If preferred, 
the mixture may be served in small patty cases instead 
of one large one. 



y Google 



CHAPTEE III. 

FISH IN PAETICULAE. 

Having given the general methods of cooking fish, it has 
been thought better (considering the size of these little 
books) simply to give the different methods of serving 
various fish, without troubling to repeat the detailed 
description of how to boil, fry, stew, Ac, leaving the 
reader to refer, if necessary, to the previously given 
details. 

Anchovy (Anchois). — A small fish seldom, if ever, seen 
in this country, save in tins or in bottles. It may be 
had pi'eserved in tins, or in bottles, in brine, or in oil, in 
which latter case it is most useful for hors d'oeuvre, 
garnishes, &o. In the Mediterranean, where they are 
common, anchovies are prepared in every way we adopt 
for cocking sprats, which, though far more delicate, they 
somewhat resemble. They are excellent broiled, en 
orlie (in batter), au gratin, &c. They must be used 
fresh, as they turn quickly. 

Barbd (Barbeau, barbiUon)' — This fresh water fish is 
usuaJly reckoned coarse, and is, in consequence, 
neglected, though it is not at all bad if properly cleansed 
and well washed, to remove any tendency to muddiness. 
It may be grilled, and served with anchovy, piquante, 
Genevaise, matelotte, tomato, or Tyrol sauce; and, 
though cooks are apt to consider it too poor to warrant 
the trouble and expense of making these sauces, the fish 
is not by any means bad eating. 



y Google 



46 FISH. 



au Gratin is also not to be despised. Fillet 

the fish, and lay these fillets in a well-buttered fireproof 
dish previously strewed with fine breadcrumbs, minced 
parsley, and mushrooms, pepper, and salt ; put a spoon- 
ful or two of melted butter or bechamel over the fillets, 
and again sprinkle with the seasoned breadcrumbs, to 
which you have added grated Parmesan cheese to taste, 
and bake till nicely browned on top. Barbel may be 
cooked also by any recipe given for pike or carp. 

Bass (Bar), — This, though a sea fish, is said to belong 
to the perch tribe. There are several varieties, all much 
esteemed in the kitchen. Roughly speaking, it may, 
according to size, be cooked by any recipe given for 
salmon or trout. 

Stuffed. — Stuff with a good veal stuffing, lay 

it in a buttered baking tin or a fireproof dish (the latter 
is best, as it may be sent to table), brush a little heated 
butter (or clarified dripping) over it, dust with baked and 
sieved crumbs, and bake for twenty-five minutes (accord- 
ing to size), basting it every six or eight minutes all the 
time it is cooking. Then remove the sewing thread, and 
serve with any sauce to taste. The stuffing may also be 
varied if you please. 

en Casserole, — Scale, cleanse, and well rinse 

a nice fish, and stuff it with maitre d'hotel butter, to 
which you have added a minced anchovy and two or 
three mushrooms, fasten up the fish, and lay it in a 
casserole with just enough court-houUlon or good fish 
stock to keep it from burning ; lay in a bunch of herbs 
and, if liked, one or two sliced tomatoes, and let it all 
cook very gently together, allowing about six minutes 
or so for each lib. of fish. Serve en ca^erole, with a 
good squeeze of lemon juice, after removing the bunch 
of herbs. If cooked thus without the herbs and the 
vegetables, it may when cooked be sent to table on a 
hot dish, and fines herhes or mushroom sauce served with 
it in a boat. 

Fried, — Cleanse the fish as before, removing 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 47 

the finSj and if small ooak whale, but if large split it 
lengthways, and cut each fillet into three or four as you 
choose. Season each piece with salt and pepper, roll 
them in flour, and leave till you are ready to cook them. 
Then fry in plenty of hot fat to a golden brown, and 
serve with delicately fried little rashers of streaky bacon, 
and mashed or Parisian potatoes. (Almost any fish may 
be cooked by these last two recipes.) Fillets of bass may 
also be served by any recipe given for fillets of sole, &c. 

Blackfish, — More often found on American than on 
European shores. It should be carefully scaled, rinsed, 
well rubbed with salt, and the intestines removed by the 
gills, after which the fish is again rinsed. As the fish's 
skin is black and tough, most cooks remove it before 
cooking, stripping it off in the same way as an eel is 
skinned. The actual flesh is exquisitely white and 
tender, and can be cooked by any ordinary ways of fish 
cookery, only remembering to keep any sauce served 
with it delicately flavoured. 

Bleak (Ahlette), — A small fresh water fish of the carp 
tribe, seldom used save for bait, though it may be cooked 
en friture like gudgeon, or by any method given for 
sprats. 

Bluefish. — Also chiefly an American fish. It is fairly 
large, running usually from 51b. to 71b., and occasionally 
laiiger. It may be stuffed or baked, boiled {en court- 
houill(m)y stewed (en casserde), in steaks or filleted, as 
you like, with any sauce to taste, but tomato in some 
shape or form is usually considered the best accom- 
paniment to bluefish. 

Bloater (Hareng saur). — These are specially prepared 
herring, the best being those caught off and prepared at 
Yarmouth and the East Coast, though they are now got 
ready at many sea cocust towns. They may be prepared 
in a rough and ready way as follows: Choose fine and 
very freshly-caught fish, cleanse them very carefully, 
then lay them in brine for a few days or so ; now lift them 
out, wipe them perfectly free from brine, string them 



y Google 



48 FISH. 

on a long rod or withy, passing this through the gills 
and months, and hang them up for a few days till dry. 
Next hang them in the smoke house for a week. The 
small smoking arrangement recommended for sausages, 
Ac, in "Pickles and Preserves" (Queen Cookery Books 
No. III., p. 146) would answer admirably for this. 
Bloaters, for cooking, may either be split open or scored 
across diagonally like any other broiled fish, and grilled 
over a clear fire for two or three minutes on each side 
on a well-greased gridiron. Rub over with a little 
butter, and serve at once very hot. If very dry, soak 
for an hour or so, and dry well before cooking. Either 
water, or milk and water, may be used to soak them. 
"Bed heiTing," a more highly dried form of bloater, 
needs, for most tastes, to be soaked for at least a night, 
and even then should be blanched (i.e., put on in oold 
water, which is brought sharply to the boil and poured 
off), and then well dried before cooking in any way you 
please. 

and Potato Pie. — Slice some oold boiled 

potatoes and line a buttered piedish with these slices; 
skin three or four good bloaters, remove every bone you 
can, and mince the fish finely ; season this with freshly- 
ground black pepper, a veiy little salt, and sufficient 
thick cream to moisten it all well without making it too 
wet. (In Germany, from whence this dish is derived, 
sour thick cream is used, together with some finely- 
minced onion.) Spread a layer of this mince over the 
potato, them another layer of sliced potato, brushing this 
over with some liquefied butter, then more of the minced 
bloater, more potato and butter, and repeat till the 
dish is full, finishing with the buttered potato. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Cases a la Mattre d^HoteL — Skin and fillet 

two nice bloaters, dividing each fillet into two. Oil 
some heart-shaped pieces of white paper, and when they 
are dry place in each some minced chives or shallot, and 
a little maatre d'hotel butter, lay the herring fillet on 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 49 

this, put a little more of the butter over it, and, after 
twisting up the paper, bake or broil for a few minutes, 
and serve in the papers with a garnish of seasoned water* 
cress. If preferred, thioik tomato or horseradish sauce 
may be used instead of the maitre d'hotel butter. As a 
rule, however, bloaters are more often served as break- 
fast or savoury dishes than in the regular fish oourse. 

Bream (Brhme, Dorade), — ^Bream is in this country con- 
sidered a coarse fish, and it is, in consequence, some* 
what neglected. If properly treated, however, it is by 
no means to be despised. The great thing to remember 
is that it is a very dry fish, therefore, if served plainly 
boiled, &c., it should always have a rather rich and 
butteiy sauce. It may be grilled, and served with caper, 
Dutch, Beamaise, or rich tomato sauce as you please. 
It is, however, probably nicest if either stewed, with a 
little wine in the stewing liquor (d la Fortitgaise, with 
onion, tomatoes, herbs, <&c., may be reoMnmended), or 
baked and stuffed like a fresh haddock, being careful to 
keep it well basted with butter or oil whilst cooking ; or, 
lastly, fiUeted, and either baked or stewed, and served 
with any good sauce to taste. Bream fillets are also 
good if served au gratiuy with cheese, or with a Momay 
(cheese) sauce. 

BriU (Barhue). — This is generally sent to table plainly 
boiled, garnished with sliced lemon, parsley, or scraped 
horseradish ; in short, just like turbot, for which it has 
before now been served to the unwary. The brill has 
scales on both sides, but lacks the loose homy scales so 
characteristic of the turbot. The flesh should be of a 
creamy tinge, and fairly thick ; a thin and bluish brill 
should always be avoided. It is not so firm as turbot, 
and to most tastes is nicer if filleted, when it can be 
served in almost every way given for turbot, soles, &c. 
Always rub the white side well over with lemon 
before putting it into the fish kettle, to preserve its 
colour. Plainly-boiled brill may be served with caper, 
hollandaise, cream, lobster, shrimp, crab, or many other 



y Google 



50 PISH. 

sauces. If stewed with oil, fish stock, herhs, onion, and 
white wine, it is known as Barhue d la Conti ; if baked 
in a well-buttered baking tin, under a sheet of buttered 
paper, and served with a ravigotte sauce, it is E. d, la 
ravigotte; if baked or stewed, and served with rich 
brown sauce, it is called B. d Vespagnole. But certainly 
the daintiest form, of serving brill is filleted. For 
instance; Filets de harlyue a Vamiral: Trim a nice brill 
into neat fillets, and with the head, bones, and trimmings 
make about a pint or so of good stock, flavouring this 
with an onion, a carrot, a good bouquet, and a claret- 
glassful of chablis ; moisten this with a pint of water, 
bring it well to the boil, then let it simmer steadily for 
half an hour, when you strain it off ; arrange the fillets 
in a buttered saute-pan, and pour the sauce, boiling, on 
to them ; watch it reboil, cover with a buttered paper, 
and simmer it all gently for twenty-five minutes, then 
lift out the fillets with a fish slice, and keep them hot. 
Have ready twelve sauce oysters bearded, egged, and 
crumbed with fresh white crumbs, and twelve mussels 
(being careful to chose very fresh ones), previously well 
washed in two or three waters, and freed from the 
^^weed," egged and rolled in baked breadcrumbs; fry 
both these in plenty of hot fat, drain, arrange the fish 
fillets in a circle, fill up the centre with the oysters and 
mussels, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table 
with the following sauce: Strain the liquor in which the 
fillets were cooked into a pan with the oyster liquor, 
about a gill of fish stock (in which you have boiled the 
oyster beards to extract their flavour), and a little more 
light white wine, if necesBtuy, to bring the liquid up to 
a full half pint; let this all just boil up, and pour it 
on to l^oz. to 2oz. of white roux (or I02. of butter 
stirred over the fire till smooth, with ioz. to loz. of fine 
sifted flour) ; when this is well blended lift it off the fire, 
let it cool for a minute, then stir in the yolk of a raw 
egg beaten up with a spoonful of cream, season with salt, 
white pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and enough 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 51 

lobster ooral or butter (or, failing these, just enough 
coralline pepper, with two or three drops of essence 
of anchovies) to bring it to a soft pinky tint ; strain this 
through a fine sieve, and reheat in the bain-marie. If 
the fillets are cooked as above and served plain, with 
little boiled potato balls in the centre, and the above 
sauce, only without the lobster coral or the essence ol 
anchovy, but with a little more wine and some minced 
parsley, this dish becomes F, deh. au mn blanc ; or the 
sauce may have minced chervil instead of parsley, a little 
more cream, and no more wine, when it is known as 
F. deb. a la creme de cerfewl. It may be observed that 
sole, turbot, plaice, lemon sole, &c., may all be served 
by these recipes. Brill is also good if cooked by the 
recipe given in Chapter II. for ''smoked fish," as it is 
held to be most closely allied to the pomfret, which is 
principally used for this purpose in India. Again:, cold 
cooked brill, if filleted or cut into small pieces, may be 
dipped in a thick white Villeroi sauce, then covered with 
fine breadcrumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, 
and a seasoning of salt and peppei', and fried ; and should 
be served with a boat of cold Dutch or mayonnaise sauce, 
aaB. dla Ste. Minehould. While if the fillets of a smaU 
brill be lightly dusted with flour, fried a delicate brown 
in best oil, served with anchovy sauce, and a garnish 
ol turned olives farced with filleted anchovies, the dish is 
known asB.dla Frovencaky and forms a generally appre- 
ciated dish. Sole, chicken turbot, &c., are all good in 
this way. 

Burt (Bertonneau), — ^A fish also known as bret, brit, or 
brut, seldom seen on a fishmonger's slab. It is a kind 
of flat fish, superior to plaice, but inferior to brill or 
turbot, and is cooked by any recipe given for these fish. 

Carp (Carpe). — This is a freshwater fish, and 
frequently found of a large size in old-established fish 
ponds. The great objection to them is their muddy 
flavour, said to be due to their habit of burrowing in the 
mud at the bottom of the water they frequent. Choose 
E 2 



y Google 



52 FISH. 

medium-sized ones, and as soon as possible after oatohing 
and killing them, clean them most oarefnlly, but without 
scaling them. Remove the gills and every drop of blood, 
and rub the backbone well with salt. If to be boiled, use 
a court-bouiUon, or add a good handful of salt and a gill 
of vinegar to each gallon of water. If plain boiled, serve 
with the port wine sauce given for red mullet, or with 
Concise, Bordelaise, Chambord, &c. It may be also 
baked exactly like haddock, but add a spoonful of 
Worcester sauce and some good moutarde de MaiUe to 
the liquid in the pan and the roux, with a good squeeze 
of lemon juice and some coralline pepper. Or, instead of 
stuffing, mix together 3oz. or 4oz. of butter (for a 
medium fish), a finely-chopped shallot, a tablespoonful 
of minced parsley, about a teaspoonful of mixed sweet 
herbs, with salt, freshly-ground black pepper, and a dash 
of ground cloves and nutmeg, if liked. This should not 
fill the fish, but is intended to keep it moist; place it 
inside the fish, fasten up the latter, brush it well over 
with oil, and wrap it in a large sheet of oiled paper, 
which you have previously rubbed with a clove of garlic ; 
broil it over a clear fire, basting it frequently with a 
little warmed oil ; when cooked, slip o£P the paper, and 
serve with cold tartare, ravigotte, or any similar sauce, 
or with hot sauce piquante, mushroom or caper 
sauce. Carp may also be stewed according to the recipe 
previously given, or by the following Jewish recipe : Well 
wash the fish, out it up small; lay it in a stewpan 
with half a pint of ale, one and a half tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and the same of brown sugar well mixed with ilb. 
of treacle, a good dust of groimd cloves, salt and allspice, 
with a gill of good vinegar, and a small sliced onion. 
Bt«w this all gently together over a slow fire for twenty 
minutes till cooked. (This is the well-known Jewish 
"Sweet-soui'" fish stew.) 

Carp, of large size, are veiy good if well cleansed^ 
stuffed with veal stuffing, to which you have added 
minced shallot and capers, filleted and minced anchovy^ 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 53 

&c. ; lard the fish, with well- washed fillets of anchovy, roll; 
it in two or three sheets of oiled paper, and either roast 
or bake it, ba&ting it well with white wine previxyusly 
boiled with a small pat of butter, a bayleaf or two, a 
shallot, and a good bunch of herbs; when cooked, serve 
with any sauce or ragoUt to taste. 

Filleted carp make an excellent covlibiac, whilst carp 
fillets are very good with almost aoiy sauce, but perhaps 
nicest in this way: Fillet some medium carp, and stew 
the fillets for half an hour in fish stock ; then lift them 
out and keep them hot, strain the sauce in the pan on to 
l^oz. of white roux, squeeze into it the juice of a lemon, 
boil it for a quarter of an hour, then pour it, boiling, 
over the fiUets, and serve. 

Catfish. — ^This is an extremely ugly fish, its head, from 
which it derives its name, being particularly repulsive ,' 
this, however, is generally cut off at once on catching it. 
There are two kinds of catfish, the fresh and the salt 
water one, the latter being that usually seen at table, 
where it is served by any recipe given for haddock, &c. 
It makes an excellent fish cream, and is not to be des- 
pised when rizzared; or the fish may be plainly boiled, 
and served by any recipe for fijsh rechauffe, only 
remember it is more tasteless than, and quite as dry as, 
gurnet. The freshwater catfish, especially in America, 
grows to a very large size, and is generally cooked thus : 
Cut the fish into 2oz. slices, and par-fry these in a very 
little dripping ; when half cooked and nicely coloured add 
half a i>int of water or fish stock, one or two minced 
green onions, and a red clulli pod ; strain a tin of toma- 
toes through a colander (or an equivalent amount of 
fresh tomatoes boiled to a puree) over the fish, and cook 
it altogether for half an hour. Serve garnished with 
strips of toast or fried croutons. These quantities are 
for a medium-sized fish. 

Char {Ombre Chevalier), — This is a lake fish, and needs 
to be very carefully handled, both in the cleansing and 
drying. When served fresh it is mostly floured, broiled. 



y Google 



54 FISH. 

and served with any not too strongly-flavoured sauce to 
taste. The usual way of serving this, however, is potted. 
For this, deanse and scale ten or twelve good-sized char, 
washing them well in cold water, and drying them care- 
fully with a clean doth; now rub them well with a 
mixture of equal quantities of pepper, saltpetre, and fine 
salt ; leave them for about twelve hours to drain, then 
lift them out of the pickle, and put them in a pan with 
about a teaspoonful each of powdered doves, mace, 
two grated nutmegs, and half a teaspoonful of 
pepper, with a tablespoonful of salt. Now put 
some morsels of butter all over the fish, lay over 
it two or three sheets of thick white paper, cover down 
dosdy with the lid, weighting this to keep it very 
tight, and bake in a moderate oven for four or 
five houre; then lift out the pan, and when somewhat 
cool sti^ain o£P the liquor, pack the fish, back upwards, 
in a piedish or a pan, putting them close together or 
they will break, and pour over aU this a layer, ^ inch 
thick, of warmed butter, smoothing it carefully with a 
broad-bladed knife or a silver spoon. This will keep for 
some little time. The stock may be used for flavouring 
any rioh fish sauce. Char also make about the best 
water souchet there is. 

Chub (Chdbot). — Anglers value this fish for its game- 
•ness, giving a lot of play in the catching, but for cooking 
purposes it is not greatly esteemed. It is very difficult 
to preserve the colour of this fish in cooking, whilst the 
flesh is watery, tasteless, and impleasantly bony. It 
may be cooked by any redpe given for carp, but is not 
much appredated. 

Coalfish. — ^A somewhat coarse variety of the ood, found 
in the nortihem seas, and sold under various names — 
"sillodc,** "soothe," "podley," or "sethe," according 
to age and size. As sethe it is split open, dried, salted, 
abd exported to the south of Spain as hacalao, a 
name, however, really belonging to dried cod or 
stodsfish. 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 55 

Cod iCahiUaud), — This is a most useful fish, which may 
be oooked in almost any fashion. It is usually too* large 
to cook whole, and even when it is not, the tail end is 
very apt to be overdone before the head and shoulders 
are ready. The head and shoulders are generally boiled, 
the parts about the head being much appreciated by 
gourmets; the rest of the fifth may be boiled, baked, 
stewed, or cut into steaks or fillets. The tail 
end, and, indeed, a whole fish, is veiy good if, 
after remoFing Uie backbone, it is well rubbed 
with salt, left for a day or two to dry, and then 
cooked like rizzai^ haddock. Cold oooked cod may 
be served in almost any rechauffe known. For instance ; 

a la Foulette. — Halve twelve good mush- 
rooms, and simmer them in rather thin melted butter 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and a very little nutmeg till 
oooked. When done mix in gently some cold flaked 
cod, stirring it over the fire till quite hot ; then lift the 
pan from the fire, stir into it the yolks of two eggs 
beaten up with the juice of a lemon, add a little minced 
parsley and some coralline pepper, and serve, either 
with croutons of fried bread spread with anchovy butter 
or in a wall of mashed potato. 

d VEspagnoU. — Fry a sliced Spanish onion in 

oil (or butter), add twice as much cold flaked cod, enough 
tomato' sauce to moisten it, salt, pepper, and sufficient, 
minced sweet herbs to flavour it ; stir this over the fire 
till ready, and serve very hot. 

d la Moderne. — Cut two nice slices of cod 

into eight fillets, rolling these round, and skewering 
them into shape. Mix tlie juice of a small lemon and 
that of an onion with salt, cayenne, and melted butter ; 
then pour this over the fish in a buttered baking tin, 
and bake twenty minutes. Serve with plainly-boiled 
potato balls or new potatoes, and either egg or oyster 
sauce as you please. 

Plain boiled cod may be served with a variety of sauces, 
such as oyster, anchovy, egg, verte, or pickled walnut 



y Google 



56 FISH. 

sauce. HoUandaise, bechamel, or Italienne are also 
very good sauces to go with it. 

d la Victoria. — ^This is served either plain 

boiled or in steaks plainly broiled, with cardinal sauce 
and a garnish of rolled anchovy fillets. 

d la Fortvuaise. — Dust some neat steaks 

lightly with flour, and fiy or broil them ; then serve with 
a garnish of anchovy fillets and tomato sauce, to which 
a little esfience of anchovy has been added. 

d la Morny.— Cut two steaks into neat, small 

fillets, and cook them in the oven in a buttered baking 
tin, with a little lemon juice, and covered with a buttered 
paper ; serve with Morny (cheese) sauce over them, either 
plain or browned with a salamander or red hot shovel. 
If served instead with egg sauce coloured to a faint pink 
with essence of anchovy, or lobster or crayfish butter, 
the dish is known as FUets de cdbiUaud a VAurore, If 
when three parts cooked as above in a china fireproof 
dish, the fillets are stirewn first with minced capers, 
minced anchovy, and parsley, and, lastly, with bread- 
crumbs, and finished in the oven, the fillets are known as 
d la Garonne ; but, strictly speaking, oil should be used 
instead of butter to moisten the dish, which latter 
should be lightly rubbed with garlic. 

' d la Grand Hotel, — Slice a nicely-cleaned cod 

into pieces 2 inches thick, sprinkle these well with salt, 
and leave them for an hour; then wash well, tie them 
into shape with tape, and lay them in a stewpan in 
which you have previously placed 2oz. of butter, the juice 
of a lemon, a dust of coralline pepper, and a full gill of 
white wine (for 81b. or 41b. of fish) ; cover it all over with 
a buttered paper, and cook it gently at the side of the 
stove for fifteen to twenty minutes. Dish, and serve 
very hot, with a garnish of salsify or parsnip in Julienne 
shreds, and the following sauce in a boat, a little being 
poured round the fish. For the sauce i Put into a pan 
four tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, a pinch of 
mignonette pepper, and two bay leaves, and boil till 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 57 

reduced to half ; then add a gill of good tomato sauoe, 
a dust of ooralliue pepper, and half a gill of the liquor in 
which the fish was oooked ; reheat in the bain-marie, and 
just before serving dissolve in it 2oz. of fresh butter 
broken up small, tammy it, and serve as hot as possible. 
All fish fillets oooked in the oven are good with this 
sauoe, which is also extremely good with fillets of beef, 
but in that case add half a gill of white wine instead of 
the fish liquor. For the salsify or parsnip garnish : Wash 
and peel them, cut them into Julienne shreds, throwing 
them afi done into cold salted water slightly acidulated 
with lemon juice or vinegar (the water should just be 
pleasantly sour). When all are trimmed, put these shreds 
into a pan with enough acidulated, salted water to cover 
them thoroughly; let the water reboil, then simmer 
steadily for an hour, when you drain them, mix them 
with a little warm butter, coralline popper, and minced 
parsley (if liked), and use. Hake, halibut, turbot, &o., 
are all good this way. It is impossible in a book of this 
size to give even an approximately exhaustive list of the 
methods of preparing cod, but any of the recipes given 
for fish in general can be used for cod. For boiling 
purposes it is best to choose "crimped cod," i.e., cod 
that has been gashed at intervals diagonally down the 
sides sufficiently close after death to prevent the musdes 
contracting. Codling, or small cod, may be cooked by 
any recipe given for cod or haddock. 

Cody Salt (Morue). — Salted cod forms a great portion 
of the regular fare of many Southern people, but in this 
country it is chiefly connected with Good Friday and fast 
day cookery, and, it must be admitted, is not very 
popular even at that. But really in this, as in many 
other oases, the blame lies more with the British cook 
than with the fish. If properly treated, salt cod will 
serve as a foundation for many dishes, which, frankly 
speaking, strict professors would consider far too dainty 
fare for fast day cookery. Having procured your fish, 
soak it for several hours in cold water, if possible under 



y Google 



68 FISH. 

the tap, whiofa. should be allowed to run slowly over the 
fish ; if this is impossible, change the water frequently, 
allowing the last water to be tepid instead of oold. 
After this soaking it should be placed in skim milk or 
milk and water and steeped for some hours longer. It 
will take quite twenty-four hours altogether, and to be 
really palatable should be cooked eventually in half milk, 
half water. If you get your fish from the fishmonger 
duly steeped, as he will tell you, omit the first soaking, 
but never forget the second in milk and water, as thia 
mellows the fish most wonderfully. 

Boiled. — Place a nice piece of the fish in a fish 

kettle with a drainer (or set it on a plate, with a piece of 
muslin tied round it, in an ordinary stewpan), and 
cover it thoroughly with cold milk and water, or with 
plain water; bring this to the boil very steadily and 
geatly, removing the soum as it nses; then draw the 
pan to the side, and allow the fish to cook very gently 
till done ; if ever actually allowed to boil it will break 
and toughen into leather. When cooked, place it on a 
hot dish, brush the cod over with a little liquefied butter, 
and serve plain or garnished with parsnips, picked and 
blanched parsley, and halved or quartered hot, hard- 
boiled eggs ; hand with it egg sauce, and, if liked, brown 
bread and butter, quartered lemon, and coralline pepper. 
The parsnips are cooked precisely like the salsify in 
C. ala Grand Hotd. Tot the egg sauce, boil four eggs 
for seven or eight minutes, then remove the shells and 
the whites; make a roux with 2oz. of butter and l^oz. 
of flour, moistening this gradually with half a pint of the 
liquid in whioh the fish was cooked (if not too salt, in 
which case water must be used) ; stir it all the time 
on the fire till it boils, when you add the juice of half 
a lemon, two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a dust of 
coralline pepper ; tammy or sieve this sauce, stir into it 
lightly the sieved yolks and the minced whites of the 
egg3, and serve. (This is sufficient for eight people.) 

Salt ood cooked in this way may be utilised by any 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 59 

method of rechauffe recommended in Chapter II. It 
is particularly good d la creme, i.e., flaked and reheated 
in a little rich white sauce, dusted with sieved egg and 
minced parsley; as Russian pie, twice laid, or au gratin. 

Cod, Salt, with Saffron. — ^Put into a pan, previously 
ruhhed with a little garlic, a gill of oil, a spoonful of 
minced parsley, and chives or shallot, the juice of a 
lemon, a good pinch of saffron, a sprinkle of flour, and a 
very little salt. Let this all brown together lightly, 
keeping it well stirred all the time; now cut the fish 
(soaked or fresh) into slices or flakes, put these into the 
pan, and continue stirring gently till the fish is evenly 
and well coloured on both sides; now pour in enough 
water to form the sauce, let it boil up once, then turn 
it on to a hot dish, and serve. This is a Spanish dish^ 
and is much improved by the addition of bay leaves and 
thyme to the mixture. Whilst, if liked, thin tomato 
sauce may be used instead of the water, with great effect. 

Pie. — Take a thick slice from the centre of 

a nicely-soaked salt cod, rinse it, rub it with a mixture of 
salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a very little green 
ginger; then lay it in a piedish, place some morsels of 
butter over it (not too much, or it will be greasy), pour 
in sufficient fish stock to moisten it, cover with a nice 
crust, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked this 
may be served with oyster, shrimp, or tomato sauce, or 
the following: Dilute l^oz. of white roux with about a 
gill of singjLe cream and a full tablespoonfnl of fish stock, 
seasoned with finely-grated lemon peel, nutmeg, salt, 
and pepper, and stir it over the fire till it boils. 

Kentucky. — Cut the well-soaked cod into 

2 inch pieces, season well with pepper and salt, roll it in 
Indian com meal or oatmeal; fry some thin rolls of 
bacon, then lift them out on to a hot dish, meanwhile 
frying the fish tiU nicely browned in the bacon fat, to 
which, if necessary, a little hot lard may be added. Now 
drain the fish well, arrange it in a pile on a hot dish,, 
garnish with the fried bacon, and serve with plainly- 



y Google 



«0 FISH. 

boiled potato handed separately (plain boiled potatoes, 
or young potatoes boiled and then tossed in parsley and 
butter, are always an exoellent addition to cod fish). 

•' Fish BclUs. — Cut up enough salt ood, freed 

from sikin and bone, to well fill a large breakfast cup; 
turn this into an earthem casserole, pour on to it three 
oupfuls of boiling water (or milk and water), and let it 
stand beside the fire for two hours to heat thoroughly, 
but not to boil ; this removes the salt. Now strain off 
the fish, and with two forks pick it as small as you pos^ 
«ibly can till it is all a light feathery mass; mix into this 
■a heaped cupful of hot mashed potato, and a gill of rich 
melted butter flavoured with pepper and lemon juice. 
Mix this all thoroughly, and shape this quantity into 
eight little balls or cakes, dredge them with flour, and 
let them stand till next day, when they must be fried in 
pork dripping or lard till of a delicate brown ; serve either 
plain or with pieces of fried salt pork, and a garnish 
of hard-boiled eggs and parsley. Needless probably to 
i9ay, this is an American dish, the great secret of which 
is to have the fish cooked just to the right point (for if 
•overdone it will be leatheiy), and to flake it as fiine as 
you can possibly get it. Some cooks do not make it 
up into balls, but simply drop spoonfuls of the mixture 
into a frying kettle of lard. Cooked flaked cod, either 
salt or fresh, is very easily rechauff^d in a variety of 
ways ; if flaked and lightly seasoned with f reshly-groimd 
black pepper and a little lemon juice, it may be heated in 
•any sauce to taste, or it may be heated in plain butter 
And served with heurre noisette sauce over it. Heated 
in this way it may be served plainly with a garnish of 
•croutons spread with anchovy butter, or in a wall of 
potato, mashed parsnips, or spinach to taste. 

a la BrarUade. — Choose a nice fish which has 

soaked from twenty-four to thirty-six hours at least, and 
blanch it ; then drain well, removing all the bone, head, 
skin, &c., only keeping the best parts of the flesh, which 
must be flaked up veiit^ small whilst hot and put into a 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 61 

pani. Begin stirring tlus all steadily one way, while some- 
one elee drops in oil drop by drop ; when this binds the 
ood well stir it all vigoronsly to prevent its sticking to the 
pan, adding some boiling water (or milk, if you fear it 
is too salt), keeping up the stirring and still adding the 
oil, being careful to keep the fish very hot, and yet 
sufficiently far from the actual fire to prevent its boiling. 
When the whole is thoroughly smooth and creamed add 
to it the finely-grated rind of a lemon, a washed, boned,, 
and minced anchovy, a morsel of garlic, and some parsley, 
both finely minced ; if liked, some sliced truffles may be 
added to this. Stir it for a moment over the fire with a 
little more oil, and serve. If properly made, you will 
find it very mellow and about the consistency of a rather 
stiff souffle mixture. 

d la Frovenccde. — Spread the bottom of a 

fireproof china dish with minced parsley, minced shallot, 
a morsel of garhc (or the dish may be rubbed with it), 
some slices of peeled lemon, some freshly-ground black 
pepper, two spoonfuls of oil, and about loz. of butter ; 
arrange on this a layer of cooked salt cod, flaked in rather 
large pieces, cover this with the same mixture as you 
have underneath it, then strew it with fine breadcrumbs 
and a very few tiny morsels of butter, set the dish in a 
moderate oven, and let it cook gently till nicely browned. 

Cod, salt or fresh, may be rechauffe, au gratin, a la 
creme, curried, or as a salad, for which purpose tomato 
mayonnaise is especially good. 

Conger Eel {Congrej pu anguiUe de mer), — ^This sea eel 
grows to a wonderful size even in the iEJnglish Channel^ 
and though the flesh is very coarse and oily, it can be 
utilised in many savoury ways. The head and tail ends 
are used for soup, overtly or secretly, as a foundation 
for turtle soup, no less an authority than Sir H. Thomp- 
son declaring this soup to be at its best when the founda- 
tion is conger eel stock, the turtle chiefly supplying the 
garnish and the name. Be this as it may, this makes 
undeniably good soup, and in Cornwall is used for pie 



y Google 



62 FISH. 

made in the same way as the cod pie previously given, 
only using Cornish clotted cream instead of butter, and 
a good seasoning of minced parsley, and, if liked, minced 
chives. The middle of the fish is used for this and 
other purposes. 

Soup, Jersey Fashion. — ^Well wash the head 

and tail ends of the fish, and put them on in water 
seasoned with a teaspoonful of mixed whole spice (this 
is for three quarts of water and 31b. of the fish) and a 
little salt; when this boils up lay in an onion and a 
carrot, previously lightly fried, and a good bunch of 
herbs ; watch it reboil, then draw the pan to the side and 
allow it only to sinuner gently, but steadily, for about 
three hours. Now strain or sieve the soup as you please, 
add in about half a pint of cooked green peas (or other 
delicate vegetable flavour to taste) with salt, a little 
catsup and minced parsley and chives, and serve. If 
needed, a little roux may be added. This may be either 
brown, by frying the vegetables lightly and using brown 
roux; or white peppercorns, leeks, raw vegetables, and 
white roux, with a few spoonfuls of milk or cream, will 
make it a white soup. Many cooks use milk instead of 
water, adding a little seasoned cream at the last; remoT- 
ing the fish from the stock as soon as it is thoroughly 
cooked, thickening the soup with white roux, and serving 
it garnished with pieces of the cooked fish (the rest may 
be used for quenelles, &o.), minced parsley, chives, and, 
if in season, marigold flowers. 

Boasted. — Choose a nice thick piece from 

the middle of the fish, skin and marinade it for three 
or four hours in vinegar, salt, sliced onion, and sweet 
herbs ; stuff it with good veal stuffing, to which you have 
added one or two washed, boned, and minced anchovies ; 
tie it into shape with broad tape, and roast either in 
front of the fire or in the oven, dredging it lightly with 
flour, and basting it constantly. Now set it on a hot 
dish, strain off the gravy on to a little roux, stirring it 
over the fire till smooth, and flavouring it with lemon 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 63 

juice or vinegar, and a little essence of anchovy ; let it 
just boil up, then pour over the fish, and serve with a 
garnish of quartered lemons. 

Cornish Fashion. — Skin, empty, and well 

wash the fish, cutting it into short pieces (do not choose 
too large a fish for this); just cover them with cold 
water, season to taste with salt and cayenne, and cook 
them very gently till done {i.e., from fifteen minutes 
upwards, according to size) ; strew them with minced 
parsley when nearly cooked, thicken the liquid with loz. 
or 2oz. of white roux and a gill or so of clotted cream, 
give it all a boil up, then place the fish on a hot dish, 
stir the juice of half a lemon quickly into the sauce, and 
pour it all over the fish, and serve. The quantities and 
time must depend on the fish. As a matter of fact, 
conger eel, if not too large, may be cooked by any recipe 
given foit ordinaiy eels, whilst if large and firm, cook it 
like cod. 

Ousk. — A fish allied to, or like, cod. It is cooked in 
the same way. This fish is better known in America 
than in Europe. 

Bah {Limande). — ^This species of flounder is not 
thought much of in this country, though on the Con- 
tinent they are considered worthy of gastronomic 
attention. Baron de Brisse advises their being slit 
down the back after being well scraped, cleansed, and 
trimmed, then, when thoroughly washed out, dusted with 
salt, pepper, and a little flour, and sprinkled with a 
few drops of lemon juice; now melt some butter in a 
frying pan, and fry -^le fish in this till nicely coloured, 
when you lift them out, drain well, dust them with a 
veiy little fine salt, and serve dry, garnished with fried 
parsley. Send a lemon to table with them. Or, after 
preparing them as above, force a little d'uxelle mixture 
(minced parsley, chives, and mushrooms, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and tossed for a minute or two over the 
fire in butter) into both sides of the slit aloiog the back- 
bone; lay the dab, back downward, on a well-buttered 



y Google 



64 FISH. 

fireproof dish, pour a little liquefied butter over it, dust 
with breadcrumbs seasoned with fine salt and minced 
spice, moisten with a little French white wine and 
some fish stock, and bake. A rather thick fish should 
be chosen for this treatment, which may also with 
advantage be applied to soles, which are then known as 
S. sur le plat. Brill and ohicken-turbot are excellent 
thus. 

Dace (Vandoise). — ^These freshwater fish would, but 
for their superfluity of bones, be most excellent eating. 
They may be cooked like eels, or stewed plain, or in the 
following way: Scale the fish well, remove their gills, 
well wash them in plenty of water, dry them carefully 
in a dean cloth, flour and par-fry them in boiling 
butter. Now put a tumblerful of claret into a pan with 
two or three cloves, half a blade of mace, a dust of 
nutmeg, a little salt, sliced green (or a pinch of powdered) 
ginger, and coralline pepper, with a sliced orange. As 
soon as this boils up lay in the fish, cover the pah down 
closely, set it on a quick fire, turning the fish now and 
ag^n as they stew. When cooked, arrange the fish on 
crouton^ of fried bread, with a gamiiah of sliced orange, 
and keep it hot. Meanwhile, stir a small pat of fresh 
butter in the fish liquor, and as soon as it is all dis- 
solved strain this over the fish, strew it with fried 
breadcrumbs (prepared as for game), and serve very hot. 

Dory (John) (8t, Pierre ou Dorade), — ^The latter name, 
it must be mentioned, is also given in the Mediterranean 
to a local kind of golden bream. The former one is 
because legend declares this fish to be the one that 
supplied St. Peter with the tribute money (the same 
story is told also of the haddock), whilst its English name 
is said to be a corruption of Jaune dorie, on account of 
the beautiful golden bronze tints of its skin when fresh. 
Otherwise it is one of the ugliest fishes that swim, 
though gourmets aver with reason that it is, when fresh, 
one of the most delicately flavoured. It is excellent 
plain bodied, served with a garnish of parsley and sliced 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 65 

lemon,, and with any sauoe, stuch as caper, hoUandaise, 
shrimp, or lobster, to taste. The fillets may be cooked 
by any method given for turbot or sole fillets. It 
may also be cooked like the dab, sur le plat, whilst the 
cooked fillets or cold cooked dory flaked, are particularly 
good en salade with a vinaigrette dressing, or masked 
with mayonnaise aspic. 

D. a la CHmiere ia a dory, or its fillets, cooked in 
milk and water, and served with a very rich veloute, to 
which a spoonful or two of cream, beaten up with 
an egg yolk, are added at the last, together with 
a dust of coralline pepper and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 

D. a la Mariniere is cooked in the same way, but 
served with a white matelott'e sauce and a garnish of 
blanched oysters. If a rich allemande sauce, flavoured 
with essence of anchovy and lemon juice, with a garnish 
of stewed silver onions and stewed mushrooms is used, 
the dory becomes d la hateliere. 

Eel (AnguUle). — ^This is often called the silver eel to 
distinguish it from the conger, but, properly speaking, 
the adjective belongs entirely to a small, slender, and 
very delicate kind of eel found in the upper reaches of 
the Thames and in other dean, quick-running rivers. 
There is a great difference between eels (which, by the 
way, cannot be eaten too fresh), as anyone will admit 
who has compared the silver eel fresh from his native 
river, and the heavy, muddy, olive green, Dutch eel most 
common in our markets. The difficulty with eels lies in 
the killing, but if a sharp-pointed skewer is pierced 
right through the spinal marrow immediately at the back 
of the head where the skull joins the body, all motion 
will cease at once. The eel should then be at once 
beheaded, and if to be skinned the skin can be drawn 
back and off just like a stocking. (It may be added 
that lobsters should be killed in precisely the same way 
before cooking. This hint was given me by a chef 
famous for his lobster dishes, and he assured me that 



y Google 



m FISH. 

never by any chanoe did he cook a lobster without first 
killing it thus.) 

Eeb are so rich of themselves that the plainest 
methods of cooking are the wholesomest. For instance, 
kill, skin, and cut up an eel into fillets, put it on in cold 
water, bring this quickly to the boil, let it boil for a 
minute or two, then rinse it in cold water, wipe each 
piece perfectly dry in a clean cloth, and either roll it in 
egg and fine breadcrumbs, or plainly in oatmeal or flour, 
and broil or fry, serving it with fried parsley, and either 
mustard, tartare, or ravigotte sauce, with a cut lemon 
and cayenne pepper. They will take from twelve to 
fifteem minutes. 

En Blanquette. — Skin, cut up, clean, and 

blanch the eel as before, and put the pieces into a pan 
with a good bouquet, two sliced onions, four or five 
black peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Pour in suflfi- 
cient cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil, 
skim it, then simmer it at the side of the stove for 
fifteen to twenty minutes; now dish the pieces neatly, 
pour blanquette sauce over them, dust with minced 
parsley and coralline pepper, and serve very hot. For 
blanquette sauce mix together carefully three raw yolks 
of eggs, a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, two table- 
spoonfuls of rich cream, and a dust of pepper, and stir 
this gradually over the fire into half a pint of rich and 
boiling veloute sauce; stir it again over the fire till it 
thickens, when it may be tammied or sieved, and served. 

En Matelotte. — Cleanse, cut up, blanch, and 

dry the eel. Now make a nice smooth brown roux with 
3oz. of butter and a full tablespoonful of flour, moisten- 
ing tliis by degrees with half a pint of stock or, failing 
this, water; when this boils, lay in eighteen or twenty 
pickling or silver onions, and simmer them gently till 
about half cooked ; then add one third of a pint of claret, 
the pieces of eel, a full bouquet (a leaf or two of bay, 
some parsley, a spray of thyme, a strip of thinly-peeled 
lemon rind, a small blade of mace, and two or three 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 67 

green onions tied up together), with a shallot or two, or 
a small clove of garlic, pepper, and salt to taste, and 
some mushrooms if handy. Bring this sharply to the 
boil, then draw the pan to the side and keep it simmer- 
ing, tightly covered, for an hour. Toast or fry a slice 
of bread, cut it in four, dust it with minced parsley or 
chives and coralline pepper, arrange the eel neatly on 
this, and, removing the bouquet and the garlic, pour 
the gravy all over it, and serve very hot. This is a real 
French recipe, given me by a very dever French lady, 
and she told me — what I knew — ^that abroad a variante 
of this dish was made by fiying the button onions and 
a neatly-cut-up rabbit in butter till nicely browned, 
dusting a spoonful of flour over it, and tossing the pan 
to mix it well, after which half a pint of stock and one- 
third of a pint of light French white wine were added, 
with the cut-up eels, the bouquet, mushrooms, garlic, 
&c., as before, the whole being finished off aa in the 
preceding recipe, and dished with the rabbit neatly 
piled on the toast or fried bread, the eel arranged as a 
garnish round, and the gravy over all. (Eel is much 
used abroad to enrich fish stews, especially if the fish 
chosen is somewhat dry.) 

Spiteheocked. — Cleanse the eel well, rub it 

with salt, and skin it. Now slit it down and remove the 
backbone; again well wash and dry the fish, and cut it 
into neat lengths, flouring it lightly to get it quite dry, 
then dip these pieces in a thick batter, after seasoning 
them well with minced parsley and chives or shallot, 
salt, and pepper. (Some cooks add minced sage to 
this.) Now roll the pieces in fine sifted breadcrumbs or 
in hard biscuit crumbs, and broil over a clear fire till 
nicely browned; serve with anchovy sauce or melted 
butter rather strongly flavoured with anchovy or any 
other flavoured vinegar to taste. 

Boasted. — Cut a large eel into good-sized 

pieces after skinning, cleansing, and trimming it, and 
let it marinade for about two hours in oil, lemon juice, 

P 2 



y Google 



68 FISH. 

pepper, salt, two cloves, two or three sliced shallots, a 
spray of thyme, and a bay leaf or two; now wrap each 
piece in buttered paper, and either roast in front of 
the fire or bake in the oven, basting the pieces well with 
the marinade, to which you have added a little butter 
melted ; when cooked, remove the paper, and serve with 
any good sharp sauce to taste. Grated horseradish is 
generally used as a garnish for this dish. 

Pie. — Fillet one or two eels and put on 

their trimmings with an onion stuffed with cloves, a full 
bouquet, and sufficient water to make a good stock. 
Now fry in butter, at the bottom of the stewpan, 2oz. 
or so of finely-minced shallot, over a slow fire, and, as 
soon as the shallots begin to colour, strain on to them 
the eel stock with a spoonful of roughly-minced parsley, 
a little spice, salt, pepper, loz. of glaze or Lemco, and 
two glasses of claret (or, if preferred, a glass of sherry, 
and one of water acidulated with lemon juice); lay in 
the fillets, let it all come well to the boil, then lift the 
pan from the fire, and pack the fillets pretty closely in 
a well-buttered pie dish, previously sprinkled with 
minced parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a little salt; 
arrange some sliced hard-boiled egg between the fish 
fillets, and, lastly, moisten the whole well with some 
of the stock ; cover it with puff paste, and bake. When 
this pie is ready reduce the rest of the stock by a sharp 
boil up, add a little more wine to it, and pour it into 
the pie by means of a funnel. This is extremely good 
both hot or cold, but the latter is the more digestible. 
A simpler method is to cleanse, skin, and cut up the 
eels in 2 inch lengths, blanch the pieces for a minute, 
then drain well, and fry for about five minutes ; season 
with minced parsley and shallots, a tiny dust of grated 
nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. 
Lay a little light fish forcemeat (or even a light veal 
stuffing will do) at the bottom of a buttered piedish, lay 
the eels on this, cover it all with puff paste, and bake, 
moistening it at the last, as in the previous recipe, with 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 69 

some well-flavoured and reduced stock made from the 
trimmings of the eel, to which a little Madeira may or 
may not be added as you please. It may be observed 
that eels are exoellent en covlihiac. 

d VIndienne. — Cleanse, skin, cut up, and 

par-fry the eels, then put the pieces into a pan with a 
sliced carrot, half a sliced turnip, a full bouquet, pepper, 
salt, a glass of white wine, and a little water, and stew 
this all till tender ; arrange it on a hot. dish, and serve 
garnished with rice balls and a good curry sauce round 
it. For the rice halls: Mix some cooked rice with 
grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, coralline 
pepper, and sufl&cient white sauce to moisten it all: 
shape this mixture into balls, egg, breadcrumb, and fry 
them, and serve. 

Ed Pout (Lotte). — This fish, which is somewhat of the 
nature of an eel, is to be found in various parts of 
Europe, and grows to a large size in America. It is 
considered a delicacy abroad, though in this country it 
is reckoned coarse. It is usually stewed like any other 
fish, the sauce being enriched with a certain proportion 
of wine, mushrooms, and blanched onions. 

a la Parisienne. — The eel pout, after being 

cleansed, scraped, and thoroughly washed, are cooked in 
sufl&cient Mirapoix sauce to moisten them well, simmer- 
ing them gently till done. In the meantime roughly 
mince the livers (which are considered a special delicacy 
abroad), and heat these in some oyster sauce. Arrange 
the fish on a croiiton of fried bread, pour the sauce over 
them, dust lightly with minced parsley and coralline 
pepper, and serve very hot. 

d la Prussienne* — Toes a large slice of fat ham 

over the fire till the fat begins to dissolve ; pour over this 
about a pint or rather less of champagne, half a pint of 
rich brown sauce, a good bouquet garni, a sliced onion, 
and some chives and bay leaves; boil this over a quick 
fire for about an hour. Now strain off this liquor 
through a fine sieve into another pan, lay in a scraped 



y Google 



70 FISH. 

and cleansed eel pout without its liver, sprinkle it well 
with salt and pepper, let the liquor reboil, then simmer 
gently till the fish is dane; put the fish on a hot dish, 
boil up the sauce sharply till reduced a fourth part, then 
pour it over the fish, and serve at once garnished with 
fried croiitons, dusted with minced chives and coralline 
pepper. The livers of the eel pout are in France made 
into a very rich pie with a forcemeat of fat ham, pike 
flesh, truffles, &c., but this is both too expensive and 
too rich for ordinary private households. 

Flounder (Carrelet). — This fish belongs to the same 
family as the sole, the plaice, and other flat fish ; indeed, 
abroad, when large, it is constantly served like, and as, 
brill, and the same remark applies also to America. In 
this country, however, they are not greatly honoured, 
though inexperienced housewives occasionally enjoy 
them greatly when filleted under the name, and at the 
price of soles. Baron de Brisse gives a very nice recipe 
for these fish: Empty and wash them well, oil them, 
and season them with salt and freshly-ground black 
pepper ; heat your gridiron, lay on it some oiled straws, 
and put the flounders on this ; broil them over a gentle 
fire, then serve them with either brown or white caper 
sauce as you please. They are also excellent in water 
souchet. They may also be filleted or cut in pieces, 
dipped in butter, or in egg and breadcrumb, fried, and 
served with tomato sauce as Carrelet a VOrlie. 

Ferras. — ^This is the famous and well-known trout of 
Lake Leman or Geneva. It is cooked like any other 
trout, though often stewed and served with sauce 
Genevaise. 

Fluke. — This is, properly speaking, an American fish, 
resembling halibut, like which it may be cooked. 
Though always in season, it is best in winter. It may 
be mentioned that in some parts of England and 
Scotland flounders are known under the name of 
fluke. 

Frogs (GrenouUles). — These creatures are eiaten both 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 71 

on the Continent and in America with great gusto, 
but so far they have not become popular in this country. 
The frog eaten in Europe is the green or tree frog, but 
in America the bull frog is much thought of, and said 
to be but little, if at all, inferior to turtle. There is 
also a large kind ia Africa, which is said, when cooked, 
to bear a striking resemblanoe to chicken, to which, 
indeed, all frogs when sent to table are somewhat akin 
in flavour. Lent is the season for frogs abroad, and they 
are then freely displayed by the poulterers ready pre- 
pared for table, for it is only the hind quarters that 
are used. Indeed, most cooks employ the canned frogs. 
When thus prepared they may be broiled, fried (in 
either case marinade them for a little in oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper), or they may be served en hlanquette 
or au gratin ; in short, they may be prepared by almost 
any recipe given for chicken. The two best known 
French recipes are the following : 

Fried. — Lay the frogs, either fresh or 

canned, on to a dish, and pour over them a little vinegar 
and oil, with salt, pepper, a bay leaf or two, and some 
parsley stalks, and let them marinade for an hour or 
two; then dip in batter and fry in boiling fat or butter, 
drain well, and serve piled in a napkin. 

d la Fovlette. — ^For this dish do not marinade 

the frogs, but after cutting them in half, place in a small 
saucepan with a sufficient quantity of poulette sauce ; 
if the frogs are canned, they only require" to be heated 
in this, but if raw must be gently simmered till tender ; 
then lift out the frogs and keep them hot, whilst you 
add a liaison of the yolks of two eggs and a little piece 
of butter to the sauce, which, must not reboil after the 
eggs are put in ; pour this over and round the frogs, and 
serve very hot. For the satbce, put loz. of butter with 
a spoonful of flour into a pan, and stir till thoroughly 
blended, season to taste with salt, pepper, a dust efUih 
of cayenne and grated nutmeg, a good bouquet, and 
equal parts of white stock (ohidcen by preference) and 



y Google 



72 FISH. 

white French wine. Dust this dish with a little finely- 
minced parsley as you send it to table. 

Garfish (Orphie). — ^This fish is known by several names, 
snipe fish, green bone, sea needle being all pseudonyms 
for it. It is a Icmg, slender fish, with a very long beak 
and brilliant grass green bones, because of which many 
people imagine it to be poisonous. It is, however, 
excellent if cleansed, well washed, cut up, and marinaded 
for an hour or two in vinegar, oil, pepper, salt, herbs, 
and minoed shallot; then either drain the pieces, dip 
them in egg and breadcrumb or batter, as you please, 
and fry them ; or put the pieces in a pan with the 
marinade and just sufficient fish stock, if necessary, 
to cover them, set the pan in the bain-marie, cover it 
down tightly, and cook gently till tender; then drain 
well, dish, and serve with anchovy sauce made with the 
strained stock in which you cooked the fish. 

Grayling (Omhre). — ^This is a kind of trout, and may 
be cooked in any fashion recommended for the latter. 

GrUse. — This is simply a young salmon on its first 
return from the sea. It may be cooked by any recipe 
recommended for salmon or large trout. 

Gudgeon (Goujon). — These fish, nowadays not much 
thought of, were considered worth attention by Izaak 
Walton, and to this day are reckoned a delicapy as a 
friture abroad. The white or silver gudgeon is the 
most delicate. To cook them, remove the gills and fins, 
make a small cut on the under side of each, and press 
the under side lightly to force up the intestines, thus 
enabling you to remove them by the slit, and cleanse 
them nicely; now dip them thoroughly in milk, drain 
for a moment, flour them well, and fry till crisp and 
nicely coloured in plenty of hot fat. Drain, and serve 
on a hot dish, sending cayenne, a cut lemon, and brown 
bread and butter to table with them. They may also 
be treated by any recipe given for smelts. 

Braised, — Scale, cleanse, and wipe the fish 

without washing them ; brush a fireproof dish (a piedish 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 73 

will do) thoroughly with oil or butter, and strew it 
pretty thickly with minoed parsley, shallot or chives, 
mushrooms, a bay leaf or two,- a spray of thyme and 
basil (all finely minced), with salt and freehly-ground 
pepper to taste; lay the gudgeon on this, and cover 
them with the same finely-minoed ingrediernts. Now 
moisten with a gill or so (according to quantity) of light 
red wine, cover down the pan closely either with its lid 
or a reversed dish, and cook till the liquor is all but 
absorbed ; tJien serve. 

Ghimard or Gurnet (Grondin). — ^This fish is certainly 
not very attractive to look at, though it may be served 
in many very palatable fashions, and produces a dainty 
dish at a relatively small cost ; only remember the flesh 
of the gurnet is very dry, so butter or oil should not be 
stinted in the cooking. The red kind is the best. If 
to be served whole it may be either carefully stewed or 
stuffed and baked like haddock ; the latter to most tastes 
is the favourite method. 

Gurnet, Stewed. — ^Cleanse and scale the fish well, 
removing the roe, which should be oarefuUy boiled 
separately and used as a garnish, unless you prefer to 
add it, as many people do, to the stuffing. Have ready 
some good veal stuffing (minoed suet, breadorumbs, 
parsley, chives, and a minced anchovy, if liked, lemon 
peel and seasoning, worked up with a whole egg), fasten 
this in carefully, and truss the fish like whiting, with 
its tail in its mouth ; put a small pat of butter into the 
stewpan with sufficient slightly salted water, milk and 
water, or fish stock, as you please, to cover the fish; 
bring this to the boil, then lay in the fish, watch it reboil, 
when you draw it to the side, and let it cook slowly 
and steadily for thirty minutes or so, according to size. 
When ready lift it on to a hot dish and keep it hot. 
Meanwhile strain a pint or so of the liquid in whioh the 
fish was cooked on to l^oz. to 2oz. of white roux, and 
stir this all together over the fire, allowing it to boil for 
two or three minutes till perfectly smooth; this sauce 



y Google 



74 FISH. 

may be flavoured to taste, either with lemon juioe, 
capers, and a few drops of vinegar, or some minced green 
tarragon, and a dash of white tarragon vinegar, as you 
please, adding just at the last either one yolk of egg, 
beaten up with a spoonful of milk or cream, or else a tiny 
pat of fresh butter, being careful in the latter case to 
lift the pan off the fire before the butter has entirely 
melted ; stir the butter lightly into the sauce off the fire, 
and pour it at once into a well-scalded sauce boat. It 
is this method of dissolving the butter in the sauce 
without allowing it actually to cook, that gives the 
buttery taste so much liked in French sauces. 

Baked. — Prepare and stuff the fish as before, 

then place it on a well-buttered baking dish, with two 
spoonfuls of minced shallot, and a wineglass of white 
wine round it ; brush the fish with beaten egg, strew it 
with plenty of fine breadcrumbs, dot it over with morsels 
of butter, or well-darified dripping, and bake in a hot 
oven for thirty minutes or so. It may now be served 
in the dish it was cooked in, plain melted butter or 
anchovy sauce being sent to table with it; if preferred, 
however, it may be lifted on to a hot dish and served 
with the following : Add one and a half gills of brown 
sauce to the liquor in the pan, with half a gill of good 
stock, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and half a 
teaspoonful of moist sugar; let this boil up altogether 
for four or five minutes, then pour it round the fish, 
passing a red hot salamander or shovel, over the latter 
to biX)wn and crisp it. This is also an excellent way of 
cooking bream. 

Filleted.— -The fillets of a gurnet may be 

used in almost any way recommended for soles, whiting, 
&c., and, though perhaps not quite so delicate as the 
last-named fish, yet make a most acceptable and 
economical variety. The great secret in cooking them 
is to keep the fillets very white. They may be either 
put into a well-buttered saute pan, seasoned with white 
pepper, salt, minced parsley, and lemon juice, and 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 75 

cooked over a slow fire for ten minutes, turning them 
once in the process ; or they may be placed in a similarly 
seasoned buttered baking tin, covered with a piece of 
white buttered i>aper, and baked. In either case they 
may be dished in a circle, and served with any sauce to 
taste. A pretty fashion is to make a sauce as directed 
for the stewed gurnet, flavouring this with capers or 
tarragon as you please, and pour this round the circle 
of fillets, filling up the centre with either oyster, lobster, 
shrimp, or crab sauce as you please; or tomato sauce 
may be used instead of the white sauce aa a surround. 
As gurnet are very dry fish, most people prefer to 
marinade the fiUets for an hour or two in oil, vinegar, 
sliced onion, parsley, and spice, after which they may be 
lightly egged, crumbed, and fried, and served with any 
sauce to taste ; or the fiUets, especially if small, may be 
fried plain in plenty of hot fat, and served with crab 
sauce; or, lastly, they may be dipped in frying batter, 
fried a golden brown, well drained, and served, sprinkled 
with minced parsley and coralline pepper, either plain 
or with tomato sauce. 



y Google 



CHAPTEE IV. 

FISH IN PAETICULAR {Continued). 

Haddock (Eghfin), — This is another fish that seldom 
receives the attention and care due to it. It is usually 
served either plainly boiled or baked, according to the 
method given above for gurnet, but it is capable of a 
variety of treatment, and most certainly of a large 
variety of sauces. Boiled haddock, for instance, is 
excellent with either of the sauces reoommended for 
gurnet, or with oyster, shrimp, crab, crayfish, or tomato 
sauce, and last, but not least, mushroom sauce. A care- 
fully boiled haddock cooked in a milk and water court- 
bouillon, and served garnished with sliced lemons and 
stewed mushrooms, with an accompaniment of mush- 
room sauce, will, we fancy, be a revelation to many 
people. 

Bizzared. — This Scotch dish is a great 

favourite with most people who have tasted it. Clean 
the fish well, and rub it both inside and out with salt, 
then run a skewer through the head, and hang the fish 
up by this on two nails in the open air for twenty-four 
hours ; then skin it, dust it with flour, and broil it over a 
clear fire. It can be served plain for breakfast; or for 
dinner, with maitre d'hotel, mushroom, tomato, or any 
other sauce to taste. Haddock is also good if cut open, 
brushed over with egg, and covered with a mixture of 
breadcrumbs, parsley, chives (or shallot), thyme, salt 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR, 77 

and pepper, to taste ; then fried in a little butter till it 
is cooked, and of a good brown colour, and served with 
a garnish of fried parsley. (The tail end of a cod is also 
excellent served by edtJier of tihese recipes.) Haddocks 
may be served stewed, en ctisserole, curried, au gratin, 
or, lastly, filleted. The fillets, either marinaded or 
plain, can be served with any sauce to taste, after being 
fried, baked, stewed, or en orlie in batter with tomato 
sauce. (It may be as well to observe that for all these 
fish delicately clarified dripping answers quite as well as 
butter.) A pretty way of cooking haddocks is d to 
crhme: Make a custard with one egg to three-quarters 
of a pint of milk, seasoning this with pepper, salt, coral- 
line pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. 
Fillet one or two small haddocks, cutting each fillet in 
two, lengthwise, seasoning each with white pepper, salt, 
minoed parsley, and lemon juice; roll these fillets up 
neatly, place each in a china case, and pour in sufficient 
uncooked custard to fill the mould completely, then 
either bake or poach these cases till the custard is firm 
(from ten to fifteen minutes); serve sprinkled with 
minced parsley, capers, coralline pepper, or caviare. If 
liked, these fillets can be put into small moulds, and 
turned out when cooked. It is a matter of taste. 
Gurnet and haddock fillets are both excellent cold, served 
en mayonnaise, or as fish salad with a vinaigrette 
dressing. In short, haddock may be cooked satis- 
factorily by any of the general recipes previously given, 
au gratin, stewed, pudding, d la creme, &c. 

Smoked (Merluche). — The fish are split open, 

cleansed, well salted, and then hung in the open air for 
several days till perfectly dry, when they may be cooked 
in various ways, both as savouries or breakfast dishes. 
''Finnon baddies," however, the best of this kind of 
fish, which are cured in Scotland, are smoked after 
salting and drying, the peat, pinewood, and heather 
used for the fires being said to give the special flavour 
for which these fish are noticeable. It must be added, 



y Google 



78 FISH. 

however, that Tinoonscieiitious traders often turn the 
common salted and dried fish into a Finnon haddie by 
brushing it over with a coating of pyro-ligneous acid 
and hanging it up to dry ; whilst it is even asserted that 
varnish has been used to produce the delicate colouring ! 
It is excellent if rubbed over with butter and toasted 
in front of the fire, or, again, it may be stewed thus: 
Melt two tablespoonfuls of dripping in a pan, then lay 
in the fish cut up into neat small pieces, and fry it for 
about ten minutes ; now pour over it just sufl&cient milk 
to cover it, and simmer it gently for half an hour. It 
must be fried over a very gentle fire, and the subsequent 
simmering can hardly be too slow. This is a Scotch 
fisherman's recipe. Smoked haddock when cooked and 
flaked may be heated in a variety of sauces, and with a 
variety of garnishes, one of the nicest being fried bacon, 
as those who have tasted flaked "haddie" re-heated in 
thin tomato sauce and served with rolls of fried bacon 
wiU readily admit. It also makes excellent Russian pie, 
souffle, pudding, &c. 

Hake (Merlus). — ^This fish somewhat resembles cod, 
like which it may be cooked, and for which it is often 
sold to the unwary. It is said to derive its name from 
the queer hook-shaped fin at the back of the head, which 
distinguishes it, a fin fishmongers on cheating bent 
always remove. Its speciality is the ease with which it 
may be boned, the backbone being removable with the 
fingers when cleaning it, and as it has but few other 
bones it is very useful for all kinds of fish entrees, such 
as cremeSf quenelles, &c. It is found in perfection on 
the Devon and Cornish coast, and should, there it is 
said, be eaten as fresh as possible. It may be cooked by 
any recipe given for cod or haddock, but is specially 
good baked thus : Put some well-clarified dripping into a 
baking tin, and when it is melted lay in some slices of 
hake previously well coat«d with breadcrumbs, minced 
parsley, grated cheese, onion or chives, and sifted flour, 
moistened with a little vinegar. Bake half an hour, 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 79 

drain well, and serve with any good sharp brown sauce. 
Hake slices are also good broiled, and served in curry 
sauce like salmon. 

Halibut (FUtan). — This fish is of the flounder tribe, 
but grows to an enormous size, and is considered to be 
a coarse version of the turbot. It is not a very gener- 
ally popular fish, as without careful cooking, and well- 
flavoured sauces, its flesh is often woolly and insipid. It 
is much liked, however, by the Jews (great connoisseurs 
in their way), partly on account of its cheapness, no 
doubt, but mainly because it is considered such a deli- 
cately clean feeder. It may be cooked in any way 
recommended for cod or turbot, or, indeed, most flat 
fish, and the fillets are especially good prepared in various 
ways, and with almost any sauce. These fillets may 
be fried, broiled, or stewed in milk, and are especially 
good with Momy sauce ; remember, however, that what- 
ever sauce is chosen it must be a fairly strong-flavoured 
one, as of itself the halibut has but little flavour. 

Herring (Harengs). — These fish are general favourites 
everyhere, both fresh and cured. They come in such 
hordes, and are, in consequence, so cheap, that they 
have earned for themselves the name of " the poor man's 
friend," a reputation that has rather diminished their 
poularity at recherche tables, though gourmets know 
weU how delicious the famous Loch Fyne herring are 
when in full season ; unfortunately, that season is but a 
very short one. Herrings may be plainly boiled thus: 
Wash, scale, and clean them well, sprinkle them lightly 
with salt, and dip them in vinegar quickly, and then 
put them into plenty of boiling, salted water, in which 
they must simmer steadily till done, which they will be 
in about twelve to fifteen minutes. Drain them well, 
arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnish with parsley 
or scraped horseradish, and send to table with shrimp, 
anchovy, parsley, cream, tartare, or mustard sauce 
(the latter for choice). For the Cream Sauce stir six 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream over the fire with a little 



y Google 



80 FISH. 

salt and pepper, adding, when it boils up, the juice of 
half a lemon or the equivalent amount of flavoured 
vinegar, and 2oz. of fresh butter broken up small. For 
the Mustard Sauce stir together loz. of sifted flour, and 
^oz. of mustard flour with 2oz. of butter, and when well 
blended moisten with a short half pint of boiling water 
and allow it to boil together for eight or ten minutes ; 
then add a teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve. As a 
matter of fact, almost any sauce to taste may be served 
with herring, either boiled or broiled. 

Broiled. — Choose soft roed herring, cut off 

their heads, cleanse them without opening them, and 
gash them two or three times down each side diagonally ; 
brush them over with oil, seafion with salt and pepper, 
and, if liked, a little minced parsley, and broil over a clear 
fire for ten or fifteen minutes ; when ready place them on 
a dish, and serve with a tiny pat of maitre d'hotel 
butter on each. Some cooks prefer to split them open 
and thus remove the bones, which are the great objec- 
tion to herrings. Herrings are also very good if scaled 
and well cleansed, a lump of maitre d'hotel butter, 
mustard or cayenne butter, as you prefer, being placed 
on each, the whole being then marinaded for an hour or 
two in oil, salt, and pepper, with a little vinegar, then 
grilled, and served very hot. In Scotland, where 
herring are often "fried in the pan," they are rolled 
in oatmeal before cooking. A Scotch fashion that has 
much to recommend it is the following: Scale, cleanse, 
and well wash the herring, remove the heads, tails, and 
fins, flatten them carefully out, taking away the back- 
bone and as many of the small bones as can be removed, 
sprinkle each fish inside with pepper and salt, then lay 
them together, pressing the insides as closely together as 
possible. Dip these in oatmeal, and grill or broil them 
over a clear fire, turning them once in the process care- 
fully, as soon as the under fish is cooked (mind they do 
not separate), and serve as hot as possible. Herring 
are exceedingly good collaredy for which you split them, 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 81 

remove the backbone and as many small bones as you 
possibly can, season them with freshly-ground black 
pepper, salt, and a little mixed spice; roll them up, 
fastening them into shape with a band of buttered 
paper, bake in a slow oven, and serve with mustard sauoe. 
They are also extremely good soused; for this, cleanse 
them well, and season highly with pepper, salt, and 
mixed spice, pack them dosely in a dish, heads to tails, 
put a little morsel of butter or weU-clarified dripping 
over them, with a bay leaf or two, fill the dish with 
good vinegar, cover it thickly with one or two thick- 
nesses of white paper, and bake. This is equally good 
hot or cold, and wiU rewarm admirably in its own liquor. 
If a larger proportion of vinegar and spice be used, the 
fiah may be either baked or boiled in it, then lifted into 
a pie or other convenient dish, the liquor in which they 
were cooked being boiled up, and when cold poured over 
them. Treated thus they are very useful for hors 
d'oeuvre, &c., and keep well. 

Balls. — ^Par-boil two or three herring, skin 

them, and picik tail the flesh from the bones, stirring 
this flesh, with an equal amoimt of pulped, baked potato, 
and sufficient liquefied butter or cream, fresh or sour, to 
mix it to a nice paste, shape this into balls, dip them 
in egg and breadcrumb, and then fry in plenty of boiling 
fat to a golden brown ; drain well, and serve them cm a 
napkin, dusted with minced parsley and coralline pepper. 

Fillets. — To most people^s taste herrings are 

nicer filleted, as in this way the troublesome bones can 
be removed. After filleting them and removing the 
bones, lay them in a buttered baking tin with a little 
lemon juice and white pepper, cover with a buttered 
paper, and bake for eight or ten minutes. Then serve 
either with tomato sauce or mustard sauce, to whioli 
you have added a teaspoonful of good chili vinegar and 
a spoonful of minced capers. Or lay the fillets on a 
dish and pour a little warm butter over them ; now mix 
together a teaspoonful of French mustard, half this quan- 



y Google 



82 FISH. 

tity of Englislh mustard, a dessertflpoonful of obatney, 
a dash of cayenne, and a dust of black pepper, and salt. 
When this is smooth spread a thin layer of it on each 
fillet, sprinkling these again with brown breadcrumbs, 
then lay eaoh fillet on a strip of hot buttered toast, cook 
for ten minutes in a moderate oven, and serve garnished 
with seasoned watercress. Herring fillets may be served 
en papillottes (a spoonful of tomato, mustard, or maitre 
d'hotel sauce, and a seasoning of spice and herbs being 
added), en paupiettes, &c., according to the recipe given 
in a previous chapter. 

Herring are as popular salt as fresh, and are cured in 
a variety of ways, almost every country having its own 
method. Abroad they are chiefly salted and dried, or 
preserved in pickle ; in this country they are principally 
smoked, aftetr' salting. When salted whole and smoked 
to a great extent, the skin assumes a red, metallic 
iridiscence, when they are known as " red herring," and, 
generally speaking, require considerable soaking before 
they are palatable to the average oonsumer. Yarmouth 
bloaters are herring kept whole, but only slightly salted, 
and very carefully smoked. Kippers, again, are split 
open before salting and smoking ; after drying, they are 
usually smoked quite as long as red herring. There is, 
however, in Scotland what is called " the green kipper," 
a very delicate method of preserving (also applied to 
mackerel and salmon), but, though delicious, these 
do not keep very long. For this, clean, scale, 
and bone the fish neatly, then rub it well all 
over with equal parts of salt and brown sugar, 
half a part of freshly-ground black pepper, and 
a tiny pinch' of saltpetre; now cover it with a heavily 
weighted board, and let it lie in this for two days, when 
you hang it up to dry ; this is the "green kipper," but if 
smoked it will keep admirably, which it does not in its 
gi^en conditiotn. It is advisable when drying the fish 
to stretch it out well with wooden skewers ; this kipper 
hardens quickly in the smoking, and if left rather long in 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 83 

the smoking chamber will require ten to thirty minutes 
soaking (according to size) before cooking. Herring, 
mackerel, and salmon are all delicious in this way, but 
what few people know is that fresh water fish is par- 
ticularly good kippered; it must, however, only be 
smoked for a few hours. Smoked and otherwise cured 
herring, however, are mostly used for lunch, breakfast, 
and savouries, and, as such, have been treated else- 
where. 

Kin^fish. — This is an American fish akin to a whiting, 
like which it is cooked. It is a very delicate fish. 

Klip or Clipfish, — This is a f onn of dried cod imported 
from Norway. 

Lamprey (Lamproie). — These are a kind of short, thick 
eels, which are partly fresh and partly salt water fish, 
coming up the rivers for the purpose of spawning, and 
then returning to the sea; they are not very plentiful 
anywhere. In this country the best are caught in the 
Serem. Where they are plentiful they are usually 
oooked Hke eels, but require longer cooking, as the flesh, 
though esteemed a great delicacy, is anything but diges- 
tible. They need to be oooked very fresh, as they very 
quickly become dry and flavourless after death ; for this 
reason they are chiefly seen in the form of potted 
lampreys, or '' lampem pie,'' the famous Christmas gift 
of the City of Gloucester to the reigning Sovereign. 
Here is the old recipe for this delicacy : '* Take out the 
backbone of the fish, seasoning the latter with powdered 
cloves, mace, pepper, and allspice, stew it in strong beef 
stock flavoured with port and Madeira ; when par-cooked 
put it in a pie with chopped anchovies, a dust of flour, 
and butter, cover with puff paste, and bake. Eat it 
with lemon juice, mustard, and horseradish." 

Lance.— See "Sand Eel" or "Sea Lance." 

Ling (Lingue). — ^This fish is a large and rather coarse 
form of cod ; it is somewhat slighter in make, found in 
large quantities in the Northern seas, and usually sold as 
salt cod ; as which it is also sold when fresh by unscrupu- 

G 2 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



84 FISH. 

loua fishmongers. It is, from its insipidity, not worth 
bailing, but it is not bad baked, broiled, or stewed, on 
an emergency; and, in fact, it can be cooked by any 
recipe given for cod. It is particularly good as pie thus : 
Skin and slice a good piece of salted and well-aoaked 
ling (which for this purpose should have been par-boiled), 
and pack it in a piedish with sliced hard-boiled egg) 
freshly-ground black pepper, salt, and minced parsley; 
now strew it with small pieces of butter (in Cornwall they 
use dotted cream), and when the dish is full pour in a 
gill or so of good strong fish stock, strongly seasoned 
with black pepper and ground mace (if liked), cover with 
puff paste, and bake. When ready lift the cover, pour 
in a few spoonfuls of boiling cream, and serve. 

Loach. — A small, well-flavoured, but very bony river 
fish ; may be cooked by any recipe given for smelts. 

Mackerel (Maquereau). — These fish should never be 
touched save when perfectly in season, nor should they 
be cooked when there is the leaat doubt as to their 
perfect freshness, since they will begin to ferment, in the 
gills, at all events, within two days of being caught, in 
which condition they are little short of poisonous; 
indeed, many people cannot touch mackerel, even in the 
finest condition, without suffering from rash. In any 
case, however fresh they are, remove the head and gills 
before attempting to cook them. They may be plainly 
boiled, after well cleansing, and then served with fennel, 
parsley, or tarragon sauce. They are also excellent 
broiled, only remembering that to insure the full flavour 
of the fish they should be wrapped, lightly but carefully, 
in fennel before putting then on the gridiron. This is 
an old but excellent recipe. Broiled mackerel may also 
be served with black butter, maitre d'hotel butter, or, 
indeed, any savoury butter to taste. They are also 
very good stewed, and may be "collared" in the same 
way as eels. Filleted mackerel, again, are very good, 
and may be served with almost any sauce you please. 
They look very pretlgr if served round a pile of potato 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 85 

olives with tomata, fennel, or any sauce you like round 
them. 

FiXLeU a Vltalienne. — Fillet a couple of 

mackerel, and trim each fillet neatly into two or three, 
remove the skin, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, 
and cook in the usual way, in a huttered baking tin, with 
seasoning and lemon juice, under a buttered paper. 
Boil the bones and trimmings of the fish for an hour with 
an onion, a carrot, a good bouquet, pepper, salt, and 
two or three cloves, to taste, in suflScient water to cover 
it all, and when ready strain it. Fry three or four 
finely-minced shallots and as many minced mushrooms 
in oU till nicely coloured, then add three tablespoonfuls 
of white wine vinegar, mix it well, and boil it up sharply 
till the vinegar is reduced a third part ; now pour to this 
the above made stock with a little minced parsley, let it 
just boU up, dish the fillets, and serve with the sauce 
round them. 

Soused. — Cleanse as many mackerel as you 

choose, removing their heads and fins, and boil them for 
about twenty minutes in salted and acidulated water; 
when cooked drain them, and lay them in a deep dish. 
Boil half a pint of vinegar with three bay leaves, a few 
peppercorns, cloves, pepper, and salt, then add a gUl of 
good olive oil, and boil the mixture for a few minutes; 
now pour it over the fish, and leave them for twenty- 
four hours. To dish them lift the fish on to a dish, i>our 
the liquor round them, and serve garnished with fennel 
and sliced lemon. 

Mackerel may be stewed, curried, cooked en casse- 
role or d, la Portugaise, oaveached, or kippered, as you 
please, by any of the recipes previously given. They are 
also excellent en orlie. 

Minnows. — Children may like to know that these 
tiny river fish are by no means to be despised, if treated 
like whitebait, and served plaim, devilled, or curried, 
with an accompaniment of brown bread and butter, 
coralline pepper, and cut lemon. 



y Google 



86 FISH. 

MuUety Grey (Mtdet or Surmulet). — This fish, which is 
found ohiefly in estuaries and river mouths, is oon- 
sidered a delicacy by many people, but being a decidedly 
foul feeder, care should be used in its selection. When 
young it may be boiled exactly li^e haddock, or it may 
be broiled (gashing the sides diagonally, and frying 
it on oiled straws, as recommended for its cousin, 
the red mullet). It may be served with anchovy, 
oiled butter, caper, Dutch, or tomato sauce, as you 
please. 

Au Four. — ^Peel and slice four anions, and 

fry tihem in oil till nicely coloured, spread these in a 
deep baking dish, lay a fairly large mullet on these, 
strewing it with plenty of minced parsley; then with 
sliced tomato, and, lastly, with the rest of the onions 
and more parsley. Pour over this the oil in which the 
onions were fried, a teacupful of water, half a teaoupful 
of tomato sauce, the same of French vinegar, and bake 
for an hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold 
garnished with the onion, &c. (Remember this fish 
must be carefully cleansed and washed, then left for an 
hour or two well strewed with salt, before attempting 
to cook it.) The above recipe answers admirably for 
any fish which need not be filleted for this purpose, but 
if too lai^e to cook whole, simply cut roughly into neat 
pieces. Mullet may be stewed, fried, served en casse- 
role, or au gratin, just as you please; whilst French 
people consider it perfect en matdotte, like eels. 
A favourite supper dish abroad is MvUet in 
Jelly: Place a lai^e mullet (say 31b. or 41b. in 
weight), with enough water to cover it, in a 
fish kettle, two medium-sized onions stuck with 
two or three doves, some allspice, the juice of three 
sweet and one bitter orange, and the juice of six lemons, 
with a wineglassful of sherry; bring this all gently to 
the boil, then simmer it steadily tiU the fish is cooked. 
Now lift it out gently and place it, back downwards, in 
a deep oval dish. Simmer loz. of best leaf gelatine in 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 87 

the stock in which the fish was cooked until the gelatine 
is perfectly dissolved, when you strain it carefully on 
to the fish (which must be thoroughly covered) and leave 
it till it is firm and set-. Turn out and serve garnished 
with parsley. 

Mullet, Bed (Bouget, or sometimes Surmulet), — These 
delicate little sea fish are greatly esteemed by connois- 
seurs, by whom they are termed the "woodcock of the 
sea," from the fact that connoisseurs say they should 
never be drawn ; this, however, is a matter of taste. To 
clean them they should be very lightly scraped, and the 
gills pulled out, cairying with them all that it is neces- 
sary to remove. 

a la BSarnaisCt — Choose fairly large fish for 

this, and, after cleansing and trimming them, gash them 
diagonally down each side at half -inch intervals; brush 
the fish over with salad oil, and dust it with freshly- 
ground black pepper and salt; lay some oiled straws 
across the gridiron (this saves the skin of the fish from 
sticking!), lay the mullet on this and grill it for te'n to 
fifteen minutes according to size ; then serve with Bear- 
naise sauce. It may also, when grilled, be served with 
tomato or Mirabeau sauce, or any savoury butter to 
taste. Remember the liver of the fish, which is 
reckoned a great delicacy, should in any case be left 
in it. 

tn Cases. — This is the old fashioned and 

very good way of cooking these fish. After washing and 
drying the fish thoroughly, only cleansing it as described 
above by the gills, wrap it closely in a sheet of thickly- 
buttered white paper, tie up the ends carefully, and 
either roast it in a Dutch oven, bake it in a moderate 
oven, or broil it over a clear, gentle fire, as you please. 
It will take about twenty minutes, more or less, accord- 
ing to size; then remove the thread, and send the 
mullet to table in the paper case. For sauce, add to 
half a pint of rich melted butter the liquor which has 
flowed from the fish, a good teaspoonful of essence of 



y Google 



88 FISH. 

anchovy, a wineglassful of port or claret, a little lemon 
jnioe, and cayenne to taste. 

Baked. — Fillet the fish, and bake these fillets 

in the ordinary way, under a buttered paper, in a well- 
buttered baking tin; then drain, and arrange the fish 
on a hot dish, serving it with espagnole, Italienne, 
tomato, or any other sauoe to taste, from whence the 
dish will take its name. Another way is: Remove the 
gills from the fish, and arrange the latter in a well- 
buttered fireproof dish, sprinkled with finely-chopped 
parsley, breadcrumbs, mushrooms, chives, salt, and 
pepper (according to what you have), strew them with 
more of this mixture, cover with a well-buttered paper, 
and bake for half an hour, more or less, according to 
size ; then remove the paper, and serve in the dish they 
were cooked in. A little sherry or ohablis and a few 
drops of essence of anchovy are considered an addition 
to this. The mullet should be packed in tete-heche, i.e., 
heads to tails. 

en Papilottes. — Cleans© the ^h by the giUs, 

wipe it well, remove the fins, &c., and lay the fish on 
sheets of white paper, season with black pepper and salt, 
add a spoonful of d*uxelle or of any rich and well-reduced 
sauce on each side of the fish, fold up the paper tightly, 
and broil over a moderate but clear fire for twenty 
minutes. Serve hot in the cases, with anchovy, maitiSs 
d'hotel, or fines herhes sauce in a boat. 

in Cases. — Fry together in a little oil two 

spoonfuls of finely-minced shallot and onion; when 
lightly coloured add to these four spoonfuls of minced 
mushrooms, and cook till they are really dry, when you 
add two or three spoonfuls of capers, some minced 
parsley, and one or two minced anchovies. Brush six 
cleansed red mullet well with oil, seasoning them with 
salt and pepper, cover each side of the fish fairly thickly 
with the mince, wrap each in a heart-shaped sheet of 
previously oiled white paper, and broil carefully on 
both sides, serving them when very hot. Lay either a 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 89 

sheet of thick paper or the oiled straws under the 
mullet to save them from any chanoe of burning. 

d la LSvaniine. — Soak the fish for an hour in 

a mixture of salad oil, black pepper, finely-minced 
parsley, a bay leirf, and either a clove or garlic, or some 
shallots. When well soaked cleanse the fish thoroughly, 
working the marinade to a paste with the fish trail 
and milk-steeped breadcrumbs. Stuff the fish through 
the gills with this mixture, wrap each in oiled paper, and 
bi^. Cold cooked mullet is excellent en mayonnaise. 

Parr. — This is a small kind of trout best fried, though 
it may be cooked by any recipe given for trout. It is 
also a name given to young salmon. 

Perch (Perche). — A river fish, common in this as in 
other countries. The Thames or silver perch is speci- 
ally esteemed, its only rival being the giant perch of 
Germany, known as the Zander. These fish should have 
rosy gills and look rough generally. They may be 
boiled, broiled, fried, or stewed ; are good en souchet, en 
casserole, or escallopped, and, if large enough, may be 
filleibed, when they are excellent served cold en mayon- 
naise. 

Pike (Brocket). — This fish, which is best in winter, is 
also known as the jack, the luce (and in some districts as 
the fresh water shark), and when young as the pickerel. 
It may be boiled, broiled, baked, stewed, or roast. (Lard 
a good-sized fish with strips of eel or fat bacon, then 
roast or bake it, basting alternately with Sauteme and 
lemon juice, and butter; serve with brown caper sauce, 
to which you have added a few oysters and their liquor.) 
Remember that pike are very dry fish, therefore the 
butter or clarified dripping used in cooking them must 
not be spared. According to old English custom, a 
pike, however cooked, should always be served with 
the following sauce : Melt 2oz. of butter, working into it 
lioz. of sifted flour, and moistening this when thoroughly 
blended with half a pint of milk; let this all boil 
together for eight or ten minutes, then stir in a minced 



y Google 



90 FISH. 

anchovy, ioz. of fresh butter, two spoorofuls of thick 
creadn, a dust of cayenne, and either a small spoomf ul of 
lemon pickle or an equivalent amount of lemon juice 
and grated lemon rind. Pike fillets may be stewed in 
butter, or skinned, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried, 
and then served with any rich piquante sauce to taste. 

Abroad pike is frequently boiled in a court-houillon 
au bleu, and served with the following sauce : Soak some 
filleted sardines in claret for two hours, then mince them 
and put them into a pan with a dessertspoonful of flour, 
a claretglassful of claret, a few freshly-made white 
breadcrumbs, a couple of spoonfuls of good stock (either 
fish or flesh), the grated rind of half a lemon, some 
minced herbs, and a good dust of salt and pepper; stir 
this all over the fire till very hot and smooth, and pour 
it over the fish, garnishing the latter with fried croiitons, 
and mushrooms if liked. The quantity of sardines, &c., 
used for the sauce must depend on the size of the fish it 
is to accompany. 

Baked. — Well cleanse a small pike and lay it 

in a fireproof baking dish, gashing it down the sides at 
intervals pretty deeply, but without cutting through 
the backbone ; make a mixture with salt, pepper, minced 
bay leaves, and chives (or shallot), parsley, chervil, 
freshly-ground black pepper, and cloves, working this all 
well up with a little fresh butter and flour; fill the 
gashes in the fish with this mixture, sprinkling the 
remainder generously over the rest of the fish, and set 
it all in the oven. After a few minutes cover the fish 
thoroughly with sour cream, lay a buttered paper over 
it, and bake till tender; serve very hot, dusted with 
minced chives and tarragon. 

Pilchard (Celan), — The "gypsey herring," as this fish 
is also called, are very common off the coasts of Devon 
and Cornwall, but they are seldom seen inland, as they 
do not keep well uncured, being very oily, and, to most 
tastes, best when tinned; Cornish pilchards in oil have 
obtained a well-deserved reputation. Fresh they may 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 91 

be oooked by any method recommended for herring, with, 
in the West, the addition of clotted cream, a dish, how- 
ever, rather too rich for anyone bom east of the Tamar. 
On the French coast, where it is also common, it is 
frequently known as, and used for the " sardine." The 
pilchard has a fin in the middle of its back, which 
distinguishes it from the herring. 

Piper. — ^A kind of gurnet, like which they may be 
cooked. 

Plaice (Plie). — A flat fish varying in size, and conse- 
quently in goodness. Small ones may be cooked like 
dabs, or like soles, au four. When in condition these 
fish are thick and firm in the flesh and bright eyed, the 
under side being tinged with pink. At best they are apt 
to be tasteless and watery, but are improved if the head 
is cut off after cleaning and the fish hung up by the 
tail in the open air for twelve to twenty-four hours. 
This gets rid of a good deal of the wateriness, and the 
fish may then be rolled in oatmeal, seasoned with a 
little salt and black pepper, and fried. Drain well, 
and serve garnished with parley. It is also good baked, 
when, after trimming and drying the fish as above, you 
flour it well on both sides, melt some well-clarified 
dripping, lay in the fish, and cook in the oven, keeping 
it well basted. If large lay it in a double roasting tin 
like a joint of meat. When white all through at the 
thickest part, sprinkle it well with dried or fried bread- 
crumbs, and serve. Make a gravy as for meat with the 
liquor in the tin, and send to table in a sauce boat. 

If large and firm it may be filleted, and cooked by any 
recipe for fillets of sole. Inexperienced housewives little 
realise haw often the "filleted sole" they pay so dearly 
for is really nothing but the humble plaice ! How good 
the latter, however, may be if in good condition, the 
following recipe will prove. Filets de Plie a la Buchesse : 
Fillet a good plaice, removing the skin with a sharp 
knife after filleting. (Plaice are very difl&cult to skin, 
and are, for that reason, usually served without this 



y Google 



92 FISH. 

process, for the skin has to be regularly cut away, a 
troublesome process with a whole fish.) Cut each fillet 
into two or more pieces according to size, bat these out 
with a wet knife, trim them neatly, and cook in a 
buttered baking tin, sprinkling them with a very little 
fine salt and lemon juice, adding a tablespoonful of 
water or fish stock, and covering it all with a buttered 
paper. Bake for eight to twelve minutes (according 
to size and thickness), then dish in a ring, like cutlets ; 
have ready as many boned, filleted, and washed 
anchovies as you have fiUets, dust the insides 
of each with sieved, hard boiled yolk of egg, 
roU up each anchovy fillet, dust it with minced 
parsley and coralline pepper, lay one of these 
anchovies on each fillet, and serve with the follow- 
ing sauce : Heat the liquor in which the fish was cooked 
in the bain-marie (if you once let it boil the sauce will 
oil !) and work in by degrees ^oz. or so of butter and a 
little essence of anchovy or shrimp, and directly this 
thickens add a few drops of Seville orange juice (or 
failing this, lemon juice), and serve at once. For this 
dish it is well to marinade the fillets for an hour or two 
in oil, orange or lemon juice, spice, and sliced onion 
before cooking. Plaice also makes delicious fish cream, 
but requires the addition of essence of anchovy or 
shrimp, lemon or bitter orange juice, &c. 

Boach {Gar don), — A small fresh water fish, not of 
much, if any, oulinaiy value, though not bad at a pinch, 
if marinaded and br^oiled, fried, or stewed in a court- 
bouillon, or en casserole. 

Bockfish. — A name given to various white-fleshed, firm, 
cod-like fish. 

BocUing. — A fish of the haddock tribe, common on the 
coast of Great Britain, and varying in length from 1^ 
to 18 or 20 inches. They are seldom, if ever, seen 
inland, or, indeed, in seaside shops, as they do not keep, 
and must be used directly they are caught. Cook like 
haddock, or, indeed, by any fish recipe. 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 93 

Boyans. — A small variety of the sardine tribe, much 
esteemed in France, where it is canned with various 
accompaniments. Much used abroad as a hors d'oeuvre 
or en salade, 

Budd. — A small fresh water fish somewhat like a carp, 
and cooked like a roach, on which it is said to be an 
improvement. But it is not a popular fish. 

Salmon (Saumon), — ^Though called a river fish, the 
salmon spends half its life in salt and half in fresh water, 
going up the rivers to spawn, and returning with the 
autumn to the sea. One particularity of the salmon is 
that it "homes,'' i.e., always returns to the water in 
which it was hatched; this has been fully proved, and 
accounts for the fact of many rivers formerly crowded 
with fish now being salmonless, though to all appear- 
ance ideal rivers for the fish's purpose. The river has 
been overfished, or the salmon in some way killed off, 
and no stranger will venture up stream, however 
tempting its appearance ; so the only way of restocking 
it is to rear young fry in it in the upper reaches, and 
these will, after their necessary sea trip, return to their 
quasi-native waters. To choose salmon, see that the 
gills are firm and rosy, the eyes red and brilliantly 
transparent, the back of a rich dark steel blue spotted 
with red, the underside absolutely silvery in its white- 
ness, the whole body being closely covered with smaU 
brilliant bcales. (If these are duU or cloudy the fish is 
either out of condition or not fresh.) Prefer a short, 
round, firm fish with a sharp, short, and rather fierce- 
looking head ; a medium-sized fish is generally reckoned 
the best. Salmon are said to run up to 601b. or 701b., 
but those of 151b. to 251b. are probably the best. The 
best home-grown salmon come from Christchurch, the 
Severn, and the Scotch rivers, but during their close 
time large fish are brought over from Holland and from 
British Columbia. The Dutch salmon are dis^notly 
wanting in flavour compared with the home fish, and, 
though the British Columbian fish are said to be super- 



y Google 



94 FISH. 

excellent in their awn waters, the ice in which they 
neoesearily must be pcioked for transport detracts from 
their flavour over here. As said before, there is a diver- 
gence of opinion regarding the keeping of this fish, and 
certainly anyone who has had the luck to taste a fresh 
"kettled" salmon before it "has lost a tide," to use the 
country phrase, will ever after remember the difference 
between the firm-flaked salmon, with its creamy white 
curd, and the oily rich softness of the fish that has beem 
kept a few days. Still, both conditions are appreciated, 
one side declaring the firmness aaid the curd to be indi- 
gestible, whilst the others aver that the oily soft condi- 
tion is the initial stage of decomposition, and, as such, 
unwholesome. Anyway, the fact remains, firm or soft, 
the home salmon has the finest flavour, and should be 
cooked in the simplest manner not to overpower its 
delicacy of savour, rich sauces and intricate cookery 
being reserved for the coarser and more insipid imported 
fish. A salmon should be cleaned the moment it is dead, 
and then at once crimped with a sharp knife at 2 inch 
intervals right down to the bone. This gives firmness 
and crispness to the flesh. 

Boiled, — ^AUow 6oz. of salt for each gallon 

of wat«r, bring it to the boil, skimming it well, and 
when it is boiling hard lay in the fish previously scaled 
and cleansed, let the water jxLst reboil, then draw the 
pan to the side, and let it simmer steadily till the fish 
is done, i.e., till it is coming away from the bone and 
the flesh against the bone looks opaque and done, when it 
must be lifted off at once. The parts chosen for boiling 
are the middle, or the head and shoulders, though the 
tail end is occasionally chosen because it costs less than 
the other parts; though, taking into accoimt the bone, 
&c., it is not thrifty for this. A whole fish, if not too 
lai^e, is sometimes boiled, but needs special care or the 
tail will break before the middle is cooked. Salmon 
must be thoroughly cooked. The time is usually 
reckoned at twenty minutes to the pound, and for the 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. . 95 

middle of a thick fish this is a fair average, but it needs 
watching, as a thin piece will hardly take half the time. 

To boil Dutch or frozen salmon use a court-houiUon, 
preferably one with wine in it. Or use French white 
wine and no vinegar. Salmon cooked thus is nice if 
served with tomato sauce (cook five or six nice ripe 
tomatoes in fish stock and light French white wine to 
cover them till tender enough to sieve, then season the 
pur^e to taste with spice and a little glaze, add a drop 
or two of carmine, if necessary, to bring up the colour, 
and reduce by a sharp boil up. This is very good for 
many fiah) or with, a cucumber purie (put into a pan 
half a pint of rich bechamel asod the same of good white 
fish stock, reduce it a fourth part by rapid boiling, then 
add a medium-sized sliced cucumber, previously 
marinaded for half an hour in oil and vinegar, sprinkle 
with white pepper, and let it cook gently till perfectly 
tender, and serve; if liked, it may be sieved). 

British salmon is often served with a boatful of the 
water it was boiled in and freshly-boiled potatoes. 

Broiled. — Cut nice slices through the fish 

li inches thick, brush them with oil or liquefied butter, 
dust them with salt and pepper, and broil on a well- 
oiled hot grid for about twenty minutes, turning the slioe 
every two or three minutes, and brushing it over with 
oil each time you turn. Serve directly it is quite crisp 
and nicely browned. Send coralline pepper and a 
quartered lemon to table with it. If you broil Dutch 
or frozen salmon send maitre d'hotel, anchovy, or 
truffle butter to table with it. 

Boast. — Choose a nice large cut of saLnon, 

say 41b. to 61b., flour it lightly, and wrap it well in 
buttered paper previously strewn with minced fines 
herhes, roast in a Dutch over or tied to a spit, as you 
please. When ready remove the paper, brush the fish 
over with a little matelott© sauce to glaze it, and serve 
with matelotte sauce in a boob. A mutelotte sauce is 
made of rich, strong fish stock flavoured with herbs, 



y Google 



96 FISH. 

spice, fried shallots, a glass of claret, and some fish 
trimmings ; simmer this all well and gently together, then 
strain it on to loz. or 2oz. of good brown, roux, according 
to quantity, boil it up together, with a dessertspoonful 
of tomato ketchup, one of sherry, and one of anohoyy 
vinegar, or a teaspoonful of plain French vinegar boiled 
down as for Beamaise sauce. Use when it is all well 
blended. 

d V Alexandra. — Broil small fillets of salmon, 

or fry delicately in oil, Jewish fashion, and leave till 
cold. Have ready some fleurons of anchovy pastiy, make 
a nice border of fading, and arrange the fillets and the 
fleurons alternately in a nng, and fill up the centre with 
a mousseline sauce. 

a VAnvers. — ^Press four or five tomatoes 

(fresh or canned) free from moisture, rub them through 
a sieve, and mix the pulp with the juice of a lemon and 
a little finely-minced parsley (and chives, if liked). 
Prepare some small fillets of salmon, brush them with 
liquefied butter, dust with pepper and salt, and place 
each in a well-oiled, heart-shaped piece of white paper 
with a spoonful of the tomato on each, fold them up 
tightly, and place them in a buttered baking tin ; cover 
them with another buttered paper to prevent their over- 
oolounng, and bake for about ten minutes or until the 
cases puff out. Serve in the cases garnished with green 
tarragon, parsley, &c. Any fish, mackerel, filleted trout, 
and smelts especially, are good cooked in this way. 

a la Colbert. — Prepare a good cowrt-houiUon 

with about a pint of richly flavoured stock and about a 
gill of light French or Rhine wine, and when this comes 
to the boil well, slip in as many nicely-trimmed fillets 
of salmon as will lie comfortably in the stewpan without 
overlapping. Watch this reboil, then draw it to the 
side of the stove, and let it simmer gently but steadily 
for eight to twelve minutes, when you lift out the 
fillets and put them on a hot dish. Meantime strain 
half a pint of tbe fish liquor on to loz. of nice roux, 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 97 

boil up, skim, and tammy, adding just at the last a 
dessertspoonful of tarragon or anchovy vinegar, a little 
minoed parsley or tarragon, and the yolk of an egg 
beaten up with loz. of butter. Pour the sauce round 
the filletSj and serve with seasoned watorcress. 

a VIndiemie. — Broil or fry some nicely- 
trimmed salmon fillets and serve with a rich curry sauce, 
rather strongly flavoured with tamarind and ooooanut. 
A garnish of nicely-boiled rice may be served with this. 

a la Jmve. — ^Melt 3oz. of fresh butter, 

season with salt, pepper, and minced parsley or green 
tarragon; pour to this half a pint of Madeira or Mar- 
sala, the juice of two red capsicums, and two tomatoes. 
Lay about 31b. of nice salmon in a deep dish that will 
just hold it comfortably, and pour the above mixture 
over it. Put it into a sharp oven, and bake for about 
one hour, basting it frequently with the sauce, but 
turning it only once. 

a la Meuniere. — ^Line a stewpan with sliced 

carrot, turnip, and celery, with a mushroom or two, a 
bouquet, a tiny blade of mace, and two cloves ; lay the 
sliced fish on this, with enough brown stock (fish or 
vegetable) to cover it all, add a buttered paper, and 
simmer the whole gently for half an hour. Now put the 
salmon slices on a hot dish ; strain off the stock, thicken 
about half a pint with l^oz. of brown roux, boil it, add 
loz. of glaze, and a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and 
serve over the fish. (Use Dutch or frozen salmon for 
this.) 

d la Bomaine (Hot). — Line a buttered mould 

pretty thickly with salmon forcemeat, and fill up the 
centre with a nice ragout of lightly-chopped prawns, 
truffles, and mushrooms, all tossed in rather thick alle- 
mande sauce ; cover with more forcemeat, lay a buttered 
paper over it, and poach or steam it carefully. Turn 
out carefully, and serve with cardinale sauce over and 
round it. This form of timbale can manifestly be made 
with any fish forcemeat and filling to taste. 



y Google 



98 FISH. 

a la Tartars. — ^Fry some nioely-trimmed 

fiUetfl of salmon, and serve with Tartare sauce. These 
fillets may also be served with ravigotte, remonlade, 
suedoise, or any other sauce to taste, varying the name. 

a la Trafalgar. — ^Broil or fry some neat 

fillets of salmon, or broil them in oiled paper cases, and 
serve with Piccalilli sauce. 

au €hratin, — Cut a nioe piece of salmon into 

2 inch slices, season with pepper and salt, and lay them 
into a well-buttered fireproof dish, put some pieces of 
butter on it, and cover with a buttered paper. Bake 
for twelve to fifteen minutes, then baste well with the 
butter in the dish, strew it all with grated Parmesan 
cheese, and fine breadcrumbs, add some tiny morsels of 
butter, cover with a buttered paper, and bake again far 
eight or ten minutes, and serve. 

Cutlets. — ^Flatten some salmon slices with 

a bat, or a broad, heavy knife, dipped in water, and shape 
as many neat cutlets as you can. Lay these cutlets 
(which should be ^ inch thick) in a well-buttered tin, 
sprinkle them with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and, ten 
minutes before they are wanted, set them in an oven 
covered with a buttered paper. Make a stock with the 
salmon trimmings, a sliced carrot, a good bouquet, 
pepper and salt, and a pint of fish or vegetable stock, 
and simmer it all together for half an hour. Strain this, 
thicken it with a little brown roux (about a dessert- 
spoonful), season with a little lemon juice and minced 
parsley, arrange the fish in a circle, pour the sauce 
round, and fill up the centre with cucumbers cooked 
thus: Cut a large cucumber into slices 1 inch thick, 
quarter these, removing all seeds and skin, and throw 
them into fast boiling water. Directly they are all but 
cooked rinse them in cold water, lay them in a pan with 
a pat of butter, white pepper, salt, and some minced 
parsley, and keep them in this pan, covered, till wanted. 
If you make a sauce as above, and flavour it with lemon 
juice, French red wine and a little good espagnole sauce 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 99 

(say half a pint of fish sauoe, a gill of espagnole, and 
one or two spoonfuls of wine), and serve it round the 
fillets, the centre being filled with a ragout of tiny fish, 
quenelles, mushrooms, &c., it becomes d la GSnoise* 

For eight or nine outlets take about ^Ib. d 

cold cooked salmon and chop it up finely; now melt 
2oz. of butter, and blend it well with loz. of 
fine flour, diluting it with a gill of milk or water, 
adding when it is aU perfectly smooth a table- 
spoonful of thick cream, a teaspoonful of strained 
lemon juice (or any flavoured vinegar to taste), a dust 
of cayenne and salt, and, lastly, a few drops of essence 
of anchovy or a tiny pat of lobster butter. Stir this till 
quite thick, and when it is all smooth, well blended, and 
of a nice pink tint, stir in the cui>-up salmon; mix it 
well in, theni tuiln it out on to a slab or a large reversed 
dish, and leave it till perfectly cold, not touching it, if 
possible, for two or three hours at least. When needed 
shiq»e the mixture neatly with your floured hands into 
outlets (or any shape you please; a pear is veiy pretty, 
a clove being pressed in for the blossom at the top, and 
a parsley stalk for a stalk at the bottom) ; egg, crumb, 
and fry these in plenty of boiling clarified dripping till 
of a pale golden tint, drain, and serve with a garnish of 
fried parsley. (Any fish, fresh or canned, may be used 
thus.) 

Mazarine. — ^Prepare a nice salmon force- 
meat, fill a buttered mould with it, and steam under a 
buttered paper till firm. Turn out, and serve with 
Cardinale or any sauoe to taste. The lighter and more 
delicate the forcemeat the nicer will be the mazarine. 
<If left till cold, and served with horseradish sauce, this 
is known as pavn de saumon dt la Bibsse. This is an 
excellent way of using any fish.) 

Moussdvne de. — ^A mousseline is usually a 

very light form of forcemeat, either steamed or used 

■cold, as you please. For a hot moussdine you would use 

the very richest form of forcemeat before given, allowing 

H 2 



y Google 



100 FISH. 

a rather extra share of cream to the mixture, thas: 
Take lOoz. of unoooked fish, pounding it thoroughly, 
and working into it little by little as you pound about 
5oz. or so of butter, two tablespoonfuls of bechamal 
sauoe, one whole egg and four yolks, adding these one 
by one ; season it all with salt, white and a little coral- 
line pepper, sieve it, and stand the bowl containing the 
puree on ice. Stir it together for a few minutes to 
cool it, then mix into it half a pint of stiffly-whii^>ed 
cream; now turn it into a generously buttered mould, 
and steam it till the surface is firm on being touched 
with the finger; before turning this mixture into tho 
mould it is wisest to try a little of the farce first by 
poaching it, as then you can tell if the consistency ia 
right or not, and can add a little panade to stiffen it, or 
a little more sauce or cream to soften it, as required. 
It is owing to inattention to this detail that one so often 
sees tough or sloppy quenelles, &c. When the mousse- 
line is ready, turn it out, and serve with any delicate 
sauce to taste. 

When a more recherche dish is required, sliced truf- 
fles are mixed in with either the hot or the cold mixture. 
The sauce used in moistening it should also be strongly 
flavoured with truffles, for which purpose the truffle 
trimmings are added to the other materials used in 
making the sauce. (It is manifest that either of the 
above recipes may be equally well used for any kind of 
fish, or, indeed, for poultry or game, the mousselines 
being prepared in exactly the same way, whether made 
with fish or fowl. In seasoning these, however, you may 
add cubes of foie gras to the truffles, or if fresh truffles 
are not in season, cubes of pate de foie gras truffe add 
greatly to the flavour and delicacy of the dish.) 

Souffle. — ^These may be made by any recipe 

given for souffles, and, indeed, the mixture recommended 
for salmon outlets answers admirably if an egg white or 
two, or a little stiffly-whipped cream, is added, and can 
bo served either baked or steamed. 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 101 

Tinned. — Salmon when canned is certainly 

not improved by being reheated^ and is far better if 
turned out, thoroughly drained from the liquor adhering 
to it, and then served with Tartare, or mayonnaise, or 
other sauce of that description, as cold as you can get 
it. It also serves admirably for outlets, souffles, and the 
more homely forms of fish creams and puddings. If, 
however, you must warm the fish, wrap it in oiled paper, 
broil it for a minute or two till thoroughly hot, and serve 
with Bearnaise, Hollandaise, tomato, or any other rather 
strongly flavoured sauce, to taste. The same remarks 
apply to any kind of canned fish. Please remember, 
however, in using canned fish that only a good brand 
should ever be chosen, and even with that, always be 
careful to see that the tin itself is absolutely perfect ; 
and, furthermore, turn out the contents the instant the 
tin is opened. It is to inattention to this point that 
accidents have more than once been due. 

A word must be said with regard to the serving of 
salmon, especially when cold. At buffets and large 
public banquets pieces m(mt6es, as they are called, are of 
frequent occurrence, and are doubtless valuable in dis- 
playing the artistic (?) genius of the cock, but for 
private houses such efforts should be strictly discouraged. 
Fish twisted eti Dauphin (imitating the marine monster 
frequently seen spouting in fountains), or distorted into 
the shape of a letter "s," is both vulgar and waste of 
time 3 and the same remark applies to glass eyes, and 
marvellous colourings of the crudest and most startling 
kinds, which, however, one is thankful to say, are no 
longer as prevalent as they were two or three yean 
since. If your fish kettle will not admit of the fish being 
cooked whole in its natural position, either cut it in two 
or choose a convenient out from a larger fish. A block 
oat in this way from the centre of a large fish, from 
7 inches to 12 inches long, is known as a tron^on de 
saumon ; if you cut the block of fish in half the piece will 
be known as a dame de saumon ; whilst the Engjiish slice. 



y Google 



102 FISH. 

or steak of salmon, 1 or 2 inches thick, becomes on 
the menu tranche de saumon d la anything you 
please, according to the garnish and sauce served 
with it. 

Salmon Trout {Truite Saumonie). — ^This fish is cooked 
precisely like salmon, though it is more generally served 
boiled than not. 

Sand Ed (Sea Lance or Lance), — These are small eels 
usually caught in large quantities at low tide on sandy 
coasts. They are especially common in the Channel 
Islands, where they are served like eels, out into pieces, 
and either dipped into batter or egged and crumbed 
and fried, being served sprinkled with lemon juice and 
coralline pepper. In many parts of the country their 
value is so little known that they are used as bait. 
Theyi are aJso veny good dried and smoked. 

Sardines (Sardines). — ^It is very seldom, if ever, that 
one has the chance of fresh sardines in this country, but 
they are excellent cooked by any recipe given for sprats, 
and are particularly good broiled. In the Mediterranean 
they are split open, thoroughly cleansed, and a mixture 
of minced sweet herbs, breadcrumbs, seasoning, and egg 
yolk is spread rather thickly over half their number; 
they are then covered sandwichwise with the remaining 
hailf , fried in the frying pan in hot fat, and served 
at once either with or without lemon juice and a tomato 
saliad. In this country you mostly .meet sardines in 
tins, and the only thing to notice about these is the 
careless way in which they are generally served ; when 
these fish are wanted for hors d'oeuvres, savouries, &c., 
they should be carefully lifted one by one from the tin, 
and arranged in a row on a plate or dish ; now tip up the 
dish slightly and run a little hot water over the fish, 
letting this drain oflF as you pour it. When thoroughly 
washed in this way (which removes all the "tinny" 
taste of the pr'eserving oil), dry each singly with a cileaii 
cloth, removing the outer skin as you do so. Treating 
them in this way improves them wonderfully. 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 103 

Scad. — A coarse fish, common enough, but seldom used 
as food on account of its coarseness, though it may be 
cooked by any recipe for mackerel. It is also known 
as chad, or borse-maoikerel. 

Shad (Alose). — A freshwater fish, more popular abroad 
and in America than in this country. It is often called 
the "freshwater herring," though it grows to a much 
larger size. It may be baked, stuffed, stewed, split open 
and broiled, potted, &o., but ita most characteristic 
mode of cooking is that known in the U.S.A. as " planked 
shad," said to be a Red Indian method of preparing it. 
For this, split the fish right down the under side, dean 
it well, then skewer, or peg it out flat, on a board (an 
oaken one for choice), stand the end of this in a tub of 
salt and water, and toast the fish before the fire, basting 
it whilst cooking with the salted water, and rubbing it 
once or twice with butter. Serve with melted butter 
and walnut pickle. (This is an American recipe.) Some 
cooks omit the sauce, just rub it over at the last with a 
little plain or msutre d'hotel butter, and send a quartered 
lemon to table with it. The plank on which it is fixed 
should be well heated before putting down the fish, 
which must be fastened with the skin side towards the 
board. 

Skate {Bate). — This fish is also known as the thorn- 
back, the tinker, the ray, or the maid. It is seldom 
seen in its natural, and very ugly, state on the fish- 
monger's slab, though it is common enough when cut 
up and crimped. It should always be steeped in cold 
water for an hour or two before use. It is usually served 
boiled in salted and acidulated water, black butter 
sauce, its liver, cooked separately in salted, acidulated 
water, being served with it. It is also excelleait with 
Genoise, Hollandaise, or caper sauce, as you please, 
whilst it may be stewed a la Portugaise according to the 
recipe given in Chapter II. This fish is usually seen 
prepared for the table, but in the coimtry it is, of 
course, sold in its natural and somewhat tadpole-like 



y Google 



104 FISH. 

condition. In this case, skin the fish on both sides, 
washing it thoroughly, and laying it flat on the table ; 
now with a sharp knife cat off the tail and separate the 
fleshy parta from the backbone on both sides ; then cut 
these pieces into long strips right through the gristly or 
finny parts, and at once place these strips in plenty of 
fresh cold water to stiffen them, changing this water 
frequently until the fish is crisp and firm. The liver 
should be set aside, and when required for use may be 
either s^)arately boiled in a small pan in fresh boiling 
and acidulated water, or may be cooked in some of the 
liquor in which the fish itself was boiled. The liver will 
take about five minutes to cook nicely. 

Smelts {Eperlans)» — These little fish cannot be too 
fresh, a fact which may be known by their silvery appear- 
ance and the faint, delicate odour of cucumber attaching 
to tJiem in that condition, together with the stiffness of 
their little bodies, for they become flabby directly they 
are at all stale. 

Fried. — Cleanse the fish by pulling out the 

gills carefully with all that adheres to them, then trim 
the fins, and wipe them carefully with a cloth. Now 
steep them in milk, and flour them, or else egg and 
breadcrumb them as you please, and fry in boiling fat till 
of a delicate golden brown and crisp; then serve 
garnished with fried parsley and a lemon cut in four. 
Though generally only seen cooked thus, they may be 
prepared in a variety of ways. For instance, hroUed: 
Cleanse the fish as before, slit them down the side, and 
marinade them in oil, salt, and pepper, for half an hour 
or so ; then broil them over a clear fire, and serve, when 
ready, with caper or tomato sauce. 

au Oratin. — Prepare tJie fish as for frying ; 

butter a deep fireproof dish, and dust it with shred 
parsley, chives, or shallot, saltj pepper, and a very tiny 
dust of nutmeg ; lay in the smelts, cover them with fine 
breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, minced 
parsley, and chives, moistening it with a little white 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 105 

wine and some morsels of butter, and bake for a few 
minutes till nicely browned on top. 

d Vltalienne. — Boil the smelts in half a pint 

of light French white wine, a gill of water,. a full taJble- 
spoonful of good salad oil, two slices of lemon (cut 
through peel and pulp), a pinch of salt, and, if liked, the 
jsame of fennel. When the fish is cooked lift out and 
keep hot, strain the sauce, and thicken it with the yolk 
of one or two eggs beaten up with a tablespoonful of 
oream or a little creamed butter, dust it with finely- 
minced chervil, pour it over and round the fish, and 
serve. 

Sole (Sole), — Of these there are two kinds, the 
<real or black) sole and the French or lemon 
sole. The latter is distinctly inferior to the 
former, and consequently much cheaper, for which 
reason it is often sold by dishonest fishmongetrB 
to the unwary as the real sole. They are easily 
dietinguisihed, however, if you see the fish whole. 
The real sole is long in shape, somewhat resembling 
the sole of a foot (from whence it is said to derive its 
name), and its upper skin is dark and rough; whereas 
the lemon sole is more rounded and like a plaice in 
shape, its back being smoother and of a pale, dusky, 
reddish tint. It can, however, be cooked in the same 
way as its more aristocratic cousin. To prepare a sole 
for table cut off the fins and the gills with a sharp knife 
or a pair of fish scissors, then make a small cross on the 
dark side just by the gill openings, removing everything 
•(save the roe in small fish), and well washing out the 
fish. In large soles the roe may be lifted out, and, after 
washing, replaced. Make a cut round the head to 
-separate the skin, then make a cut just across the root 
of the tail, slip the thumb in under this, and loosen the 
skin all round the edge of the fish. Next lift a flap of 
the skin at the tail, dip the thumb and fingers of both 
hands in salt (to prevent slipping), and, holding the tail 
firmly in one hand and the skin in the other, draw off 



y Google 



106 FISH. 

the latter right down to the head, when it will come off 
quite easily. It may be filleted just like any other flat 
fish. Lemon soles are somewhat more troublesome to 
skin. It is well to have fish filleted at home, for theta 
you get the trimmings of your own fish, whereas when 
the fishmonger fillets them, unless veiy careful, he i» 
just as likely to send you some other trimmings, which 
may not be as fresh or as suitable as those of your fish, 
and will in consequence very likely spoil the flavour of 
the sauce. Few housewives realise the differenoe fish 
stock, however weak, makes to melted butter sauce. 
The superiority of French fish sauces is chiefly due to 
attention to this fact, as they always utilise as the basis 
of their sauce the trimmings a British cook would throw 
away or give to the cat. A variety of ways of cooking 
whole soles are given, besides boiling and frying (the 
standard methods in this country), before proceeding to 
the recipes for filletted soles, to which an undue share 
of space may seem to be allotted, but as these recipes 
are in most cases equally adapted to any kinds of fish 
fillets, it appeared most practical to group them under 
one heading. It must be remembered that any of the 
garnishes given in the last chapter may be served in the 
centre of a ring of sole or other fillets, and if served with 
an appropriate sauce form very recherche dishes. 

Fried. — Skin a good sole on both sides, 

removing the head and trimming the tail, fins, &c., then 
drop it into about a quart of boiling salted water, and 
blanch it for a few minutes. Meantime, bring your 
kettle of frying fat to the proper heat, lift out the sole, 
dry tt well in a dean cloth, then either flour or dip it 
in egg and breadcrumb, and fry in the hot fat till deli- 
oately coloured, and serve garnished with fried parsley, 
sending cut lemon to table with it. Soles cooked thu8> 
take altogether from ten to twelve minutes, according 
to their thickness. 

Boiled. — ^After trimming the fiah, lay it ia 

cold, slightly salted and acidulated water for an hour,. 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 107 

then place it in a pan with sufficient cold water to cover 
it, with the juice of a lemon and a good teaspoanful of 
salt, cover with a buttered paper, and bring it gently to 
the boil. Now draw it to the aide of the stove for five 
minutes or so, till cooked, when you lift it on to a hot 
dish, rub a little butter over it, and serve garnished with 
parley and lemon. It may be served with potatoes 
(plainly boiled potatoes, trimmed into olive or ball 
ahapes, tossed for a minute in a little warmed butter, 
and dusted with minced parsley and coralline pepper). 
If served as S. a la cremC) send the following with it in a 
sauceboat, or round, but not over, the fish : Cream Sauce. 
— ^Make a veiy smooth melted butter with lioz. sifted 
flour, 2oz. butter, half a pint of hot water, the juice 
of half a lemon, a dust of salt and of coralline pepper, 
and two or three tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Stir 
together till boiling well, and use. If preferred, the sole 
may be served au heurre noir (black butter sauce), aux 
cdpres (using chilli vinegar instead of lemon juice, a 
drop of tabasco, and a spoonful of minced capers), aux 
olives (make the sauce as above, only with fish stock from 
the sole trimmings, omit the cream, and just at the last 
put in the whole yolk of an egg and some morsels of 
butter; stir this till well blended at the side of the 
stove, being careful it does not boil, or the egg will 
curdle; then add some minced olives, and serve). Some 
cooks add a drop or two of essence of anchovy to this 
sauce with great success. It should be, when ready, of a 
thick creamy consistency, and pale gold in colour. If 
garnished with prawns, and served with melted butter 
delicately coloured with lobster or crayfish butter, it is 
known a& S. dla Cardinale ; or, cooked thus, it may be 
served with a garnish of sliced and stewed Spanish 
onions and tomatoes, with tomato sauce, 9s 8. a la 
Fortugaise ; or, if cooked in equal parts of white French 
wine and fish stock, instead of water, and served with 
the oream sauce given above, flavoured with a little 
more white wine and the liquor in which the fish was 



y Google 



108 FISH. 

oooked, it becomes S. au vin hlanc. It may also be 
served with HoUandaise, Ravigotte, tarragon, chervil, 
Sioilienne (a beohaniel flavoured with shreds of lemon 
peel and minced green tarragon, with a few drops of 
white tarragon vinegar), or, indeed, any nice sauce you 
please, only be careful to keep these sauces very delicate, 
or they will overpower the natural flavour of the fish. 
Strongly flavoured sauces should only be used when need 
or economy enjoins the substitution of lemon soles or 
plaice for the more expensive fish, which often explains 
the presence of sole a la anything you please in cheap 
restaurants. Indeed, both the inferior fish make most 
excellent foundations for these ornate dishes. Besides 
these, try some of the following: Sale sur le plat. — 
Remove the brown skin from a nice sole, and dust it 
with salt, freshly-ground black pepper, and minced 
parsley. Butter a fireproof dish, sprinkle with very fine 
white breadcrumbs, a mushroom or two, and some 
parsley finely minced, seasoning it all with salt and 
pepper. Lay the soles on this, covering them with 
more of the mince, and bake for twenty minutes or so. 
This is very often called Sde au grating the latter, how- 
ever, being reaUy somewhat more elaborate. Some 
finely-minced shallot or chives, a fair amount of butter 
broken up small, a glass of white French wine, and the 
same of good fish stock being added before the dish is 
put into the oven. Fish au gratin requires some care 
in the cooking, as it must be strongly flavoured, and 
moist, without being the least sloppy. The first recipe 
seems to me the best for soles, the second being prefer* 
able when lemon soles or other substitutes have to be 
used. A French version of Soles sur le plat is prepared 
thus: After cleaning and trimming the fish slit them 
down along the back, slipping into the pouches thus 
made a nice d'uxelle mixture ; then lay them, back 
downwards, in a well-buttered fireproof dish, dust them 
very lightly with some freshly-made white breadcrumbs, 
fine salt, and a little spice, sprinkle them very slightly 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 10^ 

with equal quantities of French white wine and fish 
stock, and hake them in a moderate oven till cooked. 

for the Sick Boom, — deanse a veiy freeh 

sole and lay it on a well-buttered plate, sprinkle with 
aalt, white pepper, and (if allowed) lemon juice, with 
some morsels of butter. Cover with another plate, set 
it over a saucepan full of boiling water, and oook from 
ten to fifteen minutes according to size. Then serve 
on the plate it was cooked in, after well wiping it. 
Whiting or any white fish fillets may be served in this. 
way. 

d la Duglere. — ^Plaoe a neatly-trimmed sole 

in a buttered fireproof dish, sprinkle it with a little- 
onion juice, then pour over it HoUandaise and tomato 
sauce (two parts Hollandaise to one part tomato), and 
bake it. Just before it is done, add some tiny morsels of 
butter over it, and colour it with the salamander or 
red hot shovel. 

a la Meuniere. — Halve a lemon, dip it in 

salt, and well rub the sole with this on both sides, then 
I>epper it, and roll it in sifted flour, lay it in a well- 
buttered fireproof dish, moistening it with a siwonfuL 
or two of oiled butter, and bake in a moderate oven. 
Serve on a very hot dish, pouring the butter in which it 
was cooked over it whilst boiling, dust with minced 
parsley, coralline^ P©PP©r, and a few drops of lemon juice, 
and serve at once. Also known as Sole au four. 

a la Colbert (Hot). — Make a cut right along 

the backbone at the back of the fish to within an inch of 
the head and tail, slip a knife under the flesh, loosening 
it from the backbone, breaking the latter with a sharp 
blow of the knife handle in two or three places, then egg 
and breadcrumb it, and fry in plenty of boiling fat with 
the cut side uppermost. The edges of the cut wiU curl 
back in the cooking ; when the fish is ready, remove the 
bone by this opening, draining the fish well, and filling 
up the vacant space with a good hot d'uxelle mixture, or 
some maitre d'hotel butter. 



y Google 



110 FISH. 

It mtust be remembered that all these recipes can be 
used very successfully for most kinds of flat fish ; indeed, 
the methods shown in jSf. au four, a la DugUrS, and sur 
le plat, are all considered specially suitable for small brill 
And chicken turbot or turhotin. 

d la Normande. — This is one of the chefs 

d'oeuvre of the French cuisine, and is certainly not an 
•economical dish ; still, a very fair rersion of this royal 
dainty may be made thus : Melt 4oz. of fresh butter in 
a sbewi>ani and work into it a small tableepooinfnl of 
fine sifted flour, moistening this when thoroughly 
blended with half a pint of rich fish stock (or white meat 
«tock may be used) and a gill of Chablis or Sauteme (or 
two tablespoonfuls of eau de vie), add salt, pepper, and a 
good bouquet, and let this boil up well for three or four 
minutes ; then lay in a large cleansed and trimmed sole, 
and cook it till ready. Now lift out the sole and keep it 
hot. Put into the liquor it was cooked in twenty or thirty 
button mushrooms, twelve nice oysters, twelve mussels 
^previously opened in another pan, and the "weed" 
removed), and simmer this all gently for five minutes; 
then beat up the yolks of two eggs and put them into the 
sauce, after removing the bouquet, stir it well together 
till quite hot (but without boiling), then poxir it over 
the sole, and place the. dish in the oven for a minute or 
two ; serve garnished with crayfish (or prawns) and fried 
croutons of bread dusted with minoed parsley. 
• Filets de Scle a VAmhassade. — Bat out the fillets with 
a heavy wet knife, on a wet board, season them lightly 
with pepper and salt ; fold them over into a kite shape, 
place them in a buttered saute pan, put a tablespoonful 
of cold water in the pan, squeeze some lemon juice over 
the fillets, cover with a buttered paper, and cook them 
-for ten or twelve minutes in the oven till tender and 
perfectly white. Have ready the sauce given below, 
•dish the fillets neatly, garnishing them with croiitons of 
fried bread (brushed ov^r with warm glaze, dusted with 
grated Parmesan, and then crisped for two or three 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. Ill 

minutes in the oven); pour the sauce over it, dusting 
this with some grated Parmesan, and brown it lightly 
"with a salamander or red-hot shovel. If preferred, the 
croutons may be added at the last. For the satLCCy break 
up the bones and trimmings of the sole, and put these 
in a pan with one large or two small onions, a bouquet, 
a few peppercorns, and some salt ; add enough cold water 
to cover it all well, then bring it gently to the boil, 
skim well, and let it simmer steadily for half an hour; 
blend together over the fire 2oz. each of butter and flour, 
and when this is quite smooth moisten with half a pint 
of the stock and the liquor in which the fillets were 
cooked, and stir it together until it boils up weU ; then 
•add half a gill of cream, a teasi>oonful of Burgess's 
essence of anchovy, and a drop or two of carmine (if 
necessary) to give a salmon-pink tint. Tammy, and use. 
The secret of success is to have this dish very hot. 

a la Cherbourg. — ^Fillet two good soles, brush 

the upper side of these fillets, after batting and trim- 
ming them, with well-beaten egg, and spread each thinly 
with minced shrimps (lobster, oysters, &c., may be used, 
varying the name) seasoned with coralline pepper, a 
very little mace, and some minced parsley or chives; 
roll each fillet up 'neatly, tying it into shape, and stew 
them for twelve to fifteen minutes, according to size, 
in fish stock made as in the preceding recipe, to which you 
have added a wineglassful of sherry and a little lemon 
juice. When cooked, lift them out, remove the threads, 
and keep them hot. Meanwhile dilute 2oz. of white 
roux with the strained fish liquor, bring this to the 
boil, then stir in 2oz. or 3oz. of roughly-minced shrimps, 
adding a morsel of fresh butter just as you lift the pan 
from the fire; dust it with minced parsley, pour it round 
the fillets, placing a shelled prawn, or a large shrimp, on 
each of the latter (any fish that can be rolled may be 
cooked in this way). The trimmings of the shrimps 
should be added to the fish trimmings when making the 
stock. This recipe is a very useful one, as it may be 



y Google ' — 



112 FISH. 

made the foundation of an almost infinite number of 
dishes by varying the fillings and the sauces. Far 
instance^ if lightly-minced oysters are used instead of 
shrimps, both for filling and sauce, the dish is served 
indiflFerently as F. de 8. a la Colchester or aux Marennes, 
as you please ; or, again, the fillets may be stuffed with 
minced olives and anchovies, the sauce being finished off 
with a liaison of egg yolk beaten up in a tablespoonful 
or so of cream and some minoed olives, an olive faroed 
with an anchovy fillet being placed an each fish roll, when 
it becomes F. de 8. aux OliveSj &g, 

a la Chevreuse. — ^Fillet a large sole neatly, 

and prepare a stock with the trimmings as in the pre- 
vious recipe, only using half cold water, half light French 
white wine to moisten it. Have ready a farce made 
with 4oz. of whiting (free from skin and bane), 2oz. 
each of butter, of panade, and of cooked mushrooms, 
a dessertspoonful of chapped parsley, and a teaspoan- 
ful af minced chives, one egg, pepper, and salt ; pound 
and sieve. Spread the fillets with this mixture on the 
upper side, and fold them over in kite shape, carefully 
hiding the farce. Arrange the fillets in a buttered saute 
pan, moistening them with th^ fish stock and half a gill 
of light French wine, cover with a buttered paper, and 
simmer gently for twenty minutes. Dish, and keep 
them hot. Moisten 2oz. of white roux with the liquor in 
which the fillets were cooked (three-quarters of a pint, 
more or less), with a gill of tomato sauce, bail up 
sharply for five minutes to reduce it, then add an 
ounce of butter broken up small, and when this is melted 
in, off the fire, strain it over and round the fish, and 
serve. 

a la Chivry. — ^Fillet the soles as in the 

previous recipe, brush them with egg, spread them with 
a thin layer of finely-minced parsley, chervil, and chives, 
roll up the fillets, and tie them into shape. Simmer 
these carefully in stock made from their own trimmings, 
Ac, as before, with the addition of a sherry-glassful of 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 113 

light French wine; when cooked remove the strings, 
dish, and keep them hot. (To ascertain if ready, test 
the fillets with a pointed skewer.) For the sauce, strain 
the liquor from the fillets, skim it well, and with it 
moisten loz. of good white roux ; when well mixed add 
in a paste made by blanching a good handful of minced 
tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives, in boiling water 
for five minutes, then draining and pounding it with 
enough butter to make it smooth. This butter may be 
made some time before it is wanted, and kept on ice. 
Whern this butter is added to the sauce it will turn it a 
soft, pale green; then stir in quickly the yolk of an 
egg, pour it over and round the fillets, and serve. 

a la Corrente. — ^Prepare the fillets as in 

F. a VAmhassade, spreading each with a thin layer of 
lobster farce, and cook in a buttered baking tin, with a 
little water and lemon juice in the pan, and covered 
with a buttered paper, for about twelve minutes ; then 
dish on a border of white fish farce, and serve with, the 
following sauce round it, sprinkling it with shreddod 
tarragon, and garnished with small croiitons, brushed 
over with warm glaze, and dusted with parsley or tarra- 
gon and coralline pepper. For the border, pound 
separately lOoz. of white fish and lOoz. of panade, then 
mix together and pound again, working in three whole 
eggs' in the process ; butter a mould, sprinkle it well with 
coral, fill it with the sieved farce, and poach for about 
fifteen minutes. For the sauce^ have ready some stock 
made with the fish bones and trimmings, a good bouquet, 
a lai*ge sliced onion, some peppercorns, a pinch of salt, 
and one pint of half white wine and half cold water. 
When ready, strain this an to 2oz. or 3oz. of very 
white roux, stir it till it boils well up, then add a gill of 
cream and a few drops of white tarragon vinegar ; tammy 
and use, dusted with finely-minced green tarragon. 

a la Dubois. — ^Fillet a good large sole, and 

make a rich bechamel maigre with the trimmingis, as in 
the previous recipe, omitting, however, the tarragon. 



y Google 



114 FISH. 

Cut the fillets into neat diamond shapes, and toss them 
lightly in butter till firm and three parts cooked ; now 
pour into a hot casserole the bechamel sauce, stirring 
into this as you do so a good pat of maitre d'hotel butter ; 
then lay in the fish, cover down the pan, and let it all 
simmer very gently till oooked; serve in the casserole. 

There are endless varieties of this dish. For instance, 
if you line the casserole with sliced soup vegetables and 
a good bouquet, lay in the raw, filleted fish, pouring in 
sufficient fish stock to cover it all, then cook, and serve 
en casserole after removing the bouquet, it is known as 
F. de S. a la Bitsse. (Some cooks add a little scraped 
horseradish to this dish.) If the casserole is lined with 
tomatoes, onions, and a bouquet (to which a spray of 
basil should be added), and the fish oooked and served 
rn the same way, it is frequently known as F. de 8. a la 
Fortugaise. If, again, you put the fish with some good 
strong stock into the casserole, with a bouquet garni, a 
sliced carrot, some whole peppers, one or two green 
peppers (if procurable), a slice or two of lemon cut 
through pulp and peel, with a good pat of butter, and 
stew it gently, well covered, it is frequently served as 
F. de 8. en Casserole, a name which is, however, freely 
applied to all these ways of dressing fish in the pan. 
These metliods, it may be mentioned, are equally appHo- 
able to almost every kind of fish. 

a la Grand Hotel. — ^Trim, bat, and season 

the fiUets with salt, white pepper, and lemon juice, 
roll them up, securing each with a strip of buttered 
paper, and lay them in a well-buttered pan, adding 
(for ten fillets) the juice of a lemon and a wineglassful 
of light white wine, cover with a buttered paper and the 
pan lid, and cook for twelve or fifteen minutes en the 
stove. Now lift them out, remove the papers, put each 
fillet in a paper case (previously oiled and dried), contain- 
ing a spoonful of Grand Hotel sauce, pour a little more 
of the sauce round them, garnish with shreds of salsify, 
and a spray of chervil on top, and serve very hot. For 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 115 

the salsify, cleanse, peel, and lay them in salted, addu- 
lated, cold water, for a few minutes ; now cook them in 
boiling salted water, acidulated, as before, with lemon 
juice, for an hour, and shred them small when ready. 
For the sauce : Put into a pan four tablespoonfuls of good 
vinegar, one or two bay leaves, and six or eight pepper- 
corns; boil this up sharply till reduced to half, then 
add four raw yolks of eggs, a gill of tomato sauce, half a 
gill oi cream, and the liquor the fish was cooked in, 
stand the pan containing these in the bain-marie (or in a 
larger pot three parts full of boiling water), and work 
into it gradually 2oz. of fresh butter, broken up 
small, then sieve, and use. This sauce, which is 
excellent with most fish, should be as thick as good 
mayonnaise. 

d la Grenade. — Season some nicely-trinuned 

fresh fillets of sole with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, 
roll each fillet round a cork-shaped piece of potato, and 
tie up in buttered paper; cook for twelve or fifteen 
minutes in the oven in a little white wine, and when 
ready set the fillets aside till cold. Boil half a pint of 
milk with a bouquet and a shallot till nicely flavoured, 
then strain, and add it to 2oz. or 3oz. of good white 
roux, stirring it together till blended, and let it boil up, 
then add the raw yolks of two eggs, season with a little 
cayenne and a teaspoonfxd of essence of anchovy, and 
stir it all tiU very thick, but without letting it boil, then 
sieve, add a small finely-chopped lobster, and a little 
chopped parsley. As soon as the sole fillets are perfectly 
oold remove the paper and the potato, and fill them up 
with the lobster ragout, then dip them in good frying 
batter, and fry till a pale golden colour, dish up, and 
serve with Chauron sauce. 

a VImpiratrice. — ^Prepare and farce the 

fillets as for filets d la Chivry, then roll them up, flour 
them, and fry in butter till par-cooked, then drain, and 
put them into a saucepan, cover with good brown stock, 
and simmer for half an hour. Dish the fillets in a circle, 

I 2 



y Google 



116 FISH. 

piling up the centre with tiny potato balls (scooped out 
of raw potato, and cooked in milk), thicken the gravy 
with loz. or 2ofl5. of good brown roux, dust it with 
minced parsley and chives, add a squeeze of lemon juice, 
and at the last a little pat of butter, and pour it over 
and round the fillets, being careful to keep the potatoes 
untouched. 

a la Krasnapolski. — ^This is practically a 

form of 8. en casserole, the fish being cooked d la Tortu' 
gaise, with the addition of mushrooms. When ready, 
have as many little brown earthenware petites marmites 
as you have guests, put a spoonful of the sauce in each, 
a little of the tomato and mushrooms, then fill up with 
the fillets and a little more gravy, finishing with half a 
co£Peespoonful of clotted cream, and serve at once very 
hot in the little covered pans. 

a la Meuniere. — ^Fillet a nice sole, batting, 

trimming, and seasoning the fillets. Melt loz. of butter 
in a pan, and sautez the fillets, lightly dredged with flour, 
in this till cooked. Then dish up, and keep them hot. 
Meanwhile reheat the butter in the pan till nut brown, 
then add a tablespoonful of maitre d'hdtel butter, and 
a good teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar or lemon juice, 
with a little minced parsley, let it get thoroughly hot, 
and serve over and round the fish. 

a la FrSsidente. — Cook the nicely-trimmed 

fillets in a well-buttered baking tin with salt, white 
pepper, five or six mushrooms, and sufficient fish stock 
and light white French wine (in equal parts) to moisten 
it well. Cook for twelve to fifteen minutes, then lift 
them out, and by means of a forcing bag and plain pipe 
garnish each fillet with a row of lobster coral and one of 
caviar. Dish in a circle, filling the centre with fried 
03rsters, and garnishing the dish with prawns or crayfish 
tails, button mushrooms, and truffles. Pour the liquor, 
lightly thioketaed with an ounce or so of white roux, 
round, under the garnish. The oysters are just blanched, 
then dipped in egg and crumbs, or into batter, and fried 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 117 

a golden brown, drained, dusted with coralline pepper 
and minced parsley, and piled up. 

a la Bossini, — Bat and trim the fillets, 

marinade them for an hour or so in lemon juice, oil, 
peppercorns, parsley, and bay leaf, sautez them in 
butter over a clear fire for five or six minutes till done, 
then lift out and keep them hot. Fiy in the same butter 
some pieces of bread cut to match the fish, and when a 
golden brown, drain, dust them with minced parsley (and, 
if liked, powdered basil and bay leaf). Have ready 
some sliced tomatoes baked in a buttered baking tin, 
season these with freshly-ground black pepper and salt ; 
dish the fillets, each on its little crouton, cover with a 
slice of tomato, moisten with the fish liquor and the 
tomato liquor mixed together and serve very hot. 

tt la Fetite Marmite, — Butter some of the 

little brown fireproof marmites, lay a seasoned slice of 
tomato in each, then the seasoned fish, moistening it 
with a very little white wine and fish stock, and minced 
ohives or parsley, cover down the little pots, and 
cook them in the oven for six to eight minutes, standing 
them in a baking tin with about 1 inch of boiling water. 
Meanwhile heat an olive, farced with an anchovy fillet 
for each sole fillet, in a little wine or fish stock, and set 
on the tip of each fillet as you serve it in its little pan 
very hot. 

a la Boyale. — ^Trim, season, and bake the 

fillets in a well-buttered baking tin with a little lemon 
juice, and covered with a buttered paper, for eight or 
ten minutes. Serve garnished with rolled anchovy 
fillets, sliced hard-boiled egg seasoned with pepper, salt, 
a few drops of oil and lemon juice, with anchovy sauce 
in a boat. (Particularly good made with lemon soles.) 

a la TartarCy Italienne. — Make a stiff paste 

with ilb. of flour, 2oz. of butter, and an egg yolk lightly 
beaten up with half a gill of water. Let this stand for 
fully two hours, then roll it out as thin as a shilling. 
Fillet a good sole, and cut these fillets into neat little 



y Google 



118 FISH. 

pieces, rub them over with lemon juice, season with 
pepper, and fold each into a piece of the paste, pressing 
these into even kite shapes (the quickest way of doing 
this ia to cut the paste, when rolled out, in halves, 
arrange the fillets on one half, not too close together, 
cover with the other half, pressing this down lightly but 
firmly, and then with a kite or cutlet-shaped cutter 
stamp out the little fillets) ; fiy these fillete in boiling 
fat over a gentle fire till golden brown, then drain, dust 
with coralline pepper and minced parsley, and serve with 
the following : Pound the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs 
with a teaspoonful of mustard flour, a saltspoonful of 
salt, and a grain or two of cayenne, working it all to a 
paste with the yolk of one or two raw eggs. Then add 
to this gradually a gill of salad oil, two tablespoonfuls 
of French vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar. As soon as it is of the thickness of good 
cream set it on ice for an hour. Just before using stir 
into it a teaspoonful of minced chives, or equal quan- 
tities of very finely-minced parsley and shallot. 

d la Vinitienne. — ^Halve the fillets of a good 

sole lengthways, season with white pepper, salt, and a 
little lemon juice, and either bake in a buttered tin 
under a buttered paper or stew them very gently for a 
few minutes in a pint of nice fish stock (made, as above, 
from the trimmingp of the fish); directly they are 
cooked, arrange thejfi on a hot dish, and serve with 
Venetian sauce over and round them. For the sauce 
bring one third of a pint of rich allemande sauce to the 
boil, then stir in either a teaspoonful of finely-minced 
parsley and a good squeeze of lemon juice, or use green 
tarragon leaves minced and white tarragon vinegar, 
working in, in either case, 4oz. of butter bit by bit. 
Some cooks add a drop or two of spinach green to this 
sauce, but it is unnecessary. 

It is manifestly impossible in a book of the present 

. size to give even a tithe of the methods for serving sole 

and other fish fillets. The fillets are baked, fried, or 



yGOOglf 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 119 

stewed in fish stock, as you like, and then served with 
any sauce to taste, such as Chauron, black butter, 
chervil, tarragon, cucumber, tomato, or mushroom sauce, 
and thus afford infinite variety, and, be it added, many 
weird namee. Soles are excellent in wateivsouchet, en 
vol-au-vent, curried, Ac. 

It must also be borne in mind that any nice fish fillets 
may be cooked by the methods advised for soles. 

Sprats (EsproU), — These small and decidedly oily fish 
are of the herring tribe ; in fact, by some people they 
are said to be herring fry, but various structural dis- 
similarities appear to prove the difference between them. 
The sprat is sometimes said to be canned or tinned in the 
place of sardines, or even anchovies, but it is distin- 
guishable by its very much more oily nature. Fresh 
sprats are bright, very silvery, and red about the eyes, 
a fact which it is important to remember, as stale sprats 
are unwholesome, if not actually poisonous. Well scrape 
and wash the fish, cleaning it as you would smelts, by 
pulling out the gills and all that comes with them ; they 
are then wiped, and may be cooked in a variety of ways. 

Broiled. — ^After wiping and cleansing them, 

dust the fish with flour, and broil for three or four 
minuteB over a clear fire. Serve very hot with cut 
lemon, brown bread and butter, and cayenne. N.B. — 
Remember that the grid used for broiling either sprats 
or herring must be kept for that purpose only, for it will 
taint everything else. 

en Fricot. — ^Wipe, dry, and brush the fish 

over with liquefied butter or oil, season with cayenne 
and lemon juice, and fry till crisp. Serve plain or with 
tomato sauce. 

d la Napolitaine. — Butter well a round 

baking tin, and arrange the fish flat on it in a layer, 
with their tails to the centre; sprinkle well with salt, 
pepper, and lemon juice, repeating these layers till the 
dish is full, strew the top with tiny morsels of butter 
and minced parsley, and bake. Serve in the dish it was 



y Google 



120 FISH. 

oooked in. This is a particularly good dish, to which 
sooie Italian oooks add sliced tomatoes. Smelts aro 
good cooked thus. 

Pickled. — Cleanse, wipe, and dry the fish ; 

ruh a piedish with sliced onion, and dust it well with 
finely-powdered mace, salt, hlack pepper, and nutmeg 
well mixed together; now lay in as many sprats as will 
lie flat» then cover these with minced or sliced onion, 
and repeat these layers, sprinkling each well with spice, 
as hefore, till the dish is nearly full ; then pour in enough 
good vinegar to cover it all, tie a sheet of hrown paper 
tightly over it, and bake till the bones are soft. This 
is excellent cold, but, if preferred, the fish may be 
drained, lightly broiled, and served on a bed of mashed 
potato or on a bed of oolcannon, when it is as good as it 
is uncommon. 

Cleanse, head, and tail the fish, arrange 

them in layers in a baking dish, heads and tails alter- 
nately, sprinkle lightly with cayenne, salt, ground cloves, 
allspice, and a very little mace, and either some 
powdered bay leaf, or a halved bay leaf may be used for 
each layer. When the dish is all but full, pour in suffi- 
cient good vinegar to cover, and bake for fifteen to 
twenty minutes. (Both mackerel and herring are 
equally good oooked by these two last recipes.) Any 
remains of oooked and pickled fish can be potted, if 
pounded with butter, till perfectly smooth, seasoning it 
rather highly with cayenne, pressing it into small pots, 
and running liquefied butter or clarified fat over the top 
to exclude the air. 

as Anchovies. — Take half a peck of sprats, 

as soon after being caught as possible. Pound together 
well in a stone mortar lib. of common salt, 2oz. each of 
bay salt and saltpetre, loz. of sal prunella, and a small 
amount of cochineal. Now pack the sprats (which should 
be neither washed nor wiped) into a large stone jar, 
seasoning each layer well with the pounded mixture, and 
pressing them down tightly. Cover the jar down closely 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 121 

to exolude any air, and store in a dry place for six 
months, when the sprats will be ready for use. 

Dried. — These are salted, dried, and smoked 

like herring, and may be bought in bundles. They are 
toasted before the fire, or fried for a minute or two on 
eaoh side, then served, very hot, with brown bread and 
butter. 

Sturgeon {Esturgeon). — This is known as the "royal" 
or "veal" fish; the first on account of its being con- 
sidered a perquisite of the King's, and even to this day 
the custom remains of offering any extra large sturgeon 
for the King's use ; whilst the nature of the flesh, which 
is more solid than fish usually is, explains the second 
name. In fact, sturgeon may be fried, baked, or stewed 
precisely like veal; cutlets made from it, cooked by 
any good recipe for veal cutlets being especially good. 
A thick cut from the centre of the fish (tronpon) may be 
served roasted, or stewed, with great success. If 
roasted, send any rich piquante sauce to table with it ; 
or else make gravy as you would for roast beef, by 
rinsing out the dripping pan with a tumblerful of good 
beef stock, a wineglassful of sherry, and a good squeeze of 
lemon juice; boil this up, season with cayenne, and 
serve. If stewed, use rich stock, with wine, vegetables, 
And, if liked, a ham bone to oook with it. Like salmon, 
the sturgeon is a half fresh, half salt water fish, going lip 
the rivers to spawn. It has a decidedly unprepossessing 
Appearance, resembling an armoured shark. It grows 
to an enormous size, and is especially noted for its roe, 
which is said occasionally to weigh two-thirds of the 
£sh's full weight. This, when duly prepared, becomes 
the well-known caviare, whilst the swimming bladders 
or "sounds," are used in the preparation of isinglass. 
For cooking, the smaller, or young sturgeon, which are 
called "sterlet," are the best, as the flesh is more deli- 
<oate and tender. In cleansing the fish, the inside must 
be most carefully removed, and the large fish should be 
jskinned. The large gristly cord, that acts as a back- 



y Google 



122 FISH. 

bone to the fish, must always be taken out. In Russia 
it is dried, and used in small pieces, under the name of 
vesugay for the strengthening and enriching of soupa, 
gravies, &c. 

Tench {Tanche). — ^This is a fresh water fish, a form of 
carp, and, to be eatable, should be caught in fresh- 
running water, for it fairly wallows in mud if it gets the 
chance, and is then uneatable. It may be boiled in 
strongly acidulated and salted water, and served with: 
anchovy and tomato sauce and fried parsley ; or it may 
be stewed in any way recommended for stewing fish. On 
account, however, of its bones, which are painfully- 
numerous, it is best used filleted. It will then be found 
very nice en papiUotte, or in cases ; or, again, the fillets 
may be stewed in stock made from its bones and trim- 
mings, and then served, garnished with scraped horse- 
radish, minced parsley being added to the thickened 
stock. French cooks usually marinade the fillets, if to 
be fried, and it is well to remember that for this 
marinade the proportions are half a gjill of oil, the juioe 
of one lemon, or a tablespoonful of good vinegar (anchovy 
vinegar is the best), three or four stalks of parsley (the 
leaves may be used for garnish), and a seasoning of 
salt and freshly-ground pepper for each pound of fish. 
When stewing or boiling the fish abroad, a court-houillon 
is always used, preferably the court-houillon au bleu, the 
claret used in this being considered especially good for 
fresh water fish. Like all fresh water fish, the tench: 
should be cleaned the moment it is caught and killed, the 
liver only being left in it, and the sooner it can be 
cooked after catching the better it will be. This is tho 
best plan for obviating the disagreeable, muddy taste so 
often noticed in these fish. 

Trout (Truite). — This fish, of which there are many 
varieties, belongs to the salmon tribe, from which, 
indeed, the larger kind require pretty close examina- 
tion to distinguish them. The large sea trout, and tho 
great gray, or lake, trout (for which Loch Leven is 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 123 

famous) both grow very large, and are usually treated 
like salmon. The bull, or ardinary grey trout, is not 
esteemed so highly in a culinary sense, whilst the small 
brown, bum, or moor trout, as they are variously called, 
are valued alike by the sportsman and the cook, in spite 
of their small size. When boiled, cook any trout in a 
court-houUlon. Small trout,- after cleansing and scaling, 
may be either split open, and broiled like mackerel ; or 
they may be gashed diagonally across the sides, at one 
inch intervals, and broiled over a clear fire on oiled 
straws, like mullet; when they are served with Mira- 
beau, Beamaise, or any form of very cold mayonnaise 
sauce. A medium-sized trout will take about teaa to 
fifteen minutes to broil. The fillets may be cooked in 
any way recommended for salmon, sole, or red mullet. 

Highland Fashion.— Cleanse, scale, wash, 

and dry the fish, dust each with salt, then roll them in 
dry oatmeal (some like a little very finely-minced shallot 
or chives mixed with the meal), and broil singly on a hot 
gridiron; drain well on clean blotting paper, and serve 
very hot, with lemon juice, if liked. It is well to see 
that the gridiron is well oiled or buttered, or, if pos- 
sible, use oiled straws, as recommended for grey mullet. 

Stewed. — An old Dutch recipe for cooking 

the coarser kind of trout, such as bull trout, sea trout, 
&c., is the following: Lay the fish in a well-buttered 
baking tin, dredge it with flour (or oatmeal), pepper, and 
salt, strew in a tablespoonful of minced onion, some 
parsley, a pinch of powdered mace, a gill of water, and 
either a spoonful of essence of anchovy or of tomato 
sauce. Stew this in the oven for about twenty minutes, 
according to size, and serve very hot. For small trout, 
Truite a la Hussarde may be recommended: Scale and 
cleanse four or five small trout, stuff each with a pat of 
maitre d'hotel butter, marinade them for an hour in a 
spoonful or two of oil, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
then drain lightly, grill them, and serve very hot. 

Tunny (Thon). — This fish, which is of the mackerel 



y Google 



124 FISH. 

tribe, and grows to an enormoos size, is oommon both in 
the AtLantio and the Mediterranean, but is seldom seen 
in this country save canned or piokled. When fresh it 
may be broiled in steaks, like salmon, or fried, or larded 
with bacon and anchovy fillets, and stewed with wine, 
herbs, stock, &o., but is too seldom seen to need further 
particulars. 

Marin6 is a very favourite hors d'oeuvre. 

Turhot (Turhot), Chicken Turhot (rurbotm).— This fish, 
the chief of the flat fish, grows occasionally to an 
enofrmouB size, and is genierally sufficiently large to 
make ''a good cut of. turhot" more oommon in ordinaiy 
households than the whole fish. It is usually served 
plainly boiled — a special '* turhot kettle " being used for 
the purpose — with any rich sauce, from hoUandaise and 
lobster upwards. Its name, of course, varies with its 
sauoe. For instance, d la Cherbourg, shrimp sauce is sent 
up with it; d la creme indicates that a rich and very 
creamy bechamel sauce appears at table with it; d la 
creme d^anchois suggests a creamy white sauce flavoured 
with lemon and essence of anchovy ; d la Morny implies a 
cheese sauce (though personally this method appears to 
me better suited for a rechauffe of turhot) ; d la Napier, 
with white mussel sauce : d la religieuse means an accom- 
paniment of hoUandaise sauce, and a garnish of 
quartered hard-boiled eggs and green tarragon ; whilst 
d la russe involves a garnish of scraped horseradish and 
horseradish cream sauce ; and, lastly, turbot d la Victoria 
is served with Victoria sauce and a garnish of prawns, 
parsley, and very small lobster croquettes. Of course, 
a good cut of turbot, say 31b. to 41b., may be sent to 
table under the names, and with any of the sauces given 
above. Remember, however, that to ensure the flavour 
a "cut" of any fish, unless very large, is better 
steamed than boiled, or, if this is not convenient, 
wrap the slice of fish in a buttered paper, and 
bake it in a well-butt«red baking tin. The fish 
will be quite white and firm, and will go admirably 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 125 

with any of the previous sauces. This remark, it may 
be observed, applies to all out or small fish. Turlxyi 
may also be cooked by any of the recipes given for whole 
soles, and is particularly good sur le plat, or stuffed and 
broiled. These methods are specially to be reoom> 
mended for small or chicken turbot, which are usually 
too thin to boil nicely. Filleted turbot may be cooked 
by any methods given for filleting fish of any kind ; or 
after stewing them in milk, or cooking them in the oven 
in a buttered baking tin, they may be dished in a circle 
with any garnish (see Chapter VI.) to taste in the oentse,. 
and a suitable sauce over and round. Turbot may be 
rechauffe by any method advised for other fish; d la 
hechamely au gratin, a la Morny, en coquUleSf &o., or 
tiny fillets may be served like soles a la Krasnapolski. 
As a general principle, recipes for soles, brill, and turbot 
are interchangeable. 

en Filets d la Bouennaise. — ^Fillet a turbot, 

split the fillets, and spread them with rather highly- 
seasoned lobster or shrimp farce, and bake in a well- 
buttered baking tin, seasoned with white pepper and 
lemon juice, and covered with a buttered paper. Dish 
the fillets en courcrrme, with rich bechamel sauce over 
them, and a light dusting of minced parsley, coralline 
pepper (or lobster coral) and truffle. This is excellent 
cold, en chaufroix, if the bechamel is stiffened with ^oz^ 
of best leaf gelatine to the half pint of thick sauce. 

d VIndienne. — Cut about 31b. of good turbot 

into nice and rather small fillets, season with white 
pepper and salt, and blanch them for a few minutes in 
boiling milk till firm. Have ready some good stock 
made from the bone, skin, and trimmings of the fish,, 
and also some rice (4oz.), previously boiled in salted 
water, and well drained. Now egg and breadcrumb the 
fillets, and fry them a delicate golden brown in oil or 
boiling fat. Make a border of the rice, after mixing it 
thoroughly with a dessertspoonful of curry powder and 
ioE. or so of butter ; dish the well-drained fillets in the 



y Google 



126 FISH. 

oentre, and serve with a good Hollandaise made with the 
£sh stock, milk, ^. There is a variante of this dish 
made hy mixing the rice with hutter and coralline pepper 
till nicely coloured, then dish the fillets in it as before^ 
and serve with a good white Indienne sauce (made of 
the fish stock, milk, ^., and curry powder). Any white 
fish, if firm, may be served in this way. 

au CrTatin. — ^This may be served variously. 

I. : Flake some cold cooked turbot into a buttered pie- 
dish, seasoning it with pepper, salt, and grated Par- 
mesan, add some cold mashed potato and sliced hard- 
boiled egg, moisten with cream or new milk, and bake. 

II. a la Creme : Butter a fireproof dish, dust it liberally 
with seasoned breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, 
and lay in the flaked fish, moistening it with a very 
«reamy poidette sauce; cover with breadcrumbs and 
grated Parmesan, and bake till nicely browned on top. 

III. d la Provengale : Prepare as in the previous recipe, 
only using FrovenQole sauce instead of poidette sauce. 

Weaver {Vive). — ^A sea fish, whose sharp spines (ranged 
straight down its back), make it disagreeable and even 
dangerous to handle. It is also known as the stingfish, 
buU, gowdie, or seacat. The fins and spines must be 
carefully removed before cooking. This fish may be 
cooked by almost any recipe given for fish, but is very 
good if three parts stewed, then egged, crumbed, and 
fried ; or filleted, and served au gratin. 

Whitefish, also called the Silver Salmon. — It is caught 
in Scotland, but is commoner in North America, where 
dt is much appreciated. It is cooked as salmon. 

Whitebait (BlanchaiUes). — ^There is a certain amount 
of doubt as to the real nature of whitebait. As a matter 
of fact, they are presumably the fry of various kinds of 
fish; in this country, and oflf France, they are most 
(probably the young of the herring ; in the Mediterranean 
they are said to be young anchovies or sardines (a pinky 
kind often found in Italian markets are said to be red 
mullet fry); in Canada they are said to be the young 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 127 

of the flying fish ; in Norway they are ahnost certainly 
tiny rose-fish, whilst the whitebait of Canton and the 
Chinese seas is most suspiciously like the fry of smelts. 
Anyway, whatever their origin, they are all cooked in 
the same way. Wash the fish well, then rinse, and 
jstand it on ice till wanted ; now drain and pick them over 
to remove the weeds and all sorts of tiny specimens of 
£sh that will be found among them ; be very careful to 
handle them as little as possible, always using a fish 
slice in preference to the fingers. Flour a cloth pretty 
freely, and place the fish, a few at a time, in this, then 
toss them very lightly together to flour them evenly, 
after which place a few at a time into the frying basket, 
shaking this lightly to remove the superfluous flour, and 
plunge them in hot fat for one and a half minutes ; turn 
these fish on to blotting paper to drain, and repeat the 
process with a fresh quantity till they are all cooked. 
Now let the fat reboil, then plunge in the basket, as full 
of whitebait as it will hold to be thoroughly covered by 
the fat, and cook for a minute or two till the fish are 
crisp; then serve garnished with fried parsley, a 
quartered lemon, and brown bread and butter being sent 
to table with them. The secret in frying whitebait is to 
put only a few at a time in the basket for the first frying, 
and have the fat just beginning to give off the blue 
vapour, as you can then let them stay in long enough 
to cook them, though they should be barely crisped, and 
not coloured. For the second cooking, watch till the 
blue flame rises quickly, and do them at once, for if 
beyond this stage the fat will burn them up. The 
advantage of this plan is that the bait may be washed, 
picked over, floured, and par-fried early, when the cook is 
at leisure, the last frying only taking a minute when the 
fish are ready. To "devil" whitebait, sprinkle them 
freely just before the second cooking with either freshly- 
ground black or with red pepper, according as you want 
a "black" or a "red" devil. A third form of "curried 
devil" was popular at riverside inns down the Thames 



y Google 



128 FISH. 

some years ago, and was done by dusting the bait freely 
with ourry powder before the second cooking. Many 
cooks only toss the fish when ready for table in the 
pepper^ as this saves the fat, but for the curried bait the 
ourry powder must be cooked with them. Cold white- 
bait make a delicious salcide a la maymmaise, but the 
dressing should be made with cream and lemon juioe 
instead of oil and vinegar, because of the delicacy of 
the tray fish. They may also be cooked as an omelet, 
mixing them when floured into the beaten eggs, as if 
they were grated ham or tongue. 

Whiting (Merlan). — This delicate, silvery little fish 
is of the cod tribe, and is said to be the most digestible 
fish there is, a fact which renders it a great favourite 
in the sick room. It is generally served skinned, its tail 
trussed in its mouth, and fried, but it may be dressed 
in pretty well every fashion sole is cooked in. For 
invalids it may be very successfully treated by the 
directions given for a sole for invalid use. 

Stewed, — Skin, head, and tail five or six nice 

whiting, lay the fish in a stewpan, and dust them with 
the following: a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, a 
grain of white pepper, quarter of a saltspoonful of 
powdered mixed sweet herbs, and the grated rind of half 
a lemon. Now pour 4oz. of liquefied butter over it all, 
and simmer it gently for ten minutes, after which add 
the strained juice of a lemon and a glass of white wine, 
and simmer it for five minutes longer. Dish the fish 
neatly, and serve very hot, with its liquor over and 
round it. 

d la Genoise. — Choose the freshest and 

smallest fish for this dish, wash, clean, and trim them, 
then marinade them for two or three hours in oil, lemon 
juioe, two or three slices of onion, two or three parsley 
stalks, with pepper, salt, and spice to taste. When 
sufficiently steeped lift them out, let the oil run off, then 
flour and fry them, and serve plain, or with any nice 
sauce to taste. Needless to say, large whiting fillets 



y Google 



FISH IN PARTICULAR. 129 

may be used, but they are not as delicate as the little 
fish. If liked) whiting cooked thus may be dished on a 
pur^e of endive, mushroom, &c., as you please. If 
fillets marinaded in this way are trussed into rings with 
tiny skewers, egged, and orumbed, fried, and served 
with a very rich, anohovy-flavoured tomato sauce, they 
are known as Merlans d la Tyrolierme ; or the littde fish 
or the fillets may, when marinaded, be dipped in good 
frying batter, and be served with tomato sauce as 
M, a VOrlie* If when marinaded, and dipped in batter 
and fried, they are dished in a ring with (or without) a 
ragotit of truffles in the centre, and Joinville sauce 
round, they are often called F, de M. a la Jamville. It is 
impossible to give even a tenth part of the recipes for 
whiting, and it may be safely asserted that it might 
(were it in season) be served every day for a year in a 
fresh fashion. It goes with any sauce not too strong 
to kill its delicate flavour, is delicious au gratin (as for 
sole), and makes particularly nice croquettes fourries. 
For these, prepare some croquette mixture or farce by 
the recipe previously given, and when the mixture is 
pretty firm, shape it into balls with your well-floured 
hands ; now dip your finger in hot water, and press out 
a hollow in the centre of each ball, filling this space with 
thick, well-reduced puree Soubise (thick onion sauce), 
cover this over with the pressed out farce, roll the balls 
lightly in egg and crumbs, fry a golden brown in hot 
fat, drain, and serve garnished with parsley as croquettes 
de merlan A la Soubise. These may be varied by using 
thick oyster, crab, lobster, shrimp, or mushroom sauce, 
as you like, of course varying the name. 

Whiting Pollock and Whiting Tout are both found 
plentifully on this coast, and are often confused one with 
the other. The poUook, or cdm (on the French coast), is a 
coarse kind of whiting or codling, about the size o^ an 
average haddock, but is not greatly thought of as a table 
fish. The whiting pout, on the contrary, is a delicate 
fish, that has not met with the appreciation it deserves, 



y Google 



130 FISH. 

from its commonness and oheapness at suoh places on 
the sea coast as it frequents ; but connoisseurs (including 
no less an authority than M. Soyer) pronounce it excel- 
lent. It is a thicker^ drier-fleshed fish than the whiting, 
and is seldom over a foot long. It may be cooked by 
any recipe given for whiting. It has several names, such 
as the bib, the brassy, &c., but derives its commonest 
name from its power of inflating the skin of its head and 
the membrane over the eyes till they look like bladders, 
or 88 if the fish " pouted." 

WrcLsse (Bascasse). — ^A kind of rock cod, or rookfish, of 
which there are many varieties. The one on the British 
coast is thought too coarse for food, but the kind found 
in the Mediterranean is considered almost indispensable 
in making houiUe-d'haisse, of which it is an important 
ingredient. 



y Google 



CHAPTEE V. 

SHELLFISH. 

Shellfish, though extremely popular, can hardly be 
termed generally digestible. Two points must be speci- 
ally attended to if they are not to prove utterly unwhole- 
some, and these are their freshness and their cooking. 
They must be absolutely freeli, and they must not be 
overcooked, or they will become about as digestible as the 
sole of a shooting boot. Many oonnoisseurs affirm, 
moreover, that care must be exercised in the choice of 
the liquors consumed with them. Beer, or French white 
wine, such as Chablis, &o., is held the correct accom- 
paniment of oysters, and, indeed, of most shellfish, 
whilst spirit of any kind is said to be (to most people) 
little short of poison if consumed with shellfish of any 
sort. A chasse of /ine champagne, whisky, or liqueur is, 
however, presumably permissible with the cafi noir 
that follows later on the consumption of lobster, 
crab, &o. 

Clams (ArceUiSf Petonde). — ^These names include a large 
variety of shellfish, from the huge Pacific clam to the 
•commooi mussel of our own shores, so cheap and abun- 
dant that it is mostly despised, and only considered 
xiseful as bait. Most, and probably all, of these fish 
axe edible, and more or lees delicate, but in America, 
where the clam proper is most valued, three special 
kinds are reckoned, the "hard," the "soft," tend the 
K 2 

Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



132 FISH. 

"little-neck" dam; but, practically, all three kinds may- 
be prepared in the same way, though the " little-neok" is 
the one chosen for eating raw. Any recipe given for 
oysters, cockles, mussels, &c., may be used for dams, 
bat it is well to r»nember that, like aU oUier shellfish 
of their sort, Uiey most never be allowed actually to- 
boil, or they will thicken and harden to the oonsistency 
and digestibility of shoe leather. In this country dams 
are almost exdusivdy known in their canned or tinnecl 
shapes, ready cooked, and only requiring heating. 

d la Neuibwrgh. — Free a score of opened 

dams from any grit, sand, or broken shell; then 
separate the bodies from the necks, using the fingers for 
this, and being careful not to break or bruise the bodies ; 
the bodies alone are used, and each should be trimmed 
s^^aratdy. Place the bodies in a pan with Iob. of 
fresh butter, a good dust of white i^pper, a wineglass- 
f ul oi sherry, and two medium sliced truffles (if handy) ; 
cover down the pan, and simmer it all very gently for 
seven or eig^t minutes; meantime whisk well together 
the yolka of two eggs and half a pint of single cream or 
new milk, then pour this over the dams. Shake the- 
pan gently over the fire fcMr tbree or four minutes, 
without stirring its contents or letting them boil. Pour 
it all into a hot dish, and serve at once. This is an 
excellent chafing dish redpe, and any shellfish, lobster 
espedally, may be prepared in this way most successfully. 

Chowder. — ^This is. an essentially American 

dish, thou^ judging by its name (which seems a cor- 
ruption <rf ehaudiere, or boiler, or kettle) it was inrobably 
French originally. Cut 5o2. or 60s. of salt pork into- 
dice, and fry these in an ounce <»' so of fresh butter, 
with 4oz. of sliced and minced onion, and when this is. 
all lightly coloured add in about 21b. of raw, i»eeled 
potatoes cut into dice, five or six raw tomatoes peeled 
and sHoed (these last are a matter of taste), and a full 
pint of dams, arrangiDg aU these ingredients in layers ;. 
mix together a pint each oi milk and of strained dami 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 133 

liquar, season with a small teaspocnful of salt and half 
a teaspoonful of freshly-ground black pepper, and pour 
this over the previous mixture, cover with about a 
breakfastcupful of coarsely-crushed ''crackers" (hard or 
ship biscuit)^ and bake tiU the potatoes are ready, i.e., 
about an hour. Keep the top moist with a little clam 
liquor, covering the dish with a buttered paper to 
prevent its contents overoolouring. Some American 
cooks oook all the above ingredients (with the exception 
of the clams and the cracker dust) for thirty to forty 
minutes, with a good bouquet, moistening all this with 
equal parts of milk or water and white stock (fish or 
fowl), only adding in the clams with their liquor and the 
crackers, to oook for a bare half hour. This, however, 
produces a more soup-like dish than the first recipe, 
which is evidently a connection of the Proven9al houille- 
a-baisse. 

Cockles (Coques, Clovisses). — These are found on sandy 
shores, notably on the Lancashire and Lincolnshire 
coasts. Near Exmouth cockles are actually cultivated, 
like oysters, in "cockle-gardens." The fishing is not a 
particularly safe one, as "shifting" or quick sands and 
cockles appear to go together. They require careful 
and repeated washing to free them from sand and grit, 
and Lincolnshire cocklers say that they should be well 
washed twice, then cooked, and lastly, rinsed in hot 
water before serving. To cook them, when washed 
drop them into fast-boiling water, and directly they 
open they are ready, and must be rinsed and served at 
once, hot, with quartered lemon and brown bread and 
butter. They may be served, like oysters or mussels, 
a la poulette, au hlanc (i.e., reheated in a rich alle- 
mande sauce, finished off with an egg and cream liaison, 
and minced fines herhes), au gratin, en croquettes, cold 
<in a mayonnaise sauce, precisely like oysters), or 
au mcu^aroni. For this boil the macaroni, and whem 
ready drain it, and mix it with a good pat of butter, 
salt, and freshly-ground black pepper, stirring in the hot 



y Google 



134 FISH. 

cooked cockles at the last; serve very hot. If liked, 
tomato sauce may be used to moisten the macaroni. 
Cookies also make excellent soup, using a good fish stock 
made of fish trimmings and some extra cockles, finishing 
this at the last with some lightly-cooked cockles. 

Crab (Crdbe). — Always choose large heavy ones, and, 
if bought cooked, be vei^ careful to test their free^ess, 
by trying the daws, which, if in good condition, will 
spring back into place again on being pulled. If the 
crab is bought alive, kill it before cooking it, by stabbing 
it through the spine with a trussing needle or a sharp 
skewer, just at the root of the tail. This kills them at 
once. To boil them, add sufficient salt to boiling water 
to make the latter brackish (at the seaside sea water is 
always used to boil any shellfish), well brush the fish, 
and lay it in when the water is boiling hard, skimming 
it well, and cooking the fish from twenty-five to fifty 
minutes according to size. Be careful not to overdo it, 
for this spoils the flesh, making it coarse and thready. 
Before dishing it brush the shell over with a little oil 
or butter, and serve very hot ; generally, however, after 
boiling, the crab is left till cold, and served either 
" dressed " or else in any of the following ways. 

Buttered, — For this, as for all forms of hot 

crab, the fish should be only just enough cooked in the 
first instance (as it must be in some measure recooked), 
and, in the second, must never be allowed actually to 
boil again, though it should be as hot as it is possible to 
get it. Pick the flesh from three or four medium-sized 
crabs, place this in a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, a table- 
spoonful of strained lemon juice, and three of good rich 
gravy. Season to taste with salt, a very little nutmeg, 
and pepper, black and red. Stir this all over the fire till 
on the point (but not beyond) of boiling, and serve, very 
hot, with toast or brown bread and butter. (This is a 
most excellent chafing dish recipe.) Another way: 
Pick out all the flesh of a large crab, pound it with about 
one-third its bulk of white breadcrumbs and minced 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 135^ 

parsley, moisten it with a spoonfal or two of rich gravy, 
a spoonful of sherry, a few drops of lemon juioe, and 
either thick cream or a little butter, and stir it all over 
the fire till as hot as you can get it without actually 
boiling it, then serve either in a chafing dish, the well- 
washed shell of the crab, or a puff-pastry case, as yon 
please. It may also be served in small patty oases. 

Grilled. — ^Pick out the flesh, removing all 

the inside, return all the yellow fat (which is really its 
liver, and takes up most of the actual body) and the 
white flesh, minced, to the shell, seasoning it with salt, 
freshly-ground black pepper, coralline pepper, a spoonful 
of butter or thick cream, and a small winegjassful of 
sherry. Put the shell thus filled on the grid, keeping 
its contents stirred over the fire for five minutes, then 
dust lightly with minced parsley and a few drops of 
lemon juice, and serve very hot. 

Gratini. — ^Piok out and mince the flesh of a 

large cooked crab, stirring to it one third of its bulk 
of breadcrumbs, mashed potato, or boiled rice, and 
minced parsley, and seasoning it all well with salt, 
pepper (black and red), and about loz. of butter broken 
up small ; pack it back into the shell, moistening it as 
you do so with either lemon juice or white tarragon 
vinegar, as you please, dust it pretty thickly with fine 
breadcrumbs, place about ^oz. more butter, broken 
up very small, over the top, and cook in a slow oven 
till nicely browned. Some cooks mix the top bread- 
crumbs with minced parsley, chives, and seasoning, 
whilst others, again, use seasoned grated Parmesan 
ciieese instead of crumbs. 

Kromeshis. — ^Prepare the crab precisely as 

for grilled C, mix this mince with one or two egg yolks, 
and make this into little rolls with your hands previously 
dipped in cold water; have ready some par-boiled fat 
bacon (French or larding baoon is best), cut into very 
thin, small slices, wrap each roll of ci^b in one of these 
slices, then dip them in nice and rather thick frying 



y Google 



1S6 FISH. 

batter, iBmd fry them a golden brown in plenty of hot 
fat. Serve garnished with fried x>arsley. 

Stewed vnih Tomatoes. — ^Pick the flesh and 

all the contents of a large crab (exoepting €iie grey part 
or Inngs^ which are not wanted) with all the soft parts, 
them weigh it, and for each pound of orab meat take 
5oz. or 6oz. of grated breadcrumbs (choose a very stale 
loaf), half a pint of tomato sauce or ketchup, the grated 
rind and juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper to taste, 
a dust of cayenne, and a win^assful of Chablis (or the 
same quantity of sherry and water), and stir this all 
over the fire for fifteen minutes, never allowing it to 
do more than simmer very gently. When very hot serve 
at once in a deep or pie dish, garnished with fried 
croiitons and slices of lemon. Grab served thus must be 
cooked very slowly, and if it looks dry may be moistened 
with a little more wine or a very little cream. 

d la Biahle. — ^Remove aU the flesh from 1/he 

bodies and claws of as many crabs as you please, and 
place it in a basin with half the quantity of fine white 
breadcrumbs, adding for each crab used a teaspoonful 
each of vinegar (chilli, tarragon, or plain), made mustard, 
warmed butter or thick cream, and Worcester sauce, 
half a saltspoonful of salt, and a good dust of cayenne. 
Pack this all into the crab shells, dust it all with 
"cracker crumbs" or dried white breadcrumbs, put little 
morsels of butter over the top, and bake in a sharp oven 
till nicely browned. Crab may be served en croquettes, 
en soufflS, d la Newhurgh, or, indeed, by any recipe given 
for lobster, &c. 

Crawfish (Langouste). — A coarse fish, like a lobster in 
shape, but without the lobster's daws. Its flesh is 
tough and coarse, and in this country it is not greatly 
appreciated. Abroad it is more honoured, and is served 
by any recipe given for lobster. Dishonest fishmongers 
occasionally palm off the crawfish as a lobster on unwary 
housewives, who overlook the absence of claws. 

Crayfish (Bcrevisse). — ^A miniature, fresh water lobster. 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 187 

found occasianally in British rivers, but the main supply 
ia derived from abroad, large quantities being eeuit over 
alive from France and Germany. They are cooked 
precisely like lobsters, though naturally for a much 
shorter time. They are usually plunged head foremost 
into hard-boiling water or well-seasoned boiling stock, 
and death is said to be instantaneous. Eight to ten 
minutes is considered enough to cook them, and they 
are most frequently served plain en huisson (t.e., mounted 
on a three or four, tiered wire stand made for the pur- 
pose) garnished pretty thickly with green parsley, the 
little fish being hung up by their tails. 

d la Borddaise. — ^This is one of the most 

popular French methods of cooking crayfish. The cray- 
fish should for this be cooked till three parts done in a 
good court-bouillon, then the flesh picked out as whole 
as may be, and placed in a pan previously lined with 
carrots, onion, ham, <fec., cut into dice; add a good pat 
of butter, and toss it all over a hot fire; now moisten 
with white French wine or good Bordeaux as you please, 
put in a full bouquet, with seasoning to taste, cover the 
pan, bring its contents just to (but not beyond) the boil, 
then let it all simmer gently for eight or nine minutes, 
when you add a liqueurglassful of good brandy, set it 
alight, tossing the ingredients as you do so. Dish the 
crayfish as the flame goes out, and keep them hot, whilst 
you boil up the liquor till reduced to half, then strain it 
to half a pint or so of either brown or creamy veloute 
sauce, stir in a pat of crayflsh butter, and serve either in 
a boat or over and round the crayfish. For the crayfish 
butter, put the shells and small claws of the cooked 
crayfish in a mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste 
with a good limip of butter. Then put this paste in a 
pan, standing this in the bain-marie or a stewptin three 
parts full of boiling water, let the past« get quite hot 
and liquid, and run it through a tammy into a basin of 
cold water, and when the butter congeals into a cake on 
the surface of the water it is ready for use. Lobster or 



y Google 



138 FISH. 

prawn butter may also be made thus. For all ordinary 
practical purposes, however, the crayfish tails, in bottles, 
and the potted crayfish butter (both of which may be 
bought ready at any good Italian warehouse), answer 
perfectly. 

Limpets (PateUes). — These common and very abundant 
rook fish are neglected in this country, being mostly used 
only for bait, yet they are really excellent eating, and 
may be cooked by any recipe given for oysters. 

Lobster (Homard). — ^The best of these come from the 
Channel Islands, or from the rocky « shores and islands 
of Scotland. The former are said to be the sweetest, 
but their shells are v^ry thin, and seldom stand the 
journey, many of them dying en route. They should, 
therefore, be cooked as soon as caught. Norwegiaii 
lobsters are also good. Lobsters are generally brought 
to market more or less alive, and may be bought in that 
state with blue-black shells ; or ready cooked, when the 
shells are of the well-known " lobster-red." The advan- 
tage of buying them alive or " green," as it is technically 
called, is that one is then sure of their freshness ; but the 
objection to this is that formerly they were practically 
cooked alive, a process few cooks would now undertake, 
and still fewer mistresses allow in their kitchens. How- 
ever, it is now known that, as long as the lobster is 
really fresh, it makes practically no difference either to 
its appearance or its flavour whether it was alive or dead 
before putting it in the water. This I was told by a 
well-known chef, who assured me that, though he always 
bought his lobsters alive, he also always killed them 
instantaneously before cooking them, by piercing the 
spinal cord through and through with a sharp skewer 
just at the juncture of the back of the head and the 
spine. It was said, with how much truth I know not, 
that this killing was always enforced in the kitchen of 
our late Gracious Lady, Queen Victoria. If buying a 
cooked lobster, always test its freshness by drawing 
back the tail, which is usually tightly pressed against its 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 13^ 

body, and if fresh it springs back readily into place, 
the strength of the spring indicating its freshness. For 
this reason dishonest fishmongers are said to run a little 
wooden skewer into the tail, which on being tested will 
not give at all, thus testifying, in the eyes of the unwary 
or ignorant, to a very satisfactory condition in a fish 
which may eventually prove anything but a success. 

Choose a lobster, whether fresh or cooked, as you 
would a crab, by its weight and solidity. 

For actual flavour the male (or " cock") lobster, distin- 
guished by the slenderness of its tail and the brightness 
of its shell, is said to be much the best, though the 
''hen" is preferred by many cooks on account of the 
coral or spawn, which is used for garnish in many high 
olass dishes. 

a VAmiricaine, — ^Kill a good hen lobster by 

the method described above, then, holding it firmly by 
the back with your left hand, spread the tail out on the 
kitchen table, and cut it across in slices 1^ inches thick ; 
now cut the body in half lengthways; save any liquid 
and the black coral, or spawn, break off the claws from 
the shell, cutting the larger ones in half ; now with the 
back of a large knife, or chopper, crack the shells without 
separating them (this is to make the removal of the 
flesh easier when the lobster is cooked) ; trim the small 
clawB, and halve the body shells, then plaoe the whole in 
a saut6 pan with a few sprays of thyme and half a gill of 
boiling oil. Toss this all over a sharp fire for four or 
five minutes until the pieces of lobster have turned red ; 
then sprinkle in one onion and two shallots, very finely 
minced, and again stir the contents for four or five 
minutes more, after which pour in half a gill of brandy, 
set fire to this, and stir it for a minute ; now moisten it 
all with a tumblerful of good white wine, add two fresh 
tomatoes, peeled and minced, salt and pepper to taste, 
and simmer it all gently for about ten minutes longer, 
turning the pieces over now and again. Melt 2oz. of 
fresh butter, and add to it the liquor, &c., left over. 



y Google 



140 FISH. 

with a bunch of chervil, tarragon, and bay leaf; stir 
this all gently at the side of the stove, till it boils, tihen 
^ir in a pinoh of cayenne pepper, and, finally, mix the 
whole over the fire with the lobster. Directly it is ready 
•dish the pieces of lobster neatly, and pour the contents 
of the pan over them, of oourse removing the bouquet. 
L. d,la Thermidor is a version of the above recipe, very 
popular at one time in Paris, the only difference being 
the addition of a strong flavouring of English mustard 
to the sauce. 

d VEspagncle. — Cut up the lobster precisely 

as in the previous recipe, then stew it with its liquor in 
some espagnole sauce (about half a pint should be suffi- 
cient), and when it has cooked for about ten minutes 
add from a gill to half a pint of good white wine (sheny 
is the best for this); in thirteen or fourteen minutes 
take out the lobster, picking out the flesh as whole as 
possible, aQd place it in a well-heated dish, and keep it 
hot. Meanwhile boil up the sauce till reduced a quarter 
part, add a squeeze of lemon juice and a good dust of 
cayenne or coralline pepper, as you please, pour it over 
and round the pieces of lobster, and serve, very hot, 
garnished with croiitons thickly spread with lobster 
butter (see crayfish butter). 

Baked. — ^Pick all the flesh from a large 

lobster, and pound it in a mortar very smoothly with 2oz. 
of butter, seasoning this to taste with pepper, salt, and 
a veiy little nutmeg ; then stir in two full tablespoonf uls 
of fine, white breadcrumbs, and add to this two whole 
well-beaten eggs, keeping back a spoonful of the egg. 
Make up the paste thus prepared into the shape of a 
lobster, and cover it rather thickly with the red part 
and the coral pounded together, brush it over with the 
«gg kept back for this purpose, bake it all for about 
fifteen minutes, and serve, very hot, in the dish ft was 
baked in. Some cooks bake this mixture in the lobster 
shells, previously out in half lengthways. 

Broiled, — Cut a cooked lobster in half 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 141 

lengthways, carefully removing all the uneatable parts, 
open it out flat, dot from ioz. to loz. of buttw (cut up 
into morsels) all over it, dust it with pepper, and place 
the halved lobster just as it is on a gridiron, and let it 
heat slowly over a dear fire. When perfectly hot servo 
on a hot dish, garnished with parsley, and seasoned witb 
a squeeze of lemon juice and a dust of coralline pepper. 
If liked, raw lobsters, after killing, may be treated in. 
precisely the same way, only remember to oil the shells, 
to use more butter, and to serve them with a good pat of 
ravigotte butter. 

Casserole. — ^Fry some finely-chopped shallot 

in a little butter for two or three minutes, then add in 
sufficient wine to cover them well, and cook them till 
tender. When ready pour over this equal parts of 
espagnole and tomato pur^e, stir it together, and let it 
simmer for five minutes, dusting it with a little cayenno 
pepper. Slice down the tail of a cooked lobster neatly,, 
cut the flesh of the claws, &c., into dice, and heat this^ 
all in the sauce till quite hot, but without letting it 
actually boil. Serve at once in the casserole. The 
great secret of this diak. is to have the sauce porfectly^ 
cooked and blended, and the lobster as hot as fire can 
get it without actually boiling again. 

Curried* — ^For all practical purposes, it is- 

best to make a strong, rich curry sauce with fish stock, 
tamarinds, coooanut, &c., and heat the cut-up lobster 
in this, either serving it on croiitons or in patties, or, 
best of all, in an omelet. 

Cutlets. — Stir together, smoothly, over the- 

^e Soz. each of flour and butter, diluting this with ono 
and a half pints of fish stock, or milk, or equal pro- 
portions of both. Stir this all till it boils and thickens 
up, then set aside half in a basin ; to the remaining half 
add the flesh of a large lobster, out into dice, half tbo 
coral, if there be any, pounded with ioz. of butter 
(failing coral, work some coralline pepper, a few drop& 
of essence of anchovy, and a drop of carmine to tho 



y Google 



142 FISH. 

butter), a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy and of 
Worcester sauce, a little lemon juice or chilli vineger, 
with pepper and salt to taste ; lastly, mix into this the 
yolks of four raw eggs, and set it aside till i>erfecfcly 
cold. Now shape pieces of this farce either with a knife 
or your well-floured hands into cutlets (or any other 
«hape)j brush them over with egg and breadcrumb, and 
let them stand till required; when wanted drop them 
lightly into boiling fat, and fry them till a golden brown, 
then drain well, put a bit of lobster claw into each to 
imitate the bone, and serve either plain, garnished with 
a little fresh parsley, or else with the following sauce: 
To the half of the panade left over add a little fish stock, 
or cream, and the rest of the lobster coral, stir it till 
boiling, season with pepper and salt, and just as you 
serve it stir in a small pat of butter cut into pieces; 
three-quarters of a tin of canned lobster is sufficient for 
this dish. If after working in the yolks of the eggs you 
add in lightly and quickly the stiffly-whipped whites of 
six eggs, and pour this mixture into a plain, well- 
buttered and papered souffle mould (only about half 
fiUing it), and either steam or bake it, this recipe 
produces a very excellent soufjU' Of course, the quanti- 
ties given may be reduced, but keep to the proportions. 

DeviUed. — Out the flesh of a good-sized 

lobster into dice, seasoning it with salt and pepper 
•(black and red), a teaspoonfid of minced parsley, and 
either a small shallot or some chives finely minced, and 
mix it with a teaspoonful of made mustard, a dessert- 
spoonful of Worcester sauce, and two of thick cream. 
Either fill the shell of the lobster with this mixture or 
pile it up in a small piedish, dust it with fine dried 
crumbs, sprinkle with a little liquefied butter, and bake 
till nicely browned on top. 

Bcmst — Kill the lobster as before, wash it 

well, and halve it lengthways; place it on a baking tin 
or a fireproof dish, and roast or bake it, basting it con- 
stantly whilst cooking with butter. All the fat, liquor, 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 143 

Ac, lost in grilling makes an excellent sauce. Serve 
with coralline pepper and quartered lemon. 

Lobster may be cooked by any of the general fish 
recipes, making delicious moussdine, erhmest pudding, 
Ac. It may also be served au gratin, like salmon, en 
eoguiUes, &c., or dla Newhurgh. 

Mussds (Mottles). — ^Though seldom used in this country 
save as bait, these shellfish are worth better treatment, 
and are greatly appreciated abroad. The prejudice 
against their use is probably due to ignorance, or to want 
of care in choosing and preparing them. They must be 
procured from pure sea water, and they must be fresh, 
or they are undoubtedly unwholesome, and in some cases 
even poisonous, but the same thing applies quite as 
strongly to the much-prized oysters. 

To Boil, — ^Well scrub and scrape the shells 

till dean, then open them with a knife (it spoils the 
flavour to heat them to get them open), remove the 
beard or "weed" clinging to the fish very carefully, and 
cover the fish, till the shells are full, with a d'uxelles 
mince, previously fried in oil and left till oold ; press the 
shells tightly together, and place them in a stewpan with 
just enough water not quite to cover them, reverse a 
plate over them to keep them in i>06ition, boil them till 
the moisture has evaporated, and serve hot or cold. 

Wash the shells as before, then drop the 

fish, unopened, into boiling water, and boil up sharply till 
the shells open, when they must be at once lifted out, the 
beard removed, and served hot with brown bread and 
butter and a sauce made of melted butter flavoured with 
lemon juice, Worcester sauce, salt, and pepper. Or 
when thus cooked they may be heated in pouUtte sauce ; 
or they may be slightly drained and dipped in batter, 
fried, drained, and served dusted with coralline pepper 
and minced parsley ; or they may be served en ViUeroit 
i.e., when cooked as above dip ihem in a very thick 
Villeroi sauce (a rich and very thick form of allemande), 



y Google 



144 FISH. 

and when this has stiffened and cooled roll the mussels in 
fine breadcrumbs and fry in hot fat till of a golden brown. 
Drain^ and serve garnished with fried parsley. Mussels, 
par-cooked, wrapped in thin slices of fat bacon, and 
broiled, make an excellent version of '* angels o>n horse> 
back." They may also be served au gratvn, in shells^ 
and, indeed, by almost all recipes given for oysters ; 
mussel sauce (boil the mussels as above, use the liquor ta 
dilute .the white roux, and only add the mussels just at 
the last, with a dash each of lemofni juice and ooiralliiie 
pepper, and a spoonful of cream or a morsel of butter ; 
let it all get very hot, without boiling, and serve), and 
mussel soup (made like oyster soup) are also excellent. 
Mussels are as cheap as they are good, and where a clean 
shore and perfect freshness can be guaranteed offer a 
welcome change, either alone, or as a garnish for other 
kinds of fish, notably for sole a la Normande, 

Oyster (Huttre). — Of these there are many kinds, 
though to the Englishman (and, indeed, to most people) 
the "native" is, par exceHencey first favourite. In 
France the little "green oysters" are much vaunted 
(though their green colour is apt to prejudice those who 
are not aware that chemical tests have proved this tint 
to be due to the matter on which they feed, and not to 
any copper or other impurity), so are the oysters of the 
Marennes and Cancale. America is very proud of her 
"blue points," and, though not so attractive as the 
previous ones to look at, if of really good quality they 
are distinctly excellent eating. For eating raw, small,, 
smooth, and dean-shelled varieties should be chosen, 
whether natives or any other variety, for these ar^ 
always the most delicate in flavour. For cooking pur- 
poses the large American, Anglo-Portuguese, Dutch, or 
other varieties may be utilised. It may here be observed 
that sometimes, in the country especially, one is troubled 
how to keep oysters alive in good condition, for once 
dead they are no longer fit for' use ; though, of course^ 
the forcing open of the shell kills them at once. Here,. 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 145 

therefore, are the directions once given by a well-known 
chef : "Put the oysters into a tub, well wash and scrub 
the shells with a common birch broom, and when 
thoroughly clean lay them in a large pan or tub, flat shell 
uppermost ; sprinkle them well with oatmeal (at a pinoh, 
flour — ^not too white — will do), and cover them generously 
with water, salted, till as brackish as sea water, with 
bay salt ; renew the oatmeal and salted water daily, and 
thus treated they will keep alive and in good condition." 

When oysters are to be cooked in any kind of sauce, it 
is well, after opening them, to remove the beards and to 
boil these down with herbs, spice, vegetables, <fec., like 
any other fish trimmings, to produce stock, and this, 
when strained, may be used as a basis for the sauce. For 
instance : 

Sauce. — Open and beard twelve gooii sauce 

oysters, save all the liquor, and put the oysters aside. 
Now add to the oyster liquor as much water as will bring 
it all to half a pint, and lay the beards into this, bring it 
all to the boil, then simmer it gently and steadily till 
all their flavour is extracted ; make a roux with l^oe. of 
butter and an ounce of fine flour, and moisten this with 
the strained oyster liquor, stirring and cooking- it over 
the fire till it is perfectly smooth and well blended ; now 
stir in the oysters, whole or cut up, as you please, let 
them get thoroughly hot though without boiHng, then 
add a spoonful of cream or a small pat of butter, with a 
seasoning of white pepper and lemon juice, and serve. 
I have given this recipe in extenso, as so many nice dishes 
may be made from it. For instance, if the oysters are 
kept whole, and the mixture is used to fill tiny pufl- 
paste cases, it will produce decidedly good oyster patties. 
If some flaked fish of any kind is reheated in this sauce 
with the oysters, and the whole then served within a 
pastry case, it makes a praiseworthy vd-aurvent ; whDst if 
at the last an egg yolk, beaten up with a spoonful or two 
of cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, and some very finely- 
minced parsley be added, it may be served as huitres 



yGoogk 



146 FISH. 

d la poulette. If the sauoe is kept thick, it also makes a 
delicious filling for omdette fourrie, 

ScaUopped. — In its simplest form this 

dish is made thus: Well butter a fireproof dish or 
some shells (real scallop, china, or plated shells), dust 
them well with fine breadcrumbs, a very little seasoning, 
and minced parsley, and lay in the oysters bearded, 
covering them with fine breadcrumbs seasoned as before, 
and repeat these layers till the shells are full ; then pour 
over them sufficient oyster liquor to moisten without 
making them pappy, dot the tops with tiny morsels of 
butter, and bake in the oven till nicely browned ; but this 
dish is much more delicate if the oysters are prepared as 
in the oyster sauce recipe, only allowing rather less and 
thicker sauce, this mixture being then poured into 
buttered and breaded shells, some more breadcrumbs, 
and a few drops of liquefied butter being spread over the 
top, and the whole browned delicately in the oven, and 
served very hot. Shrimps, mussels, cockles, flaked 
crab or lobster, or, indeed, any kind of fish, are delicious 
served in this way, though a few drops of Burgess's 
essence of anchovy mixed with the sauce, together with 
a squeeze of lemon juice, will be found a great improve- 
ment. 

Sausages. — Prepare a very thick rich white 

sauce with flour, butter, oyster liquor, lemon juice, and 
seasoning, and when this is all smooth and well blended 
stir in eight to twelve good sauce oysters, cut into dice, 
for each half pint of sauce, and stir these well into the 
mixture. Now leave it till cold, when, with your well- 
floured hands, you shape it into tiny sausages the length 
of, and rather thicker than your little finger ; roll these 
in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in hot 
fat. Serve drained, and garnished with fried parsley. 
This farce may be used in various ways most successfully. 
It may be shaped into balls, pears (use a clove to repre- 
sent the blossom at the thick end, and a bit of parsley 
stalk for the pear stem), corks, or cutlets, as you please, 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 147 

and served plain, or as a garnish for other fish ; or, again, 
wrap little rolls of the farce in thin slices of fat bacon, 
dip it is some good thick batter, fry a golden brown, 
and serve. 

Fritters. — ^Put a nice bearded oyster into a 

dessertspoon, fill this up with good frying batter lightly 
seasoned with coralline pepper and a drop of Tabasco, 
slide the whole gently into very hot fat, and fry a golden 
brown. Repeat this till all the oysters are used, then 
serve dusted with coralline pepper and lemon juice, 
either plain, with brown bread and butter, or as a 
garnish for some other fish. (Needless to observe, pre- 
sumably, that cockles, mussels, &c., may be served thus.) 

a la Ddmonico. — ^Make a roux with loz. of 

butter and a dessertspoonful of fine flour, then moisten 
it gradually, stirring it all over a slow fire with a gill 
of thick cream ; if liked, a little oyster liquor may be 
added. Now stir in, off the fire, the yolk of an egg and 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice, stir it sharply together, and 
pour it over twelve bearded oysters arranged in a basin, 
and serve at once, before it has time to cool. 

It is impossible to give more than an outline of the 
treatment of oysters, for they may be served in as many 
ways as a French chef will find for dressing eggs, and the 
above will, to an intelligent cook, offer sufl&oient variety. 

FeriwinJdes {Bigorneaux). — These little shellfish are 
not considered very high-class dainties, yet they are not 
to be despised if properly treated. They require to be 
well washed in several waters, then left for an hour to 
steep in fresh water, after which they should be again 
washed. Now shake them well together for a minute, 
then drop them at once into boiling salted or sea water, 
and boil them hard for twenty minutes; eat hot or 
cold. They may also be served in patties, as sauce, in 
salad, &c., for those who appreciate them. 

PraiPns (Chevrettes). — ^These are caught in large quanti- 
ties all along the British coasts when small, and are 
then sold as "pink shrimps" to distinguish them from 

L 2 



y Google 



148 FISH. 

the ordinary "brown" or common shrimp. If large, 
they are caught singly amongst the rocks. They may be 
distinguished from shrimps, not only by their colour, 
but by the difference in their structure. Prawns are 
slenderer in proportion to their length than shrimps ; 
moreover, the lower end of the body forms a kind of 
angle or hump, whilst a curious saw-shaped point pro- 
jects out between the eyes of the prawn. It is well to 
distinguish between them, as for oooking purposes the 
shrimp has far more flavour than the small prawn. 

Boiled. — Put a pint of well-washed. prawns 

into sufficient boiling sea, or salted, water to 
cover them well (use 4oz. of salt for each gaUon 
of water), and boil them sharply for eight or 
nine minutes, skimming them carefully. Now 
drain them well, and they are ready, if to be 
served hot with bread and butter and lemon juice. 
When cold they may be used in a variety of ways, a& 
garnish for a mayonnaise, as hors d'oeuvre, Ac. They 
may be served by most recipes given for oysters or 
lobsters, and are especially good curried. If, when 
cooked and shelled they are heated in a rich curry sauce, 
th^ make a most delicious filling for an omelette fourrier 
whilst if heated in either white or brown sauce (the richer 
the better) they are i>articularly good in patties. 

ScoMop {PHonde). — ^These shellfish, when in full season,^ 
offer a most welcome variet>y, and as long as care is taken 
to have them very fresh they are delicate in flavour and a» 
wholesome as any shellfish ever is. To cook them, lift them 
out of the shells, well wash them, and trim them, remov- 
ing the beards and any black parts. The bright orange 
sac, called the " tongue," which is really the roe, is the- 
mark of their being in full season. They may be served 
baked, stewed, au gratin, or, indeed, by any recipe given 
for oysters, though, unlike these, they should be roughly- 
chopped up before cooking. They must not be over- 
cooked, as they harden and toughen veiy quickly. 

Shrimps {Crevettes). — These little fish are usually- 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 149 

bought ready cooked, but in seaside places where 
** shrimping" is indulged in, the shrimps, when caught, 
may be cooked exactly as described for prawns, only, of 
course, remembering that they only take six minutes 
to cook, two minutes less than their larger cousins. Tho 
water must be boiling fiercely when they are thrown in, 
and as they are usually cooked en masse, which would 
lower the temperature of the water, it is well to have a 
red hot poker ready to stir the water with. Shrimps 
may be curried, stewed (in white or brown sauce), scal- 
lopped, mixed with buttered eggs, made into a salpicon, 
and treated like oyster sausages, given above, &c. They 
make a particularly good sauce, thus : 

Sauce. — ^Well wash and shell the shrimps. 



saving the heads and shells ; simmer these in a full half 
pint of boiling water till all their flavour is extracted, 
then strain it, and use it to make half a pint of melted 
butter with loz. of butter and a spoonful of fine flour ; 
stir this all over the fire in the usual way till thoroughly 
blended, boil it for a few minutes, then season it with a 
drop or two (not more) of essence of anchovy, a squeeze 
of lemon juice, salt, and white pepper, then put in the 
shelled shrimps and a small pat of butter, and, as soon 
as this has melted and the fish are ready, pour it into a 
hot sauoeboat, or use to fill patties, fried croutons, &c. 

Snails (Escargots). — These are more popular in France 
and, nowadays, in America, than they are in this country, 
though there are parts in England where the edible 
snail is still found ; the relics, it is variously said, of the 
Roman occupation (snails having apparently been a 
Roman dainty) or of the days when the vine was culti- 
vated in this country, as they are generally found where 
vineyards have once been known to exist. But at the 
present day they are almost invariably imported. Two 
kinds are acknowledged in France, the large and full- 
flavoured Burgundian, and the more delicate Bordeaux 
snail {le petit gris). These escargots are really only in 



y Google 



150 FISH. 

season just after the first frosts, when they have 
cemented up their shells, and are heginning to hibernate 
for the winter, as they are then " clean," from not eating. 
The most appreciated way of cooking them is : 

d la Bourguignonne. — ^Blanch the escargots 

for ten minutes, then drain, and pick them carefully out 
of their shells, and place them in a basin full of water^ 
and let t^hem stand for two or three hours, after- 
wards draining them and wiping them dry ; put into a 
saucepan enough water and good white French wine 
(five parts of water to three of wine) together with salt, 
pepper, a bunch of herbs, a sliced onion, carrots, a clove 
of garlic, and the escargots ; directly this all comes to the 
boil, simmer it gently for two hours, then turn it all 
into an earthenware basin, and let it stand for twenty- 
four hours (this is one of the secrets of escargot cookery) ; 
now replace the snails in their carefully scrubbed and 
dried shells, filling them up with the following force- 
meat : For 250 escargots take rather better than lib. of 
butter, about ilb. of shallot, about foz. of garlic, ioz. of 
black pepper, and 3oz. or 4oz. of parsley (this is a French 
restaurant recipe, and is rather large). Another one 
runs: Pound together same fresh butter, finely-minoed 
shallot, parsley, iand chervil, and work this all to a paste 
with an equal quantity of sifted breadcrumbs and a 
wineglassful of white wine, seasoning with salt and 
pepper, working it all well to a smooth paste. Some of 
this mixture is then placed in the shells, the snails are 
put back, and covered with more of the farce, dusting 
this with breadcrumbs, and setting them in the oven, the 
open part uppermost, till brown on the top, which will 
take about four minutes ; then serve. It is said, with 
how much truth I know not, that in some restaurants the 
Burgundian snail shells are carefully saved, thoroughly 
cleansed, and used over and over again with a savoury 
stuffing, which owes more of its flavour to the chef than 
to any escargot, Burgundian or otherwise. Snails pre- 
pared as above may be served stewed, a la poulette, au 



y Google 



SHELLFISH. 151 

gratin, &c., but probably the above is suJflScient for most 
tastes. 

Whelks (Bv^ins). — These shellfish are very seldom 
utilised, save by the poor, though their flavour is not 
to be despised. They are usually plainly boiled as 
follows: Put some small whelks on in boiling salted or 
sea water and simmer them steadily for two hours, 
changing the water twice in this time, always, of course, 
adding it boiling. When cooked drain well, leave them 
till cold, then take them out of their shells. They may 
be served cold with vinegar, oil, Worcester sauce, &o. ; 
or au gratin, or scalloped. They also make most excel- 
lent soup, using a good handful of whelks to each quart 
of water. Make the soup in the usual way with the 
whelks, vegetables, herbs, <feo., strain, thicken with a 
little white roux, add a drop or two of anchovy essence, 
a spoonful or two of milk or cream, and some whole 
whelks cooked separately, dust with a little minced 
parsley and coralline pepper, and serve. Remember 
in making this soup that, after bringing it to the boil it 
must only be simmered very gently and steadily till 
ready. The curious long shellfish, known variously as 
"razor" fish (from the shape of their shells) or "spout" 
fish (from the little bubbles which betray their presence 
under the sand) often found on sandy shores, make most 
delicious soup treated thus. 

Cod Sounds, though, of course, not shellfish, may be 
mentioned here. They are a white skin adhering to 
the backbone of the fish, and may be served in a variety 
of ways, when they are much appreciated by many 
people. Soak them well for eight or ten hours, then 
boil them for about an hour in half milk, half water, 
till tender. They may then be served whole, or out 
in pieces, with any sauce to taste, or they may be 
marinaded when out up, and fried in batter a VOrlie, 
or curried, &c. They are very easily digested. 



y Google 



CHAPTEE VI. 

GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 

A 8OUB0B of great trouble to many housekeepers is the 
variety of names often applied to dishes as seen at 
restaui^ante, &c. Now, in recdity, these are not at all 
difficult to understand; the name usually belongs to the 
garnish, the fish being cooked by one of the methods 
given in Chapter II., the garnishes being applied to 
many different fish, and in some cases even to meats. 
The following is a list <tf the mo^ generally accepted 
ornaments of this kind : 

Garnish d VAmiral. — ^This consists of cooked ora^yfish 
tails, prawns, mussel fritters lb la Villeroi, and pandey, 
arranged in a heap, or as a garliish round the fish, 
amdral sauce being served with it. 

d la Beaufort, — Shoes of cooked lobster, 

bearded oysters, mushiiooms, and lobster coral, and any 
sauce to taste. 

d la BohSmienne. — ^Braised, stoned olives, 

button mushrooms, button onions, and small, marble- 
shaped balls of boiled or new potatoes, served as a 
garnish fat. stewed (preferably fresh water) fish, which 
have been cooked in a mther strongly flavoured sauoe. 

A la Bordciaise.— Mushrooms, fish roes, and 

oysters, all previously cooked, and served in a rich white 
sauce. This is used in France for salmon, previously 
oooiked in a court-hov/iUon au hleu (i.e., in Bordeaux 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 153 

T^ine), and is served with Geaevoise sauce poured over 
it. But it may bd applied to almost any other fish. 

d la Bourguignotte. — This is usually a garnish 

for fish en matdoUe, and consists of braised button 
onions, mussels, mushrooms, <fec. But the sauce should 
always have a fair proportion of Burgundy in it. 

A la Cambactres* — Small truffles, button 

mushrooms, and stoned olives, cooked in a rich espag- 
nole maigre; greatly used for large fish. 

d la Castelaine. — Sliced lobster, sliced 

truffles, and bearded oysters, served with a rich 
beohamel maigre. A favourite sauce for fillets of 
stewed or baked white fish. 

d la Chamhord. — Small quenelles of fish 

forcemeat, button mushrooms, bearded oysters, and 
sliced truffles, cooked in a rich brown, or Geuoise sauce. 

d la Chivry. — Stewed oysters, tiny potato 

croquettes, crayfish tails, and mussels a la Villeiroi, 
arranged round the fish. There is another garnish of 
this name, consisting of a green sauce, flavoured with 
tarragon, chervil, parsley, and chives, and quartered 
hard-boiled eggs. 

d la Chesterfield. — Sliced black truffles and 

crayfish tails sauted in butter with a little sherry, and 
brushed over with gjaze ; served with Genoise sauce. 

d la Dauphin. — This really implies a special 

mode of cooking, the fish being braised (usually trussed 
in a kind of S shape), and when cooked, skinned, and 
coated with a much reduced sauce, either white or brown, 
brushed over with egg covered with breadcrumbs, and 
fried. It is served with tiny croquettes of mashed 
potato and profiteroles of chou paste, either plain or 
flavoured with cheese. (A favourite method abroad for 
dressing pike.) 

d la Dufferin. — Blanched and quartered 

scallops and bearded oysters, cooked in a rich Genoise 
sauoe. Anchovy fillets are added to the garnish at the 
last moment. 



y Google 



154 FISH. 

a la Durance. — Crayfish tails and slioed 

lobster, served in a rioh Hollandaise, coloured with 
lobster butter. 

d la Gitana, — Brused Spanish onions slioed, 

and served with much reduced tomato sauce over and 
round them. Usually served as a garnish to stewed fish 
cooked d la Forhigaise, with tomatoes, onions, and red 
wine. 

a la JoinviUe. — Truffles stewed in wine, 

roughly chopped, and served with a rich Joinville sauce. 

A la Marini^re. — Blanched mussels, cooked 

truffles, crayfish tails, and highly seasoned fish que- 
nelles, heated in a rich vdouU maigre. 

a la Matelotte. — Soft fish roes (preferably 

carp's roe), blanched mussels, crayfish tails, and braised 
truffles, mushrooms, and button onions; this may be 
either served in groups, or stirred into some rich Mate- 
lotte sauce, either white or brown. 

d la MonteheUo. — Equal parts, of tomato and 

Bearnaise sauce, warmed up in the bain-marie, with the 
addition of some sliced truffles; this must, of course, 
never be allowed to boil. 

d la Normande* — ^There are one or two 

varieties of this garnish, but the usual one consists of 
small fish quenelles, blanched mussels, oysters, crayfish 
tails, and cooked and sliced mushrooms, stirred in 
enough Normande sauce to moisten it. Another version 
of this consists of a vegetable garnish, cooked in a 
mixture of broth and cider, but this is seldom seen in 
this country. Cider is properly used in preparing either 
of these gamisiies. 

a la Parisicnne. — Mushrooms and truffles 

sliced and cooked in Madeira, or sherry, for four or five 
minutes, then finished off in Madere sauce, using two 
mushrooms for every truffle. 

d la Begence. — Fish quenelles, crayfish tails, 

fillets of whiting or sole, cut to match the quenelles, and 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 155 

small truffles, previously cooked in Madeira, and served 
with. Begenoe sauoe. 

d la Ste* Nazaire. — Put a tablespoonful of 

minced fines herhes in a pan with a gill of court-bouillon, 
a wineglassful of white French wine, and half a pint of 
allemande sauce; season to t€iste with salt and pepper, 
and reheait without allowing it to boil; pQur this over 
the fisih, and serve gamisihed with hot diams. 

a la VanderhUt. — Peel and mince a green 

pepper and a tomato, and put tbem in a pan with loz. 
of butter, and a handful of picked and minced shrimps ; 
season with salt and pepper, cook gently for ten minutes, 
and use. 

d la Victoria. — Crayfisli tails, blanched 

mussels, fish quenelles highly seasoned with cayennie, 
and veloute sauce, into which has been stirred at the 
last some cayenne butter. The fish for this is generally 
split open, placed in a large, well-buttered gratin dish, 
seasoned to taste, and covered with a Matignon (this 
consisits of slices of raw ham, carrots, onion, and minced 
mushi'oom trimmings, tossed over the fire in bacon fat, 
seasoned with powdered bay leaf, salt, and pepper, 
moistened, without quite covering it, with white wine 
and a little good gravy, when it is cooked to a glaze. 
For fast-day pujrposes the ham is omitted, and the vege- 
tables are fried in plenty of butter or oil) ; cover this 
all with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven 
till ready, basting it from time to time with a little 
stock ; when ready slip it on to the dish, brush it over 
with lobster butter, diluted with some of the glaze, pile 
the garnish round it in separate little heaps, each lightly 
mixed with the veloute sauce, and serve the rest of the 
veloute in the sauceboat. 

aux OUves. — A ragout of stoned olives, 

served in a yellow sauce. 

The above garnishes, which are, of course, only a veiy 
few of the immense number known to foreign chefs, may 
serve as a guide. It may be at once freely admitted 



yGoogk 



156 FISH. 

that most of them are both too rich and too expensive 
for ordinary nee, bnit they are so frequently nowadays 
met with in restaurants and hotels, that it is w^l to 
hare a general idea of tiheir nature. Moreover, they 
serve to show how more ordinary things, sudh as shrimps, 
scallops, button onions, mushrooms, mussels, &c., may be 
so adapted as to ensure variety. It is to our dependence 
on the fish itself to avoid monotony, instead of relying 
more on the dainty use of more or less inexpeinsive 
addenda, that fish has oome to be considered so extrava- 
gant an item in housekeeping. None but those who 
have tried them know the wonderful difference a change 
of sauce will make in even the commonest fish. 

Sauces ore of great importance in the service of fish, 
and well worth the small amount of time and trouble 
they involve, and it may be added that this, and their 
oost, are greatly exaggerated by the average house- 
keeper. If a cook can once realise that the foundation 
of eveiy sauce is really nothing but a variety of melted 
butter, she will find little difficulty in the preparation 
of these addenda. To start with melted butter : dissolve 
some good butter, say loz., and work into it a spoonful 
{the size of this depends on the richness and density of 
the sauce required) of fine sifted flour, moistening this 
with half a pint of water, and allowing it all to boil 
together for ten or twelve minutes till perfectly smooth, 
when, with the addition of salt, white peppei', and a 
squeeze of lemon juice, it is ready for use. If required 
richer, add in at the last ^oz. more butter, broken up 
small, allowing this to dissolve gently, one piece at a 
time, and, lastly, wringing it through the tommy and 
heating it in the bain-marie. If you keep roux handy, 
as so frequently advised in theee books, you need only 
put loz. or 2oz. on in a delicately dean pan, and dilute 
it with the required amount of liquid. Once the cook 
has mastered this, let her make another sauce in pre- 
cisely the same way, only using white stock (of course, 
for fish, this should be fish or vegetable stock), and she 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 157 

will then, have ordinary vdouU sauoe. This is excelletot 
as a foundation for ol^er white sauces, or can be used 
alone, but in this case needs a spoonful or two of crecun, 
or the yolk of an egg lightly mixed with a spoonful 
or 80 of milk, added in as you pour it into the boat; 
properly speaking, it should be tammied, to give it the 
velvety smoothness from whicih it takes ite name. This 
sauoe is never perfectly pure white, though when finished 
off as before with oi'eam, egg yolk, lemon juice, and a 
little easenoe of mushrooms, it makes a very nioe aUe- 
mande sauce. If melted butter is made with milk 
instead of water, it becomes sauce hlanchej and depends 
on itfi seasoning whether it be served as savoury or 
sweet. If, instead of plain milk, you use half milk, half 
stock, oi' boil the milk till well seasoned with a bunch 
of herbs, green onion, mushrooms, and spioe to taste, 
and strain this on to the butter and flour, it is known 
as bechamel maigre, if made with fish, or vegetable 
stock, or flavoured milk ; to distinguish it from the same 
sauoe made with meat stock, when it is known as 
hichamd grasse. These sauces are the basis of almost, 
if not all white sauces. Brown sauces are made in 
precisely the same way, the ordin«u:y hrown sauce being 
prepared with flour and butter cooked (very slowly) 
together till browned to a soft cafe-au-lait tint and then 
moistened precisely as above, only with brown vegetable 
or fish stock. If an espagnole maigre is desired, the fish 
bones, vegetables, &o,, must be fried till nicely 
coloured, a tiny dust of sugar being added during the 
process. Indeed, some cooks add a fillet of highly* 
seasoned " ham-cured " bloater to the fish bones to give 
it th-e smoky flavour which, with the wine, is a character- 
istic of espagnole sauce. By means of these two 
foundations, all brown sauces, are made. The plain 
hrown sauce does for household use, the higher-flavoured 
espa>g7iole being reserved for richer cookery. Having 
explained this, the following sauces are easy. 

Sauce AmiraL — ^To half a pint of rich melted butter 



yGoogk 



158 FISH. 

add, when, just boiling, a teaspoonful of minoed capers, 
a piece of thinly-pared lemon rind, one or two washed 
and boned anchovies (or a little eesenoe of anchovy), a 
spoonful of minoed chiveB (or a shallot), and simmer this 
till the anchovies are thoroughly dissolved ; then remove 
the lemon rind, add a good squeeze of lemon juioe, and 
serve. 

aux Anehais. — To half a pint of rich melted 

butter, made as above, add from a teaspoonful to a 
dessertspoonful of Burgess's essence of anchovies, 
reheat, and serve. 

Block Butter. — Melt fib. of^ cut-up fresh 

butter in a delicately dean pan till of a pale golden 
brown, and let it stand a minute or two. Have ready 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar and ioz. pepper, boiled 
till reduced to two spoonfuls, then strain the dear, 
cooled butter through a clean hair-sieve on to the 
vinegar and pepper, and let it re-heat, but without 
boiling. If the butter were not cooled before adding 
it to the vinegar, &o., it might boil up suddenly and 
spill. A teaspoonful of minced pansley should be added 
to this. This sauce in France is known as hewre 
noisette, as it should never be more than a golden nut- 
brown. 

Biarnaise, — Stir together over the fire the 

yolks of five eggs, loz, of butter, and a dust each of 
salt and freshly-ground black pepper. As soon as the 
butter is melted and the eggs begin to thicken, lift the 
pan off the fire, and stir in another ounoe of butter, 
then return it to the fire to dissolve it, and repeat this 
twice more, stirring the butter well in, off the fire, then 
returning it to it, to melt the butter. When you have 
used, and well blended in, 4oz. of butter, add a small 
teaspoonful of minoed green tcuragon and a teaspoonfu) 
of tarragon vinegar, and serve. This sauce, which is 
X>articularly good with all broiled fish, is o^n called 
'^ hot mayonnaise," which it should resemble in appear, 
ance and consistency. Another way is to boil together 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 159 

three medium shallots, some coarsely ground allspice or 
blaok pepper, a morsel of maoe, haJf a pint of water, 
and a gill of good tarragon vinegar, till it is all reduced 
to ahout a gill. Strain this off, and, when cold, pour 
it on to three or four eggs, stirring it slowly over the 
£re till it turns to a rich oustaird, stirring in as you do 
so 2oz. of butter, cut up small, letting each piece 
dissolve before adding the next; then stir in a tea- 
spoonful of minced tarragon, and serve. 

Borddaise. — Put into a pan a tablespoonful 

of blanched and minced shallots, a pinch of freshly- 
ground blaok pepper, and a full gill of claret, and boil 
this up sharply till reduced to half ; now stir it all into 
half a pint of good espagnole, boil it up together, skim- 
ming it well, then sieve or tammy it, add a spoonful of 
finely-minced parsley, a squeeze of lemon juice, a few 
drops of essence of anchovy, and a good dust of coralline 
pepper. This sauce, very popular with aU broiled iSah, 
should be rather thin, bright, and quite free from 
grease. 

Caper. — To half a pint of rich melted butter 

add a spoonful of minced capers, a dash of lemon juioe 
or plain vinegar, and a dust of white pepper. If you 
use well-washed, dried, and minced parsley and lemon 
juice, this makes parsley sauce, or, with similarly tr'eated 
fennel and chilli vinegar, produces fennd sauce. 

Cardinale. — To half a pint of rich veloute 

maigre or aUemande, stir loz. or 2oz. of lobstei', prawn, 
or os«yfish butter to colour it to a pretty red, with a 
drop or two of Burgess's essence of anchovy, a squeeze 
of lemon juioe, and a good dust of cayenne ; ^oz. of fish 
or even meat glaze, is an addition to this. If you use 
a Y€ity creamy bechamel, and just enough lobster Butter 
to pioduoe a faint, delicate pink, this sauce is known 
asi 8» Av/rore, 

Chauron. — This sauce is also called Sauce 

Francaise, and is a mixture of B^maise sauce and 
tomato puree. For the quantities given in the recipe 



y Google 



160 FISH. 

for sauce Beamaise add a good wineglassful of tomato 
puree, finishing it with about an ounce of atrong stock 
or fish glaze, a teaspoonful of ohilli vinegar, and » 
dessertspoonful of well-washed and minoed parsley. Thia 
sauoe b delicious, though fearfully rich, if served ioed. 

Colbert* — To half a pint of good veloute stir 

a small teaoupful of rich fish stock, and boil it up 
sharply till reduced a fourth part; now stir in an egg. , 
yolk, lightly beaten with a spoonful or two of cream,, 
and, if necessary, sieve or tammy it, stirring into it at 
the last a spoonful of minced mushrooms, and some 
minced crayfish or prawns (these are not indispensable)^ 
and, just as you are about to serve it, |oz. of miutra 
d'hotel butter. This sauce, if the crayfish is omitted, 
is often known as sauce fines herhes, and is also made 
with plain melted butter, or bechamel, according to 
what it is to accompany. A brown version is made in 
exactly the same way with brown or espagnole sauoe. 

■- Crab. — ^Cut the meat and the soft part of a 

crab (if not too watery) into a pint of either melted 
butter, veloute, or very rich bechamel, let it get 
thoroughly hot, without, however, allowing it to boil,, 
and just as you are about to serve it, add a squeeze 
of lemon juice and a good dust of coralline pepper. 
Crayfish, lobster, prawns, shrimps, &c., sauoes may all 
be made in the same way, but the shell and heads 
should always be used to make ihe stodc for the sauoe. 

Cream. — ^To half a pint of b^diamel add a 

gill of good fish stock, a handful of mushroom trimmings, 
and half a washed and filleted anchovy, allow this to 
reduce a fourth part, and when the anchovy is dissolved, 
add a tiny dust of nutmeg, and sieve it; now stand it 
in the bain-marie, or a large pan of boiling water, and 
add in, bit by bit, 4oz. of butter, broken up small, never 
adding another till the preceding piece is perfectly 
dissolved. A small piece of butter should be kept back, 
and added at the last with a few drops of lemon juice, 
just as you are pouring it into the sauceboat. It is 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 161 

attention to this detail that gives the creamy softness 
so often noticed in French sauces. 

Tlgg. — ^To half a pint of good melted Butter 

add a dash of lemon juice, or chilli vinegar, as you 
choose, and white pepper; when it is boiling hot, 
-put in a hard-boiled egg cut up into small dice, lift 
it off the fire, stir in from ioz. to loz. of fresh butter, 
or a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve at 
once. 

Espagnole. — Bring loz. of butter, or a table- 



spoonful of good oil, almost to the boil, and fry in it 
two sliced tomatoes, two sliced mushrooms,, a carrot, 
and. two onions, also sliced, with a spray each of parsley 
and thyme, and a bayleaf (to this som.e people add a 
morsel of red herring, but this requires great judgment) ; 
toss these over the fire till delicately brown, with a 
seasoniug of salt, pepper, a powdered clove, and a tiny 
pinch of sugar, then moisten with as much brown sauce 
as will cover all the ingredients liberally (about a full 
half -pint will be needed), and boil up sharply till reduced 
a fourth part ; now sieve or tammy it, add a few drops 
of lemon juice, a spoonful or so of sherry, and, if liked, 
a little coralline pepper; bring it just to the boil, and, 
as you lift it off the fire, stir in a small pat of fresh 
butter, letting this dissolve on its way to the dining- 
room. If the red heiting be omitted, and a teaspoonful 
of essence of anchovy, and the same of mushroom catsup, 
be added, this becomes Sauce Gencvoise; whilst if you 
use Burgundy or Bordeaux (the former for choice), a 
rather stronger flavouring of anchovy and of shallot 
(this should be fried with the ingredients in the first 
instance), it becomes Sauce Genoise. It must be con- 
fessed, however, that these sauces are often used 
indiscriminately. Sauce Genoise, moreover, is often 
finished off with a pat of Perigord (or truflBie) butter,, 
instead of the plain butter, which, in the Genevoise, is 
replaced with anchovy butter. It is to these small 
variations that the number of French sauces is due, 

M 



y Google 



162 FISH. 

as each chef will add what he would term a " pointe " of 
individual flavouring as the sauce is finished. 

Epicurienne. — ^To half a pint of veloute 

maigre add one egg yolk, beaten up with two table- 
spoonfuls of rich stock or cream, sieve it, and reheat 
with a spoonful of walnut catsup, the same of chilli 
vinegar, and, just at the last, a tiny pat of cayenne 
butter. Excellent with any broiled or rizzared fish. 

Fines Herhes. — To half a pint of good 

veloute, allemande, or bechamel sauce, add a table- 
spoonful of d'uxelles mixture, with a liason of a raw 
egg yolk, beaten up with a spoonful or two of new milk, 
a seasoning of x>eppei*, smd a few drops of lemon juice, 
stirring in at the last, as usual, ^oz. or so of fresh 
butter. Thisi sauce may be equally well made with 
brown or espagnole sauce, as you please, though in 
the latter case it is known as Sauce (TUxeUes. jyVxdle 
mixture is made by cooking together three parts each 
of mushrooms and parsley, and one part of shallots, or 
chives, all finely minced together (and, if handy, a little 
minced truffle), in fresh butter, seasoning it with pepper, 
salt, and a dash of nutmeg, to which some cooks add a 
little light, white French wine; but this depends on 
what it is to be used for. 

Hollandaise, — Of this there are two kinds, 

the one known in France as Beurre a la Hollandaise, or 
Beurre fondu, which is simply "drawn butter." Stir 
over the fire, in a delicately clean stewpan, 4oz. of fresh 
butter, half a teaspoonful of white pepper, a small 
teaspoonful of salt, and a full tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. When the butter is just about half-melted, lift 
the pan off the fire, and continue to stir it (off the fire) 
till the butter is completely dissolved. Made thus this 
sauce has a creamy taste, never attained when the 
butter is allowed to cook entirely over the fire. For 
the regular HoUandaise, or Dutch, sauce, stir together 
over the fire the yolks of two eggs, the juice of half a 
lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, a dust of white pepper, 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 163 

and 4oz. of fresh butter; as soon as the butter is per- 
fectly melted, stir in over the fire a pinit of melted 
butter or rich bechamel sauce ; then strain it, and stand 
it in the bain-marie till wanted. A tiny pat of butter 
added to this as you dish it is a great improvement. 

Horseradish (or Baifort). — ^This may be 

simply made by stirring a tableepoonful of finely-grated 
horseradish into half a pint of rich melted butter, adding 
at the last a spoonful or so of cream or new milk and 
a dash of caster sugar. But it is nicer if a small horse- 
radish root is scraped into half a pint of good bechamel 
sauce, allowing it to simmer for half an hour or so, then 
sieve it, reheat, add an egg yolk, beaten up with three 
or four spoonfuls of cream (sour cream for choice), and 
a few drops of tarragon or chilli vinegar. 

Indiemie. — To half a pint of good allemande 

or espagnole (according to whether it is to be white or 
brown) add an ounce or so of good curry butter, a dash 
of lemon juice and cayenne peppe<r, and serve. For the 
curry butter, fry the curry in a very little butter' to take 
off the raw, snuffy taste, and work it up when cold with 
fresh butter. 

Italienne, — ^Fry together' four minced and 

blanched shallots, two or three minced mushrooms, and 
a spray or two of parsley and thyme in a spoonful of 
good salad oil, for about five minutes. Now add half a 
gill of light French white wine, boil it up sharply to 
reduce it, then add half a pint of either bechamel or 
espagnole, and a little glaze ; boil it up again, skim off 
all the oil, lift out the herbs, and use. 

JoinvUle. — To half a pint of very creamy 

bechamel add a liaison of two eggs, beaten up in two 
or three spoonfuls of cream, and, just at the last, loz. 
of lobster butter, a dash of coralline pepper, and a 
squeeze of lemon juice. 

Madere. — Boil down a gill of Madeira or 

sherry, with a pinch of freshly-ground black pepper. 

M 2 



y Google 



164 FISH. 

till reduced to half, then stir it to half a pint of well- 
reduced espagnole sauee, add a little fish glaze, boil it 
up once or twice, and use. 

Maitre cV Hotel. — To half a pint of good 

bechamel add, at the last, loz. of maitre d'hotel butter, 
a squeeze of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of finely-minced 
parsley, a seasoning of white pepper and salt, and 
serve. 

Matelotte. — Take an equal quantity of the 

wine and liquor in which the fish, &c., was cooked, and 
of either bechamel or espagnole (according to whether 
it is to be white or brown), with a handful of mushroom 
trimmings, and let it boil up, skimming it carefully, 
then sieve it, finishing it, if white, with a little white 
wine, adding, at the last, a pat of maitre d'hotel butter : 
or, if brown, add a little red wine, a dash of cayenne 
atnd of lemon juice, with a pat of anchovy butter at the 
very last. 

Meuiiicre. — To the butter and liquor left in 

a baking-tin or sautepan, after cooking a fish or a dish 
of fillets, add 2oz. of cold butter, and stir it all over the 
fire till it becomes a pale fawn colour, then add a couple 
of anchovies, previously pounded with a spoonful of 
vinegar, stir in a teaspoonful of minced parsley and 
chives, and pour it all over the fish. This sauce must 
be kept very hot, for, like all butter sauces, it turns 
greasy as it cools. 

MonteMlo. — Heat together very carefully, 

without boiling, equal parts of rich tomato sauce and 
Beamaise, stirring in at the last two or three sliced 
truffles. 

Mornay. — To a rich (fish stock) bechamel 

add a good flavouring of mushroom catsup (or boil some 
mushroom trimmings in it), skim it well, then stir in 
two or three spoonfuls of cream, and stand the pan 
either in a bain-marie, or in a larger pan full of boiling 
water, and whisk it all gently together, mixing in gradu- 
ally loz. grated Parmesan cheese, loz. butter, broken 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 165 

up small, and ^oz. good fish glaze. When it is all well 
blended, and looks creamy, use at once. 

— : Mousseline. — Put into a pan the yolks of 

two or three eggs, a good dust of freshly-ground black 
pepper, and a winegiassful of double cream ; stand the 
pan in a bain-marie, half -filled with boiling water, and 
w^hisk it all together gently with a delicately clean whisk, 
adding in, bit by bit, |oz. of butter, broken up small; 
then add, when it looks frothy like well-whipped cream. 
a dust each of salt, white pepper, and nutmeg, with a 
squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. 

Miraieau. — Stir over the fire till quite hot 

two tablespoonfuls of white tarragon vinegar, loz. of 
glaze, a pinch of caster sugar, and half a gill of brown 
sauce. As soon as it is very hot (not quite boiling), stir 
in, off the fire, by degrees 2oz. of butter, cut up small: 
add a little minced parsley and green tarragon, a dust of 
coralline pepper, and use. It must not be put back on 
the fire, or it will oil. Excellent with broiled fish. 

Mushroom (Brown). — Stew 4oz. or 5oz. of 

well-wiped and broken-up mushrooms in half a pint of 
good brown gravy, stirring it well together, and serve 
as it is, flavoured with pepi>er, salt, and lemon juice. 
Or the mushrooms may be fried in butter, moistened 
with half a pint of bi'own sauce, sieved, and served., 
flavoured witli black pepper, salt, and lemon juice. 

(White). — Boil together equal parts of 

bechamel and white stock with a handful of mushroom 
trimmings, till reduced a third part ; then sieve it, and 
for half a pint stir in 4oz. of sliced champignons (buttons 
and stalks), and two or three tablespoonfuls of French 
white wine ; let it all just boil up, and serve. 

Mustard. — ^To half a pint of melted butter, 

made with 2oz. of butter, loz. flour, ^oz. Colman's 
mustard flour, and half a pint of boiling water, add, 
when well blended, a teaspoonful of plain or chilli 
vinegar, and, if liked, a spoonful of cream ; boil up, and 
use. 



y Google 



166 PISH. 

Xormande. — ^To a pint of rich bechamel add 

the liquor fr(Hn the sole, oysters, mussels, &c.^ coined 
a la Xormande; boil it t(^ether for eight or ten 
minutes, skimming it well, and finishing it with a liaison 
of two egg yolks beaten in two ^Kxmfols of milk or 
cream, a dnst of salt and pepper, with a few drops of 
lemon jnioe ; siere and serve. 

Fari^ienne. — ^This is simply an imthickened 

espagnole, made by omitting the roux, sieving (not 
tanunying) it, adding to it a httle lemon jnice and 
glaze. 

FiccaliUi. — ^ITso as a foundation either 

mustard or parisienne sauce, according as you wish it 
to be thick or clear, mis to this the liquor from 
piccalilli to taste, and serve garnished with bunches of 
the piccalilli. It is never an absolutely clear sauce, as 
the piccalilli liquid must cloud it somewhat. 

Fiqwinfe. — ^Mince finely and separately a 

spoonful of capers, five or six shallots, and five or six 
gherkins, then put them on, with a giU of vinegar, a 
spray of thyme, a bayleaf , and some coarsely-git>und 
black pepper ; let this all reduce to half, when you add 
to it half a pint of good espagnole, and half a gill of 
stock, and simmer it gently at the fire, skimming it 
carefully ; then lift it off, strain it, and leave it in the 
bain-marie till wanted (remember that with this, as with 
eveiy other sauce which has to wait in the bain-marie, 
you should cover its surface gently with a spoonful of 
stock, white or brown, as this prevents a skin forming 
in the top, which it is afterwards very troublesome to 
get rid of. Of course, for very white sauces, a spoonful 
of cream or new milk should be used). A version of 
this sauce has the addition of two tablespoonfuls of 
tomato sauce, and a good dash of cayenne added to it, 
whidi makes it excellent with pike. 

Froven^ale. — ^Rub a pan over well with 

garlic, then mix into it half a pint of very rich espag- 
liole, and a gUl of sauteme, allowing it all to boil 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 167 

together till reduced a fourth part ; add a little glaze, 
a pat of anchovy butter, and a dash of lemon juice, and 
the siauoe is ready. To be correct the garlic should be 
boiled in the sauce, but this, for our taste, is too 
strong. 

Fortugaise. — Beat the yolks of two fresh 

eggs till light, then pour to them about 4oz. of liquefied 
fresh butter, and stir this over a slow fire till perfectly 
blended, season with salt, white pepper, and lemon 
juice, and serve. The butter must never be allowed to 
boil, or it will oil. This is also known as Beurre Lii. 
Another version of this sauce is made by reducing 
together a fourth part, a pint of veloute and a gill of 
strong white fish stock, tammy ing it, and adding at the 
last the juice of a sweet orange and a garnish of its 
blanched peel, cut into Julienne shreds. 

Povlette, — To some well-flavoured alle- 

mande, carefully flavoured with mushrooms, or essence 
of mushrooms, add a teaspoonful of finely-minced 
p«trsley, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a dust of corallino 
pepper, and serve. 

"Bavigotte. — Well wash and blanch a small 

handful each of chervil, chives, parsley, and tarragon, 
and stir it all when finely minced into half a pint or so 
of rich bechamel, adding a milk and egg yolk liason, 
with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and coralline pepper, 
and, at the last, a drop or two of green colouring to 
bring it all to a very pale cucumber green. Sometimes 
also called Sauce Frintanihre. ^ 

SicUienne. — This is simply allemande, 

strongly flvoured with shallot, truffles, parsley, and 
mushrooms, with a bunch of herbs, all stewed together 
for ten minutes in two sherry-glassfuls of sherry, then 
strained into the allemande sauce, and served, flavoured 
with lemon juice, and a little blanched and minced 
parsley. 

Souhise. — The easiest form of this is to dilute 

rather stiff, carefully prepared onion sauce, with well- 



y Google 



168 FISH. 

flavoured bechamel, let it boil up till it thickens a little, 
then sieve it, reheat, add a morsel of butter, or a tea- 
spoonful of cream, and serve. A popular version of this 
sauce, abroad, is made by adding to the above a spoonful 
of freshly-grated Parmesan cheese, and a good dust of 
cayenne when you add the bechamel sauce. 

Tomato. — ^Fry two minced onions, two 

carrots, two turnips, four bayleaves, a blade of celery, 
a leek, and four large tomatoes (the other vegetables 
should be of a medium size) in 2oz. of butter, for twelve 
to fifteen minutes, seasoning them with crushed black 
peppercorns, and some sprays of parsley and thyme; 
when nicely coloured add two tablespoonfuls of good 
vinegar and half a pint of brown sauoe ; let this all cook 
gently together for half an hour, then tammy oar sieve, 
and use. If the tomatoes are not bright coloured, or 
if they ar'e canned, a drop or two of carmine may be 
mixed in with the other ingredients, but it is best, 
when possible, to avoid tJie use of colourings. If in a 
hurry, a good sauce may be made by stirring together 
equal quantities of bought tomato sauce (or conserve de 
tomates), and good fish or vegetable stock, season with 
black and coralline pepper, salt, and, at the last, a 
small pat of butter or a spoonful of cream, and use. 
This must not boil again after the butter or cream is 
added. This becomes creme de tomateSy if it is sharply 
boiled up till slightly reduced, and a rather larger pro- 
portion of cream or butter allowed at the last. A pinch 
of caster sugar fried with the vegetables improves both 
the colour and the flavour of this sauce, whilst a fillet 
oi* two of well-washed and boned anchovy, or a small 
teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, simmered with the 
rest of the ingredients is a great improvement, if for 
fish sauoe. 

Tyrol. — Boil up together three-quarters of a 

pint of clear fish stock, two wineglassfuls of sherry, loz. 
glaze, a minced shallot, a bayleaf, a bunch of Kerbs, 
and a pinch of black pepper ; then draw the pan to the 



y Google 



GARNISHES, SAUCES, &c. 169 

side, and let it all simmer together for ten minutes, 
after which strain it carefully on to a gill of toinato 
pulp, previously rubbed smooth with loz. of cornflour, 
and stir this well together over the fire till it reboils, 
when it must be tammied or sieved, and served with 
sliced truffles, and a tiny pat of butter or cream stirred 
in at the last. 

Vinitienne. — Bring half a pint of rich alle- 

mande sauce to the boil, then stir in ioz. of butter, a 
teaspoonful of blanched and minced paHsley, a tiny dust 
of coralline pepper, and a teaspoonful of strained lemon 
juice, and serve. 

ViMeroi. — This is simply a rich aliemande 

sauce strongly flavoured with mushrooms, reduced till 
thick by lUpid boiling, and finished off with an egg and 
milk liaison. As this is generally only used for coating 
things which arc afterwards dipped in egg and bread- 
crumbs, or batter, and fried, it must be pretty thick : 
in fact, about the consistency of thick batter. 

• Yellow. — This sauce, frequently seen at 

foreign restaurants, appears to possess no special name, 
but it is excellent and well worth recording. To half a 
pint of very creamy bechamel or veloute add, when 
strained and fairly reduced, the yolk of one large or 
two small eggs, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; stir 
it over the fire till perfectly blended, but do not let 
it boil, or the egg will curdle. This sauce should be as 
yellow as good custard. Many cooks prefer aliemande 
as a foundation, because it is not so white as rich 
bechamel. 

It need hardly be said that the above do 
not represent even a tithe of the maigre sauces known 
to chefs and good cooks, but they include all deferred 
to in this book. One word of advice may here be given 
to cooks, which is well worth their attention. It is: do 
not use brown, or espagnole, or bechamel, veloute, or 
aliemande indifferently. A connoisseur can always 
detect the substitution, and resents it. "Brown" 



y Google 



170 FISH. 

sauce is simply melted butter made with brown sauce 
instead of wat^r, and, whilst adding strength, gives no 
very distinct flavour; " Espagnole " is always (if properly 
made) noticeable for its aroma of wine and herbs, and 
a slight smokey taste. "Veloute" may be described 
in the same terms as " Brown " sauoe, but " Bechamel " 
is always recognisable by the preponderance of milk or 
cream, and a strong herb flavour; whilst "Allemande" 
has a very perceptible taste of egg and mushroom. 

The last things to be noticed are the Mirepoix and 
the savoury butters, or heurres composes of M. XJrbain- 
Dubois. 

The Mirepoix, invented, it is said, by a Duchesse de 
Mirepoix (or her chef) for the enjoyment of Louis XV., 
is the foundation used in stewing, or braising, to enhance 
the flavour of the meat and its gravy. The pan isi lined 
with sliced carrot, onion, turnip, ham or bacon, and a 
bouquet of herbs; for which ham or bacon, in strict 
maigre cookery, a washed and boned anchovy or two, 
and a small cut-up eel are often substituted. As a 
matter of fact, the ingi^dients may be varied according 
to the article to be braiBed, and the materials available, 
for a foreign cook, if good, cuts her coat according to 
her cloth pi'etty closely. This "braise" is generally 
lightly fried, to colour it delicately before putting in the 
meat or fish, when it is moistened with stock and wine 
to taste. I mention this as its name appears so often 
in foreign and other cookery books, and usually gets 
classed with "those French sauces, much too extrava^ 
gant for us ! " 

Savoury butters are always an improvement if added 
at last, instead of, or in conjunction with, "the tiny 
pat of butter" so often advised. They are easily pre- 
pared at an odd time, consisting, as they do, simply 
of butter pounded smooth with the ingredient that gives 
the butter its name. Mattre cPhotel butter, for instance, 
consists of 4oz. of butter, a dessertspoonful of blanched 
and minced parsley, white pepper and salt to taste. 



y Google 



GAROTSHES, SAUCES, &c. 171 

and a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, all pounded to a 
smooth paste. Cayenne, coralline, curry, horseradish, 
or mustard butter is made in precisely the same way, 
only sometimes using chilli oi" tarragon \4negar instead 
of lemon. Anchovies, truffles, garlic, shallot, crab, 
lobster, or shrimps may all be successfully treated thus. 



y Google 



INDEX. 



Bouille-Ji-baisse, 22 
Border (fish), 113 
Bread crumbs for fish, 34 
Court-bouillon, 7, 8 
Cucumber puree, 95 
Fat, to render, 36 

„ to teat, 36 
Fish— 

Anchovy, 45 
Barbel, 45 

„ au gratin, 46 
Bass, 46 

„ en casserole, 46 
„ fried, 46 
„ stuffed, 46 
Blackfish, 47 
Bleak, 47 
Bloaters, 47 

,, and potato pie, 48 

„ cases, m a i t r e 

d'hotel, 48 
Bluefish, 47 
Bream, 49 
Brill, 49 

„ ^ la Conti, 50 



Fish (Continued) — 

Brill a la ravigotte, 50 
„. k I'Amiral, 50 
„ au cerfeuil, 51 
„ „ Tin blanc, 51 
„ Proven9ale, 51 
„ Ste. Menehoulde, 51 

Burt, 51 

Carp, 51 
„ Sweet-sour stew of, 
52 

Catfish, 53 

Char, 53 

„ potted, 54 

Chub, 54 

Coalfish, 54 

Cod, 55 

„ h TAurore, 56 
„ i\ Tespagnole, 55 
„ i\ la Garonne, 56 
„ „ Grand Hotel, 56 
,, „ Moderne, 55 
„ „ Morny, 56 
„ „ Portugaiee, 56 
„ „ poulette, 55 



y Google 



INDEX. 



173 



Fjsh {Continued) — 
Cod k la Victoria, 66 
„ boiled, 65 
„ salt, 67 

boiled, 68 
balls, 60 
branlade of, 60 
Kentucky, 69 
pie, 59 

ProTen9ale, 61 
saffron, 59 
to soak, 67 
,, sounds, 161 
Conger eel, 61 

„ Cornish fashion, 63 
„ roasted, 62 
„ soup, 62 
Cusk, 63 
Dab, 63 
Dace, 64 
Dory (John), 64 

„ k la bateliere, 65 
„ „ cremi^re, 65 
„ „ mariniere, 65 
Eel k rindienne, 69 
„ en blanquette, 66 
„ en matelotte, 66 
„ pie, 68 
,, roasted, 67 
„ spitchcocked, 67 
„ to fry, 66 
„ to kill, 65 
„ pout, 69 

„ „ Fari^ienne, 69 
„ „ PruRsienne, 69 
Flounder, 70 

„ k rOrlie, 70 



Fish (Continued)— 
Ferras, 70 
Fluke, 70 
Frog, 70 

„ k la poulette, 71 
„ fried, 71 
Garfish, 72 
Grayling, 72 
Grilse, 72 
Gudgeon, 72 

„ braised, 72 

Gurnet, 73 

„ baked, 74 
filleted, 74 
„ stewed, 74 
Haddock, 76 

„ k la crfeme 

„ rizzared, 76 

„ smoked, 77 

„ stewed, 78 

Hake, 78 

,, baked, 78 
Halibut, 79 
Herring, 79 

balls, 81 
„ broiled, 80 
j» ), Scotch 

fashion, 80 
„ fillets, 81 
„ kippered, 82 
„ soused, 81 
Kingfish, 83 
Klipfish, 83 
Lamprey, 83 
" Lampern pie," 83 
Lance, 83 
Ling, 83 



y Google 



174 



INDEX. 



Fish (Continued) — 
Ling pie, 84 
Loaoh, 84 
Mackerel, 84 

„ h ritalienne, 85 
„ soased, 85 
Minnows, 85 
Mullet, 86 

» (grey), au four, 86 
„ in jelly, 86 
(red), 87 
„ „ baked, 88 

„ „ Bearnaise, 87 

,, en papa- 

lottes, 88 
„ „ in cases, 87, 

88 
,, „ Levantine, 89 

Parr, 89 
Perch, 89 
Pike, 89 

„ au bleu, 90 
„ baked, 90 
Pilchard, 90 
Piper, 91 
Plaice, 91 

„ baked, 91 
„ dnchesse, 91 
„ fried, 91 
Boach, 92 
Bookfish, 92 
Bockling, 92 
Royan, 98 
Rudd, 93 
Salmon, 93 

,, Alexandra, 96 
„ Anvera, 96 



Fish (Continued) — 

Salmon Colbert, 96 
„ Genoise, 99 
„ Indienne, 97 
„ Juive, 97 
„ Mazarine, 99 
„ Menni^re, 97 
„ mousseline, 99 
„ Bomaine, 97 
„ souffle, 100 
,. Tartare, 98 
„ Trafalgar, 98 
„ au court-bouillon, 

5 
„ au gratin, 98 
„ boiled, 94 
„ broiled, 95 
„ crimped, 94 
„ cutlets, 98 
„ pain russe, 99 
„ roast, 95 
„ tinned, 101 
„ tranche de, 102 
„ tron<;on, dame^ de, 
101 

Salmon trout, 102 

Sand eel, 102 

Sardines, 102 

„ tinned, to wash, 
102 

Scad, 103 

Shad, 103 

„ planked, 103 

Skate, 103 

Smelts, 104 

„ h ritalienne, 105 
„ au gratin, 104 



y Google 



INDEX. 



175 



Pish (Continued) — 
Smelts, broiled, 104 

„ fried, 104 
Sole, 105 

„ a la cr^me, 107 

,, au benrre noir, 107 

„ an four, 109 

„ an gratin, 108 

„ au vin blanc, 108 

„ aux olives, 107 

„ boiled, 107 

„ Cardinal, 107 

„ Colbert, 109 

„ Duglere, 109 

„ for invalid, 109 

„ fried, 106 

„ lemon, 105 

„ Menni^re, 109 

„ Normande, 110 

„ Portugaise, 107 

„ snr le plat, 108 

„ fillets, Ambassade, 110 

„ „ anx olives, 112 

„ „ Cherbourg, 111 

,. „ Chevrense, 112 

„ „ Chivry, 112 

„ „ Colchester, 

112 
„ ,, Corrente, 113 
„ „ Dubois, 113 
„ „ en casserole, 

114 
„ ,, Grand Hotel, 

114 
., „ Grenade, 115 
„ „ Imperatrice, 

115 



Fish {Continv^d) — 

Sole fillets, Krasnapolski, 
116 
„ „ Meunifere, 116 
„ „ petite mar- 
mite, 117 
„ „ Portugaise, 

114 
„ „ Presidente, 

116 
„ „ Eossini, 117 
„ „ Royale, 117 
„ „ Eusse, 114 

„ Tar. Ital., 117 
„ „ Venitienne, 
118 
Sprats, 119 

„ as anchovies, 120 
„ broiled, 119 
„ dried, 121 
„ en friodt, 119 
„ Napolitaine, 119 
„ pickled, 120 
Sturgeon, 121 
Tench, 122 
Trout, 122 

„ Highland fashion, 

123 
„ Hnssarde, 123 
„ stewed, 123 
Tunny, 123, 124 
Turbot, 124 

„ ^la cr^me, 126 
„ au gratin, 126 
„ Indienne, 125 
„ Proven^ale, 126 
„ Eonennaise, 125 



y Google 



176 



INDEX. 



Fish {Continued) — 

Weaver, 126 

Whitebait, 126 

„ to devil, 127 

„ en mayonnaiae, 128 

Whitefish, 126 

Whiting, 128 

„ Genoise, 128 
„ stewed, 128 
„ Joinville, 129 
„ Soubise, 129 
„ Tyrolienne, 129 
„ Croquettes Four- 
rees, 128 

Whitinjr pollock, 129 

Wrasse, 130 
Fish k la Jnive, 42 
„ Turque, 21 

an gratin, 18, 20 

baked, 17, 20 

border, 113 

boudin, 22 

caveached, 24 

chowder, 25 

coulibiac, 26 

creams, 27-30 

croquettes, 30 

„ k la Busse, 32 

curried, 31 

devilled, 30 

en casserole, 23 

Portngaise, 24 

en Orlie, 38 

essence, 31 

farce, 10-12 

fillets, 32, 33 

fried, 33 



Fish glaze, 9 

fritters, 35 

fresh water, 35 

freshness of, 5 

kleis, &c., 43 

mould, 37 

papillottes, 38 

paupiettes, 39 

quenelles, 11 

,, fourr^es, 22 

roasted, 39 

Russian pie, 39 

smoked, 40 

spiced, 41 

steamed, 20, 41 

stewed, 42 

stuffing, 11, 18 

sweet-sour stew, 52. 

time to cook, 6 

to boil, 5 

to broil, 20, 21 

to dean, 13 

to crimp, 4 

to fillet, 14, 15 

to keep, 3 

to lift, 7 

to skin, 13, 14 

to test, 6 

to tie up, 16 

Victoria, 43 

vol-au-vent, 43 

frying batter, 36 

frying, wet, 36 
Garnishes, 152-156 

Amiral, 152 

Beaufort, 152 

Boh^mienne, 152" 



y Google 



INDEX. 



177 



•Garnishes (Continued) — 

Bordelaise, 152 

Bonrg^gnotte, 153 

CambarC^r^s, 153 

Castelaine, 153 

Chambord, 153 

Chesterfield, 153 

Chivry, 153 

Danphin, 153 

Dnflferin, 153 

Durance, 154 

d'UxeUe, 162 

Gitana, 154 

Joinville, 154 

Marini^re, 154 

Matelotte, 154 

Montebello, 154 

Normande, 154 

Parisienne, 154 

Fortugaise, 154 

E^genoe, 154 

Ste. Nazaire, 155 

Vanderbilt, 155 

Victoria, 155 

anx olives, 155 
Matignon, 155 
Mirepoix, 170 
Fanade, 12 
Farsley to fry, 35 
Bice balls, 69 
Sauces, 156-170 

allemande, 157 

ambassade. 111 

Amiral, 51, 157 

anchois, 158 

aurore, 159 

Beamaise, 158 



Sauces (GoniiiitLed) — 
bechamel, 157 
beurre fonda, 162 
lie, 167 

„ noisette, 158 
black butter, 158 
blanche, 157 
blanquette, 66 
bordelaise, 159 
brown, 157 
caper, 159 
cardinal, 159 
Chauron, or Fran9aise, 

159 
Chivry, 113 
Colbert, 160 
Corrente, 113 
crab, 160 
cream, 107, 160 
egg, 58, 161 
espagnole, 157, 161 
^picurienne, 162 
fennel, 159 
fines herbes, or d'uxelles, 

160, 162 
Genevoise, 161 
Genoise, 161 
Grand Hotel, 56, 111 
HoUandaise, 162 
horseradish or raifort, 163 
Indienne, 163 
Italienne, 163 
Joinville, 163 
Madfere, 163 
maitre d'h6tel, 164 
matelotte, 95, 164 
melted butter, 156 



yGoogk 



178 



INDEX. 



Sauces {Continued) — 

meuni^re, 164 

Mirabeau, 165 

Montebello, 164 

Mornay, 164 

moussoline, 165 

mnshroom, 165 

mussel, 144 

mustard, 80, 165 

Normande, 166 

oyster, 145 

Parisienne, 166 

parsley, 159 

piccalilli, 166 

pike, 89 

piquante, 166 

Portugaise, 167 

poulette, 71, 167 

printani^re, 167 

Proven(jale, 166 

ravigotte, 167 

sardine, 90 

shrimp, 149 

Sioilienne, 167 

Soubise, 167 

tomato, 95, 168 

Tartare Ital., 118 

Tyrol, 168 

Venitienne, 168, 169 

yelout^, 37, 156 

Villeroi, 109 

yellow, 169 

to differentiate, 169 

to keep in condition, 166 
Savoury butters, 170 

curry, 163 

maitre d'b6tel, 170 



Shell Fish — 
Clams, 131 

„ ^ la Newburgrh, 132 
„ chowder, 132 
Cockles, 133 

„ au blanc, 133 
„ au macaroni, 133- 
Crab, 134 

„ kla. diable, 136 
„ buttered, 134 
„ gratin6, 135 
„ grilled, 135 
„ cromeskis, 135 
„ stewed, 136 
„ to boU, 134 
Crawfish, 136 
Crayfish, 136 

„ bordelaise, 137 
„ butter, 137 
„ en buisson, 137 
Limpets, 138 
Lobster, 138 

Am6ricaine, 139 
baked, 140 
butter, 137 
broiled, 139 
casserole, 141 
curried, 141 
cutlets, 141 
devilled, 142 
espagnole, 140 
roast, 142 
souffle, 142 
Thermidor, 140 
to choose, 139 
to kill, 138 
Mussels, 143 



y Google 



INDEX. 



17^ 



Shell Fish {Continued) — 

Mussels, Villeroi, 143 
if sauce, 14)4 
„ soup, 144 
„ to boil, 143 

Oysters, 144 

„ Delmonioo, 147 
„ fritters, 147 
„ patties, 145 
„ poulette, 146 
„ sauce, 145 
„ sausages, 146 
„ scalloped, 146 
„ to keep, 144 
„ vol-au-vent, 145 

Periwinkles, 147 

Prawns, 147 

„ boiled, 148 
butter, 137 



Shell Fish (Continved) — 
Prawns, curried, 148 

„ to tell from 
shrimps, 148 
Bazorfish, 151 
Scallops, 148 
Shrimps, 148 

„ sauce, 149 
to boil, 149 
Snails, 149 

., Bourguignonne, 
150 
Whelks, 151 

„ soup, 151 
„ to boil, 151 
Stock, fish, 8, 9 
„ vegetable, 10 
„ to clarify, 9 
Water souche, 40 



y Google 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



y Google 



y Google 



