ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








,-^^1---"- -- ^ ^- - 






From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912, 





Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086681131 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN 

COOK BOOK 

For High Altitude Cooking. 



n 



By CAROLINE TRASK NORTON 

Graduate from the Boston School of Domestic Science. 

Formerly Teacher of Cooking at the School 

of Domestic Science, Denver, Colo. 



This Book is adapted to cooking in both high and low 

altitudes. All the receipts given have been 

thoroughly tried by the author. 



Edited and Published by 

CAROLINE TRASK NORTON, 

661 Humboldt St., Denver, Colo. 






COPYRIGHT, 1903, 

By Caroline Trask Norton. 



THK W. r. ROBINSON PHINTINQ CO.. 
DCNVEH, COLO. 



This book is dedicated to my Denver friends, whose words 
of encouragement and appreciation have so greatly aided me 
during my two years of work with them. 



PREFACE. 



Knowing the difficulty of most people in this high altitude 
to find their cooking always satisfactory, the author has en- 
deavored to give them in this book the benefit obtained from 
teaching and housekeeping in Denver, making high altitude 
cooking a special study. The greatest difference between sea 
level cooking and here is in the cakes. Most of the sea level 
receipts can be used here by adding another egg to them, that 
gives a delicious, moist, rich cake. 

Water boils at sea level at 212°. In Denver, where the air 
is much lighter, it boils at 202°; therefore, it does not reach as 
great a heat here, so vegetables or anything boiled requires a 
little longer cooking. 

The luscious Boston baked beans can be cooked equally as 
good here if soaked twelve hours before parboiling. The 
author has endeavored to make her receipts practical, whole- 
some, and easily followed by the most inexperienced cooks. 
She has not attempted giving much information on chemis- 
try and food values, leaving that for the cooking schools 
that are becoming such a necessity all over the country. No 
girl's education is complete without such a course. Girls should 
not take upon themselves the most important position in life 
without a thorough knowledge of its requirements. Such a 
knowledge will enable them to feed their families intelligently, 
inexpensively, and to give them the variety that the system 
requires. 

Food for invalids should be selected and cooked with the 
greatest care. At the end of the book are given a few receipts 
that can be used for invalids. Scientific cooking should fill an 
important part in the training of a niu'se. 

The desire of the author will be obtained if the book 
proves helpful to all who use it and inspires them with the 
wish for more knowledge in the art of cooking. 

PREFACE 
To the Second Edition of the Rocky Mountain Cook Book. 
The second edition of the Rocky Mountain Cook Book has 
been wholly revised and many new receipts added. 

The Author is pleased to find that the book has met with 
such favor in its province of high altitude cooking as to war- 
rant a second edition. 



GENERAL RULES. 



Be collect in measurements for perfect results. 

All measurements level excepting baking powder, which is 
measured rounding with the side of the can. 

Sift flour before measuring. 

Use a standard measuring cup. 

Scald milk over hot water. 

Cook vegetables in freshly boiled salted water. 

To butter crumbs— one tablespoonful of melted butter 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls of crumbs. 

To get the juice from onions, cut across the grain, cutting 
in halves and grate. 

CAKA9IEL. — Caramel is used for sauce and to color soups 
and sauces. The flavor depends upon the degree to which the 
sugar is cooked. Put one cupful of granulated sugar in a sauce 
pan, stir until the sugar has melted and turned brown, then add 
three-fourths cup of hot water; let it cook slowly until the 
sugar has dissolved and cooked to a thin syrup. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page 

Bieads 5 

Breads with Bakiag Powder 12 

Griddle Cakes 18 

Cereals 21 

Soups 22 

Cream Soups 31 

Summer Soups 38 

Fruit Soups 38 

Fish 40 

Shell Fish 47 

Lobsters 53 

Meats 56 

Pork 66 

Mutton and Lamb 70 

Veal 74 

Poultry 81 

Game 95 

Entrees 100 

Fritters 122 

Vegetables 125 

Sauces 149 

Puddings and Ice Cream Sauces 160 

Cheese Dishes 166 

Salads 109 

Eggs 191 

Sandwiches 201 

Canapes 207 

Pastry 210 

Hot Puddings 219 

Cold Desserts 236 

Frozen Desserts 253 

Sherbets 254 



4 TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

Page 

Punches 257 

Ice Cieams 259 

Sauces for Ice Cieam 265 

Mousses 267 

Parfaits 268 

Cakes 273 

Fillings for Layer Cake 290 

Icings for Cakes 293 

Gingerbread, Doughnuts, Cookies and Cream Puffs 296 

Compotes, Preserving, Jellies and Pickles 300 

Preserving 301 

Canning 304 

Jams or Marmalades 305 

JeUies 306 

Pickles 308 

Candies 314 

Beverages 319 

Invalid Cookery 326 



BREADS. 



All measurements level, -with the exception of baking 
powder, which is measured rounding with the side of the can. 
Sift flour before measuring. 



One-half the amotmt of yeast can be used in the 
following receipts if preferred, allowing more time. 
In all of the receipts given for bread or rolls with the 
amount of yeast used the bread or rolls can be started 
in the morning and finished by noon. 



MILK BREAD. 



2 cups of milk (scalded). 

1 cake of compressed 

yeast, dissolved in half 
a cup of lukewarm 
water. 



2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Flour enough to make a stiff 
dough— 6 or 7 cups. 



Pour the hot milk over the sugar and salt. When 
oool add the dissolved yeast cake, then with a knife 
cut in the flour and knead for twenty minutes. Put 
in a warm place to rise. When risen twice the bulk, 
cut dovsTQ and let rise again. Make out in two loaves 
and a pan of biscuits, rise double the bulk in the pan. 
Bake the bread forty-five minutes. 

MILE BREAD (With Sponge). 

Pour two cups of scalded milk onto one table- 
s.poonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt. When 
cool add one yeast cake dissolved in one-half cup of 
lukewarm water. Stir in three cups of flour, beat 
well. Let rise until light and bubbly, about an hour, 
then add enough flour to knead, and knead twenty 
minutes. Let rise and bake the same as milk bread. 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



WATER BREAD. 



2 cups boiling Water. 
1 yeast cake. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Put butter, sugar and salt in mixing bowl, add the 
boiling water ; when cool dissolve the yeast cake, then 
cut in enough flour to loiead. Knead and let rise the 
same as directed for milk bread. 

CHEESE BREAD. 

Stir one cup of grated cheese in a sponge for two 
loaves of bread, mix and make the same as any of the 
above rules for bread. 

WALNUT BREAD. 

Stir one cup of chopped walnuts in a sponge for 
two loaves of bread, and proceed as abova Either 
of these two breads are good to serve with salads or 
Dutch luncheon. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 



2 cups of milk scalded. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 yeast cake. 



1 cup white flour. 
5 or 6 cups of whole wheat 
flour, or enough to knead. 



Make the same as milk bread with sponge. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



Make the same as whole wheat bread, using one 
cup of flour and the rest graham. 

Graham is not nearly as nutritious as whole 
wheat. 



BREADS. 7 

RYE BREAD. 

Rye bread may be made tbe same as whole wheat, 
using two tablespoonfuls of molasses in place of the 
sugar, if preferred. 

ROLLED OATS BREAD. 

Pour two euros of scalded milk over two cups of 
rolled oats, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of butter. Dis- 
solve one yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm water. 
When cool add the yeast and flour, enough so the 
dough will drop from the spoon. Let rise double the 
size, cut down and let rise again the same ; then put in 
small pans, let rise slowly twice the size, and bake for 
forty-five minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 



2 cups scalded milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 yeast cake. 



Pour the hot milk over the sugar, salt and butter. 
When cool, add yeast cake that has been dissolved in 
one-half cup of lukewarm water, then beat in thor- 
oughly three cups of flour. Let rise until light and 
bubbly, then add flour enough to knead. Knead 
about ten minutes. Let rise twice the bulk. Shape 
the rolls. Let rise in the pan twice the size. Bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Make the same as Parker House rolls. Mould in 
small balls, then roll under the hand, on the board. 



8 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

in thin sticks about six inches long. Let rise slowly, 
placing them in the pan one inch apart. Bake in a 
slow oven that they may dry before browning. Serve 
with soups or salads. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Make the same as Parker House rolls. KoU the 
dough one-half inch thick, spread with a thin layer 
of melted butter, cinnamon and currants. Roll up 
like jelly roll. Cut in slices an inch thick, place 
them on a well-greased pan one inch apart, sprinkle 
the top with a little powdered sugar. Let rise in the 
pans twice the size. Bake in a quick oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Parker House dough can be made in braids, cres- 
cents or rolled and cut the same as for cinnamon rolls, 
without the spice, sugar and currants. 

To Make Crescents. — ^RoU the dough until only 
an eighth of an inch thick. Cut in pieces about four 
inches square, and then into triangles. Hold the 
apex of the triangle in the right hand, roll the edge 
next to the left hand over and over towards the right, 
stretch the point and bring it over and under the roll. 
Bend the ends of the roll around like a horseshoe. 
Let rise twice the size. Bake in a quick oven. 



BUNNS. 



1 cup scalded milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



1 egg. 

1 yeast cake. 

2 cups of flour. 



Pour the hot milk over the salt, sugar and butter. 
When cool add the yeast that has been dissolved in 
on&-half cup of lukewarm water, and the egg well 



BREADS. 9 

beaten. Beat in the fliotir, let rise about two hours, 
then cut in flour enough to make a stiff dough with 
one-half cup of well washed currants and one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon. Let rise again twice the size. 
Shape in small balls, place on buttered pan. When 
well risen bate in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 
Brush over with milk just before taking from the 
oven. 

SQUASH BREAD. 



1 cup squash, stewed and 

sifted. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1^2 cups scalded milk. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful butter. 
1 yeast cake. 
Flour enough to knead. 



Mix the sugar and salt and squash, add butter and 
hot milk. When cool add yeast cake that has been 
dissolved in one-half cup of warm water. Add flour. 
Knead twenty minutes. Let rise until light, shape 
in loaves, let rise and baka 

CORN MEAL BREAD. 

Make the same as for any of the white bread re- 
ceipts, using one cup of com meal with the white 
flour. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Soften one yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm 
water. Stir in flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Knead and shape into a ball, score on the top in two 
parallel cuts. Put the dough in a bowl of lukewarm 
water, the cuts upward, and set aside in a warm place. 
In a few minutes the ball vidll swell and float, then 
remove to a pint of lukewarm water in which one- 
fourth cup of butter has been melted. Add two tea- 



10 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonfuls of salt and flour to make a stiff dough, 
knead fifteen minutes. Set aside until it has risen 
twice the bulk, then shape in rolls. Take a small 
ball of the dough, roll under the hand to give an ob- 
long shape with pointed ends. Set some distance 
apart on the baking pan and let rise to double the 
bulk. Score the tops diagonally with a sharp knife. 
When nearly baked brush over the tops with milk. 
Return to the oven to finish baking. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

4 cups flour. I V& teaspoonful salt. 

14 cup lard. ] 1 cup cold water. 

Eub lard and salt in the flour and mix with the 
water to a stiff dough. Knead ten minutes, then beat 
hard with a rolling pin or beater, turning it over and 
over until it begins to blister and is light and puffy. 
Then cut with a small biscuit cutter, place some dis- 
tance apart on the pan, prick with a fork. Bake in a 
hot oven twenty minutes. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Dissolve one yeast cake in onerhalf cup warm 
water, add it to one cup of scalded and cooled milk, 
with flour enough to make a stiff batter. Let rise. 
When light and bubbly add one-third cup melted but- 
ter, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
one egg, well beaten, grating of lemon rind and flour 
to make a stiff batter. Beat well. Let rise twice the 
bulk, then spread in a dripping pan, cover and let 
rise again. When risen, brush over with beaten egg 
and dust with sugar and cinnamon mixed. Bake in 
a hot oven twenty minutes. 



1 cup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 eggs. 



BREADS. 11 

RUSKS. 

1 yeast cake. 

I^ teaspoonful salt. 

Flour. 



Make a sponge of the milk, salt and yeast that 
has been dissolved in half a cup of warm water. Add 
flour enough to make a pour batter. When it is light 
and full of bubbles, add the butter, sugar and well 
beaten eggs. Stir in enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Knead it twenty minutes. Let it rise to 
double the bulk. Then mould with the hands into ob- 
long biscuits the shape of an ^g. Place them in the 
baking pan near together, let rise double the bulk. 
When ready for the oven brush over the top with 
milk and sprinkle sugar over them, if liked sweet. 
Bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Make the receipt for rusks in one large loaf the 
same shape as the rusks, or two loaves can be made 
from it, if liked small. Eise and bake well. When 
cold, cut in half-inch slices and dry them in a very 
slow oven, until dried through and of a deep yellow. 



12 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 

All measurements level, with the exception of baking 
powder, which is measured rounding with the side of the can. 
Sift flour before measuring. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 



2 cups white flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
(Lard can be used if 
wished.) 
Milk to make a soft dough. 



Sift flour, salt, baking powder together, rub in the 
butter, add the milk gradually, cutting it in with a 
knife. Turn onto a well-floured board, knead it 
quickly to get in shape. KoU out half an inch thick. 
Cut in biscuits and bake in a hot oven at once. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUITS. 

Make the same as baking powder biscuits, using 
the entire wheat flour with one-third white flour. 



CREAM SCONES. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 eggs. 

% cup cream. 



Sift dry materials together, work in the butter 
with the fingers, beat eggs well and add to the cream. 
Stir this into the dry materials and butter. EoU out 
three-fourths inch thick. Cut in diamiond shape; 
brush over with white of egg, slightly beaten, sprin- 
kle with powdered sugar. Bake ten minutes in hot 
oven. 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 13 

SHORT CAKE. 



4 cupa flour. 
3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 



Va tablespoonful salt. 
8 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Milk enough to roll out. 



Sift dry materials together, mix in the butter 
with the fingers, then add milk gradually. Do not 
use more flour than necessary to roll. Divide the 
dough in halves. KoU out one-half inch thick, place 
one-half in buttered pan, spread over with melted 
butter, place the other half on top of it and bake 
twenty minutes in hot oven. Eemove from pan. 
Take top layer off. Butter the inside well of both 
layers. Cover the bottom layer thickly with crushed 
sweetened fruit and a layer of whipped cream. Place 
the other layer on top. Cover the top with whipped 
cream, colored with the fruit juice if liked, or fruit 
sprinkled over the top. Serve while warm. 



CREAM MUFFINS. 



2 cups flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 



1 cup cream. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 



Mix in order given, sifting dry materials to- 
gether. Add cream and yolks well beaten, then fold 
in the whites stiffly beaten. Bake in gem pans to serve 
at once. 



ENGLISH MUFFINS. 



Beat two ^gs very light, add one teaspoonful of 
salt and two tablespoonfuls of softened butter, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one cup of warm milk, and 
one-half yeast cake dissolved in one-half cup of warm 



14 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



water ; stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter, beat 
thoroughly and let stand over night in a cool place. 

In the morning beat thoroughly again, turn into 
well-buttered muffin pans and let rise slowly for one 
hour, then bake about twenty minutes. 



RICE MUFFINS. 



% cup well-cooked rice. 
1% cups white flour. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. 

1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 



Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder to- 
gether, then add rice, well beaten eggs, milk and but- 
ter. Bake in muffin pans for twenty minutes. 



MUFFINS. 



2 cups flour. 

■2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 



J«l tablespoonful melted 
butter. 
1 egg. , , . 

1 cup milk. - ^/Y- O-'-Aoi 



Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together. 
Stir in the beaten egg, milk and melted butter. Bake 
in hot gem pans ten or fifteen minutes. 

Bye Muffins. — Can be made the same, using one 
cup and a half of rye and one-half cup of white flour. 

Entire Wheat Muffins. — ^Made the same as muf- 
fins, using one cup and a half of entire wheat and 
on&-half cup of white flour. 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 15 

Oraham Muffins. — Make the same as muffins, 
using one and one-lialf cups graham to one-half cup 
of white flour. 

POP-OVERS (For Colorado Altitude). 



1 cup milk. I 3 

1 cup flour. I % teaspoonful salt. 

These can be made with one egg at low altitude. 

Mix the salt with the flour. Beat the yolks well 
and add to the milk ; then add slowly to the flour to 
make the hatter smooth ; then fold in the whites that 
have been beaten stiff. Fill the hot greased gem pans 
half full. Bake at once in a hot oven for thirty min- 
utes. 

DATE GEMS. 

Beat two eggs very light, add one cup of milk, 
one-half cup of finely chopped dates, one cup of whole 
wheat flour and one-half cup of white flour sifted, 
with one teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt, 
a tablespoonful melted butter ; beat thoroughly ; bake 
in hot gem pans in hot oven for about fifteen minutes. 



SALLY LUNNS. 



„ ^ 2 cups flour. 
'^ _ <^ teaspoonf uls baking 
powder. 
1/4, teaspoonful salt. 



2 eggs, beaten separately. 
% cup milk. "* / (Ly<~^A^ ■ 
% cup melted butter. 



Mix flour, baiing powder and salt. Add the 
beaten yolks and melted butter; then add the stifBly 
beaten whites. Fill the muffin rings half full and 
bake ten minutes in hot oven. If liked sweet, add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar to the flour. 



16 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CORN CAKE. 



114 cups flour. 

y^ teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup yellow" corn meal. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



2 teaspoonfuls bakng 

powder. 
2 eggs, beaten separately. 
1^ cups milk. 



Cream, butter and sugar together. Sift meal, 
flour, salt and baking powder together; add to them 
the creamed sugar and butter, beaten yolks. Mix 
well. Add milk slowly, and lastly whites beaten 
stiff. Bake in muffin rings or in a pan in hot oven. 

CORN CAKE (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1 cup corn meal. 
% cup flour. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 



1 tablespoonful melted 

butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
Yolks of two eggs, white of 

one. 
1^ cups milk. 



Bake in a brick loaf bread pan half an hour. 



SPIDER CORN CAKE (Miss Parloa). 



% cup com meal. 
Flour to fill the cup. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 



1 egg. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

V2 cup sour milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 



Mix together the meal, flour, salt and soda. Add 
the beaten egg. Add half the sweet milk and all the 
sour milk. Melt the butter in a hot spider or shallow 
round pan and pour the mixture into it. Pour the 
other half of the mixture over the top, but do not 
stir it. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 17 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Put one quart of water ou to boil with one tea- 
spoonful salt. Sift together one cup of com meal 
and two tahlespoonfuls flour. Stir this gradually in 
the boiling water. Let it cook hard for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Then place in the double boiler 
and cook for two hours. Eat hot or pour in a pan. 
When cold cut in half-inch slices, dip in flour and 
brown each side in hot butter. If lumpy beat with 
Dover beater. 



PARKER HOUSE CORN MEAL GEMS. 

Sift together one cup of flour, one cup of yellow 
com meal, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Cream one-fourth cup of butter. 
Add gradually half a cup of sugar, then three well 
beaten eggs and one cup of milk. Bake in buttered 
gem pans in a quick oven. 



SPOON BREAD. 

Sift together one cup of yellow or white com 
meal, half a teaspoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat two eggs very light and stir 
into the dry ingredients with one quart of sweet milk. 
Turn the mixture into a well buttered baking-dish 
holding three pints, add two tahlespoonfuls of butter 
cut in small pieces. Bake in a hot oven about one- 
half hour. Stir often until the bread begins to thick- 
en. Serve vnth a spoon from the dish in which it is 
baked. Eat with butter. A good breakfast or lunch- 
eon dish. 



18 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 
Very Fine. 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup rye meal. 
1 cup entire wheat or 
white flovir. 



% cup molasses. 

14 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 



Mix in order given, dissolve soda in molasses. 
Steam three hours. 

SOUR MILK BROWN BREAD (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup rye meal. 
1 cup graham flour. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups sour milk. 



Mix in order given, dissolve the soda in the milk, 
add more milk or vrater if not thin enough to pour. 
Steam three hours. One-half cup raisins can be 
added to, or any receipt for brown bread. Then it is 
called a plum loaf. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



1% cups flour. 

1% teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 well-beaten egg. 
1 cup milk. 



Sift all the dry materials together. Add milk 
and egg. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Made the same as griddle cakes, using one-haK 
cup of com meal and the rest white flour. Pour the 
milk hot over the corn meal. When cool add the 
other ingredients. 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 19 

ENTIRE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Make the same as griddle cakes, using one cup of 
the entire wheat flour to one-quarter cup of white 
flour. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 



1% cups milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking 

powder. 
1% cups flour. 



Sift dry materials. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
milk and yolks well beaten, lastly the stiffly beaten 
whites. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 



1 cup milk. 

Yz cup well-cooked rice. 

% teaspoonful salt. 



1 teaspoonful baking 

powder. 
1 egg. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 



Flour enough to make a thin batter, or thick 
enough to fry well. 

PANCAKES. 

Fry several large griddle cakes as large as a good 
sized platter. Pile one on top of the other, well but- 
tered. Out down like a pie. 

WAFFLES (Mrs. Lincoln). 



ll^ cups milk. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. 



2 cups flour. 
1 teaspoonful baking 

powder. 
" Yg teaspoonful salt. 

3 eggs. 

Sift dry materials together, add the beaten yolks 
with the milk, then melted butter and the stiffly beat- 
en whites. 



20 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

LEMON SYRUP (Serve with Waffles). 

1 cup sugar. I 1 tablespoonful butter. 

% cup water. | 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

Boil the sugar and water until it is a thin syrup, 
then add butter and lemon juice. 



CEREALS. 21 



CEREALS. 



Cereals contain a ' large per cent of starch, so 
should have a rapid cooking in boiling water for a few 
minutes when first started. Then they may be put 
inside the double boiler to continue to cook more slow- 
ly. Care should be taken that the cereal does not 
stick to the dish when it is having its first hard boil- 
ing. 

TO BOIL RICE. 

Wash thoroughly one-half cup of rice. Have two 
quarts of water boiling hard in the kettle, with one 
teaspoonful of salt. Throw in the rice and allow to 
boil rapidly without a cover until tender, then drain 
through a colander. Put on the stove to dry, lifting 
the rice apart to allow the steam to escape. Rice that 
is cooked in this way will have every kernel sepa- 
rate. 

STEAMED RICE. 

Put in double boiler two and one-half cups of 
milk or water or a part of each. Add to it one-quar- 
ter teaspoonful salt, set the inside of the boiler on top 
of the stove. When it comes to a boil add one-half 
cup well washed rice. Let it boil hard for five 
minutes. Then replace it in the double boiler, and let 
cook until soft. The time of cooking depends on the 
age of the rice. 



22 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



GENERAL RULES FOR SOUP STOCK. 

Meat and bones for soup stock should he allowed 
to soak in cold water fully one hour before putting 
on the stove, to extract the juices. Soup stock should 
simmer on the back of the stove and not boil hard. 
The meat should be cut in small pieces and washed 
clean. Soup meat, when cooked, has no nutrition 
left in it. If properly made, the goodness of the meat 
is in the stock. 

Use one quart of cold water to every pound of 
meat and bones. Add seasoning in the following pro- 
portions : 

For every quart of water, one even teaspoonful of 
salt, three peppercorns, or a little ground pepper, two 
cloves, a celery root or the outside stalk, a sprig of 
parsley, a tablespoonful each of onion, carrot and 
turnip, a part of a bay leaf, a pinch of sage, summer 
savory, thyme and marjoram. It is not necessary to 
have all the herbs. A very nice flavored soup can be 
made with the vegetables alone. 

If you wish to have a dark-brown stock, reserve 
part of the lean meat and part of the vegetables, and 
brown them in a little fat taken from the meat. A 
tablespoonful of browned sugar or caramel will also 
give a brown color to the stock. Do not remove the 
scum from the soup while it is cooking, as that is the 
albumen of the meat As soon as the soup is done 
strain at once and set aside until cold and the fat has 
formed a cake on top. Remove the fat and reheat. 



SOUPS. 23 

Soup stock should cook from six to eight hours. 
Whole rice is sometimes served in a white soup. 
Boil the rice until tender then add to the soup. 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

Melt one cup of sugar with two tablespoonfuls of 
water in a sauce pan. Stir until it is a dark brown 
color. Add one cup of boiling water, let simmer 
for fifteen minutes. Bottle for use, when cool. 

TO CLEAR SOUP STOCK. 

Remove the fat. Allow the white of an egg to 
every quart of stock. Mix the beaten white with the 
cold stock. Set on the fire, stirring all the time until 
it reaches the boiling point, then let it boil without 
stirring for ten minutes, then draw it on the back of 
the stove and add one-half cup cold water. Let it 
stand for ten minutes, then strain through a cheese 
cloth and colander. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 

Croutons. — Cut stale bread into cubes and brown 
in butter in an omelet pan, or butter first, cut in cubes 
and brown in the oven. Serve with thick soups. 

Egg Balls. — ^Rub to a paste with a wooden spoon 
the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pep- 
per or paprica and melted butter, add enough raw 
yolk or white to mould them. KoU them in white of 
egg, slightly beaten, and dip in flour. Have them 
about one-half the size of a yolk. !Fry them in butter. 
Serve one to each person. Put the balls in the tureen 
and add the soup. 



24 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Marrow Balls. — ^Melt a tablespoonful of the mar- 
row, beat it until creamy, then add to it a well-beaten 
egg and a little salt and pepper and as much soft 
bread crumbs as it will take. Mould in little balls 
and cook them in boiling water for ten minutes. Place 
them in the tureen first before serving. 

Noodles. — Two eggs slightly beaten , mix with 
them two tablespoonfuls of water, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of salt and enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Knead it well for fifteen minutes, then cut 
off small pieces at a time and roll them as thin as 
wafers. When very thin sprinkle with fiour and roll 
into a tight roll, cut from the end into thin slices or 
threads for the soup. Let them dry in a slightly 
warm oven for an hour. These can be cut before roll- 
ing into fancy shapes with the vegetable cutter. Be- 
fore serving put them in boiling salted water and let 
them boil for fifteen minutes. Serve in thin soups. 

Lemon cut in thin slices is served, a slice to each 
person. 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vermicelli is broken in 
three or four-inch lengths and put on to cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender, then remove from the 
water in a colander ; let the cold water run through. 
Place on a board and cut in one-inch pieces. If the 
large-size macaroni is used, cut into one-fourth inch 
pieces, thus forming rings. Put in the tureen just 
before serving. 

ROYALE CUSTARD TO SERVE WITH CONSOMME. 

2 yolks. I Little pepper. 

1 egg. Yz cup beef stock. 

14 teaspoonful salt. ( 

Beat the eggs slightly or until well mixed, add 
the seasonings and the clear stock. Pour into a dish 



SOUPS. 25 

SO it will be about one inch thick. Set it in a pan of 
hot water and place in a moderate oven until it is 
firm. Do not let it brown on top. When cold cut 
it into cubes or into fancy shapes with the cutter. 
Place carefully in the tureen after the soup is in it. 
Allow four or five pieces to each person. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Chop any cooked meat very fine, season highly 
with onion, lemon juice, salt and pepper, add enough 
yolk to hold them together. Mould in little balls, 
roll them in egg and flour, fry them in butter. Serve 
in the soup. 

Grated cheese may be passed with the soup. 

Butter crackers and brown them in the oven. Pass 
with soup. 

Serve pop com with any kind of soup. 

BROWN SOUP STOCK. 



3 lbs. ahin of beef. 
3 quarts cold water. 
9 peppercorns. 
5 cloves. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 good- sized onion. 



1 good-sized carrot, or 2 

small ones. 
1 turnip. 

3 sprigs of parsley. 
Celery root or stalks and 
herbs, if you like. 



Put half the meat and the bones in the water, 
brown the rest of the meat and vegetables and add 
them. 

WHITE STOCK. 



3 lbs. knuckle of veal, or 

one fowl. 
Herbs. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 
Peppercorns. 



1 onion. 

2 celery roots or 4 stalks. 
1 turnip. 

1 good-sized carrot. 

3 quarts water. 



26 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

WHITE SOUP. 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter and flour. Melt 
the butter and stir into it the flour. Add slowly one 
quart of the white stock and one pint of cream. Sea- 
son to taste. 

CONSOMME. 



2 lbs. shin of beef. 

2 lbs. knuckle of veal or a 

small fowl or hen. 

3 quarts of water. 
A slice of lean ham. 
6 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 



1 tablespoonful salt. 

2 onions. 
2 carrots. 

1 turnip. 

2 roots of celery. 

3 sprigs parsley. 



Brown half the meat and the vegetables, simmer 
for eight hours. Strain. When cold remove the fat 
and clear. Add lemon juice and thinly shaven rind 
when ready to" serve. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Julienne soup is made by adding to the plain con- 
somme stock, vegetables cut in thin strings or fancy 
shapes. Add salt and hot water to the vegetables. 
Cook until tender, then add to the stock and serve. 

MACARONI OR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Cook the macaroni or vermicelli in boiling salted 
water until tender, drain, pour cold water over it, 
then lay the sticks close together. Cut in inch pieces 
and add to a plain soup stock. 



4 lbs. beef from the round. 

2 lbs. bone. 

3 quarts water. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 
6 peppercorns. 



BOUILLON. 

3 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 

1 celery root. 

1 teaspoonful mixed herbs. 



SOUPS. 27 



Boil down to two quarts, then remove the fat and 
clear. Add more seasoning if desired. 



TOMATO SOUP. 



1 quart of stock. 

1 can tomatoes. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



Add the tomato, sugar, salt and pepper to the 
stock, let it cook one hour. With cold water make a 
thickening of the flour and add that, cook ten minutes. 
Strain through a fine sieve. Just before serving add 
one-half cup of cream, if liked. This is a great im- 
provement. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 



1 quart of stock. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

14 cup each of chopped 

onion, carrot, turnip 

and cabbage. 



% cup cooked and strained 

tomato 
1 teaspoonful chopped 

parsley. 
1 teaspoonful salt and a 

little pepper. 



Cook the vegetables in the stock until tender, or 
the vegetables can first be cooked in boiling salted 
water and then added. 



MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Clean a calf's head thoroughly, cut in several 
pieces, then soak an hour in cold water. Drain off 
the water, add four quarts of cold water and a table- 
spoonful salt and cook slowly until the meat slips 
from the bones. Eemove the meat, but let the bones 
remain, then add 



28 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



5 cloves. 

8 peppercorns. 

5 allspice. 

2 onions, sliced. 

2 carrots, sliced. 



1 tirrnip, sliced. 

3 celery roots. 

1 tablespoonful herbs. 

Inch of stick cinnamon. 



Let simmer for two hours, strain and set away 
until cold. Before serving, remove tlie fat and for 
every quart of stock, brown one tablespoonful of but- 
ter; when brown add one tablespoonful of flour, and 
gradually the stock. Season with salt and pepper if 
required. Cut in small dice one-half cup of the 
cooked meat to every quart and add to the stock with 
slices of hard-boiled egg or the yolk of egg made in 
little balls, the juice of half a lemon and thin slices 
of the rind, two tablespoonfuls of sherry. This can 
be omitted, if desired. 



OX-TAIL SOUP. 



2 ox tails. 
1 onion. 

1 tablespoonful beef or 
salt pork drippings. 
4 quarts water. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 



6 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 

2 roots celery. 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

parsley. 
1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. 



Wash and cut the ox tail at the joints. Heat the 
fat and saute the onion and half of the tail in the fat. 
Put all in the soup kettle with the water. When it 
comes to a boil add the seasoning and vegetables. 
Cook for six hours slowly. Strain, saving out some 
of the pieces of meat. When ready to serve remove 
the fat, reheat and season more if necessary. Add 
small pieces of meat and serve one or two to each 
serving. 



SOUPS. 29 

MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 



3 lbs. chicken or fowl. 

Knuckle of veal. 

3 cloves. 

8 peppercorns. 

3 sour apples, medium size. 

Juice of a lemon. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 



1 tablespoonful curry pow- 
der. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

4 quarts water. 

1 tablespoonful of well- 
cooked rice. 



Make the same as for soup stock. When tender 
strain, leaving small pieces of the meat in the soup. 
Reheat, add more seasoning, if desired, the rice and 
pieces of meat. 



BLACK BEAN SOUP. 



2 cupfula black beans. 

1 quart soup stock. 

1 tablespoonful butter and 

flour. 
1 sprig parsley. 



1 celery root. 
% bay leaf. 
3 peppercorns. 
1 clove. 



Soak the heans over night, drain off the water, 
add the seasonings tied together in a cheese cloth, 
cover with cold water and boil slowly until tender, 
adding water when needed. When the beans are soft, 
remove the seasonings and pass the beans through a 
sieve, mashing them through with a spoon. Then add 
the stock to them. Melt the butter, stir into it the 
flour and gradually stir into the stock. Season with 
salt and pepper. Put in the tureen just before the 
soup is added two tablespoonfuls sherry wine, thin 
slice of lemon, egg balls and the white of egg cut in 
dice. 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

Wash clean two quarts of clams (in the shell), 
cover with boiling water, let boil for twenty minutes, 
strain, let the bouillon settle, strain again, reheat, sea- 



30 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

son with pepper and salt. Serve in bouillon cups 
with whipped cream on top. A few of the clams can 
be chopped fine and added to the bouillon. 



SCOTCH BROTH. 



2 lbs. mutton (neck). 
2 quarts water. 
14 cup each of carrot, tur- 
nip and a, small onion. 



2 celery stalks, cut fine. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
% teaspoonful white pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls barley. 



Soak the barley over night. Remove the fat and 
skin from the mutton. Cut the meat from the bones 
and into small pieces. Put the bones on to boil in 
one pint of cold water and the meat on in three pints 
of cold water. "When it boils up add the barley and 
water. Cut the vegetables in dice and fry for five 
minutes in two tablespoonfuls of butter and add to 
the meat. Cook slowly for four hours. Strain the 
bones from the water and add it to the meat with 
the salt and pepper. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Get a piece from the neck or shoulder. For every 
pound of meat and bones add a quart of water. Sim- 
mer for five hours very slowly. (A small onion may 
be added). Strain when cold, remove the fat, season 
with salt and pepper and add some well cooked rice 
and serve. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Remove the skin and fat from the chicken. Cut 
at the joints and make the same as mutton broth. 



SOUPS. 31 

CREAM SOUPS. 

Part cream may be used instead of all milk, mak- 
ing a much richer soup, or a little whipped cream 
may be added when served. 



OYSTER SOXTP. 



1 pint of milk. 
1 pint of oysters. 
4 teaspoonfuls flour. 



4 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



Put on the milk in the double boiler to scald. 
Melt the butter and stir the flour into it. When the 
milk has scalded, stir the butter and flour into it, 
stirring until it is smooth. Cook for ten minutes. 
Wash and pick over the oysters, put them on to cook 
in their own liquor. Cook until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl. Put them at once in the 
thickened milk and season. Serve. It should not 
be seasoned until the oysters are added, as some 
oysters are more salty than others. 



>3 <i^ en 'WuilT; 

1 pint milk, w 



OTATO SOUP. 



Pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 onion. 



pint 
— 1 cup mashed potato. 
> % teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 

Put the milk on to scald in the double boiler. 
When scalded add the potato, cook it ten minutes. 
Melt the butter ; stir in flour. Add to the milk. Cook 
onion with potato. Add seasoning and strain through 
a strainer. Keheat and serve. Serve with croutons 
or hot crackers. 



32 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 



1 quart milk. 

1 can tomatoes. 

14 cup butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 



1 teaapoonful salt. 

Pepper. 

y^ teaspoonful soda. 



Scald the milk in the double boiler. Melt the 
butter in a sauce pan. Stir into it the flour, salt and 
pepper. When smooth stir it into the hot milk. Allow 
it to cook ten minutes, stirring until smooth ; cook the 
tomatoes until soft. Mash through a strainer and add 
the soda. "When ready to serve put the tomato and 
milk together. Serve at once to prevent curdling. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 



1 cup dried split peas. 
3 pints cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Pepper. 



Wash the peas well and soak in the cold water a 
day and night (in high altitude, in lower altitude one 
night will be sufficient). Put on to boil in fresh 
water, let cook until soft, supplying water as it cooks 
out. When soft mash through a strainer. Melt the 
butter, stir into it the flour and seasonings and gradu- 
ally one cup of milk or enough when added to peas to 
make a thick, creamy consistency. Cook the strained 
peas and creamed milk together for ten minutes. 
Serve with fried dice of bread. This soup cannot be 
satisfactorily made in a high altitude, as the long 
cooking necessary for the peas spoils the flavor. 



GREEN PEA SOUP. 



1 quart of milk. 
1 can of peas. 
%, cup butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Little pepper. 



SOUPS. 33 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Melt the butter, 
stir into it the flour and seasoning. When smooth 
stir into the milk, cooking for ten minutes, stirring 
until smooth. Heat up the peas in their own liquor. 
Mash through a strainer and add the pulp to the milk. 
This is a delicious and nutritious soup. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 



2 tablespoonfula butter. 
1 pint of milk. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



4 good- sized ears of corn. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 
Little pepper. 



Cut the kernels from the ear with a sharp knife. 
Put the cobs on to boil in enough cold water to cover. 
Boil half an hour and strain, then cook the pulp in 
the corn water for twenty minutes, then add the sea- 
sonings. Melt the butter, stir into it the flour and 
when smooth stir into the hot milk. After cooking 
ten minutes add the com v.dth the liquid and season- 
ings. Half a can of com can be used instead of the 
green com. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP (Made from Can Com). 

Make the same as the pea soup made from the 
can peas. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 



% peck clams in the shell. 
1 quart potatoes, sliced 

thin. 
14 poimd salt pork. 
1 onion. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 

y^ cup butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 quart hot milk. 

Crackers. 



Wash the clams until clean. Put them in a kettle 
with one quart of cold water. Set them on the stove 
to cook until the top ones are broken open, then re- 



34 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

move from the stove. Skim out tlie clams. Pour 
the liquid in a dish to settle. When the clams are 
cool, cut off the heads with scissors. Fry the onion 
in the pork in the kettle that you are going to make it 
in. When brown remove the pieces of onion and 
pork, then add the potatoes and the clam liquor, 
which should be carefully poured in, not to disturb 
the settlings. When the potatoes are soft, add the 
clams, seasonings and hot milk, more water if desired. 
Melt the butter, stir into it the flour and add to the 
chowder, or, better still, to the hot milk before it is 
added. Put the crackers in the tureen and, turn the 
chowder on them. 

CREAM OF CLAM SOUP. 

Melt in a double boiler two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and a little pepper or paprica, then 
add gradually two cups of milk. When hot and 
smooth, stir in one small can of minced clams. Cook 
for twenty minutes, then strain and reheat, add one- 
half cup of cream and serve at once. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 

1 good- sized bunch of 

asparagus. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Pepper. 



Put the asparagus on to cook in cold water 
enough to cover. Cook until very tender. Out off a 
few of the tips to serve in the soup. Mash the rest, 
with the water they are cooked in, through a strainer. 
Scald the milk. Melt butter, stir into it flour and sea- 
sonings, then stir it into the milk. Add the asparagus 



SOUPS. 35 

pulp and tips. Serve. This is pretty for a green 
luncheon. 

PEANUT SOUP. 

Cook two cups of shelled and blanched peanuts 
with a slice of onion and a stalk of celery until ten- 
der. Mash through a sieve. Stir into it a pint of 
white stock and one pint of hot milk or thin cream, 
which has been added to it. Two tablespoonfuls of 
butter melted with one tablespoonful of flour and one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper stirred 
into it. 

ALMOND SOUP. 



1 quart of white stock. 
1 pint of cream. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 
% cup of blanched almonds 

that have been chopped 

and pounded fine. 



Melt the butter, stir into it the flour. When 
smooth, stir it into hot cream. Cook for ten min- 
utes. Add the hot stock and season, then add the 
nuts and serve. 

MUSHROOM SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 
% cup of cream. 

y^ pound fresh mushrooms. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler. Melt the but- 
ter, stir into it the flour, salt and pepper. Stir this 
into the hot milk, let cook for ten minutes, then add 
to it the beaten yolks and cream, stirring and cooking 
five minutes. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stems 
and break them in small pieces. Put them in a sauce 



36 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

pan with just enough hot water to keep them from 
sticking. Let them cook five minutes. Add them 
to the cream soup and serve. The eggs may be omit- 
ted. 

MUSHROOM STOCK SOUP. 

Two cups of chicken or turkey stock, one-half 
pound of fresh mushrooms that have been cooked and 
added to the stock. Melt two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, add to it two of flour and the hot stock. Cook 
ten minutes, strain out the mushrooms, add one cup 
of cream and season. This is a most delicious, rich 
soup. 

BERMUDA SOUP. 

Peel and slice three Bermuda onions, brown a 
delicate brown in pork fat or a little butter, then cook 
in boiling salted water till tender. Melt in a double 
boiler two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, then gradually two cups of 
milk. When smooth put in the onions and cook for a 
half hour. Mash all through a sieve, reheat, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Add 
half a cup of cream and serve at once. 

SPINACH SOUP. 

Wash one pound of spinach, put it on to cook 
without adding water — there is enough that clings to 
the leaves to cook it — one teaspoonful salt, a small 
onion sliced. When tender, mash through a strainer 
or puree sieve. Scald two cups of milk in double 
boiler, melt in sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, stir into it one of flour. When blended, stir it 



SOUPS. 37 

into the hot milt. Cook ten minutes, then add one 
cup of the spinach pulp and the yolk of one egg di- 
luted with a half cup of cream. Cook ten more min- 
utes. Season with salt and pepper. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

Let a cauliflower stand in cold water, head down, 
for one hour — in cold salted water — this is to draw 
out any insects that may be in it. Put on to boil in 
chicken or veal stock or hot water and one onion, a 
sprig each of parsley and celery. When tender, mash 
through a sieve or potato ricer. For every cup of 
the pulp make a white sauce of two cups of milk 
stirred into two tablespoonfuls of butter that has had 
two tablespoonfuls of flour stirred into it, one-half 
teaspoonful salt and a little pepper. Cook ten min- 
utes, then stir in the pulp. Cook for five minutes. 
Add one-half cup of cream. Serve. 

CREAM OF STOCK SOUP. 

Use any stock made from veal, poultry or game. 
Stock made from turkey bones is very delicious for 
this soup. Melt in a sauce pan four tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Stir into it three tablespoonfuls of flour 
and half a teaspoonful of salt, gradually stir into the 
butter three cups of the well-seasoned stock. Boil ten 
minutes. Add one cup of thick cream, heat for flve 
minutes. Serve. A few fresh mushrooms that have 
been cooked for five minutes, then added to the stock 
just before serving, gives a delicious flavor. Serve for 
luncheon in bouillon cups or for a dinner soup. 



38 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SUMMER SOUPS. 

Make a rich chicken broth or bouillon, chill, sur- 
round by ice or freeze to a frappe. Serve in bouil- 
lon cups with or without whipped cream. 

Clwm Bouillon can be served in the same way. 



FRUIT SOUPS. 

Fruit soups originated with the Germans. They 
are made from the fruit juices seasoned and thick- 
ened. These soups to be palatable must be served 
very cold. 

STRAWBERRY SOUP. 

One pint of strawberries and one pint of water; 
cook together until the strawberries are soft, then add 
one-half glass currant jelly. When the jelly is dis- 
solved, strain, thicken with a scant teaspoonful of 
com starch. Cook for ten minutes, and, if necessary, 
strain again. Serve very cold in bouillon cups, with 
chipped ice. 

RASPBERRY, CURRANT AND GOOSEBERRY SOUP. 

One pint of the fruit -and one pint of water. Cook 
together until the fruit is tender. Strain, add one 
tablespoonful of sugar, a few grains of salt and a lit- 
tle corn starch to thicken slightly. Cook for ten min- 
utes. If necessary strain again. Serve very cold in 
cups with chipped ice. 



SOUPS. 39 

PLUM, CHERRY, PINEAPPLE AND PEACH SOUP. 

Cook one pint of fruit with a pint of water till 
very soft, masli and sift. Sweeten slightly and thick- 
en a very little with com starch; a little lemon or 
orange juice will improve these soups. Serve very 
cold with chipped ice. 

ORANGE SOUP. 

The juice of six oranges and one lemon, sweeten 
slightly, add a little sherry wine if desired. Chill. 
Serve with chipped ice. 



40 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FISH. 



Fish, to be palatable and nutritious, should be 
fresh, well cleaned and thoroughly cooked. When 
fresh, the eyes are bright, the flesh firm and elastic 
to the touch. Fish should be cleaned, washed in cold 
water and dried (not soaked) as soon as it reaches 
us and put directly on the ice or in a cold place. It 
should not be put in the compartment with milk or 
butter, as they absorb the odors very quickly. Frozen 
fish should be laid in cold water until they become 
limber. 

TO SKIN AND BONE A FISH. 

Out through the skin, down the back bone, taking 
off the fins. Beginning at the head, loosen the skin 
and strip it down. Use a knife to help loosen the skin, 
and a little salt on the fingers enables one to get a 
firmer hold. Then slip the knife under the flesh, 
keeping it close to the bone, to remove the flesh or fil- 
lets. They can be served whole or divided in uniform 
pieces if the fish is large. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Put the fish into a kettle of boiling water, enough 
to cover, with a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful 
of vinegar or half the juice of a lemon. This hardens 
it. Do not let the water boil rapidly after the 
fish is put in, as that breaks it ; let it simmer on top 
of the stove. A little celery, onion, bay leaf and pep- 



FISH. 41 

percorns put in the water improves the flavor of white 
fish. Allow fifteen minutes to a pound. If a fish ket- 
tle is not used, place the fish in a plate and tie the 
plate in a cloth before putting in the kettle. Pre- 
pared in this way it is much easier to remove from 
the kettle. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Clean the fish, wash and wipe dry. Cover with 
a little softened butter, season with salt and pep- 
per. Rub the broiler with salt pork or butter. 
Broil first the flesh side until brown before turning. 
A thick flsh should cook about twenty minutes, a thin 
one less time. Try with a fork. When done, place 
on a hot platter, season with butter, salt and pepper 
and a little chopped parsley. Garnish with lemon or 
water cress or serve with a sauce. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Place in the bottom of the pan two or three thin 
slices of salt pork to prevent the fish from sticking, 
or on the rack, if rack is used. If part of a fish is to 
be baked, wash it and wipe dry, cover the fish with 
buttered cracker crumbs that have been well seasoned 
with salt, pepper, lemon juice, chopped parsley and a 
little onion juice, or sprinkle with flour ; or, salt and 
pepper, little pieces of butter, and five minutes before 
removing from the oven cover the top with grated 
cheese, seasoned with a little salt and paprica. 

STUFFING FOR FISH. 



1 cup of powdered cracker 

crumbs. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
A little pepper. 
1 teaspoonful chopped 

parsley. 



1 teaspoonful onion juice. 
14 cup melted butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls of pickles, 

chopped, or, one of ca- 
pers and one of pickles. 



42 ROCKY MOtR^IN COOK BOOK. 

If not moisi erm^, use a little hot water. An 
egg may be used, but it is not nec^sary. This should 
>he a dry sti; ~ 




^-^ TO BAKE A WHOLE FISH. 

Stuff and sew up the fish. Place the fish upri^t 
in the pan. If broad and short they may be kept in 
place by propping up. If not the right shape to 
prop, skewer in the shap<» of the letter S. If pre- 
pared in this way will keep their shape after cooking. 
Place when done on a hot plattra". Pour a sauce 
around it, place a slice of lemon in the mouth. Be- 
fore baking cut gash^ (three or four) across the back 
and place in each a slice of salt pork. The head and 
tail should be left on. 

TO COOK SMELTS. 

Clean, wash and dry them, season witii salt and 
pepper, dip in fine granulated com meal or flour. 
Easten together with a toothpick forming a ring (or 
fry without). Place in as many as will cover the 
bottom of a frying basket, dip in smoking hot f #T%nd 
cook for one minut^. Or, fry out in frying pan half 
a dozen slices of salt pork. Cook the smelts in this, 
first on one side and then the other, until they are 
brown. Serve with tartare sauce. 

FILLETS BAKED WITH TOMATOES. 

Any kind of fi^^por sliced fish can be cooked in 
this way. Place omthe bottom of the pan four slices 
of salt pork, one oS^cut in slices, w ash.and. wipe 
the fish dry, cover the top with 



FISH. 43 

crumbs. Place in the pan on %fp of Ihe pork and 
onions. Wipe clean half a dozen '^matoes (or enough 
to serve one to each person), place them around the 
fish. Cook in a hot oven xaxtil the fish is done, bast- 
ing several times, both the tomatoes and fish with the 
fat in the pan. When done place the fish carefully 
on a hot platter and arrange the tomatoes around it. 
Serve with ScBandaise, white or Beamaise sauce, 

STUFFED FILLETS OR SLICED FISH. 

Wash and wipe the fish dry, season with salt and 
pepper, spread a layer of "stuffing for fish" over. the 
pieces, about an inch thick. Roll up and tie securely 
with a string. Place in a buttered pan or on slices of 
salt pork. Cover the top and sides with buttered 
crumbs. Cook in a hot oven ftree-quarters of an 
hour. Serve vdth maitre d'hotel butter or a white 
sauce made from the fat in the pan. 

BOILED SALMON. 

- prepare and cook as for boiled fish. Serve on a 
hot platter with Hollandaise sauce and the little ball 
potatoes, placing some of the-^pttoes on top of the 
fish to form a bunch of grapes. 'V: 

SALMON CUTLETS. 

One cup of cold fish minced fine, season with one 
teaspoonful of salt, a., little pepper, one teaspoonful 
©hopped parsley, two Aeaspoonfuls lemon juice. Mix 
Mth one-half cup of tmcFwhite'sgice. (See sauces.) 
When cold shape in cutlet form. Jp-oll in crumbs and 
egg and crumbs again. Fry in Beep hot fat until 



44 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

brown. Serve with the paper ruffles stuck in the small 
end of each, placing the large end to the center of the 
platter. Pour around them a HoUandaise or white 
sauce. Any left-over v/hitefish is delicious prepared 
in this way. 

FISH TIMBALE. 

Cut one pound of raw fresh whitefish in small 
pieces, chop or pound to a pulp, press through a coarse 
sieve. To every cup of the fish pulp add one table- 
spoonful of fine bread crumbs that have soaked in a 
third of a cup of milk or cream until soft. One tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper, 
one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, the yolk of one 
egg well beaten. Beat all well together for five min- 
utes, then fold in lightly the stiffly beaten white. But- 
ter a mould or bowl; fill it not over two-thirds full; 
set it in a pan of hot water. Cover the mould with a 
greased paper and set in a moderate oven. Coolc until 
the center is firm, from twenty minutes to one hour, 
according to size of the timbale. Turn from the 
mould and surround with a lobster, shrimp or tomato 
sauce. 

PLANKED SHAD AND POTATO ROSES. 

Place the shad that has been prepared as for broil- 
ing on a thick hardwood board ; hold it down with a 
few tacks. Season it with salt and pepper and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Shape hot mashed potato 
through a pastry bag and tube, in the form of roses 
around the fish, brush over with the yolk of egg that 
has been slightly beaten. Cook in a hot oven for 
twenty-five minutes. 



FISH. 45 

CASSEROLE OF FISH. 

Line a mould or baking dish with, seasoned 
mashed potato, first buttering it well. Fill up the 
mould with any kind of highly seasoned creamed fish, 
or fish that has been mixed with tomato sauce. Cover 
the top over with an inch layer of mashed potato, 
brush over with a beaten yolk of egg. Bake in a hot 
oven for fifteeh minutes. 

CREAMED FISH SERVED IN MASHED POTATO CASE. 

Line a baking dish with mashed potato. Cover 
with the beaten yolk of egg. Set in a hot oven to 
brown, then serve in it any kind of creamed fish. A 
good luncheon dish. Creamed meats are also good 
served in this way. 

CREAMED SALT FISH. 

Cook the salt fish in boiling water until tender, 
changing the water once. Pick in small pieces and 
mix with a white sauce. Serve on toast or on a plat- 
ter garnished with broiled sweet or white potatoes. 

SALT FISH BALLS. 

1 cup raw salt flsh. I 1 egg. 

2 cups potatoes. ( Little pepper. 

Pick the fish in small pieces, free from bones. 
Pare the potatoes, cut in quarters. Cook the potatoes 
and fish together in boiling water until tender. Drain 
off the water and mash until very light ; add the pep- 
per and when a little cool, the egg, well beaten. Drop 
from a tablespoon into smoking hot fat. Pry until 
brown. Cook only three or four at a time, as too 



46 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

many cool the fat Drain on soft paper. Serve with 
a white sauce. It is better not to form the mixture 
into shapes, as it makes them heavy. 

SALMON FISH BALLS. 

Mix one-half cup of salmon with one cup of 
mashed potato. Season and add one egg. Shape in 
little flat cakes. Cover with melted butter and broil, 
or fry in salt pork fat. Brown on one side and then 
the other. The salt pork gives a very nice flavor. 

PETITE FISH BALLS. 

Shape any kind of fish ball mixture in balls the 
size of a good-sized marble. Fry in a basket in deep 
fat. Drain on soft paper. Serve with tartare, tomato 
or white sauce. 



SHELL FISH. 47 



SHELL FISH. 



OYSTERS RAW. 

Oysters to be served raw should be very fresh, 
and should not be served at aU from the 1st of May 
to September, as their flavor is not as good and they 
are not so healthful. For serving raw, the small 
oysters should be used. Look them over carefully to 
see that there are no pieces of shells. Leave them on 
the deep half of the shell and arrange regularly 
around the plate, giving six to each person. Have a 
little ice in the center of the plate, chipped fine. 
Place on the ice a little parsley or watercress and a 
quarter of a lemon on that. Serve with them paprica 
or tobasco sauce, horseradish, thin slices of brown 
bread buttered or crackers. 

OYSTERS COOKED IN THE SHELL. 

These are very delicious and should be served as 
soon as ready. They make a very palatable dish for 
Sunday night supper. 

Wash the shells clean, put them in a pan with 
the round side down to hold the juice, and cook in a 
hot oven until the shells break open. Remove the up- 
per shell. Season to taste when served. 

Clams are delicious cooked in this way, in their 
own juices. 

OYSTERS SERVED IN ICE. 

Have fresh small oysters that have been well 
picked over. Make a cavity in a smooth block of ice 



48 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

with a hot brick, or pail or can of hot water. Place 
the ice on a platter with colored tissue paper under 
it if you want the color effect. Surround it with 
parsley or watercress and quarters of lemon, then 
place in the oysters. 

Oyster Cocktail is very nice served in this way. 

Individual cakes of ice can be made in the same 
way. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select large oysters for frying. Pick them over 
carefully to see that none of the shell adheres. Put 
them in a strainer and let the cold water run through 
them just to rinse them. Drain well, season finely 
rolled cracker crumbs with salt and pepper, dip the 
oysters in the crumbs, then into egg, which has just 
been beaten slightly, to mix it, and has two table- 
spoonfuls of water added to it, then into the crumbs 
again. Put five or six at a time in the frying basket 
and plunge in the smoking hot fat. Cook until a 
golden brown. These should not be fried until time 
to serve. Pickles, horseradish, chow-chow, tartare 
sauce or celery salad can be served with them, either 
as a garnish or separately. Fried oysters may be pre- 
pared some time before cooking. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Prepare the oysters as for fried. Dry them well. 
Dip them in melted butter, rub a fine wire broiler 
with butter or salt pork, place them on the broiler 
over hot coals and cook until the juice flows. Place 
them on rounds or squares of toast, three or four on 
each piece. Pour a little melted butter over them, 
season with pepper. Serve any kind of pickles with 
them. 



SHELL FISH. 49 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 



1 pint of small oysters, 
cleaned and thoroughly 
chilled. ' 

1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

5 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



3 tablespoonfuls Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls catsup. 

1 teaspoonful tabasco sauce. 

1 teaspoonful salt, or more 
if needed. 



Serve in cocktail glasses or in lemon cups, or to- 
mato cups, on a ted of green, or cups shaped from 
tomato or celery jelly. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a hot sauce pan, 
then add the oysters that have been well picked over 
and cleaned. Let them cook until the edges curl, then 
place them on pieces of toast or hot crackers that have 
been moistened with the liquor. Season with butter, 
salt and pepper. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Cook one pint of oysters in their own liquor until 
plump and their edges curl. Drain off the liquor. 
Make a sauce by melting two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and stirring into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt (or more if needed), a lit- 
tle pepper or paprica. Stir slowly into this one-half 
cup of oyster liquor to one-half cup of cream or milk. 
Cook ten minutes and add the oysters. Let them re- 
heat in the sauce for five minutes. Serve on toast or 
in patty shells, timbale cases or bread boxes. 

OYSTERS IN SHELLS OR RAMQUIN DISHES. 

Cook the oysters and make the sauce the same as 
for Creamed Oysters. Kemove the sauce from the 



50 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

fire, add the oysters and the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
butter the shells or dishes and fill about two-thirds 
full. Cover the top with buttered bread crumbs and 
bake in a hot oven for five minutes, or until the 
crumbs are brown. 

To Butter Crumbs. — Melt one tablespoonful of 
butter, add to it two tablespoonfuls of crumbs, stir 
them into the butter. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Wash and pick over the oysters. Butter a baking 
dish and place in a layer of oysters. Sprinkle them 
with salt, pepper and bits of butter and a layer of 
cracker crumbs. Before putting on the top layer of 
crumbs add three tablespoonfuls of sherry, if liked. 
Cover the top with buttered crumbs. (Buttered 
crumbs given in the preceding receipt.) Bake for 
twenty minutes in a hot oven or try the oysters in the 
center and see if the edges are curled. 

PIGS IN BLANKET. 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper an hour 
before using, then wrap each oyster in a thin slice of 
bacon and fasten with a wooden toothpick. Cook on 
a hot spider or frying pan or in the chafing dish until 
the bacon is brown. Serve on small pieces of but- 
tered toast. 

Oysters in Batter. — (See fritter batter.) Select 
large oysters, clean and dry dip in fritter batter. Fry 
till brown in hot fat. Drain on soft paper. 

CLAMS. 

Little Neck Clams are the best for serving raw. 
Serve the same as raw oysters. 



SHELL FISH. 51 

ROASTED CLAMS. 

Roast the same as oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS. 

Wash the shells until clean and free from grit. 
Put them in a kettle without water, cover closely and 
cook until the shells open. Serve hot in the shells, 
with melted butter. Serve a small glass of the clam 
water to each person. 

CLAMS IN BATTER. 

Cook the same as for steamed clams. Cut off 
the head (the black tip) and dip in batter; fry in 
smoking hot fat until brown. (See fritter batter). 
The clams may be chopped before adding to the batter 
if desired. 

SCALLOPS. 

Wash quickly, dry between cloths, dip in cracker 
crumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, 
then in slightly beaten egg that has two tablespoon- 
fuls of water added to it, and in the crumbs again. 
Place them in a frying basket, immerse it in smoking 
hot fat for one minute. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve with tartare sauce. 

CRABS. 

Crabs are at their best during the months of May, 
June, July and August. Crabs, like lobsters, shed 
their shell once a year. When the shell is forming 
they are soft shell crabs. 



52 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Soft Shell Grabs should be used only when fresh. 
Eemove the sand bag, gills and intestines. Wash and 
wipe dry. EoU in cracker crumbs, egg, and crumbs 
again, immerse in smoking hot lard for two minutes 
or roll in flour and saute in hot butter on both sides. 
Serve with tartare sauce. 

BOILED CRABS. 

Plunge them head first in hot water (not boiling), 
then add one tablespoonful of salt; boil for twenty 
minutes. When cold remove the outside shell and 
take out the meat carefully. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Mince the meat fine and mix with half the amount 
of white sauce; season with salt, paprica or a little 
cayenne, teaspoonful chopped parsley, teaspoonful 
lemon juice, yolk of hard-boiled egg. Replace in the 
shell, cover with buttered crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. 

FRIED FROG LEGS. 

After being skinned, dip in cracker crumbs sea- 
soned with salt and pepper; then in egg and the 
crumbs again. Put in a frying basket, immerse in 
smoking hot fat for one minute. Drain. Serve with 
a cream or mushroom sauce or a drawn butter sauce. 



DEVILED SHRIMP. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 



1 pint of shrimp. 

1 cup white stock or milk, 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



SHELL FISH. 53 

Make a sauce by melting the butter, stirring in 
the flour and seasonings and the milk or stock. When 
smooth add the minced shrimps. Sprinkle shells or 
ramquin dishes with buttered crumbs, cut in the 
shrimp mixture. Cover over with buttered crumbs. 
Cook from ten to twelve minutes in a hot oven. 



LOBSTERS. 



Lobsters are difficult to digest and should only be 
eaten when fresh. Select a heavy lobster for the size. 
These will be found to be the most meaty. 



TO BOIL A LOBSTER. 

Have enough water in a kettle to cover, and be- 
fore the water gets very hot put in the lobsters. 
This seems the most merciful way, as it smothers 
them at once. Add two tablespoonfuls of salt, cover 
and boil for thirty minutes. 

TO OPEN A LOBSTER. 

When the lobster is cold, break off the large claws, 
separate the tail from the body. Remove the small 
claws. Save the coral and the green liver. Break 
the tail by pressing the sides together ; then open and 
take out the meat and remove the intestinal canal, 
which runs the full length. Break off the gills. The 
gills, stomach and intestines are the only parts not 
used. Break the body in the middle and pick the 
meat from the joints. Hammer the claws near the 
edges, so as not to break the meat. Eemove the meat. 
If the body of the shell is to be used for serving, cut 
down the underside with a sharp knife. 



54 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO BROIL A LIVE LOBSTER. 

With a sharp knife cut quickly down the back, 
remove the intestines and stomach. Broil over a mod- 
erate fire for thirty minutes, shell side dovm. Spread 
a little butter over it -when broiling to keep it moist. 
When done break the claws, season with salt, pepper 
and melted butter. 

PLAIN LOBSTER. 

Remove the meat from the shell, place on a plat- 
ter, garnish with the little claws and parsley. Season 
individually with salt, pepper, vinegar and oil or 
melted butter. 

SAUTE LOBSTER. 

Break the lobster meat in small pieces, heat in 
hot butter in sauce pan or chafing dish, season with 
salt, pepper and a little vinegar. Cook for about five 
minutes. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

Cut the meat quite fine, reheat in a white sauce, 
seasoned with salt, pepper or paprica, lemon juice. 
Serve on toast or in patty cases, timbale cases, bread 
boxes, or in shells or ramquin dishes, baked for five 
minutes in the oven with the buttered crumbs on top. 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Chop the lobster very fine, season highly with 
lemon juice, paprica, a little chopped celery, two 
small pickles chopped fine, salt. Mix with a white 
sauce, using half as much sauce as meat. Fill the tail 



SHELL FISH. 55 

of the lobster shells with the mixture, setting them in 
the pan with the meat side up. Cover the top with 
buttered crumbs. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. Place two tails together lengthwise, 
the crumb side up and garnish with the claws and 
parsley or watercress. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Cut the meat from a two-pound lobster in inch 
pieces. Melt in the chafing dish or sauce pan two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add the lobster and one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne or pap- 
rica. (A truffle chopped fine may be added.) Cover 
and let cook for five minutes, then add one-fourth cup 
of sherry or madeira, or half sherry and half brandy, 
and cook for five minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs 
and mix them well with a cup of cream, add this 
and stir until it thickens. Serve at once or the eggs 
may cause it to curdle. 



56 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



MEATS. 



The cheaper cuts of meat should have a long, slow 
cooking to break up the fiber. A cheap cut of meat 
often contains more nourishment than an expensive 
cut. For example, there is more nourishment in a 
weU-cooked piece of round than in a well-cooked fillet. 
Tough meats are better boiled, as a lower degree of 
heat can be used and slower cooking. 

TO ROAST BEEF. 

Beef should be well streaked with fat, of a bright 
red color, elastic to the touch, and have a thick out- 
side layer of fat. Put the meat in the pan which has 
been heated hot on top of the stove, then sear the 
meat in the hot pan on all sides, turning it with a 
fork. Then place it in the pan on a rack, sprinkle 
first with fiour, then with salt and pepper. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings in the pan if you have 
them, but no water, as water steams the "meat. Cook 
in a very hot oven for ten minutes, then reduce the 
heat, basting often with the fat in the pan. Koast 
ten minutes to a pound, if liked rare, and fifteen min- 
utes if liked well done. 

Boiled Boast — Should be cooked a little longer. 

Searing and first putting the meat in a hot oven 
hardens the outside and keeps the juices in. Place 
on the platter with the fat side up. Carve in thin 
slices across the grain. 



MEATS. 57 

GRAVY FOR ROAST BEEF. 

Pour the fat from the pan in a bowl, then pour 
about a pint of hot water or stock in the pan, to get all 
of the settlings. Put four tablespoonfuls of hot fat 
in a sauce pan, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
well mixed, stir in the hot water or stock from the 
pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, Worcester- 
shire sauce, ketchup or mushrooms. Cook for ten 
minutes. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Beat two eggs very light, add one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and one cup of milk. Stir this gradually on 
three-fourths cup of flour, beat until smooth. Pour 
in hot gem pans that have in them drippings from the 
roast beef. Bake in a hot oven thirty minutes, bast- 
ing twice with beef drippings, but not until they have 
been baking for fifteen minutes. Serve around the 
roast beef. This is a much better way than baking it 
in a pan. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

Have your butcher remove the fat veins and trim 
into shape. The best way of cooking it is to lard it. 
If you do not care to do that, first place it in the pan 
on several slices of pork and cover the top with thin, 
narrow strips, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, or 
cover the top of the fillet with buttered, seasoned 
crumbs. Place around the fillet one carrot, turnip 
and onion cut in thin slices, and a couple of stalks of 
celery. Cook in a hot oven for thirty minutes. After 
ten minutes' cooking pour into the pan one cup of 
stock. Baste frequently. The fillet should be served 
rare. Put in a sauce pan a couple of tablespoonfuls 



58 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of butter and two of flour. "When melted, stir slowly 
in the gravy from the pan, which has been strained 
from the vegetables, and the fat skimmed off. Pour 
into it a half can of mush rooms that have been 
drained from the liquor. Cook ten minutes. Pour 
around the fillet. If this does not make gravy enough 
add a little hot water to it. 

BRAISED BEEF OR POT ROAST. 

Four to six pounds of beef from the lower part of 
the round or rump. Place on the bottom of the pan 
six thin slices of salt pork and on the pork lay one- 
half cup each of carrot, turnip, onion and celery, cut 
in small slices. On the vegetables place the meat. 
Dredge well with flour, pepper and salt. Place in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes. Then add two cupfuls 
of stock or hot water. Place slices of vegetables on 
top of the meat, cover closely with a pan. Cook 
slowly for four hours. When done, garnish the plat- 
ter with vegetables, after being strained from the 
gravy. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into 
it one of fiour and slowly add the gravy. Cook ten 
minutes. Serve as a gravy with the meat. This way 
of cooking beef may be done in a pot, then it is called 
a pot roast 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Use five or six pounds of beef from the lower part 
of the round, cut thick. Lard it well with a larding 
needle, or make incisions into the meat with a sharp- 
pointed knife. Press into them thin strips of salt 
pork. This is called daubing. It can be done by the 
butcher. Put several thin slices of pork or two table- 
spoonfuls of drippings in the pot. When hot, put in 



MEATS. 59 

the meat and brown it on all sides by turning it, then 
dredge with, flonr, salt and pepper, half cover the meat 
with boiling water. Add to it one-half cup each of 
carrot, turnip, onion, cut in slices, and a sprig of pars- 
ley. Cover the pot tight and simmer slowly for four 
or five hours ; add more water when necessary, having 
about a cup of the liquor when the meat is done. 
Place the meat on a hot platter, thicken the gravy a 
little with the vegetables, pour around it. This is 
very good cold. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

The cheaper cuts of meat can be used for a stew. 
The aitch bone, or two or three pounds from the shin, 
or flank, or upper part of chuck rib. Stew can be 
made from cooked meat, the flank from a roast or left- 
over pieces of fresh meat. Remove the meat from 
the bones, cut in two-inch pieces, season with flour, 
salt and pepper, brown all over with fat from the 
meat or drippings. Put in the stew pan, add one onion 
cut in thin slices, one good-sized turnip, two carrots. 
Add boiling water enough to cover. Cook slowly for 
two hours, then add six potatoes that have been pared, 
sliced thin and soaked in cold water for half an hour. 
Cook for five minutes, then add the dumplings, hav- 
ing the liquor come up even with the potatoes and the 
dumplings resting on top. Cover closely and cook for 
ten minutes. Put the meat in the center of the plat- 
ter, the vegetables and dumplings around the outside. 
Thicken the gravy a little and pour around the vege- 
tables. Season the gravy more if desired. 



60 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

DXJMPLINGS. 

1 cup flour. I 1 teaspoonful baking 

% teaspoonful salt. | powder. 

Mix with one-half cup of milk into a dough soft 
enough to handle. Pat out in small cakes or roll and 
cut with a small biscuit cutter. Cook for ten minutes 
in the boiling stew, being careful that the water does 
not boil on them, as that would make them soggy. 

MEAT PIE. 

Lay in a baking dish a few thin slices of cold 
meat, grating of onion, salt and pepper, a layer of 
thin-sliced potatoes. (Cold cooked potatoes can be 
used, cut in thicker slices.) Fill up the dish with 
these layers. Pour over it any cold gravy, tomato 
sauce, or soup stock. Cover the top with pastry, rolled 
a half inch thick. Bake in a hot oven for about one- 
half hour. Any kind of meat can be used in this way, 
and other vegetables used if desired. 

WARMED-OVER BEEF. 

Cut the beef in small, thin slices. Make a gravy 
of two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour ; when 
browned a little, add a cup of stock or gravy and one 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and one table- 
spoonful of catsup. Season with salt and pepper. 
Add the meat. Simmer for fifteen minutes. Place 
on a hot platter, garnish with three-cornered pieces of 
toast or little ball potatoes. 

ROLLED STUFFED FLANK. 

Take the inside flank, wipe it clean and dry, re- 
move the fat, spread it evenly with a bread stuffing. 



MEATS. 61 

highly seasoned, about an inch thick. Roll it up and 
tie securely with a white twine. Out into slices an 
onion, carrot and turnip. Place them in the pan, lay 
the meat on them and dredge with flour, salt and pep- 
per. Add a bay leaf, sprig of parsley and the root 
or stalk of celery, one cup of water or stock. Cook 
for fifteen minutes in a very hot oven ; then cover with 
another pan and cook slowly for four hours, basting 
frequently. It must have a long, slow cooking to be 
tender. When done, strain out the vegetables, make 
a gravy of the liquor and serve with the meat. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Select a piece of com beef that is well streaked 
with fat. Wash it in cold water, put on to boil in 
cold water enough to cover. When it begins to boil, 
skim. Allow it to simmer slowly, until tender, about 
forty minutes to a pound. Scrape, wash and quarter 
the carrots, peel and quarter parsnips, peel and slice 
in inch slices the turnips, quarter the cabbage, peel 
the potatoes and cook whole. About one hour before 
the meat is done add the turnips, carrots and parsnips 
and a half hour before done add the potatoes. Tie 
the cabbage in a piece of cheese cloth and cook it in a 
separate kettle in some of the liquor from the com 
beef. Cook one hour or until tender. 

Cook the beets separately in boiling water. When 
done plunge them into cold water and rub off the skin. 
Serve hot or cold. Place the corn beef in the center 
of the platter and the carrots, turnips, parsnips and 
potatoes around. Serve cabbage and beets in separate 
dish. 



62 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PRESSED CORN BEEF. 

Eemove the beef from the bones, pick in rather 
small pieces, put layers of lean and fat in a round 
baking dish. Cover the top with a plate and press 
down with a brick or flat iron for several hours. Then 
slice thin. Serve with baked potatoes and pickles. 

CORN BEEF HASH. 

Half com beef and half mixed vegetables. Chop 
all together until fine. Season with a very little salt 
and pepper ; moisten with a little stock or gravy. Put 
one tablespoonful of drippings in the frying pan. 
When hot add the hash. When brown, cover the top 
with a plate ; quicklv turn the hash into it by turning 
the frying pan upside down. Put another tablespoon- 
ful of drippings in the pan and brovsm the hash on the 
other side. Remove to a hot platter, garnish with 
pickles cut lengthwise in half, or parsley. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Equal parts of all the left-over vegetables. Put 
into the frying pan a tablespoonful of drippings, add 
the vegetables and cook until heated through, stirring 
often. This is very nice served with the cold com 
beef. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Select a piece from the middle cut of shin or the 
round. Wash the meat quickly and cut in four pieces. 
Cover with boiling water. After it has boiled for 
one-half hour, add the following seasonings, tied in 
cheese cloth : Six cloves, twelve peppercorns, one bay 
leaf, half teaspoonful sage, half teaspoonful thyme. 



MEATS. 63 

three or four celery roots or stalks. Simmer slowly 
now until the meat falls apart, pack and press. (See 
com beef.) When cold, serve in thin slices. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Out off the flank end to use in other ways, as that 
is toughened by broiling. Grease the broiler with a 
little fat from the meat. Broil over red-hot coals, 
turning at first every ten seconds (to sear the outside 
and keep the juices in). If liked rare, broil eight 
•minutes; well done, twelve minutes. Select a steak 
one inch and a half or two inches thick. Serve on a 
hot platter, season with butter and salt, maitre d'hotel 
sauce or mushroom sauce. 

SPANISH STEAK. 

For this use round steak cut one and one-half or 
two inches thick; sear it on both sides by turning it 
in a hot pan, then season with salt, pepper, a bit of 
butter and about one-half cup of water or stock. Cook 
in a hot oven for one-half hour, then c'over with slices 
of raw onion. Add a few more pieces of butter ; cook 
another one-half hour, then add a layer of sliced to- 
mato, cook for another one-half hour, then cover with 
grated cheese. When brown, serve with a gravy 
made from the liquor in the pan. 

BROILED FILLET OF BEEF. 

Out the fillet in slices three-fourths an inch thick. 
Grease the broiler well. Broil over clear coals for 
six minutes, turning every ten seconds, at first. Place 
on rounds of toast the size of the slices. Season with 



64 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

salt, pepper and butter and garnish witli peas or with 
mushroom sauce. 



HAMBURG STEAK. 

Use one pound from the round or the ends of 
steak. Put through a meat grinder or chop very fine. 
To it add: 



1 tablespoonful of onion 

juice. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 



% teaspoonful of pepper. 
1 beaten egg. 



!Form into flat cakes, dredge with flour and saute 
in a little hot butter or drippings. Brown well on 
both sides. Remove to a hot platter, stir into the hot 
fat left in the frying pan one tablespoonful of flour. 
When brovrai, stir slowly into it one cup of stock or 
hot water. Season to taste with pepper and salt and 
add a few mushrooms or peas, or cubes of carrot that 
have first been cooked. Heat through and pour 
around the steaks. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Smoked Tongue. — Soak for one hour in cold 
water, pour off the water and put on to cook in cold 
water. Let it come to a boil, pour off the water again. 
Put on in fresh cold water and boil until tender. Re- 
move the skin, roots and fat. Serve hot or cold. If 
hot, serve with tomato sauce. 

Fresh Tongue. — ^Wash and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Remove the skin and fat. 



MEATS. 65 

TONGUE IN JELLY. 

Cut the tongue in slices and hold in shape. Place 
in a mould or dish the right size to hold it in place. 
Pour around it half inch thick of aspic jelly. When 
that is nearly firm, cover with the jelly. Serve when 
cold and firm. (See aspic jelly.) 



66 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PORK. 



ROAST PIG. 

Select a pig from three to five weeks old. Wash 
well and stuff with a potato stuffing. 

Stuffing. — Two cups mashed potato, season with 
one-fourth cup of hutter, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped onion, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful sage, stuff and 
sew. 

Skewer the fore legs forward and the hind ones 
backward. Hub over with softened butter, sprinkle 
with flour, salt and pepner. Put in a hot oven with a 
little water in the pan. Baste often with melted but- 
ter at first to soften the skin. Bake about three hours 
or until tender when tried with a fork. Arrange on 
the platter in a bed of parsley, with a slice of lemon 
in the mouth. Serve with apple sauce or fried ap- 
ples. 

ROAST PORK. 

The loin, spare-rib and shoulder are best for roast- 
ing. Sprinkle well with flour, salt, pepper and sage. 
Cook in a hot oven, allowing twenty-five minutes to a 
pound. Pork should be well cooked. It requires five 
hours for digestion, and is more easily digested when 
cold. 

PORK CHOPS. 

To fry or saute them, have them cut one-half inch 
thick, dredge with a little flour, sage, salt and pepper, 



PORK 67 



and cook until brown on both sides. It will take 
about twenty minutes. Serve on a hot platter, gar- 
nished with fried apples. 



BACON. 



Slice very thin, remove the rind, place in a hot 
frying pan. Cook until crisp. Drain on soft paper. 



FRIED APPLES. 



Cut slices of sour apples, one-half inch thick. Do 
not remove the skin. Saute in beef drippings, pork 
fat or butter until tender. 



BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Have the ham cut in very thin slices. Place it in 
hot water for three or four minutes to take out a little 
of the salt. Wipe dry ; broil over hot coals for about 
five minutes. Fry out several slices of salt pork, add 
the ^gs and cook until the white is firm, basting them 
with the fat from the pan. 

FRIED HAM. 

Put the slices on a hot frying pan, brown on both 
sides. Kemove, and cook the eggs in the fat left in 
the pan. Place the eggs around or on top of the 
ham. 

BOILED HAM. 

If salt, soak for several hours. Wash thoroughly, 

trim off any of the black part. Cover with cold water 

and let it cook slowly, allowing one-half hour to a 

pound. Remove from the fire, let it remain in the 



68 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

water over night, then cut off the skin. Press 
into the fat a number of whole cloves, sprinkle the 
top with cracker crumbs and brown sugar. Bake in 
quite a hot oven for fifteen minutes. A half glass of 
sherry wine may be added to the boiling ham just be- 
fore it is done. 

BAKED HAM. 

Prepare the ham the same as for boiling. Let it 
simmer slowly for four hours, then remove it and cut 
off the skin. Press cloves into the fat. Bake in a 
moderate oven for two hours, basting at first with one- 
half cup of sherry wine, and then with the fat in the 
pan. Fifteen minutes before it is done cover with 
cracker crumbs and one-fourth cup of brown sugar. 
Serve hot or cold. If serving hot, make a gravy of 
two tablespoonfuls of the fat in the pan. Stir into it 
one tablespoonful of flour and one cup of brown 
stock. 

SAUSAGES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Use sweet fresh pork. Take one-third fat and two- 
thirds lean. Chop or grind very fine ; season for every 
pound of meat and fat twp teaspoonfuls of salt, two 
teaspoonfuls of sage, one-half teaspoonful of pepper. 
Make cotton bags, one-half yard long and four inches 
wide. Dip them in strong salt and water and dry. 
Crowd the meat into them, tie the bag tightly and 
keep in a cool place. When wanted for use turn the 
end of the bag back, ciit off the meat in half-inch 
slices, fry in hot frying pan until brown on both sides. 

TO TRY OUT LARD. 

Cut the leaves in small pieces, remove all flesh. 
Put a few pieces in the kettle first. When they are 



PORK 69 

tried out put in the remainder. Cook slowly until the 
scraps are crisp, strain through cheese cloth into pails. 
Many like to add one pound of suet to every five 
of the leaves. This makes a firmer lard. 

BOSTON BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak two cups of pea beans in cold water over 
night. In the morning drain off the water, put on 
fresh cold water and parboil them on the stove until 
the skin breaks, or you can pierce them with a pin. 
Then drain them through a colander, and pour cold 
water over them. Place in the pot. Clean one-fourth 
pound of salt pork, cut the top in gashes, place on top 
of the beans, pressing it down in them until the rind 
just shows. Mix one-half teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of 
molasses in one cup of hot water and pour over the 
beans. Keep water enough in them to come to the top 
of the beans. Bake in a slow oven for eight hours. 
One small onion can be baked in the beans if the flavor 
is liked. The bean pot should be earthen, with bulg- 
ing sides and have a close cover. 



70 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MUTTON (^rp) LAMB. . 

Good mutton should have tnick, white, hard, fat, 
fine-grained red meat. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Have the bone cut short, wipe it all over with cold 
water, dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Place in 
a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then add to the pan 
one cup of hot water, baste frequently, allowing ten 
minutes to a pound if liked rare, and fifteen minutes 
if liked well done. Garnish the end of the bone with 
a paper frill or a bunch of water cress or parsley. 

ROAST LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Remove the fat and kidney. Have the joints 
cracked, so as to be easily carved. Roast the same as 
the leg. Serve with mint sauce. 

CROWN ROAST. 

This can be prepared by your butcher and makes 
a very handsome and delicious roast. Cut a full loin, 
trim the rib bones as for French chops and chop them 
to a uniform length ; then roll the loin backwards into 
a circle and tie securely. Tie around each bone a 
slice of salt pork so they will not burn. Baste fre- 
quently with the fat in the pan. Allow fifteen min- 
utes to a pound. Cover each bone with a paper ruffle, 
fill up the center with potato chips and garnish around 
the roast with them, or, garnish with timbale cases 
filled with creamed peas, or pea timbales. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 71 

ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Tlie saddle is the back ; if split it is the loin. Re- 
move the pink skin, as that contains the strong flavor, 
and the fat and kidneys from underneath. Roll the 
flank Tinder and tie it into a good, round shape. 
Dredge v?ith flour, salt and pepper. Cook in a hot 
oven, haste frequently, allowing ten minutes to a 
pound if liked rare, and fifteen minutes if liked well 
done. Carve slices parallel to the back bone, then slip 
the knife under and separate them from the ribs. 
After the top is carved, turn the saddle and carve the 
tenderloin, which lies underneath. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON STUFFED. 

Remove the bone, sprinkle the inside with salt 
and pepper, stuff and sew. Cook the same as roast 
leg of mutton. 

Stuffing. — One cup of stale bread crumbs, one- 
fourth cup melted butter, one-fourth teaspoonful each 
salt, pepper, marjoram and sage, a teaspoonful of 
onion juice if desired and hot water if not moist 
enough. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put the mutton into boiling water to cover, boil 
for fifteen minutes, then set aside and simmer, allow- 
ing twenty minutes to a pound. One-half hour before 
removing the meat add turnip cut in half-inch slices. 
Remove the meat to a hot platter, garnish with the 
turnip, cover the top with chopped parsley or capers. 
Serve with caper sauce. Save the water to use with 
the bone and left-over pieces for soups. 



72 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 



2 lb3. from the neck or flank. 
2 tablespoonfula butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



% can peas. 

2 cups of water or stock. 

1 clove. 

Sprig of parsley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Put the butter into the frying pan. When melted 
add the flour and brown. Then add the carrot and 
onion cut in small dice and the seasonings and mut- 
ton. Cook, stirring frequently until all are brown; 
then add the stock or water and meat. Cover closely, 
let simmer for two hours, add the peas just before 
serving. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

Fry one large onion cut in thin slices in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Mix with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of curry powder, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. Stir into 
the butter and onion. Add gradually two cups of 
stock. Cut two pounds of lean mutton in two-inch 
pieces, add them to the sauce and simmer until tender. 
Place the meat on a hot platter with a border of rice 
around it. 

MUTTON AND LAMB CHOPS. 

Broil the chops over hot coals, turning every ten 
seconds, the same as steak, thus searing over the chops 
and keeping the juice inside. When the meat looks 
puffy it is done. It requires ten minutes to broil 
chops one inch thick, if liked rare eight minutes. 
Place on a hot platter, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, garnish with points of toast and a little parsley 
or watercress, or with peas, Prench-fried potatoes, po- 
tato balls or straws. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 73 

French Chops. — Have the meat and fat scraped 
from the bone. When served the bone is usiially cov- 
ered with a ruffle. 

CHOPS IN PAPER CASES. 

Place the chop on well-greased heavy writing pa- 
per, season with salt and pepper, fold the paper over 
the chop and turn the edges over twice to hold them 
securely. Broil over a moderate fire, turning fre- 
quently. These may be served in the paper. These 
are very delicate to serve to invalids. 

ROAST SPRING LAMB. 

Spring lamb is divided into fore and hind quar- 
ters, the whole of either not being too much to roast at 
one time. The fore quarter is less expensive than 
the hind. It should be fresh and thoroughly cooked. 
Koast in a hot oven, season with flour, salt and pepper. 
After fifteen minutes' cooking add one cup of hot 
water, baste frequently, allowing about twenty rtiin- 
utes to a pound. Serve with mint sauce and green 
peas or asparagus and new potatoes. 

BOILED LAMB TONGUES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Boil six tongues in salted water with the juice of 
half a lemon until tender. Serve cold with tartare 
sauce, or pickle them by covering with hot-spiced vin- 
egar. 



74 EOCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



VEAL. 



The flesh of veal should be pink and firm; if it 
has a white or blue tinge it is unwholesome. It con- 
tains less nourishment than any other meat and less 
flavor, so should be highly seasoned, and, like lamb, 
should be thoroughly cooked. 

ROAST VEAL. 

The loin, breast and flUet (a thick piece from the 
upper part of the leg) are best for roasting. Kemove 
the bone from the fillet and stuff with a highly 
seasoned bread stuffing; skewer into shape. To pre- 
pare the veal for roasting, cover the top with thin 
strips of salt pork, or lard with a larding needle ; sea- 
son with flour, salt and pepper. Allow twenty-five 
minutes to a pound. Make a gravy from the drip- 
pings in the pan. Horseradish is very acceptable to 
serve with veal. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Have the blade removed and fill the space with a 
highly seasoned stuffing ; sew up the opening and truss 
with strips of salt pork. Allow thirty minutes to a 
pound. 

STUFFING. 

To one cup of stale bread crumbs add one-half 
tablespoonful of salt, sage, thyme, one teaspoonful 
lemon juice, of chopped salt pork, one-quarter tea- 



VEAL. 75 

spoonful pepper, one-quarter cup melted butter, one 
egg teaten until light, and if too dry add a little hot 
water. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Dredge the cutlets with salt and pepper, dip in 
fine cracker crumbs, then in egg, then again in the 
crumbs. Saute in hot fat, either salt pork or beef 
drippings. Brown well on both sides, place on a hot 
platter and surround with a tomato or Bernaise sauce 
or make a gravy by adding one tablespoonful of flour 
to the fat, adding one cup of stock, and season with 
salt, pepper and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, or sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper and pass with them 
tartare sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS WITH CREAM. 

Divide the cutlets into sections. Dip them in 
cream, then sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. 
Saute in hot butter until well browned on both sides. 
Remove to a hot platter and surround with a sauce 
made by adding one tablespoonful of flour to the fat 
and cream left in the frying pan and one cup of 
cream. Cook for five minutes, season to taste and 
add to the sauce a handful of fresh mushrooms, if you 
have them, and allow them to cook five minutes in the 
sauce. 

VEAL STEW. 

The ends of the ribs, the neck and knuckle may be 
used for the stew. Cut about two pounds of the meat 
in two-inch pieces. Cover the meat with boiling 
water. Let simmer until tender. Add one onion 



76 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sliced thin, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper, two carrots sliced, one turnip 
sliced one-half inch thick, when the meat is put on to 
cook; twenty minutes before the meat is done add 
four good-sized potatoes that have been sliced and 
soaked in cold water for an hour. Remove the meat 
and vegetables on a platter, thicken the gravy with 
one tablespoonful of flour and season with two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and one-half cup of milk or cream. 

For Veal Pot Pie add dumplings with the pota- 
toes, the same as for beef stew. 



VEAL LOAF. 



5 pounds of veal. 

1 cup finely powdered 

cracker crumbs. 
% cup of stock. 
3 eggs. 
1 tablespoonful finely 

chopped onion. 
1 teaspoonful thyme. 



1 teaspoonful summer 

savory. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

14 cup of salt pork chopped 
fine, or 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted 

butter. 



Chop the veal fine, add cracker crumbs and sea- 
sonings, stock and eggs slightly beaten. Form with 
the hands into a loaf, cover the top with slightly 
beaten egg, and a layer of cracker crumbs. Place in 
a baking pan on four thin strips of salt pork. Bake 
for three hours, basting frequently with butter and 
hot water. This is better served cold. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 

Cut cooked veal in thin slices or cubes. Put in a 
baking dish alternate layers of veal and buttered 
crumbs, seasoning each layer of meat with salt and 
pepper. Over the top pour a tomato sauce and sprin- 



VEAL. 77 

kle over with a layer of buttered crumbs. Bake for 
half an hour. 

BRAISED CALF'S LIVER. 

Lard it in three rows, or place several strips of 
salt pork over the top. Cut into slices one carrot, one 
turnip, one onion and two slices of salt pork; put 
them in the baking pan. Place the liver on them. 
Add one cup of stock or hot water, one teaspoonful 
of salt and four peppercorns, a sprig of parsley. 
Cover with another pan and cook in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half, basting often. Add more stock 
or water, if necessary. Make a gravy by melting in a 
sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter, stirring into 
it one of flour. When brown gradually stir in one 
cup of the stock left in the pan that has been strained 
from the vegetables. Season with more salt and pep- 
per, if necessary. Pour around the liver. 

BROILED LIVER. 

Slice in three-fourth inch slices. Soak in cold 
water for five minutes to draw out the blood. Wipe 
dry. Dip in melted butter. Broil from five to eight 
minutes, turning at first every ten seconds. Season 
with butter, pepper and salt. Broiled bacon is often 
served with it. 

CALF'S HEART ROASTED. 

Wash the 'heart clean and wipe. Fill with a 
cracker or bread stuffing seasoned with melted butter, 
salt, pepper, onion and sage. Bake for two hours. 
Season the outside with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
with flour. Baste with hot water and butter. Make a 
gravy from the liquid in the pan. Garnish around 
with boiled onions or stuffed tomatoes. 



78 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 
CALF'S HEAD WITH BRAIN SAUCE. 

Soak the head in cold water for two hours. Take 
out the brains. Scrape the head very clean, then pin 
in a floured cloth. Put on to boil in salted, boiling 
water enough to cover. After boiling two hours, add 
the brains, which have first been pinned in a floured 
cloth, liver and lights, and boil two hours longer. Re- 
move the cloth from the head and the large bones will 
slip out. Lay on the platter with the skin side up. 

To Make the Brain Sauce. — Take one quart of 
liquor that the head has been boiled in, one-third of 
the liver chopped fine; also the brains chopped fine. 
Melt one-half cup of butter, stir into it five table- 
spoonfuls of flour. When smooth add the hot liquor, 
a little at a time. Stir in the chopped brains and 
liver, then add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a half 
cup of white and red wine. Salt and pepper to taste. 
A little grated nutmeg, if cared for. Cook ten min- 
utes. Skin the tongue and slice the remainder of the 
liver, and surround the head with them. Pour over a 
part of the gravy. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
radishes cut to represent roses. Send the remainder 
of the gravy to the table in a dish. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads are two large glands lying along the 
back of the throat and in the breast. Those found 
in veal are considered the best. They spoil very 
quickly and should be put in cold water for one-half 
hour and parboiled before using in any form. 

To Prepare Sweetbreads. — ^Put them in cold 
water. Remove the pipes and membranes. Cook in 
boiling salted water with one tablespoonful of lemon 



VEAL. 79 



juice or one-half tablespoonful of vinegar, for twenty 
minutes, then plunge in cold water for ten minutes 
to harden. 



FRIED SWEETBREADS. 



Cut the parboiled sweetbreads in slices. Dip in 
egg, crumb and egg again. Fry in deep fat for one 
minute, or season the slices with salt and pepper. 
Saute in hot butter. Garnish with parsley and olives 
or pickles and slices of lemon. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Lard the parboiled sweetbreads in even rows, and 
bake in the oven until brown, first sprinkling with 
flour, salt and pepper. 

Creamed. — Cut in cubes and serve in white sauce, 
on toast, patty cases, bread boxes or timbale cases. 
They may be served in the same way with poulette 
sauce. 

SWEETBREADS SERVED IN RAMQUIN DISHES OR 
SHELLS. 

Cut the sweetbreads in small pieces, mix with 
a cream or poulette sauce. Butter well the dishes, 
fill two-thirds full, cover with buttered crumbs 
and bake in a hot oven for eight minutes. Serve at 
once. Mushrooms or oysters can be added to them. 

TRIPE. 

Soak tripe for one-half hour in cold water, chang- 
ing the water twice, then cook in boiling water for 
twenty minutes before cooTcing in any form. 



80 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Dry it after boiling. Dip into melted butter, then 
season with salt and pepper, and broil for ten mia- 
utes. Season again and serve. 

TRIPE IN BATTER. 

Cut the boiled tripe in two-inch pieces, dip in 
batter and fry one minute in deep fat. Or fry out 
several pieces of salt pork and brown in the fat. 

Batter. — One egg, one-fourth cup of cold water, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt, and flour to make a drop batter (a batter that 
will drop from the spoon, not pour). 



POULTRY. 81 



POULTRY. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

Poultry should be drawn as soon as killed, to be 
perfectly wholesome. That custom is not used in our 
markets, but it should be made compulsory for the 
good of the meat. To tell the age of poultry, press 
the end of the breast bone. If it is soft and bends 
easily the bird is young. If the end is hardened it 
is over a year old. Pin feathers indicate a young 
bird, and long hair on old one. The skin should be 
firm, smooth and white. Geese and ducks should 
not be over a year old, have soft yellow feet, tender 
wings and thick, hard breast. Wild ducks have red- 
dish feet. 

TO CLEAN AND TRUSS POULTRY. 

Singe the hair and dovsm. by holding the fowl over 
the gas, or over a roll of lighted paper held over the 
fire. Cut off the necks close to the body, leaving skin 
enough to fold over on the back (if to be roasted). 
Kemove the windpipe and crop, then remove every- 
thing from the inside that can come out. Be sure that 
the lungs are taken out. They lie close to the back- 
bone, and are a bright-red, spongy mass. Next take 
the leg; bend it back slightly, and carefully cut the 
skin on the joint just enough to expose the sinews 
without cutting them. Run a fork or skewer under 
them, pulling them out. The drum stick is much im- 
proved by removing the sinews or tendons. Cut out 
the oil bag in the tail. Wash out the inside very 



82 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

quickly with cold water, and with a bowl of water 
and cloth wash the outside. Do not allow them to 
soak in water, as that will extract the flavor and 
nourishment. 

Cut the gall carefully from the liver. Cut the 
outer coat of the gizzard and draw it carefully away 
from the inner sack. Open the heart and wash away 
the clot of blood. The heart, gizzard and liver are the 
giblets. All poultry and game are cleaned in this 
way. "Wild ducks, coot and geese should be washed 
thoroughly with soap and water, as the skin is very 
oily and can not be cleaned without. 

TO STUFF AND TRUSS A FOWL FOR ROASTING. 

After the fowl has been prepared as given above, 
place it in a bowl or platter, put a little of the stuffing 
in the opening at the neck, the rest in the body, filling 
out the breast until plump ; then draw the neck skin 
over on the back and sew it, and if the opening of 
the body is full, sew that up with a coarse thread ; if 
it is not, it is not necessary. Press the legs close to 
the body and cross over the tail, and tie firmly with 
twine. Put a long skewer through the thigh into the 
body and out through the opposite thigh, and another 
through the wings, drawing them close to the body. 
Wind a string from the tail to the skewer in the thigh, 
then up to the one in the wing, across the back to 
the other wing, then down to the other thigh, and tie 
around the tail. If you have no skewers, the legs and 
wings can be kept in place by tying firmly to the body 
with string. Put the fowl on a rack in a pan, rub 
well with softened butter, dredge vdth flour, salt and 
pepper. Put in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then 
reduce the heat, add a little hot water to the pan to 



POULTRY. 83 

prevent burning. Baste with butter and hot water 
until brown, then baste frequently with the fat in the 
pan. Cook until the legs will separate from the body. 
Draw out the skewers and cut the strings. Allow 
about three hours for an eight-pound turkey. Serve 
cranberry sauce or jelly with roast turkey, currant 
jelly with roast chicken and game, apple sauce with 
roast goose. 

STUFFING FOR ROAST TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

For two cups of fine bread crumbs add one-fourth 
cup of melted butter, one small onion chopped fine, 
one teaspoonful salt and two teaspoonfuls of mixed 
herbs, a little pepper. This makes a dry stuffing; if 
liked moist, add a little hot water or milk. 

6IBLET SAUCE. 

Boil the giblets in salted water until tender, chop 
them quite fine, put a tablespoonful of flour in the pan 
in which the fowl was roasted. Let it brown; then 
add, stirring constantly, one cupful of the water the 
giblets were cooked in. Season with salt and pepper, 
strain and add the chopped giblets, and serve in a 
gravy boat. 

TO DRESS FOWLS OR BIRDS FOR BROILING. 

Singe, wipe off with a cloth and cold water, split 
down the middle of the back, lay open, and remove the 
contents from the inside. 

TO BONE A BIRD, FOWL OR TURKEY. 

The skin should be firm and unbroken, and the 
bird should not be drawn. Remove the head, wash 



84 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and singe. Eemove tlie tendons from the legs as di- 
rected, loosen the skin around the end of the drum 
sticks. The work of boning is not difficult, but re- 
quires time and patience. Use a small pointed knife. 
A regular boning knife is the best. Out the skin 
down the full length of the back, scrape the meat 
away from the bone, beginning at the neck, until you 
feel the shoulder blade, loosen the flesh from this, and 
then follow the bone to the wing joint, and to the 
middle joint in the wing. Care must be taken to 
avoid cutting through the skin at these places, as the 
skin is very near the bone. Leave the first bone in 
the wing, then remove the flesh from the breast. Be 
careful and do not cut through the skin at the ridge, 
or to cut through the membrane into the inside. Re- 
move the flesh around the second joint, then the drum- 
stick, turning the flesh wrong side out. Turn the bird 
and do the same on the other side. When the meat is 
free from the carcass lay the bird on a board, skin side 
down. Place the flesh in place, sprinkle it with salt 
and pepper, stuff out the legs and wings with the force 
meat and flU the bird with it. Draw the skin up and 
sew it together; turn it over and skewer and tie the 
legs and wings in position of a trussed fowl ; press and 
tie the body into natural shape, dredge with flour, salt 
and pepper; cover with several slices of salt pork. 
Koast, allowing twenty-five minutes to a pound. Baste 
frequently. Make a gravy by using six tablespoonfuls 
of the drippings in the pan, one of flour and a cup of 
cream or white stock. Season. 

FORCEMEAT FOR STUFFING BONED FOWLS. 

Use the cooked or uncooked meat of another fowl 
or veal, or a part of both ; chop fine. To every cup of 



POULTRY. 85 

meat add one-fourth cup of bread or cracker crumbs, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter, one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of onions, chopped 
fine, one-fourth teaspoonful each of sage, thyme, pep- 
per, one-half teaspoonful salt, one stalk of celery, 
chopped fine. Moisten with stock the meat was 
cooked in, or leftover gravy. 

TO BOIL FOWL. 

Boiled fowl are sometimes cooked with oysters, 
bread or chestnut stufiing, but as the stuffing is apt 
to get wet and soggy, they are better cooked without 
it. Clean, sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper, 
put on to cook in boiling water enough to cover, with 
one teaspoonful of salt and one whole small onion. 
Simmer until tender. (The time depends upon the 
age and size of the fowl.) Serve with oyster, celery 
or caper sauce, using some of the liquor the fowl was 
boiled in for the sauce. Pour the sauce around the 
fowl, or garnish with a border of rice. 

BRAISED CHICKEN. 

Take an old chicken, prepare it for roasting. 
Dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Brown all over 
in hot butter or chicken fat, then place in the roast- 
ing pan on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, turnip and 
celery. Cover the top with four slices of salt pork, 
add two cups of water, cover closely with another pan, 
roast for three hours, basting often and replenishing 
the water so as to keep about two cups in the pan. 
Eemove the fowl on a platter, garnish with vegetables 
and make a gravy of the liquid in the pan. Season 
to taste. Cook in a pot on top of the stove, if liked. 



86 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BROILED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Split down the back, remove the entrails and 
breast bone and the oil bag from the tail. Wipe 
clean with a cloth and cold water. Eub with soft but- 
ter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on a broiler 
the inside down ; broil over a slow fire for twenty-five 
minutes. When nearly done turn and let the skin 
side brown. Place on a hot dish, spread with butter, 
or with maitre d'hotel sauce. Garnish with water- 
cress or parsley and slices of lemon. 

TO BROIL A TURKEY. 

Select a very small, fat, young one, weighing not 
over five pounds. Have it split as you would a chick- 
en for broiling. Place it in the roasting pan seasoned 
with salt, pepper and butter, with a half cup of water 
in the pan. Cook until the meat is tender, then broil 
over a rather slow fire. When brovsTi put on a hot 
platter, spread with butter and season with salt. Save 
any liquid left in the pan for chestnut sauce to pour 
around it. If the turkey is unusually young and ten- 
der it can be broiled without cooking in the oven. 

PANNED CHICKEN. 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling. Place them 
in a pan, skin side up; rub with softened butter; 
dredge with flour, salt and pepper ; put in a hot oven. 
After ten minutes baste with butter and a little hot 
water. Cook for thirty minutes, baste three times, 
using not over a half cup of water, the rest butter. 
Remove to a hot dish and make a gravy from the fat 
in the pan. Add to it one tablespoonful of flour. 
When brown, add a cup of thin cream or white stocks. 



POULTRY. 87 

Cook until smoott, stirring all the time ; pour around 
the chicken. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces for serving, put 
in the pot with warm water enough to cover, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and two stalks or roots of celery. 
Cook slowly until tender; remove the chicken and 
strain the celery from the liquor. I'ry out half a 
dozen slices of salt pork, and one onion sliced thin in 
the frying pan. Butter or chicken fat can be used 
in place of the pork. When the fat is hot put in the 
chicken and brown on all sides. Arrange on the plat- 
ter. Remove the onion from the fat, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour to it, and two cups of the liquor 
gradually. ^Vhen smooth, add one-half can of peas 
or the same amount of mushrooms drained from the 
liquor, cook for five minutes, pour around the chicken 
and garnish with points of toasted bread or toasted 
crackers. 

CHICKEN STEW V/ITH DUMPLINGS. 

An old chicken is the best. Have it cut in four 
pieces, and make the same as beef stew. 
(See Dumplings, under Beef Stew.) 

CHICKEN CURRY (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut the chicken at the joints, and remove the 
breast bone, wipe, season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in hot butter. Put in a stew 
pan. Fry one large onion, cut in thin slices, in the 
butter left in the pan till colored, not browned. Mix 
one large tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 



88 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sugar and one teaspoonful of curry powder, and 
brown them in the butter. Add slowly one cup of 
water or stock and one cup of strained tomatoes, or 
one sour apple chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Pour this sauce over the chicken and simmer one 
hour or until tender. Add one cup of hot milk 'or 
cream. Boil one minute longer and serve with a 
border of boiled rice. Eabbit, veal and lamb may be 
curried in the same way. 

SPANISH CHICKEN. 

Split tender broilers in halves, rub with salt, 
sprinkle over with finely chopped cloves and Spanish 
peppers. Over all put thin strips of bacon or salt 
pork. Bake in a hot oven till the chicken is tender. 
Watch carefully that it does not burn. If necessary, 
add a little water. When tender remove from the 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat left in 
the pan and one cup of thin cream, one-fourth cup of 
water ; cook on top of the stove for five minutes, stir- 
ring all the time. Season to taste if salt or pepper is 
required. Pour around the chickens. 

CHICKEN JULIENNE. 

Split the chickens down the back as for broiling, 
lay them breast down in a baking pan, filling the de- 
pression inside the ribs with equal quantities of finely 
minced onion, carrot, celery and peas; season with 
salt, a little pepper, and several small pieces of butter, 
add one-half cup of hot water ; cook in a hot oven for 
one-half hour, or till the vegetables are tender; re- 
move the vegetables and turn the chickens over to 
brown, then make a sauce by adding flour to the 



POULTRY. 89 

liquid in the pan, and the vegetables and one-half cup 
of cream; pour around the chicken and garnish with 
sweet potato croquettes. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Out cold chicken or turkey off the bones in as 
large pieces as possible. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dip in fritter batter and fry in deep fat until a 
good brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with pou- 
lette, Bemaise or tartare sauce. 

STUFFED CHICKEN OR TURKEY LEGS. 

Eemove the tendons from the drum sticks, remove 
the bone, stuff the leg with a force meat. ( See force- 
meat for boned chicken or tiirkey.) Draw the skin 
over the ends and sew securely, keeping the shape. 
Lay them in a baking pan, cover with boiling water 
and simmer in the oven until tender — about an hour 
and a quarter. Remove from the water, let cool, take 
out the stitches, roll in beaten egg and seasoned fine 
bread crumbs, then in egg again, and fry in deep fat 
for one minute. Serve with olive, tartare, celery or 
currant jelly sauce. 

CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND. 

Clean the chicken, remove the head and legs. Put 
it on to cook in a pot of warm water, enough to 
cover. Cook with it one sliced onion, carrot, turnip, 
one bay leaf, two cloves, six peppercorns, two celery 
roots or two or three stalks of celery. Cook slowly 
until the chicken is tender, then remove the meat from 
the bones. Cut in two-inch pieces. Cook the stock 
down to one cup, heat and strain one cup of tomatoes. 



90 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter, add 
one table spoonful of flour. When smooth stir in 
slowly the cup of stock, then the tomato, and the 
chicken. Cook for ten minutes. Surround with 
points of toast or serve in fried bread baskets or tim- 
bale cases. This can be made in the chafing dish by 
having the chicken prepared before. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 
Chicken, veal or lamb may be cooked in this way : 



2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 
A little pepper. 
1 teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. 



1 cup of milk, or chicken 
stock. 

1 cup of finely chopped 

chicken. 
10 drops onion juice. 

2 eggs. 



Make a sauce by melting the butter, then adding 
flour, salt and pepper. Cook for ten minutes, stirring 
until smooth. Add the rest of the seasonings to the 
chicken, mix the sauce and chicken together, then stir 
in the well-beaten yolks. Stir over the fire for five 
minutes. Set aside to cool. When cool beat very 
stiff the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly into 
the chicken. Put in a buttered pudding dish, bake in 
a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve at once in the 
same dishes. This can be baked in individual ram- 
quin dishes or shells. 

PLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN. 

An old chicken will do as well as a young one. 
Cook until tender in boiling water, with a teaspoonful 
of salt, a small onion, and two stalks of celery. Strain 
the stock and cook down to one cup. Melt two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, stir into it one of flour. When 



POULTRY. 91 

smooth, stir gradually into the stock and one-half cup 
of cream. Cook ten minutes, then add two well- 
beaten yolks of eggs, cook five minutes, but do not 
boil, as it might curdle. Remove from the fire, add 
two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice; cut the chicken in 
small pieces, add to the sauce. Serve on toast, sur- 
rounded by a border of rice. 

CHICKEN A LA BECHAMEL. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir into it 
one of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, then add one-half cup each of chicken stock 
and cream. Stir until smooth, cook for five minutes, 
then remove from the fire, and beat into it three well- 
beaten eggs and two cups of chopped chicken. Turn 
into buttered ramquin dishes or in a baking dish, and 
bake standing in a pan of hot water about twenty 
minutes. The water should not boil. Salmon or any 
kind of white fish can be used in this way. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

One good-sized, old chicken. Put it in the pot 
and cover with warm water (use warm water so that 
part of the nourishment may be in the gravy), add to 
it two teaspoonfuls of salt, six peppercorns, one onion, 
sliced, three stalks of celery or the celery root, one car- 
rot and one turnip, sliced. Cook slowly for two hours, 
or until the meat will leave the bones. Boil the liquor 
down to two cups. Melt in a sauce pan one-fourth 
cup of butter, stir into it one tablespoonful of flour, 
and gradually the two cups of liquor. When that is 
smooth, stir in one-half cup of thick cream, season 
with salt and pepper. Pick' the chicken mostly from 
the bones, leaving a few of the small bones to hold up 



92 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

the pie. Put a layer of the chicken in the bottom of 
the baking dish, then cover with a layer of the gravy. 
In the center of the dish place the breast bone to hold 
up the crust, fill up with the layers, and put a crust 
on top three-fourths of an inch thick, cutting a slit in 
the center to let out the steam. Layers of thin-sliced 
potatoes may be added to the pie, a few truffles or 
mushrooms, or alternate layers of chicken, oysters and 
the gravy. The baking dish is often lined with a thin 
layer of pastry, but it is very apt to be soggy. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. To cover the pie use plain 
pastry, chopped puff pastry, or a rich baking powder 
biscuit dough. 

Veal Pie can be made in the same way. 
CHOPPED PUFF PASTE FOR CHICKEN PIE. 



2 cups of flour. 
^2 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 cup butter. 



1 egg. 

1/4 cup ice water. 

% tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Beat the egg until light, add to it lemon juice and 
water. Sift all the dry materials together and chop 
the butter with them. Add the liquid, roll and fold 
four times. Bake in a hot oven. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

A young goose four or five months old is the best. 
Singe, remove the pin feathers, then wash in warm 
soap suds to cleanse it, and open the pores, then draw 
it as you would a turkey or chicken. Wash in cold 
water and wipe dry inside and out Stuff with a 
potato stuffing, sew and truss. Put on a rack in the 
pan, cover the breast with slices of fat salt pork. (The 
pork fat aids in drawing out the oil.) Place in the 



POULTRY. 93 

oven for an hour, then take tlie pan from the oven 
and pour off all the fat, dredge with flour. When the 
flour is brown, add a little hot water; baste often. 
Cook until brown and tender. Make a gravy from 
some of the fat in the pan, flour and hot water, season 
to taste. Serve with apple sauce. 

POTATO STUFFING. 



% teaspoonful sage. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 



1 cup mashed potatoes. 
1 tablespoonful of onion 

chopped fine. 
1 tablespoonful of sour 

apples chopped fine. 

ROAST TAME DUCK. 

Singe, clean, remove the crop, oil bag, legs, en- 
trails. Stuff, truss and dredge with flour, salt and 
pepper. After they have been in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, add a little hot water to the pan, and baste 
often. Roast thirty minutes, if liked rare, and forty- 
five minutes, well done. Stuff with a potato or bread 
stuffing, or with celery and apples. Serve with an 
olive or bread sauce. 



OYSTER STUFFING. 

%, teaspoc 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



2 cups of oysters. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Pick over and wash the oysters. Mix with the 
crumbs and seasonings, and stuff any kind of poultry. 
Turkeys are the best stuffed with oysters. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Cut a cross in the shells of one quart of the large 
chestnuts. Place them in a pan with a teaspoonful 



94 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of butter and bake in a bot oven until tbe sbells break 
open. Tbe skin will come off witb tbe sbell. Kemove 
from tbe sbell and cook in boiling water witb one- 
balf teaspoonful salt until tender. Wbile bot, masb 
a few at a time tbrougb a colander or potato press. 
Season witb two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, salt 
and pepper, and moisten witb one-balf cup of stock. 



GAME. 95 



GAME. 



CANVASBACK AND REDHEAD DUCKS. 

Pick, singe, draw them, leaving on the head. Out 
an opening to remove the crop, and through it draw 
the head and neck, letting the head come out at the 
back between the drumsticks. Tie firmly in place. 
With a bowl of cold water wipe out the inside and out- 
side. Cut off the wing at the second joint. Sprinkle 
the inside with salt and pepper, dredge the outside 
with flour, salt and pepper, and cover with thin strips 
of salt pork. Put inside of the duck a teaspoonful 
currant jelly, a sour apple, quartered and cored, or 
a couple of sticks of celery, cut in pieces. Place in 
the baking pan with a little hot water, and bake in a 
very hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Wild 
ducks should be served rare and very hot. Serve fried 
hominy and currant jelly with the ducks. 

The canvasbacks have a purple head and silver 
breast and are in season from September to May. The 
redhead is often taken for it. 

SALMI OF DUCK OR GAME. 

Cut the game in small pieces, put them in a hot 
oven for five minutes to start the juices. Put in a 
sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-fourth 
pound of salt pork cut in dice, one tablespoonful of 
onion and carrot chopped fine, one-fourth teaspoonful 
each of salt, sage and one bay leaf, ten peppercorns. 
Cook for ten minutes, stirring often, then add one 
tablespoonful of flour ; let it brown, then add two cup- 



96 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

fuls of brown stock. Cook very slowly for thirty 
minutes, strain, add one-fourth cup of madeira and 
the pieces of game, cover and cook slowly for forty 
minutes, garnish with croutons and truffles. The 
truffles should be added five minutes before the salmi 
is done. Cooked game can be used. Simmer only for 
ten minutes after it is added to the sauce. 

LARDED GROUSE. 

Draw, wipe clean, inside and out, lard the breast, 
and truss. Rub with softened butter, dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper. Eoast for twenty-five minutes. 
Serve with bread or olive sauce. 

POTTED PIGEONS. 

Clean and truss them, dredge with flour, salt and 
pepper. Place them in a stew pan on slices of bacon, 
the breasts up. Add a carrot and onion cut in dice. 
Cover with stock or hot water. Let them simmer un- 
til they are tender. Serve each pigeon on a thin slice 
of buttered toast. Make a gravy and pour around 
them. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it 
one of flour, gradually stir in the liquor and vegeta- 
bles left in the boiler, season to taste with salt and 
pepper. 

ROAST PIGEONS OR SQUABS. 

To roast they should be young. Draw, clean and 
truss them, tie thin slices of bacon or salt pork over 
the breasts, dredge with flour, put a small piece of 
butter inside. Roast from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
baste with butter, and a very little hot water. Or 
they can be split down the back, and covered with 



GAME. 97 

slices of pork or pieces of butter, dredged with flour 
and roasted in the oven. Serve on slices of toast, 
garnish V7ith parsley, shoe string, French-fried or 
Saratoga potatoes. 

QUAILS BROILED. 

Split down the hack. Eub with melted butter, 
broil over hot coals for eight minutes. Serve on slices 
of buttered toast, season with butter, salt and pepper. 

QUAILS ROASTED. 

Draw them and wipe inside and out with a cloth 
and cold water. Truss, letting the legs stand up. 
Tie around each one a thin slice of salt pork or bacon. 
Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes; baste fre- 
quently with butter and a little hot water. Serve 
on slices of toast. Season with a little salt, pepper 
and the melted butter in the pan. A ve7-y nice way is 
to lard them. 

WOODCOCK ROASTED. 

Dress, wipe clean inside and out, cut off the feet, 
tie the legs close to the body. Skin the head and neck 
and tie the peak under the wings. Tie thin slices of 
pork or bacon around them. Bake in a hot oven for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Baste with butter. Clean and 
cook in boiling salted water the hearts and livers, 
then pound to a paste, season with salt and pepper. 
Butter thin slices of toast, large enough for one bird, 
cover with the paste, place the birds on the toast, 
moistening them with the butter in the pan. Garnish 
with watercress or pieces of parsley. 



98 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

VENISON ROASTED. 

It should be wiped clean with a cloth and cold 
water, and roasted the same as beef or mutton, allow- 
ing twelve to fifteen minutes to a pound. Serve with 
currant jelly sauce and a simple salad. 

VENISON STEAK. 

Venison steak is cooked the same as beefsteak, 
serving currant jellv with it or around it on the plat- 
ter, forming a sauce. The roasting pieces are the sad- 
dle and haunch or leg. Steak is cut from both. 

ROASTED PARTRIDGE. 

Partridges have a white meat and should be well 
done. Dress and truss, cover with thin slices of salt 
pork, dredge with flour. Bake about forty-five min- 
utes, basting often with hot water and butter. Place 
on a hot platter, and surround with coarse crumbs of 
bread fried in butter, and serve with it a bread sauce. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Clean and wipe the pigeons dry. Make a stuffing 
of half a cup of pitted olives with the livers chopped 
fine, a tablespoonful each of finely chopped onion and 
parsley. Moisten two cups of stale bread crumbs with 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a little hot 
water. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of paprica and a tablespoonful of 
currant jelly. Stuff the pigeons, and truss well with 
twine. Place in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter. When hot, brown the pigeons in it, then stir into 
it two tablespoonfuls of flour, and gradually three 



GAME. 99 

cups of boiling water. Wiieii smooth, add a small 
onion, two carrots and two stalks of celery, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, six peppercorns. Cook very slowly, 
tightly covered, for one hour and a quarter, or till 
they seem tender. Serve the pigeons on slices of toast. 
Strain and thicken the gravy and serve separately. 

PIGEONS IN CASSEROLE. 

Clean and truss the pigeons. Brown in hot but- 
ter. Place them in the casserole, pour what butter is 
left from the sauce pan around them with a table- 
spoonful each of chopped onion, celery and carrot, 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Pour in a half cup of dry 
white wine. Cover and cook in the oven for one hour. 
Serve on slice of toast that has been moistened with 
the sauce from the casserole. Garnish with parsley. 
Served with orange and lettuce salad. 

HOT PIGEON PIE. 

Bone the pigeons. Brown in butter. Put on to 
stew with sliced onions, carrots and two stalks of 
celery cut in half-inch pieces, salt and pepper. Stir 
into the butter, after the pigeons are removed, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour ; mix till smooth, add two cups 
of hot water gradually, replace the pigeons and cook 
slowly till tender ; then pour into a baking dish, cover 
with puff paste, with slits cut in the center for the 
steam to escape. Bake in a hot oven twenty-five min- 
utes. 



100 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ENTREES. 



Entrees are served between courses, and for regu- 
lar course. 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes are made of nearly all kinds of meat, 
fish, vegetables, cheese, eggs and nuts. When shaped 
flat like a chop they are called cutlets. To prepare 
them the materials should be cooked tender, well 
seasoned and finely chopped (a meat chopper is best 
to use for meat croquettes), mixed together with a 
creamy sauce, moulded, rolled in bread or cracker 
crumbs, dipped in slightly beaten egg, rolled in 
crumbs again (this prevents the fat from getting in- 
side), and fried a rich brown in clear smoking hot fat. 
They are usually surrounded with a sauce or peas. 
If not, should be garnished with celery tips, parsley, 
watercress or small leaves of lettuce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

An old chicken can be used. They are cheaper, 
than young ones, and the flavor is better. Clean the 
chicken well, and plunge in a kettle of boiling salted 
water. Place the kettle on the stove where it will 
have a slow cooking. Add to it one good-sized onion 
cut in slices, eight peppercorns, two or three roots of 
celery, or a few of the outside stalks (celery seed may 
be used in place of celery). A small amount of 
thyme and bay leaf can be used if desired. Let cook 



ENTREES. 101 

Tintil tender. Remove from the liquid and when cold 
chop fine and mix with a cream sauce. The liquid 
should be strained and when cold remove the fat and 
use for the sauces. Yeal or lamb can be cooked in 
this way for croquettes. 



SAUCE FOR CROQUETTE MIXTURE. 
All Croquettes Are Mixed With a Sauce. 



1 cup milk, cream or stock. 

2 tablespoonfula butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 



% teaspoonful salt. 
Vs teaspoonful pepper. 



A dash of nutmeg can be used. When stock is 
used, take one-half cup of milk or cream. Scald the 
cream, milk or stock in a double boiler, melt the but- 
ter in a sauce pan, stir into it the flour and seasonings. 
When smooth, add it to the scalded milk. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring frequently. Add it to the chopped 
mixture, and when cool mould in shape, and dip first 
in crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again. When 
meat is used, allow about one-half as much sauce as 
meat. It is well to add the sauce to the meat gradu- 
ally, so as not to get the mixture too thin. It should 
be as thin as possible to mould. The beauty of a 
croquette is to have it creamy inside. 



TO PREPARE THE EGG AND CRUMBS FOR CROQUETTES. 

Beat the egg slightly until it is thoroughly mixed. 
Add to it two tablespoonfuls of cold water or milk. 
Put the bread or crackers through a meat grinder, or 
roll them. Always sift them. Bread should be thor- 
oughly dry before rolling. 



102 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO MOULD CROQUETTES. 

Take a tablespoonful of the mixture, roll lightly 
between the hands in a ball, roll the ball lightly in 
bread crumbs and mould with the hands in any shape 
you like. Dip in the egg, and see that all parts are 
covered (this prevents the fat from getting inside), 
lift out on the blade of a knife and again roll in the 
crumbs. Set aside if possible fully one hour before 
frying. Croquettes can be made up the day before 
frying if kept in a cool place and covered. 

TO FRY CROQUETTES. 

Have a good, clean fat. Let it become smoking 
hot. It can be tested by a piece of bread. Tf it colors 
while counting twenty it is right. Place four or five 
at a time in the frying basket, plunge in the hot fat 
and cook until brown. Remove them to a soft paper 
to drain. Have the fat smoking hot each time before 
in;mersing the basket. Croquettes can be fried with- 
out the basket, it being much more convenient to 
use it. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Clean the sweetbreads. Cook in boiling salted 
water with two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice (or one 
tablespoonful to each pair) until tender. When cold 
cut in small cubes and mix with sauce. Add one 
beaten egg to the sauce five minutes before removing 
from the stove. A couple of tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped chicken can be used with the sweetbreads. 
Chicken or veal stock can be used with the milk to 
make the sauce or the milk used alone. 



ENTREES. 103 

MUSHROOM CROQUETTES. 

Peel the mushrooms, break in small pieces. Cook 
in sauce pan with two tablespoonfuls of water and a 
little salt. Let boil for five minutes, drain from the 
liquid and use it with cream to make the sauce. Add 
one egg to the sauce. Mushrooms and sweetbreads 
are often used together. Chicken may be added to 
either the sweetbreads and mushrooms. 

NUT CROQUETTES. 

Brazil, English walnuts or pecans can be used. 
One cup of chopped chicken or veal, one-half cup of 
nuts chopped fine. Mix with sauce. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Cook eggs in water, just off the boil, for thirty 
minutes. When cold remove from the shell. Chop 
the whites fine, sift the yolks, mix together with one 
egg slightly beaten. Season with salt and pepper and 
finely chopped parsley or chives. A few cooked 
mushrooms can be added. Mix with heavy white 
sauce. Set aside until cold, then mould, dip in the 
crumbs and egg. Fry. Serve with a white sauce 
alone or add a few peas, small beans, mushrooms or 
asparagus tips. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

One-half cup grated Parmesan cheese, one cup 
American cheese, grated or cut in small pieces, mix 
together with a slightly beaten egg. Season with one- 
fourth teaspoonful of paprica, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, mix with heavy white sauce. When cold, shape, 
dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Pry. These 
are very nice to accompany a salad. 



104 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

HOMINY OR RICE CROQUETTES. 

Add to one cup cooked hominy or rice while warm 
one teaspoonful of sugar, the beaten yolk of an egg, a 
little hot milk or cream to moisten, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, or moisten with a little tomato sauce. 
After shaping, press a cavity in the center of each and 
put in half a teaspoonful of jelly or marmalade. 
Close the rice oy^t it, mould, dip in crumbs and egg, 
the same as other croquettes. These croquettes are 
nice to serve with game. 

Oorn Meed Mush. — Sliced in plain or fancy 
shapes, dipped in crumbs, egg and crumbs again and 
fried in deep fat, is served with game. Before the 
mush is quite cool it can be molded in croquette 
shapes, crumbed and egged. 



MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI CROQUETTES. 

Break in small pieces, plunge in boiling salted 
water, cook until tender, drain, cool, then cut in small 
rings. Add to each cupful one tablespoonful of 
grated cheese, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprica and 
mix together with a very little heavy white sauce, just 
enough to hold the mixture together. When cool 
mould and dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Serve 
with tomato, poulette or mushroom sauce. 



OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Pick over carefully, so as to remove all pieces of 
shell. Rinse through a strainer. Allow them to 
cook five minutes in their own liquor. Drain. "When 



ENTKEES. 105 

cool cut in small pieces. Mix with a sauce made of 
one-half cream and the rest of liquid the oysters were 
strained from. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a sauce pan, add to it three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt, a speck of pepper. When 
smooth stir into it gradually the oyster liquor, then 
the cream. Cook for ten minutes, stirring often, then 
add a slightly beaten egg. Cook five minutes, mix 
with the oysters; when cold, egg and crumb. Serve 
with cream or shrimp sauce. 



SHAD ROE CROQUETTES. 

Cook the roe in boiling salted water, with one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, for twenty minutes. 
Drain, cut in fine pieces, mix with the heavy white 
sauce that has had one egg added to and cooked in it 
for five minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 
When cold, mould, egg and crumb. Serve with Hol- 
landaise or cucumber sauce. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

These can be formed in the shape of a croquette or 
cutlet. Buy a cooked lobster, remove the meat, cut 
in fine pieces, mix with the heavy white sauce that 
has an egg cooked in it for five minutes, mould and 
crumb. Fry. Stick into the small end of the cutlet 
a claw. Serve surrounded with peas, a white or Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Salmon Cutlets. — Are made in the same way, 
with the addition of lemon juice and a little chopped 
parsley. White fish can be used the same. 



106 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CLAM CROQUETTES. 

One cup of minced clams drained from the liquid. 
Mix with heavy white sauce made of half cream and 
half the liquor from the clams. Season with salt and 
pepper. When cool, mould, egg and crumb. Serve 
with Bearnaise or tartare sauce. 

SWEET AND WHITE POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Two cups hot, well-mashed potato, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a little pepper, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, the beaten yolk of an 
egg, add a little cream or milk if not moist enough to 
mould. Roll in crumbs and egg and crumbs. Fry 
in smoking-hot fat. 

POTATOES IN SURPRISE. 

Use for these sweet or white potato croquette mix- 
ture. Take one tablespoonful and mould it flat in the 
hand, about half an inch thick. Drop into the center 
of it one teaspoonful of creamed chicken, mushrooms 
or sweetbreads that have been highly seasoned, fold 
the potato over it and mould, egg and crumb, like 
other croquettes. Serve with poulette sauce. 

CELERY CROQUETTES. 

Cut well-cleaned celery in very small pieces, cook 
until soft in boiling salted water. Drain, mix with 
a heavy sauce made by melting two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and stirring into it four tablespoonfuls of flour. 



ENTREES. 107 

one-half cup of the water drained from the celery 
and one-half cup of cream, one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt. Cook for ten minutes, stirring, then add a 
slightly beaten egg. Cook five minutes, mix with the 
celery, mould, egg and crumb. These are delicious 
served with the roast or game course. 



TO PREPARE MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms contain almost as much nutrition as 
meat. The simplest way of cooking mushrooms is 
the best. Sherry and madeira are sometimes used 
with them for flavoring, but to many their flavor, 
alone, is far preferable. They decay quickly and 
should not be used unless fresh. Use silver knife for 
peeling. Wash them, remove the stem and peel the 
caps. The stems can be boiled separately and the 
water used to flavor sauces or soups. 

Saute Mushrooms. — ^^Cut or break the caps in 
pieces, put them in a sauce pan or chafing dish with 
some butter. Let cook in the butter for ten minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper and a little sherry if you 
like. Serve on toast. 



CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 

Break the caps in small pieces. Cook with a very 
little water for five minutes, then add one-half cup of 
cream that has had a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with it, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and a little pep- 
per, add a tablespoonful of butter. Cook ten minutes. 
This amount of cream and seasoning for one pound of 
fresh mushrooms. Serve on toast, or as filling for 



108 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

patty cases, timbale cases or bake ten minutes in ram- 
quin dishes, covered with buttered crumbs. 

MUSHROOMS A LA POULETTE. 

Stew the mushrooms in a little water with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Season with salt and pepper. 
When tender add a little chicken stock and cream and 
the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir tmtil it thickens. 
Serve at once. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

The largest size should be used for broiling. Peel 
them and remove the stem, brush over with melted 
butter, broil as you would steak, for about five min- 
utes. Place on buttered toast, season with salt, pep- 
per and butter and a little chopped parsley. 

TO PREPARE CALF'S BRAINS. 

Soak for an hour in cold water, then cook slowly 
in boiling water for twenty minutes with a table- 
spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice. Slice of onion, a 
little thyme, bay leaf, salt and peppercorns. Place 
again in cold water to blanch, remove the skin and 
fibers and cook by any of the receipts given for sweet- 
breads. 

CHICKEN A LA DUXELLE. 

For a chicken weighing three pounds use two 
cups of stock or water, two tablespoonfuls butter, two 
tablespoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, 
a few drops of onion juice, one teaspoonful lemon 
juice, one teaspoonful salt, pepper, crumbs. Out the 



ENTREES. 109 

chicken as for fricassee, sprinkle with the salt and 
pepper. Melt the butter, add the flour and season- 
ings, gradually the stock, stirring all the time, dip the 
chicken in the sauce, then roll in fine crumbs, sprin- 
kle over lightly with salt and pepper, place in baking 
pan. Cook thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve with 
Bechamel, mushroom or poulette sauce. Garnish 
with thin pieces of toast cut in fancy shapes. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil an old chicken in as little water as possible 
until the meat slips from the bones. Remove the 
skin, pick the meat apart, remove all the fat. Season 
the liquor highly with salt, pepper and celery salt, or 
cook a few stalks of celery with the chicken. Cook 
down to one cup. Butter a mould; decorate it with 
slices of hard-boiled egg, truffles, sliced pickles and 
olives, if liked. Pack the meat in, mixing the light 
and dark. Over each layer of meat pour some of the 
liquor, until all is used. Set away until cold, with 
a weight on top. "When ready to serve remove from 
the mould. Garnish with lettuce, parsley, watercress, 
hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, radishes or olives. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN OR TURKEY. 

Take equal parts of cold chicken or turkey and 
boiled rice or macaroni. Put in layers in a baking 
dish, cover with poulette or tomato sauce, well sea- 
soned. Cover with buttered crumbs. Bake until the 
crumbs are a rich brown. 

CHICKEN TIMBALE. 

Chop the meat from the breast and second joints 
of an uncooked chicken by passing it through the meat 



110 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

chopper several times. To one cup of the meat add 
five eggs, one at a time, beating them in thoroughly. 
Then add one teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful 
pepper, a little celery salt and one-half cup of fresh 
mushrooms, if convenient. They can be omitted. 
Two cups of heavy cream. Decorate a well-buttered 
mould with slices of hard-boiled egg or truffles. Turn 
in the mixture and cover with a buttered paper. Cook 
standing in a pan of hot water until the center feels 
firm to the touch, from thirty to forty-five minutes. 
It can be cooked either on top of the stove or in the 
oven. Do not let the water boil. Put the bones of 
the chicken on to cook in cold water enough to cover, 
season highly with soup seasonings and cook slowly 
on the back of the stove for three hours. Keduce the 
stock to one cup, strain and use with one-half cup of 
cream thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour that 
has been added to two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter. Season to taste and pour around the timbale 
when ready to serve. 

Individual Moulds. — Can be decorated with 
hard-boiled eggs, cut in fancy shapes, truffles, pickles 
or peas, and filled with the same mixture. Cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Macaroni Timhale. — Cook until tender in boiling 
salted water long sticks of very fine macaroni or spa- 
ghetti. When soft lay carefully on a napkin to cool. 
Butter well a mould, wind the macaroni around it, 
pressing it gently into the butter to hold it, then fill 
up carefully with the timbale mixture. 

HONEYCOMB TIMBALE. 

Cook in boiling salted water the largest-size maca- 
roni. "When tender remove to a cloth to cool, then 



ENTREES. Ill 

cut in pieces one-hali an inch. long. Butter a dome- 
sliaped mould or bowl thickly, cover it witii the maca- 
roni by sticking each piece into the butter, one at a 
time, as closely together as possible. Fill with the 
chicken timbale mixture. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE TIMBALE. 

Line the mould with cooked macaroni and fill 
with the following mixture : One cup of cooked mac- 
aroni, cut in small pieces, one-half cup of grated 
cheese. Stir these into a sauce made by melting two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, stirring into it two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one cup of milk. When smooth 
add one-half teaspoonful salt and paprica. Stir in 
two eggs slightly beaten, mix with the macaroni and 
cheese, fill up the mould and poach in hot water until 
firm. Serve surrounded by a white sauce. 

TURBAN OF MACARONI AND HAM. 

Let three-fourths of a cup of macaroni boil rap- 
idly in salted water till tender, drain, rinse in cold 
water and cut in small pieces, mix with the macaroni 
one-half cup of chopped ham, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, a little paprica, three beaten eggs, one cup of 
milk or thin cream. Turn in buttered moulds and 
bake, setting in a pan with a little hot water until the 
mixture feels firm to the touch. Let cool a few min- 
utes. Turn from the moulds and surround with a 
tomato or white sauce. 

HAM TIMBALES. 

Soak one tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs in 
one cup of thin cream for half an hour, then add two 



112 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

well-beaten eggs, one cup of finely chopped cooked 
ham, one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
mustard and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Turn 
into well-buttered timbale moulds, or use one large 
mould. The moulds can be decorated with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, cut in fanciful shapes. Cook, 
setting the moulds in a pan of hot water till the cen- 
ters are firm. Serve with a white sauce. 

BOUDANS. 

1 lb. of cooked chicken I % cup of butter, 

breasts (2 cups). | y^ cup salt pork. 

Put the meat and pork through the grinder, add 
to it three eggs, beating in one at a time until smooth 
and light, add a teaspoonful of onion juice and one 
of salt, pepper to taste, add one-half cup of the liquor 
the chicken was boiled in, cook in well-buttered 
moulds, either one large one or small ones, as you 
would a timbale. Serve -with a sauce made of one- 
half cup of chicken stock, one-half cup of cream and 
one-half cup of canned mushrooms, seasoned and 
thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour that has 
been added to two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

ASPIC JELLY. 



1 fowl. 

1 shin of beef. 
1 knuckle of veal. 
5 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 
1^ packages of gelatine. 



2 large onions. 

3 carrots. 

4 stocks of celery. 
2 turnips. 

1 cup of sherry or madeira. 
6 peppercorns. 



The wine can be omitted. Put the meats in a ket- 
tle just covered with cold water and simmer for five 
hours. An hour before removing from the fire, add 



ENTREES. 113 

seasonings and vegetables that have been brovi^ned in 
marrow from the soup bone or butter, strain the 
stock ; it should be cooked dov^n to two quarts. When 
cold remove all the fat, and stir into it the beaten 
whites of two eggs, clear as you would clear soup 
stock, then add the gelatine, which has been softened 
in cold water. Aspic jelly can be made from any 
soup stock by clearing it and adding gelatine. 



TO MOULD IN ASPIC JELLY. 

Pack the mould in a pan of broken ice ; have it set 
in the pan firm and straight; pour in a little of the 
jelly; when firm, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, vege- 
table, macaroni, nuts, olives, pickles, truffles, all 
cut in fancy shapes. Fasten each piece in place with 
a few drops of jelly, and when hard, add a little more 
jelly to cover. Then place whatever you wish to 
mould in the center carefully, pour in a little more 
jelly to hold it ; when hard fill up the mould with the 
jelly. To decorate on the sides, dip the ornaments in 
the jelly and place on the sides after the mould is very 
cold. AH kinds of meat, game or fish can be moulded 
in this way, either in one large mould or in individual 
moulds. A whole tongue is very nice moulded in 
Aspic. 

TO TINMOULD JELLY. 

Dip the mould quickly in warm water, put the 
dish over it and invert dish and mould together ; gar- 
nish with some of the jelly cut in small pieces, parsley 
or any green. Nasturtiums, with the leaves, make a 
very effective garnish. 



114 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN CHARTREUSE. 

Mix finely chopped cooked chicken (or any meat) 
that has been highly seasoned, with a cream, or pou- 
lette sauce, or left-over sauce from the meats ; line a 
well-buttered mould with hot cooked rice an inch 
thick, fill the center with the meat and cover the top 
with rice, cover the mould and cook standing in hot 
water for forty-five minutes. Serve surrounded by a 
tomato sauce. A very nice way of using up left- 
overs. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

To be cooked on the chafing dish or over hot water. 
Cut one cold chicken and one parboiled sweetbread 
quite fine ; make one cup of cream sauce by using two 
tablespoonfuls of butter melted, adding to it two of 
flour, one cup of thin cream; season with salt and 
pepper, then put in the meat; when heated, add the 
yolks of two beaten eggs ; cook five minutes, then add 
a wine glass of sherry or madeira. Serve. 



MOCK TERRAPIN. 



2 ducks. 

1 lb. calf's liver. 
1 onion. 

3 stalks celery. 



2 cloves. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 
6 peppercorns. 
Sprig of parsley. 



Clean the ducks and put them on to cook in boil- 
ing water with the liver and seasonings ; cook slowly 
until tender ; remove from the kettle when cold. Cut 
ducks and liver in dice, mash the hard-boiled yolks of 
six eggs to a smooth paste, add gradually a cup of 
thick cream, melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
sauce pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half 
cup of milk, stir until smooth, gradually stir in the 



ENTREES. 115 

egg yolks and cream, stir constantly until it reaches 
the boiling point, season with salt and pepper, then 
add the meat, heat and serve. 

CHICKENS, PIGEONS OR GAME OF ANY KIND IN CAS- 
SEROLE. 

Singe and draw them; wipe dry; saute to a rich 
brown in frying pan, using butter, bacon or pork fat ; 
then place in a casserole; add to the fat in the pan 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and two cups of stock, 
chicken, veal or beef stock ; season with salt, pepper, a 
teaspoonful of parsley or cloves, chopped fine, a half 
teaspoonful of onion juice. Cook the sauce for a few 
minutes. Turn it into the casserole, put on the cover 
and cook slowly in the oven about two hours, accord- 
ing to the tenderness of the fowl or game. Skin off the 
fat, and if game, add half cup of stoned olives that 
have been heated or two tablespoonfuls of capers. 
Serve in the casserole. 

CHICKEN LIVERS. 

Put in the chafing dish or sauce pan (over the 
fire) two tablespoonfuls of butter. "When hot add 
the livers cut in pieces. Turn them to brovsTi on all 
sides, dredge with flour, add a cup of stock after they 
have been cooking five minutes ; season with salt and 
pepper, add one-fourth cup of madeira or sherry, a 
few stoned olives. Serve on toast. 

Chicken Livers may be cooked in butter until 
brown, sprinkled with flour, add cream and season- 
ings. 

SALMI OF DUCK OR GAME (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut the meat from cold roasted game or duck into 
small pieces. Break up the bonea and remnants, 



116 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

cover with stock or cold water, add a pincli of herbs, 
two cloves and two peppercorns. Boil down to a cup- 
ful for a pint of meat. Try two small onions cut fine 
in two tablespoonfuls of butter till brown, add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stir till dark brown. Strain 
the liquor in which the bones were boiled and add it 
gradually to the butter and flour; add more salt if 
needed, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, two table- 
spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce and the pieces of 
meat. Simmer fifteen minutes; add a dozen mush- 
rooms and a glass of claret, if you like, or the juice of 
a sour orange. Serve hot on slices of fried bread. 
Garnish with parsley and slices of orange, or serve 
canned peas in the center with the meat on toast 
around them. 

MEAT PIE. 

Out cold-cooked meat into thin slices, remove all 
the gristle, put in baking dish, cover with gravy or 
tomato sauce. Season well. Spread a crust of 
mashed potato over the meat, brush over with beaten 
egg and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

MEAT PIE (No. 2). 

Put layers of cooked sliced meat and potato in a 
baking dish (other vegetables can be used if liked) ; 
cover with a gravy; season and spread over with a 
plain pastry rolled one-half inch thick ; bake in a hot 
oven for thirty minutes, or covered with a baking 
powder biscuit dough. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Put through the meat grinder two pounds of beef 
from the top of the round. Add one-half cup of 



ENTREES. 117 

cream, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of sage, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Pack solidly in a bread pan and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes. When cold, slice 
thin, garnish with sliced pickles or olives. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Cut cooked mutton or lamb in thin slices or cubes. 
Place in a baking dish a layer of meat, sprinkle light- 
ly with salt and pepper and cover a quarter of an 
inch thick with cooked rice, then with tomato sauce, 
and so on until the dish is full. Spread buttered 
crumbs over the top ; bake in a quick oven for twenty 
minutes. 

RAGOUT OP MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Two pounds from the neck of mutton or lamb, cut 
in inch pieces. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter into 
a frying pan, add one onion cut in thin slices, one 
good-sized carrot sliced, and the meat well browned, 
being careful that it does not burn ; then stir in two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and gradually add a cup and a 
half of water, teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper, tie in a piece of muslin a sprig of 
parsley, half a bay leaf and a clove (remove before 
serving). Cover closely and simmer for two hours. 
Add one-half can of peas ten minutes before serving. 
This can be cooked in a casserole dish. 

CooJced mutton or latnb may be prepared in the 
same way, cooking slowly one hour. 



118 ROCKY MOUNTAIK COOK BOOK. 

LIVER LOAF. 

Put a calf's liver througli the meat grinder, sea- 
son lightly with salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne and 
nutmeg and three eggs, one-fourth cup of melted but- 
ter ; mix well together, put into a well-buttered mould 
or bread pan, babe standing in a pan of hot water 
for one hour. Serve cold, garnished with slices of 
hard-boiled egg and pickles or olives. Or serve hot 
with a brovsTi sauce. 

TO BROIL VENISON STEAK. 

Cover with melted butter and then broil as you 
would _ other steaks. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter, or cover with maitre d'hotel sauce. Serve at 
once. 

SWEETBREADS A LA TOURAINE. 

Parboil two sweetbreads; melt three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, saute the sweetbreads in it with two 
good-sized slices of onion and one carrot sliced. When 
browned remove the sweetbreads to a baking pan, add 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry, one-half cup rich stock, 
cook in the oven for half an hour, basting often. Mash 
a pint of cooked peas through a sieve, reheat, allowing 
the water to cook out of them, season with butter, 
pepper and salt, shape into nests (on the platter, one 
for each sweetbread). Arrange the sweetbreads in 
the nests and pour around them the foUovsdng sauce : 
Saute six fresh mushrooms, cut in strips, in butter; 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour ; when blended with 
the butter add a cup of thick cream and the gravy left 
in the pan after cooking the sweetbreads. A nest of 
the whole peas may be used. 



2 cups water. 
4 eggs. 
2 cups flour. 
14 cup finely chopped 
cooked ham. 



ENTREES. 119 

HAM PUFFS. 

% teaspoonful curry powder. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

A little cayenne or paprica. 



As soon as the water boils stir into it the flour; 
beat well; stir until the batter leaves the sides; re- 
move from the fire; beat in the eggs one at a time; 
add the ham and seasonings. Drop the batter from 
the tip of the spoon into smoking-hot fat ; cook until 
brown ; drain on soft paper. Serve with white sauce 
or cabbage salad. 

TERRAPIN. 

The best terrapin are the "Diamond Back," from 
Chesapeake Bay. Very good ones are taken in Long 
Island waters and along the seacoast. The season for 
eating them is from December to April. 

TO PREPARE TERRAPIN. 

Drop the live terrapin into boiling hot water ; let 
them remain for twenty minutes; remove the skin 
from the head and feet by rubbing with a cloth ; wash 
in several waters ; then put into fresh boiling water ; 
cook until tender. This is shown by pressing the feet 
between the fingers. If they are not tender in an 
hour's cooking they probably are not good; the meat 
will be stringy and tough. Remove as soon as tender. 
When cold cut off the nails, remove the shells, very 
carefully take the gall sacks from the liver (if the 
sacks be broken, so the liquid touches the liver or 
meat, it will give a very disagreeable, bitter taste). 
Kemove the entrails, lights, heart, head, tail and 



120 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

white muscles; separate the pieces from the joints, 
divide the meat in pieces an inch and a half long. Do 
not break the bones. Place the meat, terrapin eggs 
and liver in a stew pan, cover with boiling water and 
boil until the meat is ready to drop from the bones. 

STEWED TERRAPIN. 

Mash the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs to a paste ; 
mix them with one-fourth cup of butter ; stir this into 
two cups of hot cream; cook in double boiler; stir 
until smooth; season with salt, paprica and a dash 
of nutmeg ; add one quart of the cooked terrapin and 
cook for fifteen minutes. Just before serving add 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Serve in very hot soup 
plates. 

TERRAPIN A LA NEWBURG. 

Put in a double boiler or chafing dish one quart 
of terrapin, one cup of cream. "When it is well heat- 
ed through add to it the well-beaten yolks of four 
eggs, mixed with one cup of cream ; stir until it thick- 
ens ; season with salt, pepper, paprica and two table- 
spoonfuls madeira or sherry just before serving. 

COCKTAIL OF LITTLE NECK CLAMS AND OYSTERS. 

Chill thoroughly one-half dozen of little neck 
clams or oysters for each person ; mix one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup, six drops of tobasco sauce, a little paprica, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of horse- 
radish; allow a tablespoonful and a half for each 
person. Serve in sherry glasses, grape fruit, lemon 
and orange shells, fresh tomatoes or peppers. 



ENTREES. 121 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Select small bananas, pull down a section of the 
skin and remove the coarse threads, cover with the 
skin and lay them in an agate pan, bake until the 
skins turn black. Remove the pulp from the skin 
and cover with a Sultana Sauce. 

SULTANA SAUCE. 

Pick over and wash one-half cup of Sultana rai- 
sins, cook until plump and tender in boiling water, 
mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a cup of sugar 
and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, pour onto this one 
and one-half cups of boiling water, stir until smooth 
and boil for ten minutes, then add the raisins, that 
have been drained from the water they were cooked 
in, a few gratings of lemon peel and two tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry or brandy. 



122 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FRITTERS. 



FRITTER BATTER (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Yolks of two eggs well beaten, add one-half cup of 
milk or water and one tablespoonful of olive oil, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one cup of flour, or enough 
to make it a drop hatter. When ready to use add the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff. If intended for fruit, 
add a teaspoonful of sugar to the batter ; if for clams, 
tripe or meat, add one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
This batter will keep several days. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Cook the oysters until they are plump; drain 
from the liquor (use the liquor instead of milk to 
make the batter). Dip each oyster into the batter; 
fry until brown in deep fat. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Select large, fine peaches; skin and halve them; 
dip in batter and fry. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Chop the clams ; mix vnth the batter ; drop from 
a spoon into the fat. Use some of the clam water to 
make the batter in place of the milk. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Cut the banana in two-inch pieces, dip in the bat- 
ter and fry a rich brown ; drain on paper. Serve with 
or without a sauce. 



FRITTERS. 123 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Slice in half -inch slices, dip in batter and fry the 
same as banana fritters. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core the apple, slice in half-inch slices, 
dip in batter and fry. Any of these fritters can be 
sprinkled with powdered sugar and served with a 
sauce. It is better to steam the apples a few min- 
utes. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Cook the vegetables until tender, cut in small 
pieces, dip in the batter and fry. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Make the same mixture as for cream puffs, drop 
from a spoon into hot fat, cook until brown, drain. 
Serve with a sauce. 

SAUCE FOR FRITTERS. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt with a cup of sugar ; pour over it one 
cup of boiling water, stir and boil for ten minutes ; 
then add one tablespoonful of creamed butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira, or flavor with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, nutmeg or the juice of 
half an orange and a few drops of lemon juice. Frit- 
ters are served as an entree or dessert. 

BATTER FOR TIMBALE CASES OR FONTAGE CUPS. 

Yolks of two eggs well beaten, half a cup of 
water, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoon- 



124 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ful of olive oil, one cup of flour, or enough to make a 
thin batter. Let it stand for two or three hours be- 
fore using. Have a kettle of hot fat, place the iron 
in the fat until it is very hot, or until the fat smokes, 
letting the iron heat up with the fat ; remove the iron 
from the fat and quickly wipe a little of the fat from 
the mould ; dip it in the batter until it is coated, place 
again in the hot fat, cook a delicate brown, drain on 
soft paper. Be careful in cooking them that the iron 
does not touch the bottom of the kettle, as that will 
break them at the bottom. Use them to hold creamed 
meats, mushrooms, vegetables, fish or anything that 
you care to serve individually. 

BREAD BOXES. 

For these use stale bread; cut from a loaf slices 
an inch and a half thick, trim off the crusts, making 
a trim thick slice; cut out a square from the inside, 
making a box to hold creamed meats or vegetables. 
Cover the boxes with melted butter and brown in the 
oven. These can be cut in rounds, squares, hearts, 
diamonds or any fancy shapes. 



VEGETABLES. 125 



VEGETABLES. 



When convenient, vegetables should be freshly 
picked and thoroughly washed. The most simple 
ways of cooking them are the best ; they then retain 
their ovsm flavor. Most all vegetables sbould be 
cooked in boiling salted water, and removed from the 
stove as soon as done, as over-cooking will make tbem 
soggy. Green vegetables keep their color better by 
cooking without a cover. The time for cooking de- 
pends upon their freshness and the altitude. A high 
altitude requires a longer cooking. They should be 
seasoned with salt, pepper, butter, cream and sauces. 
Fresh green vegetables that contain sugar should have 
a small quantity of sugar added to tbe seasoning to 
replace tbat which is boiled away in the water. One 
vegetable, besides the potato, is served with the meat 
course; other vegetables, like egg plant, stuffed to- 
matoes and peppers, artichokes, mushrooms, maca- 
roni and many others, can be served as a separate 
course. 

POTATOES. 

To Boil Potatoes. — Wash them well with a brush, 
pare them and drop at once in cold water, having 
them uniform size so they will be done together. Put 
them on to cook in boiling salted water, about half a 
teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water, boil slowly 
till they are done (as violent boiling breaks them). 
Then drain oflF all the water, return to the back of 
the stove, shake gently to allow the steam to escape, 
sprinkle with a little salt and serve on a hot dish. Po- 



126 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

tatoes cooked in this way will always be light and pal- 
atable. 

OLD POTATOES. 

In the spring of the year the potatoes become 
withered (the water evaporates from them) ; they 
should then be pared and allowed to soak in cold 
water two or three hours before cooking, so that they 
may take in some of the water they have lost. 

NEW POTATOES. 

New potatoes are boiled with the skin on. As 
soon as they are done peel them and dry on the stove ; 
season with salt alone, or cover them with a little 
melted butter and a sprinkling of finely chopped 
chives or parsley; just a little cream, pepper and salt 
make a nice dressing, or cover with cream sauce. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil and dry the potatoes as directed, mash them 
in the same dish in which they are boiled. For two 
cups of potato use one-half cup of milk or cream, 
heated with two tablespoonfuls of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; add slowly to the potato, beating all 
the time ; when very light and foamy, pile into a hot 
serving dish, but do not smooth them over, as that will 
make them heavy. 

RICED POTATO. 

Press well-seasoned, lightly mashed potato 
through a potato ricer onto the serving dish. Serve 
broiled meats around a mound of riced potato. 



VEGETABLES. 127 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mix a well-beaten egg with seasoned mashed po- 
tatoes, mould in cakes, dip in melted butter and brown 
in the oven, on a buttered pan, or saute in butter or 
bacon fat ; garnish with parsley. 

POTATO HOSES. 

Use well-seasoned, hot mashed potatoes, add to two 
cups of the potato the yolks of two eggs and the white 
of one well beaten, place in a pastry bag with a tube 
having a star-shaped opening; force out the potato 
from the tube with a gentle pressure, guide it around 
in a circle until it comes to a point, have them small, 
brush them over lightly with beaten egg, brown them 
in the oven by placing them onto a well-buttered pan, 
or garnish a planked fish with them. If browned on 
a pan remove them carefully with a broad-bladed 
knife. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Two cups of hot seasoned mashed potato, fold 
lightly into it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs, 
turn at once into well-buttered dishes, individual 
dishes, paper boxes or one large flat dish can be used ; 
brown in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve at 
once with fish, meat or entrees. The potato can also 
be baked in a well-buttered border mould, then turned 
into a hot dish and the center filled with creamed 
meats, mushrooms or fish. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes or thin slices, 
make a cream sauce in double boiler, season well with 



128 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

salt and pepper, heat the potatoes in the sauce for 
fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a sprink- 
ling of chopped parsley or chives over them. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Butter a baking dish, cover the bottom with a 
layer of cooked sliced cold potato, then with a layer 
of cream sauce, and so on until the dish is full; 
sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top, brown in a hot 
oven. 

DELMONICO POTATOES. 

Out cold boiled potatoes into small cubes, butter 
a baking dish, or individual dishes or cases, cover the 
bottom with a layer of potato, then with a layer of 
cream sauce; sprinkle over with grated or thinly 
sliced cheese and a little paprica ; fill up the dish with 
the layers, having the cheese on top, bake in a hot 
oven from ten to fifteen minutes, according to the 
amount baked. These potatoes are delicious served 
with broiled meats. 

POTATOES A LA BECHAMEL. 

Cut cold potatoes into cubes as for Delmonico po- 
tatoes, bake in buttered dishes, cover the layer of 
potato with Bechamel sauce and sprinkle buttered 
crumbs over the top, brown in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

VIENNESE POTATOES. 

Add to two cups of hot, seasoned mashed potato 
the yolks of two eggs and the white of one well beaten, 
and one-half cup of grated cheese; mould into small 



VEGETABLES. 129 

balls and roll the balls into long shape, thick in the 
center, with pointed ends, roll on a slightly floured 
board, brush over with slightly beaten egg, lay on 
well-buttered pan one inch apart, make two slanting 
cuts on the top of each, again brush over with egg, 
brown in a hot oven; remove carefully on a hroad- 
bladed knife. Garnish broiled meats or fish. 

MASHED POTATOES MILANESE. 

Peel the potatoes, boil in boiling salted water till 
tender, drain and shake over the stove until the 
steam has escaped, mash till smooth and creamy, 
moistening all the time with chicken stock; season 
with salt and pepper and add cream enough to enable 
to beat with an egg beater; pile in a dish without 
smoothing, sprinkle grated cheese over the top, brown 
in a hot oven. 

POTATO BALLS. 

To make the balls, use a potato scoop, pare and 
wash the potato, press the scoop well into the potato 
and then turn it to form the ball (cook at once the 
scraps left from the potato and use for mashed or 
creamed potatoes) . Cook till tender in boiling salted 
water. Serve with butter, pepper and salt or in cream 
sauce, or maitre d'hotel sauce. These make a pretty 
garnish to serve as a mound, cannon-ball style, on top 
of boiled, broiled or baked fish. 

FRIED POTATO BALLS AND STRAWS. 

Cut the potatoes with the scoop for the balls, and 
in slices, then in thin strips for the straws ; soak in 
cold water for one hour, dry between towels, fry a 



130 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

few at a time in smoking hot, deep fat, drain on soft 
paper, season with salt. 

FRENCH-FRIED POTATOES. 

Out raw potatoes in half-inch slices, then half- 
inch strips, soak in cold water for an hour, dry, and 
fry in smoking hot fat. Season with salt. 

POTATO NESTS. 

Prepare the potato as for straws, arrange them 
in nest shape in a wire utensil that comes for the pur- 
pose (it is a wire formed in the shape of a nest) ; fry 
in deep fat, remove from the form, drain and fill 
with creamed fish, meats, or mushrooms; garnish 
with parsley. 

WALDORF POTATOES. 

Out raw potatoes round and round, the same as 
you would pare an apple ; fry in a basket in deep fat ; 
drain on a paper, season with salt, garnish a roast or 
fish with them. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Shave raw potatoes in thin slices. A potato slicer 
is much the better to use. Soak in cold water for one 
hour, dry between towels, fry in deep fat, drain on 
soft paper, sprinkle with salt. 

Cut raw potatoes in hearts, crescents and other 
fancy shapes by using cookie cutters and the French 
vegetable knife, first cutting the potatoes in slices; 
fry in deep fat or cook in boiling salted water. Serve 
with cream sauce. 



VEGETABLES. 131 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES. 

Cut cold cooked potatoes into small cubes. Put 
into a frying pan slices of salt pork cut thin; when 
they are well browned remove them and put in the 
potato; with a knife press it into a mound; when it 
has browned on one side, with a wide-bladed knife 
turn and brown on the other side. Serve on a hot dish. 
The pork gives a very delicious flavor to the potatoes. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices half an inch 
thick, fry till brown on both sides in a frying pan 
that is well greased with salt pork or bacon fat, sea- 
son with salt and a little pepper. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes, put them in the pan 
with the meat and baste when the meat is basted. 
Serve on the platter with the meat. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes, season with 
salt and pepper. Saute one tablespoonful of finely 
chopped onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter until a 
light brown, then add the potatoes and stir with a fork 
until they have absorbed all the butter; add one- 
half tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Serve 
on a hot dish. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut in slices one-quarter of an inch 
thick. Broil on both sides till tender, season with 



132 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

butter, pepper and salt, or use cold boiled sweet or 
white potatoes, cut them in slices, dip in melted but- 
ter and broil till a delicate brown; season with salt 
and pepper. 

BAKED SWEET AND WHITE POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size, wash and scrub 
them with a brush, place in a pan and bake till soft. 
Break the skin to allow the steam to escape. Serve 
at once uncovered. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake four potatoes; when tender cut in halves 
lengthwise and scoop out the inside; mash and beat 
till very light ; season with a tablespoonful of butter 
and cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and fold 
into the mixture the white of two eggs which have 
been beaten stiff; fill the skins, heaping it lightly on 
top ; replace in a hot oven and brown. 

STUFFED POTATOES (No. 2). 

Bake the potatoes, cut a piece off the top of each, 
remove the inside, season, mash and mix with any 
chopped meat or grated cheese (the cheese is very de- 
licious) ; replace in the potato, letting it come a little 
over the top of the potato, brush the top over with 
melted butter and brown in the oven. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Cut cold, baked or boiled sweet potatoes in quar- 
ter-inch slices, cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
a layer of the potato spread quite thickly with pieces 



VEGETABLES. 133 

of butter, and scatter over a little sugar and salt ; sea- 
son each layer in this way, having the sugar on top. 
Bake in the oven until heated through and browned 
slightly. 

GREENS. 

Greens should be well picked over, wash in several 
cold waters, pxit on to cook without water, the water 
that clings to the leaves is sufficient to cook them; 
sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt and cook 
slowly, uncovered, until tender ; drain, chop fine, gar- 
nish with hard-boiled eggs cut in slices or eighths, or 
run the yolks through a potato ricer, and sprinkle over 
the top ; cut the whites in rings and place around the 
outside. Season with butter and a little pepper and 
salt. 

SPINACH. 

Cook and prepare the same as greens, or after 
chopping mix with butter, a little cream, garnish 
with egg and points of toast, or form in a mound, 
cover with biittered cracker crumbs, brown in the 
oven and surround with broiled chops. Spinach is 
very nice served in bread boxes. 



SPINACH SOUFFLE. 

Take one cup of spinach (prepared as directed 
above with the cream and butter), add to it the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs, fill individual dishes or 
paper boxes with the mixture (about two-thirds full), 
place in a hot oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Serve 
at once with a roast or broiled meats. 



134 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SPINACH TIMBALE. 

Mix one cup of cooked spinach that has been 
finely chopped and pressed through a coarse sieve 
with one-half cup of thin cream, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and two beaten ^gs, a little pepper. Bake 
in one large mould or in individual molds, setting in 
a pan of hot water on top of the stove, or in the oven, 
until the center is firm. Let stand a few minutes 
before removing from the mould ; serve with or with- 
out a sauce. 

CABBAGE. 

Take off the outside leaves, cut in quarters, wash 
and soak in cold water for one hour, drain and put 
on to cook in boiling salted water with a fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda. The soda helps to make it more di- 
gestible. When tender drain, cut or chop fine, season 
with butter, hot milk or cream, salt and pepper, or 
mix with a white sauce and cover with buttered 
crumbs, brown in the oven. 

CABBAGE BAKED WITH CHEESE. 

Cold cabbage can be used; chop cooked cabbage 
fine, put in a baking dish layers of cabbage, white 
sauce and cheese, well seasoned, having the cheese on 
top; brown in a hot oven. 

ROUTH KROUTH. 

Cut red cabbage in halves, soak in cold water, 
then shave in thin slices, put on to cook in the follow- 
ing mixture : For every two cups of cabbage use two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, the same amount of vinegar, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, little pepper, two cups 



VEGETABLES. 135 

of boiling water; cook slowly till tender. Serve hot 
or cold. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off the outside leaves, cut the stalk even 
with the flower, let it soak upside down in cold salted 
water for half an hour to draw out any insects, cook 
the same way as cabbage. Serve with white, Hol- 
landaise, Bechamel sauce or drawn butter ; or serve in 
any of the ways as directed for cabbage. 

CAULIFLOWER ITALIAN. 

Trim off the outside leaves, soak the cauliflower 
in cold water for an hour, then place on a plate and 
steam until tender, cover with grated cheese and 
brovsm in the oven for about five minutes. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Remove any wilted leaves, soak in cold salted 
water, to draw out any insects that may be in them, 
cook in boiling salted water (uncovered) till tender, 
but not till they lose their shape ; season with butter, 
pepper and salt, or cover with a cream or HoUandaise 
sauce. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Out off the white, hard end of the stalks, untie the 
bundles, soak for half an hour in cold water, tie them 
up again and cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der; remove onto slices of buttered toast, cut the 
string and season with butter, pepper and salt, or 
cover with a white or poulette sauce; or cut the as- 
paragus in inch pieces, boil and season as directed 
above, or serve plain without toast. 



136 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 
ASPARAGUS LOAF. 

Butter quite thick a three-pint mould or bowl (a 
pail could be used), decorate the bottom and sides 
with stalks of cooked asparagus ; melt two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a double boiler, stir into it two of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth of 
paprica; stir into it gradually one cup of cream, one 
cup and a half of cooked asparagus tips and four well- 
beaten eggs ; turn into the mould, cook standing in a 
dish of hot water until the center is firm, either in the 
oven or on top of the stove ; do not let the water boil. 
(It is easier to cook in the oven on that account.) 
Invert on a serving dish. Serve surrounded by a 
cream sauce with asparagus tips added, or serve with- 
out a sauce. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Out off the outside leaves, soak in cold water for 
a half hour, trim away the lower leaves and the ends 
of the others, cook in boiling salted water until the 
leaves can be drawn out, drain, remove the choke and 
serve with cream sauce, or drawn butter. 

EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant in slices one-Tialf an inch thick 
without removing the skin. Steam till tender, din 
each slice in powdered crumbs, then in egg, and in 
crumbs again ; saute on both sides, in lard, butter or 
drippings till tender. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Boil the egg plant till tender, cut in halves, re- 
move the insides and mash ; season with butter, pep- 



VEGETABLES. 137 

per and salt; if you like, add two tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese or one-half cup of almonds cut very 
fine, put back in the shells, cover with buttered 
crumbs, brown in the oven. 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape and at once throw into cold water, with a 
little vinegar or lemon juice to keep from discoloring ; 
cook in boiling salted water till tender (about one 
hour), drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, or 
cut in half-inch pieces and serve in cream sauce, or 
dip in fritter batter and fry in hot fat, or when cold 
brown in butter. 

RAW TOMATOES. 

Scald by pouring boiling water over them a few 
hours before using, peel and put on the ice ; slice or 
serve whole with mayonnaise or French dressing; 
garnish with lettuce. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour over them boiling water, remove the skins 
and cut in small pieces, removing all the bad places ; 
stew until tender, with a very little water. To one 
quart of tomato add one teaspoonful of salt and sugar, 
one tablespoonful each of butter and powdered crack- 
er crumbs and a little pepper; cook the cracker 
crumbs in the tomato five minutes before adding the 
seasonings. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Scald and peel the tomatoes ; butter a baking dish 
and cover the bottom with a layer of tomatoes cut in 



138 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

half-incli slices ; season with salt, pepper and a sprin- 
kling of sugar; cover with, a thin layer of buttered 
crumbs (a little onion juice is an improvement) ; fill 
the dish with the layers, having the crumbs on top; 
bake in a hot oven for one hour, less time if a 
small quantity is used. A layer of grated cheese can 
be added to each layer of tomato. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select large, firm tomatoes ; cut a thin slice from 
the stem end and scoop out the inside; sprinkle the 
inside with salt and pepper; fill with the following 
mixtures : Mix with the pulp an equal amount of but- 
tered cracker crumbs; season with salt, pepper and 
onion juice, or use in place of the crumbs the same 
amount of cooked rice or macaroni; fill the tomatoes 
full, replace the slice of tomato, cover with a thin two- 
inch slice of salt, fat pork, hold the slices of tomato 
and pork in place by putting a wooden toothpick 
through them. The pork bastes them and adds very 
much to the flavor. Remove the toothpick before serv- 
ing. The top of the tomato can be covered with but- 
tered crumbs instead of using the slices of tomato and 
pork. 

Bake in a granite pan, with a little stock or hot 
water. Serve on slices of toast or surrounded by a 
brown sauce. Any kind of finely chopped meat may 
be used for stuffing by mixing it with a few buttered 
crumbs, a little stock or a little leftover sauce, well 
seasoned, and a grating of onion or cooked peppers 
finely chopped. Cooked mushrooms and sweetbreads 
can be used by chopping them and mixing with either 
of the following sauces: Cream, celery, allemande, 
poulette, or Bechamel, or stuff with seasoned rice. 



VEGETABLES. 139 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHEESE. 

One-half pound fresh mushrooms, one-half cup of 
grated cheese. Peel and cut the mushrooms in small 
pieces, stew for five minutes in two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water, drain well, put in sauce pan, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter; stir into it two of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful salt and one-eighth of paprica, and 
the water that was drained from the mushrooms, with 
enough cream to make one cup in all. Cook ten min- 
utes, stirring. Then add the mushrooms and grated 
cheese, fill the tomatoes with the mixture and cover 
the top with buttered crumbs. Bake with a few table- 
spoonfuls of stock or hot water in the pan. Serve on 
buttered toast. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut tomatoes in halves. Put them in a granite 
pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place a tea- 
spoonful of butter on each one. Let them cook till 
soft, but not to lose their shape. Remove on a hot 
dish surrounded with curry sauce. 

TOMATOES WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Prepare and cook the same as for curry tomatoes, 
surroumded with celery sauce. 



TO PREPARE PEPPERS FOR STUFFING. 

Cut a slice from the top, scoop out the inside and 
parboil in boiling salted water five minutes. Stuff 
with any of the mixtures you would use for toma- 
toes. 



140 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

Chop one pepper and a slice of onion very fine. 
Parboil one pint of oysters, drain, cut in small pieces. 
Soak one-half cup of fine bread crumbs in the oyster 
liquor, press out the liquor. Saute the pepper and 
onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter till a light 
brown, add them to the oysters and crumbs. Season 
with salt and pepper, fill up the peppers and cover 
the top with buttered cracker crumbs. Bake until 
tender. Serve with tomato sauce. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH SWEETBREADS. 

Simmer sweetbreads in boiling salted water, with 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice five minutes ; then cut 
in small cubes. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
add to it two of flour and one-half cup of chicken 
stock, the same amount of cream. Season with salt 
and pepper. Cook ten minutes, add the sweetbreads, 
and a half cup of mushrooms if you wish ; fill the pep- 
pers, cover with buttered crumbs. Bake and serve on 
rounds of toast. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes in thick slices (without peeling) , 
brush over with melted butter and broil, turning fre- 
quently. Lay them on a hot dish, season each slice 
with salt, pepper and a piece of butter. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut firm ripe tomatoes in halves, cut off the green 
stem, place them in an agate baking pan, the cut side 
up; season each piece with a little salt, a few small 



VEGETABLES. 141 

pieces of butter, some chives cut very fine, or in place 
of the chives, very finely chopped onion; bake in a 
hot oven about fifteen minutes. Do not cook long 
enough to break and lose their shape; place each one 
on round pieces of buttered toast. 

CHESTNUT PUREE. 

Remove the shells by cutting a cross on the flat 
side of each and putting them in a pan in a hot oven 
till the shell bursts open. The shell and skin v^ill both 
come off together. Put them in boiling salted water 
and cook until very tender, then drain and mash 
through a potato ricer, or colander. Season with but- 
ter, pepper, salt and a little cream. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Eemove the skins, put them on to cook in boiling 
salted water. After they have been cooking five 
minutes change the water, and change again after ten 
minutes' cooking ; then boil till tender, drain, remove 
carefully to a hot dish, put a piece of butter in the 
center of each and a little pepper and salt. A little 
thick cream may be poured over them, or a cream 
sauce. 

ROASTED ONIONS. 

Boil the onions for ten minutes, drain them care- 
fully and remove to a granite pan. Place a good- 
sized piece of butter on each one, put in a hot oven 
and cook till tender, baste with melted butter if nec- 
essary to prevent burning. Place on a hot dish and 
season with salt and pepper. Or use as a garnish. 



142 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Cut in thin slices (it is best to use the young 
onions), and fry till brown and tender in butter, or 
fry until crisp six thin slices of salt fat pork ; put in 
the onions and cook. The pork gives them a delicious 
flavor. Season v^ith salt and pepper. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

If the onions are large cut in quarters, boil, then 
put in a baking dish ; cover vfith cream sauce and but- 
tered crumbs. Bake till brown. 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. 

Peel and cut out a part of the inside, parboil them 
for five minutes, drain, fill with any kind of force 
meat, mixed with one-third part of moistened bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and melted butter, 
cover the top with buttered crumbs ; cook in the oven 
till tender. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots when young and tender make a very de- 
licious vegetable. Wash and scrape them, cook in 
boiling salted water. Serve with butter, pepper and 
salt, or a cream sauce. Cut in slices, cubes, strips or 
rounds, with a potato cutter if you like, before boil- 
ing. Or cut in half lengthwise and brown in hot 
butter. 

TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare, cut in slices or fancy shapes. Cook 
and season the same as carrots, or mash and season 
with melted butter, pepper and salt. 



VEGETABLES. 143 

STUFFED TURNIPS. 

Select turnips of uniform size, cut out the center 
and cook in bailing salted water till tender and fill 
with any of the following mixtures: Creamed peas, 
or a pea puree, carrots and string beans that have 
been cooked, chopped fine and seasoned with a little 
cream, salt and pepper, or either of the vegetables 
alone, or stuff with a puree of chestnuts or creamed 
mushrooms; garnish the top with a slice of truffle. 
Serve hot as a vegetable, garnish a fillet of beef with 
them or surround a crown roast. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, cook in boiling salted water. Sea- 
son the same as carrots. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Cut cold cooked parsnips in halves lengthwise, or 
if very large in half-inch slices. Saute in hot butter, 
brown on both sides. Season with salt. 

BEETS. 

Wash and cook in boiling salted water. When 
tender, drain and plunge in cold water ; the skin will 
then slip off easily. Season with butter, pepper and 
salt and vinegar. 

CORN ON THE EAR. 

Strip off the outside husks, leaving enough of the 
husks to completely cover the ear ; tie a string around 
the end of each ear to hold the husk. Cook in boiling 



144 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

unsalted water for ten or fifteen minutes, according 
to the age of the com. Salt would harden the hull. 
Before boiling remove all the silk from the ear, then 
replace the husk. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Use equal parts of shelled beans and com, cut 
from the ear, first cooking each separately; mix to- 
gether. Season with cream, butter, salt and pepper. 
In the winter time the dried lima beans and canned 
com may be used. Soak the beans over night in cold 
water, cook in boiling water till tender, drain off the 
water, add the corn, reheat and season. 

GREEN PEAS. 

The time for cooking depends upon the freshness 
and age of the peas. Cook them uncovered in boiling 
water, salt them when nearly done. They are done 
when they mash easily with a fork. Let the water 
boil nearly away, and season with butter, cream and 
a little sugar if you wish, or serve in a cream sauce. 
Peas contain a great deal of nutrition. 

STRING BEANS. 

Remove the strings. Lay a number of the beans 
together, with a sharp knife cut them in quarter-inch 
pieces, or cut them lengthwise in thin strips. Cook 
in boiling salted water for one hour or longer. When 
tender season with salt, pepper, butter, cream or a 
cream sauce. 

SHELLED BEANS. 

Wash and cook in boiling salted water for half 
an hour to an hour. Season the same as string beans. 



VEGETABLES. 146 

DRIED LIMA BEANS 

Are cooked the same as shelled beans, first soaking 
them over night. Beans, like peas, contain a great 
deal of nutrition. 

CELERY. 

Scrape clean, saving the coarse outside pieces for 
soups, sauce or creamed celery. Put in cold water 
for half an hour before using. Serve with the soup. 

CREAMED CELERY. 

Clean, cut in inch pieces, cook in boiling salted 
water. Serve in cream sauce. 

BOILED CELERY. 

Boil the large outside stalks, without cutting them, 
till tender ; season with butter, salt and pepper and a 
thin grating of cheese. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

If the shell be hard split the squash, remove the 
seeds and steam. If the shell is soft pare it before 
steaming. To one pint of squash season with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a little pepper, and a little heavy cream is a great im- 
provement ; mash very lightly. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, remove the seeds, place in a pan and 
bake till soft. Mash and season. 



146 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Wash and cut in small pieces, cook with or with- 
out the skin and seeds. Cook in hoiling salted water 
or steam. When tender, remove to a piece of cheese 
cloth, squeeze till the squash is dry. Mash and sea- 
son. 

CORN MOCK OYSTERS. 

Cut down through the center of each row of ker- 
nels with a sharp knife; with the back of the knife 
press out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. To 
one cup of the pulp add two well-beaten eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of butter and half of salt, little pepper 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour, or enough to hold it 
together. Fry as you would griddle cakes on a but- 
tered griddle, or add a little more flour and drop 
from a spoon into deep fat, making a com fritter. Use 
canned corn the same way, first heating and mashing 
through a strainer. 

SWEET CORN IN CREAM WITH CHEESE 

Cut the com from the ears, moisten with thick 
cream, season with salt and pepper ; fill a baking dish, 
cover the top with grated Parmesan or cream cheese. 
Sprinkle with a little paprica, bake quite slowly for 
half an hour. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI AND VERMICELLI. 

Macaroni and spaghetti are used as a vegetable, 
vermicelli for soups and puddings. They are made 
from flour and water and should be combined with 
sauces or cheese. Cheese is most palatable cooked or 



VEGETABLES. 147 

served with it, as it supplies the fat which the maca- 
roni does not contain. Combined with cheese and 
sauce it makes a most nutritious dish, and should 
enter into our diet more extensively. 



TO COOK MACARONI. 

If the macaroni or sphaghetti is to be used for a 
garnish or timbales, do not break it, but place the 
long pieces carefully in boiling salted water. "When 
to be used in other ways, break in inch pieces. Cook 
in boiling salted water till tender, drain in a colander 
and pour cold water over it. This prevents it from 
being sticky. Keheat in a white sauce and serve. Or 
put in a baking dish, cover with white sauce and a 
sprinkling of buttered crumbs on top. Brown in a 
hot oven. 



BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of cooked macaroni 
then a layer of white sauce, and grated or thinly 
sliced cheese with a sprinkling of salt and paprica. 
Fill up the dish in this way, having the cheese on top. 
Brown in a hot oven. 



MACARONI WITH TOMATO OR OTHER SAUCES. 

Cook the macaroni as directed. Mix with the 
sauces and serve, or mix with the sauces with, the ad- 
dition of cheese and buttered crumbs and bake in the 
oven. Individual baking dishes may be used, as well 
as a large dish. 



148 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MACARONI AND EGGS. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer 
of cooked macaroni, then a layer of hard cooked eggs, 
cut in thin slices. Cover with a white sauce and but- 
tered crumbs, or grated cheese. Brown in a hot oven. 
This makes a very good luncheon dish, it being also 
most nutritious. 

FLORENTINE MACARONI. 

Break macaroni in three- or four-inch pieces ; cook 
till tender in boiling salted water, drain through a 
colander and place on a hot platter, sprinkle lightly 
with grated cheese and pass with it a tomato sauce. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Can be cooked the same as macaroni. It is most 
often served without being broken. It then becomes 
an art to wind it around a fork and eat it success- 
fully. 



SAUCES. 14» 



SAUCES. 



It is very easy to make good sauces if the proper 
care is takeij. at the beginning by first melting the but- 
ter and stirring the flour into it, thus forming the 
roux — or thickening. For white sauces the flour is 
not changed. For brown sauces the flour is cooked 
in the oven until brown. Sauces are a great improve- 
ment to the dishes they accompany, especially so to 
made-over dishes. Save every scrap of meat and 
bone. It takes a very little to make the stock for a 
sauce. The flavor of vegetables can be obtained by 
sauteing them in butter before the flour is added. 
White sauces should be cooked in a double boiler to 
prevent the milk from burning. A sauce that is made 
by melting the butter, then stirring into it the flour, 
and gradually the liquid, cannot help being a smooth 
sauce, if quickly stirred. It is safer to strain all 
sauces before serving. If you do not have stock on 
hand beef extract can be used in place. In that case 
saute the vegetables first in the butter. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE (For Fish). 

2 cups boiling water or 

white stock. 
14 cup butter. 



3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 



Melt the butter, and when bubbling stir in the 
flour, salt and pepper, gradually stir in the water, or 
stock. Cook ten minutes. 



150 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CAPER SAUCE (To Serve with Boiled Mutton). 

Make the same as drawn butter sauce, using the 
liquid the mutton was boiled in instead of water. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of capers. 

WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE. 



2 cups of milk, cream or 

white stock. 
4 tahlespoonfuls of butter. 



4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of peppar. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler. Melt the but- 
ter in a sauce pan, stir the flour into it, also season- 
ings ; when smooth, stir it gradually into the hot milk. 
Cook ten minutes, stirring frequently. This sauce, 
when made partly of cream, can be used for creamed 
toast. 

SHRIMP SAUCE (For Fish). 

Add one cup of shrimps that have been cut in 
small pieces, to a white sauce, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice and a little paprica or red pepper. Cook 
ten minutes after the shrimps have been added. 

EGG SAUCE (For Boiled Fish). 

Cut two hard-boiled eggs in slices or cubes, add 
to a white sauce ; add a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, if cared for. 

LOBSTER SAUCE (For Fish). 

One cup of lobster cut in dice, added to a white 
sauce, one tablespoonful lemon juice, the dried and 
powdered coral. 



SAUCES. 151 

OYSTER SAUCE (Boiled Fish or Fowl). 

Cook the oysters in their own liquors till the 
edges curl. Make a white sauce, using half the liquor 
the oysters were cooked in, and half cream. Add the 
oysters and a little paprica. Serve as soon as the oys- 
ters are added. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut the celery in one-half inch pieces. Cook till 
tender in boiling salted water, let the water cook 
down to one-half cup, make a white sauce with the 
celery water and cream, add the celery, reheat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Peel and break in small pieces one-half pound 
fresh mushrooms. Cook in one-fourth cup of hot 
water for five minutes. Drain from the liquid. Make 
a white sauce by using the mushroom liquor and 
cream, half and half, add the mushrooms, reheat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE (Using Canned Mushrooms). 

Make a brown roux, using two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Stir 
into it one cup of brown stock, one-half cupful of the 
liquor from the mushrooms, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little pepper. Cook ten minutes, add the beaten yolk 
of an egg that has been diluted with one tablespoonful 
of cream, then the mushrooms. Cook ten minutes 
longer. Serve with beefsteak or fowls. Canned 
mushrooms can be used with the white sauce made of 
milk, cream or white stock. 



152 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, the same 
amount of capers, chopped pickles and olives, and 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped chives, or in place 
of the chives one-half teaspoonful onion juice to two 
cups of drawn butter sauce. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, using one-half chicken or 
veal stock and one-half milk. When the sauce has 
cooked ten minutes, add to it the yolks of two beaten 
eggs mixed with one-half cup of cream. Stir till it 
thickens, but do not let boil. A dash of nutmeg can 
be used. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook two slices each of onion and carrot in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter till a light brown. Drain off 
the butter, reheat and stir into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, 
then gradually add one cup of chicken or veal stock 
and one-half cup of cream. 

POULETTE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, using well-seasoned chicken 
stock that has been seasoned with onion, carrot, cel- 
ery, salt and pepper. Just before serving add to it 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, yolk of one egg, diluted 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream and one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley. Do not add the lemon juice until 
just before sending to the table. The cream and egg 
can be cooked in the sauce about five minutes, cook- 
ing over hot water. 



SAUCES. 153 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Brown two slices of onion in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. When brown remove the onion and stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with a teaspoon- 
ful of curry powder and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
then add two cups of milk or half cream, and make 
the same as white sauce. 

BREAD SAUCE (Foi Game). (Mis. Lincoln). 



2 cups of milk. 

^^ cup fine bread crumbs. 

3 slices of onion. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



% teaspoonful of salt. 

Speck of pepper. 

% cup coarse bread crumbs. 



Cook the fine crumbs and onion in the milk for 
one-half hour (over hot water). Remove the onion, 
add the salt, pepper and butter creamed. Brown the 
coarse crumbs in butter, sprinkle the crumbs over the 
bird and serve the sauce with it, or around it. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE (For Baked, Broiled or Boiled Fish). 



y^ cup of butter. 
Yolks of three eggs. 
Juice of half a lemon. 



Speck of paprica or pepper. 
% cup boiling water. 



Hub the butter to a cream in a double boiler, beat 
in the yolks one at a time, then add the lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. About ten minutes before using, 
add the boiling water, cook over hot water, stirring 
continuously until it thickens. Potato balls are 
cooked and served in the sauce and poured around 
the fish. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE (For Fish and Veal). 

Cook in double boiler for twenty minutes onefhalf 
cup of freshly grated horseradish, and one-half cup 



154 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of fine bread crumbs, tben add one cup of cream and 
season with salt and pepper. If milk is used instead 
of cream, mix witli it the beaten yolk of an egg and 
just before serving add a tablespoonful of butter. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE (For Fish). 

Pare one good-sized cucumber, grate and drain. 
Season with salt, pepper and tarragon vinegar. Com- 
mon vinegar can be used in place of the other. 

MINT SAUCE (For Lamb). 

1 cup finely chopped mint. I % cup vinegar. 
% cup sugar. | 

Mix all together. Serve cold or hot. If cold, let 
it stand an hour before serving. If hot heat only to 
the boiling point. 

MUSTARD SAUCE (Com Beef or Pish). 

Make one cup of drawn butter sauce, add to it one 
tablespoonful of mustard mixed with a tablespoonful 
of vinegar and a little paprica or red pepper. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Whip one-half cup of thick cream and stir into it 
two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish that has been 
drained from the liquid; add one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt. Serve with cold meats, broiled fish or baked 
beans. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE (For Ham). 

Put in a sauce pan one cup of champagne, or 
white wine, one teaspoonful of sugar, one clove, four 



SAUCES. 1S5 

peppercorns. Let them heat very slowly for ten min- 
utes. Strain, add a cup of brown sauce, and if con- 
venient one-half cup of mushrooms. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 
(Broiled Fish and Steak). (Mrs. Lincoln). 



Vi cup butter. 

y^ teaspoonful of salt. 

Speck of pepper. 



1 tablespoonful each of 
chopped parsley and 
lemon juice. 



Rub the butter to a cream, add the salt, pepper 
and parsley and very slowly the lemon juice. 

ESPA6N0LE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, add to it two yolks of eggs, 
beaten slightly, diluted with two tahlespoonfuls of 
cream. Dissolve one tablespoonful of granulated gel- 
atine in one cup of highly seasoned hot chicken stock. 
Mix with the white sauce and when cool dip pieces of 
cooked chicken, veal or lamb in it. When cold, dip 
again to give it another coating. Serve very cold on 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with olives stuffed with pep- 
pers. 

BROWN SAUCE. 



2 tahlespoonfuls of butter. 

3 tahlespoonfuls of flour. 
2 slices of onion. 



2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 

2 cups of stock. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Melt the butter in a sauce pan. When hot, add 
the onion and brown slightly, then add the floxir and 
gradually the stock. Cook ten minutes, add the 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. Strain, reheat and 
serve. Stock for brown sauces can he made from 
any kind of meat and bones with the soup stock sea- 



156 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sonings, first soaking the bones and meat in cold 
water for one hour. The different flavors and sea- 
sonings added to the brown sauce make a great variety 
of sauces. 

BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one-half cup of 
mushrooms. 

SAUCE POINADE. 

To one cup of brown stock add one teaspoonful 
mixed herbs, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, one clove. 
Cook fifteen minutes, strain, reheat with on&-half cup 
of claret. Make the sauce a little thicker than brown 
sauce to start with, as the claret will dilute it. 

BROWN SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one teaspoonful 
each of chopped pickles, capers and olives, having the 
spoons rounding full. 

ROBERT SAUCE. 

To one cup of stock, one teaspoonful made mus- 
tard and two of tarragon vinegar. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE (For Mutton and Game). 

One cup of brown sauce, one-half cup of currant 
jelly. Heat both together and serve. 

OLIVE SAUCE (For Roast Duck). 

Soak one-half cup of olives in cold water for 
thirty minutes to extract the salt. Half of them chop 



SAUCES. 157 

fine and the remainder pare round and round, as you 
would an apple. Add to one cup of brown sauce. 
Simmer for ten minutes. 

FLEMISH SAUCE. 

One cup brown sauce, one-half cup of carrots that 
have been cut in dice and boiled, one tablespoonful 
each of green peas, chopped pickles and grated horse- 
radish, a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives or a few 
drops of onion juice. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Cook in two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped peppers and a teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped onion. Cook in one cup of 
brown sauce, one-half cup of stewed tomatoes for ten 
minutes. Strain and add slowly to the butter and 
peppers, with a tablespoonful each of capers and 
mushrooms. 

TOMATO SAUCE (No. i). 

Cook one cup of tomato and slice of onion ten 
minutes, mash through a strainer and add to one cup 
of brown sauce with a half teaspoonful of sugar. Salt 
and pepper to taste, making the brown sauce a little 
thicker. 

TOMATO SAUCE (No. 2— Good for Macaroni). 

One cup and a half of tomato, two slices of onion, 
five peppercorns, one-half teaspoonful salt, one clove 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Cook all together with 
one-fourth cup of water for twenty minutes. Mash 



158 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

througli a strainer and add it to two tablespoonfuls of 
flour that has been stirred into two of melted butter. 
Cook ten minutes. 

CHESTNUT SAUCE (For Roast Turkey). 

Cut a cross in the shell of one pint of large chest- 
nuts. Cook in a hot oven until the shells break open, 
then remove the shell and skin at once. Cook them 
in boiling salted water till very tender. Mash fine, 
either with a masher or potato ricer. Add to the 
turkey gravy made from the drippings of the pan. 
The chestnuts may be added to a cream or poulette 
sauce and served with boiled fowl. 

PORT WINE SAUCE (For Venison). 

One cup of brown sauce, one-half cup port wine, 
one-half cup of currant or grape jelly, one teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice, salt and paprica. Cook all together 
for ten minutes. 

GIBLET SAUCE (Roast Poultry). 

Put the giblets on to cook in warm salted water. 
When tender, chop very fine. Put in a sauce pan 
three tablespoonfuls of the drippings from the poul- 
try, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour. When 
foamy add one cup of the liquid the giblets were 
cooked in. Simmer for ten minutes, then add the 
giblets, heat and serve. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Put three pints of washed cranberries in a granite 
sauce pan ; on top of them put three cups of granu- 



SAUCES. 159 

lated sugar and one cup and a half of water. After 
they begin to boil cook fifteen minutes, closely cov- 
ered, and do not stir. Remove the scum. Serve as 
a sauce or mash through a strainer and they will jell. 

APPLE SAUCE (Roast Poik). 

Pare, quarter and core six large, tart apples. Put 
on to coot in a granite sauce pan with one cup of 
sugar and one of water. Cook till soft, remove be- 
fore they lose their shape. Flavor with a little lemon 
juice or nutmeg, if liked. 

CHEESE SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it two 
of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, and a little 
paprica, then gradually add one cup of hot milk, stir- 
ring. Cook over hot water for ten minutes, then stir 
in one-fourth cup of grated cheese and serve as soon 
as melted. 



160 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 



PLAIN HOT PUDDING SAUCE. 



2 cups boiling Water. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 
Flavoring. 



Mix tlig flour, sugar and salt well together ; slowly 
poui" on the boiling water, let boil ten minutes, then 
add the creamed butter and flavoring. A great many 
different flavorings may be used with this sauce — ^nut- 
meg, a teaspoonful of vanilla, tablespoonful of lemon 
and a little of the grated rind, this makes a lemon 
sauce, or two tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira, or 
one of brandy. A little nutmeg added with any of 
these flavorings is an improvement. 

BROWN SUGAR SAUCE. 

Mate the same as plain sauce, using brown sugar 
in place of white. 

MOLASSES SAUCE (Good with Apple and Rice Puddings). 

Melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir into it the-same amount of flour and one cup of 
molasses that is diluted with one-haK cup of hot 
water. Cook slowly ten minutes, flavor with a little 
lemon juice, vinegar and nutmeg. Half brown sugar 
and half molasses makes a very nice sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 161 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put one-half cup of sugar in a sauce pan. Stir 
till melted and a light brown, then add one-half cup 
of boiling water. Simmer for fifteen minutes. 

HOT FRUIT SAUCE. 
Peach, Apricot, Strawberries, Raspberries, Etc. 



1 cup of the fruit or 

berries. 
% cup of sugar. 



1 teaspoonful corn starch 
or flour. 



Mix the com starch smooth in a little cold water. 
Stir it into the fruit. Boil from five to ten minutes. 
Mash and strain. 



CREAHnr SAUCE. 



% cup butter. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls of cream 
and the same amoimt 
of wine. 



Cream the butter, add the sugar slowly, then beat 
in the wine ; just before serving add the cream. Or, 
add the cream and wine together and cook over hot 
water till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt 
the butter. A hot or cold sauce can be made from 
this receipt. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Beat one egg very light, five minutes ; then beat in 
one-fourth cup of powdered sugar- and fold in one- 
half cup of heavy cream, whipped. 



162 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FOAMY SAUCE. 



% cup butter. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 

1/4 cup boiling water. 



3 tablespoonfuls of wine or 

fruit juice. 
White of one egg. 



Cream the butter, add the sugar and cream, then 
the wine; just before serving add the boiling water. 
Mix it in well, add the white of egg, well beaten. 
Beat all together with a Dover beater till light and 
foamy. 

HARD SAUCE. 

% cup butter. | White of one egg. 

1 cup powdered sugar. | Flavoring. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat in the cream, 
then fold in the white of egg beaten stiff. Elavor 
with a little nutmeg, lemon, vanilla or wine; pile 
lightly on a serving dish. 

SABAYON SAUCE. 

Put in a sauce pan one-half cup of sherry, one- 
half cup sugar and one beaten egg. Beat over the fire 
with a Dover beater till it begins to thicken. 



WINE SAUCE. 



1 cup powdered sugar. 
I cup boiling water. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 egg. 



1/4 cup butter. 

% cup wine. 

A little grated nutmeg. 



Mix the flour and sugar with a few grains of salt 
all together. Pour over them the boiling water, let 
boil ten minutes. Cream the butter and beat the egg 
lightly. Add the wine to the hot sauce and pour over 
the egg, butter and nutmeg. Beat vigorously till well 
mixed. 



PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 163 

WINE SAUCE (No. 2). 



1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup butter. 

2 



2 tablespoonfuls of wine. 
1 tableapoonful brandy. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, the wine and brandy. Heat through over hot 
water. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 

Mix one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, 
and three tablespoonfuls of flour together, pour on 
them two cups boiling water, let boil for ten minutes, 
stirring until smooth, then pour onto two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter creamed, and two tablespoonfuls of 
brandy. 

LEMON SAUCE. 



The juice of 2 lemons and 
the grated rind of one. 



2 cups sugar. 
% cup butter. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the lemon juice 
and rind. Just before sending to the table add the 
whites of the eggs beaten lightly. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Grate one cup of pineapple fine, mix with it two 
tablespoonfuls of thick sugar syrup. Serve with 
puddings or fritters. 

RICHELIEU SAUCE (For Hot Puddings). 

Mix one tablespoonful of flour with three-fourths 
cup sugar and a few grains of salt. Pour slowly over 
it (stirring all the time) one cup boiling water. Cook 



164 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ten minutes. Eemove from the fire and flavor with 
one teaspoonful of vanilla or one tablespoonful of 
wine and two of lemon juice. Add one-fourth cup 
each shredded almonds and candied cherries, or pine- 
apple cut in small pieces. 

GOLDEN SAUCE (Rich and Delicious). 

Cream one-third cup of butter and one cup of 
powdered sugar together. Add the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, juice and grated rind of a lemon, then add 
the whites beaten stiff. Cook over hot water, stirring 
constantly until it thickens like a custard. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Mix together one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one teaspoonful grated orange peel. Pour 
over it all one cup of boiling water. Boil ten min- 
utes. Remove from the fire, add the juice of one 
orange and one-fourth cup of butter creamed. 

SYRUP SAUCES. 

Fruit juices make nice sauces for blanc mange, 
com starch, rice or cottage puddings. Heat and 
sweeten the juices, thicken with a little flour and 
flavor with wine or nutmeg. 

MAPLE PUDDING SAUCE. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter and stir into it 
one of flour, pour slowly over it one cup of hot maple 
syrup, stirring all the time. Cook for ten minutes, 
add a little salt ; one-fourth cup of thick cream can be 
added just before taking from the stove. 



PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 165 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE <For Ice Cream or Puddings). 

Grate two ounces (two small squares) of Baker's 
chocolate and mix with it two cups of sugar and add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one and one-half cups of 
hot water. Cook to the soft ball stage, flavor with one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour hot over ice cream. 

MAPLE SUGAR SAUCE (For Ice Cream). 

One cup of maple sugar, one-half cup hot water. 
Cook till it forms a soft ball in cold water. One-half 
cup of chopped walnuts may be added to it. 

COFFEE SAUCE. 

1 cup of strong coffee. I l^ cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful flour. | % cup thick cream. 

Mix the sugar and flour together. Stir them into 
the boiling coffee. Cook five minutes, add the cream 
and serve cold on vanilla ice cream. 



166 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CHEESE DISHES. 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Let fresh milk stand in a warm place for two or 
three days or until the curd separates from the whey. 
Turn the curd in a double piece of cheese cloth, hang 
it up in a cool place until the curd is free from the 
whey, add salt and a little cream. Shape in balls. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir into it two of flour. When smooth add half a 
cup of milk, half teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of 
cayenne, or paprica. Cook two or three minutes. 
Add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and one cup 
of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, bake 
thirty-five minutes. Or, turn in buttered individual 
dishes and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve at 
once. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Butter crackers lightly, spread over with grated 
cheese, a little salt and paprica. Brown in the oven. 

CHEESE WATER CRACKERS. 

Split Bent's water crackers in halves, moisten by 
dipping quickly in very hot water, spread over with 



CHEESE DISHES. 167 

melted butter and French mustard, and a thick layer 
of grated cheese. Season with salt and paprica. Place 
in a hot oven until the cheese is creamy. 

WELSH RAREBIT (JSo. i). 

One pound of American cream cheese. Herki- 
mer county is the best. One-half cup of ale or beer, 
one-haK teaspoonful each of dry mustard and salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of paprica. Other seasonings 
can be used. Slices of hot toast or crackers. Cut the 
cheese into small pieces and put it in the chafing dish 
with one tablespoonful of the ale or beer. Stir and 
as it begins to melt add the rest of the ale gradually. 
As soon as it is all melted stir in the seasonings, then 
serve at once on toasted bread or crackers. Heat the 
plates. Everything must be very hot, as the cheese 
hardens quickly. 

WELSH RAREBIT (No. 2). 

Make the same as !N"o. 1, using milk in place of 
the ale or beer, and one well-beaten egg, mixed with 
the milk. Cream can be used in place of milk. 

CHEESE TIMBALES. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in double boiler 
and two of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-fourth 
of paprica. Gradually add one-half cup of cream 
and one-half cup chicken stock. When thick and 
smooth, stir into it one cup grated cheese and four 
eggs, beaten well. Pour in buttered timbale moulds, 
bake standing in a pan of hot water until the centers 
are firm. Serve surrounded by a white sauce. 



168 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FROZEN CHEESE (To Serve with Salad). 

Cook the beaten yolks of three eggs with one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt and a little paprica in a 
cup of scalded milk. Cook until it coats the spoon 
like custard, then add one-half cup of grated cheese 
and one teaspoonful of granulated gelatine that has 
been softened in cold water. Beat until it begins to 
set a little, then fold in one-half cup of cream that 
has been whipped stiff. Pack in a baking powder or 
cocoa can for two hours, in equal quantities of salt and 
ice. 

CHEESE BALLS (To Serve with Salad). 

Mix with one cup and a half of grated cheese, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful salt 
and a little paprica, then add the whites of two ^gs, 
beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in finely sifted 
cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat and drain on soft 
paper. 

CHEESE PUDDING (A Good Luncheon Dish). 

Soak one cup of fine bread crumbs in two cups 
of milk. Add the yolks of three eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one-half pound of American 
cream cheese, grated, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and Worcester- 
shire sauce, one-fourth teaspoonful paprica. Then 
add the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a pudding dish 
or in individual dishes, until it is puffed up and 
brown, in a hot oven. It will take about thirty min- 
utes for the large dish. 



SALADS. 169 



SALADS. 



Salads should form an important part in our 
menu. The oil which we use with them aids diges- 
tion and is one of the hest forms of fat we can use. 
The green salads are the most easily prepared, and 
with a French dressing most appropriate for a dinner 
salad, often with the addition of some other fresh 
vegetable. Almost all kinds of meat, fish, vegetables 
and eggs with the addition of some kind of greens 
make good salads. It only requires a little thought 
in making the combination to always have a palatable 
salad. 

TO PREPARE THE GREENS. 

All greens should be carefully washed in cold 
water and all poor leaves thrown aside, for the beauty 
of a salad is to have it perfectly fresh. Let the leaves 
remain in ice-cold water for twenty minutes or so, 
then swing them in a wire basket to free them from 
the water or dry each leaf with a napkin. 



TO PREPARE MEAT FOR SALAD. 

Meat for salads should be cut in dice, not smaller 
than a half inch, and should be marinated for one 
hour before serving. Meat salads are the only kind 
that are improved by marinating. 



170 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO MARINATE. 

Mix the meat with a French dressing one hour 
before serving. Before mixing the salad together, 
drain off any of marinate which has not been absorbed 
in the meat. 

SOME THINGS THAT CAN BE SERVED WITH A SALAD. 

Nut, cheese, olive, pickle, nasturtium, lettuce, 
watercress, cucumber, ginger, mint and plain sand- 
wiches, made from all kinds of bread, rolls and crack- 
ers. Different kinds of cheese, either toasted or plain, 
served with crackers or bread and butter sandwiches, 
cheese souffle, frozen cheese, cheese croquettes, cheese 
balls and cheese in any palatable form, is permissible 
with salads. Wine or orange jelly moulded with nuts 
or fruits, or plain, is very delicious served with a 
salad. 

To Cut Radishes for decorating a salad. 

Radish Roses. — ^For these use the small, round 
ones. Out the radish in scallops in two layers. Soak 
in ice water two hours before serving. 

Radish Tulips. — Select small ones of oblong 
shape, cut them in quarters nearly down to the stem. 
Soak. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 



1 tableapoonful of vinegar 
or lemon juice. 



% teaspoonful salt. 
14 teaspoonful paprica. 
3 tablespoonfuls of oil. 

Mix in the order given, adding the oil slowly, 
stirring all the time. A little tarragon vinegar with 
the other is considered a great improvement by many. 



SALADS. 171 



One-fourth teaspoonful of dry or made mustard can 
be added, and a little onion juice. The onion juice 
is a great improvement when the dressing is to he used 
for potato salad. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 
Yg teaspoonful salt. 
14 teaspoonful paprica or a 
little cayenne. 



Yolks of four raw eggs. 
2 cups olive oil. 
2 tablespoonf uls of vinegar. 
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 



When used for fruit salad take four tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice, without the vinegar. Mix the 
dry seasonings and the egg yolks well together, add 
the oil a drop at a time until it begins to thicken, then 
it can be added a little more quickly. When it gets 
very thick, thin it with a little lemon juice or vinegar, 
then alternate the oil, vinegar and lemon juice until 
it is all used up. Just before serving add one-half 
cup of whipped cream. A wooden spoon, fork or 
Dover egg-beater are used to mix the dressing with, 
but the best of all to use is the mayonnaise mixer. 
With this mixer the dressing can be made much 
quicker, easier and lighter. Mayonnaise dressing can 
be colored any color you wish by using the vegetable 
colorings. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING (Miss Howard). 

Mix half a tablespoonful of mustard, one-half a 
tablespoonful of sugar and one teaspoonful of salt, 
with the yolks of two raw eggs. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and three-fourths of a cup 
of cream. Pour slowly on the mixture (stirring) 
one-fourth of a cup of vinegar. Cook the dressing in 



172 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

a double boiler until it thickens (stirring constantly). 
Strain and cool. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 



1 egg. 

Vi cup milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 



% teaspoonful salt. 

^ teaspoonful mustard. 

Cayenne or paprica. 



Beat the egg until light, put all the ingredients in 
a double boiler except the vinegar. Oook until it 
thickens. Remove from the stove and add the vine- 
gar. 

COOKED DRESSING (Mrs. Lincoln). 



^ cup of butter, creamed. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
% teaspoonful mustard. 
^ teaspoonful paprica. 



Yolks of two eggs beaten 

slightly. 
2 tablespoonfuls hot water. 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



Mix the eggs and seasonings together. Add the 
hot water and vinegar. Beat (stirring constantly) in 
a double boiler. When thick and creamy, add the 
creamed butter, stirring. Whipped cream or egg 
whites can be added. If to be used on fruit salad, 
omit the mustard and use lemon juice in place of the 
vinegar. 

WINE SALAD DRESSING. 

% cup sugar. I 2 tablespoonfuls Madeira or 

% cup sherry. | 2 teaspoonfuls of brandy. 

Heat them all together until the sugar is melted. 
Cool and serve. 



SALADS. 173 

SOUR CREAm DRESSING. 

1 cup sour cream. | 1 tableapoonful horseradish. 

% teaspoonful salt. | A few drops onion juice if 

l^ teaspoonful paprica. | desired. 

Add the salt and paprica to the cream, whip until 
thick, then stir in the horseradish and onion juice. 

TARTARE SAUCE. 

To one cupful of mayonnaise add four olives, two 
gherkins and two teaspoonfuls of capers, all chopped 
fine. The olives stuffed with peppers can be used in 
place of the plain olive. 

BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

(To be used Hot or Cold with Meat or Fish). 
4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil.l 1 tablespoonful of hot water. 
Yolks of four eggs. I 1 tablespoonful of tarragon 

14 teaspoonful of salt. [ vinegar. 

Paprica or cayenne. | 

Beat the yolks, add the oil and water, cook in 
double boiler until it thickens, remove, add salt, pep- 
per and vinegar. It should be thick like mayonnaise. 
Butter can be used in place of the oil. Cream three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and cook with the eggs. Omit 
the hot water. When thick, remove from the fire, add 
two tablespoonfuls more of butter creamed and the 
seasonings. 

LETTUCE AND WATERCRESS SALAD. 

Use only the tender leaves. Wash each leaf and 
let them stand in ice water a few minutes before 
using. Dry them, arrange in a bowl with the largest 
leaves on the outside, sprinkle over with chives 



174 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COgJC BOOK. 

chopped fine, or new onions sliced very thin. Sliced 
pickles or olives are sometimes used with the lettuce. 
Rub the bowl with garlic before putting in the lettuce, 
if liked. Mix with a French dressing. Garnish with 
radishes cut to represent roses or tulips. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Use only the tender stalks (the outside can be 
saved for soups and sauces). Scrape and wash each 
stalk, let stand in ice-cold water a half hour before 
using. Dry in a towel and cut in one-fourth inch 
pieces, or into straws one inch long. If cut into 
straws put in ice water for twenty minutes before 
serving to curl them. Mix with either French or 
mayonnaise dressing and garnish with lettuce leaves. 
Celery salad is often served with game. 

STUFFED CELERY SALAD. 

Clean the tender stalks of celery, put in cold 
water a few minutes, dry and fill the crevice with the 
following mixtures : Fill the stalks with tartare sauce, 
place three or four on lettuce leaves and serve. Or 
they may be stuffed with Roquefort cheese that has 
been mashed fine with a spoon and a little sherry wine 
added to it. Or filled with Neufchatel cheese that 
has been creamed and chopped nuts mixed with it. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cook a chicken or fowl until tender in boiling 
water enough to cover, with a tablespoonful of salt, 
six peppercorns, one clove, a small bay leaf, one onion, 
several stalks of celery, or two or three of the roots. 
Remove from liquid and when cold cut the meat in 



SALADS. 175 

half -inch pieces. (Save the liquid and bones and 
add to your soup stock). Cut the celery in half -inch 
pieces, using half as much celery as meat. One-half 
cup of walnuts or olives cut in small pieces and added 
to tvro cups of the chicken and one of celery is an im- 
provement. 

Marinate the chicken and celery one hour before 
serving, drain ofF any marinate that is left in the 
dish, mix the nuts or olives or both, with the celery 
and chicken. Arrange in a salad dish, first mixing 
a part of the mayonnaise dressing with the salad. 
Cover the top with mayonnaise, garnish with celery 
leaves, olives, lettuce or hard-boiled eggs sliced. In 
the summer, when celery is out of season, cucumber 
cut in cubes can be used in place of it. Garnish with 
lettuce or watercress. 



MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD. 

Put the chicken on to cook in warm water with 
all the seasonings and vegetables as for chicken salad. 
Cook until tender, then cook the stock down to two 
cups. Strain and when cold remove the fat. Clear 
the stock (see clearing soup stock), and add to it two 
tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine that has been 
softened in one-half cup of cold water. Reheat for a 
few minutes to dissolve the gelatine; prepare the 
chicken and celery as for chicken salad. Season with 
salt and pepper. When the stock begins to get cold 
and thicken, beat into it one cup of whipped cream 
and the chicken and celery. Pour into a mould that 
has been decorated with hard-boiled eggs, cut to repre- 
sent daisies, or slices of egg, truffles or olives. The 
decorations can be held in place by a little of the 



176 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

stock. After the gelatine lias been added mould in 
individuals or one large mould. Remove on salad dish. 
Garnish with lettuce or celery leaves and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. 



MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 2). 

Garnish individual moulds or one large one. 
After the garnish is set with a little of the jelly, then 
add a layer of jelly one inch thick. When that has 
hardened, place the salad in carefully and cover it 
with a thin layer of the jelly to hold it firm. When 
that has hardened fill up the mould with the jelly, 
making three layers, with the salad between. Gar- 
nish with greens, lettuce, watercress or celery leaves. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 



MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 3). 

Mould in a double mould. If one is not at hand, 
use any two moulds or tins of the same shape, one of 
which is an inch or so smaller than the oher. Place 
the larger one on ice, decorate it and hold in place 
with a little of the jelly, then pour enough of the jelly 
to make a layer the same thickness as the width of 
space between the two moulds. When it is set fill the 
smaller mould with ice and set inside of it and fill 
the space between the two with jelly. When that is 
set remove with a spoon the ice from the mould and 
pour into it a little warm water (not hot). The 
mould can then be easily removed. Fill up the space 
with the chicken salad. Hold it in place with more 
jelly. Remove from the mould when cold. Garnish 
and serve with mayonnaise. 



SALADS. 177 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 4). 
Mould in tomatp jelly instead of the chicken jelly. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 5). 

Mould in wine jelly, placing the chicken salad in 
the center. Garnish and serve with mayonnaise^ 

MOULDED CELERY AND WALNUT SALAD. 

Use half the quantity of walnuts as of celery. 
Clean and cut the celery in half-inch pieces. Cook 
the walnuts for ten minutes in boiling salted water 
with a slice of onion, a clove and three peppercorns. 
Cut in small pieces. Mix the celery and walnuts 
with just enough mayonnaise to hold them together. 
Mould the same as chicken salad, either chicken, to- 
mato or wine jelly. 

MOULDED SWEETBREADS AND CUCUMBER SALAD 
(Boston Cooking School). 

Simmer one pair of sweetbreads twenty minutes 
in boiling, salted, acidulated water, with a bit of bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and a blade of mace. Cool and 
cut in dice. There should be three-fourths of a cup. 
Soak one-fourth a tablespoonful of gelatine in a table- 
spoonful of cold water and dissolve in two tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Add one tablespoonful and a 
half of lemon juice and a half cup of cream beaten 
thick. Add the cubes of sweetbreads, one-fourth of a 
cup of cucumber cubes and season with salt and pap- 
rica. Turn into moulds, chill and serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 



178 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MOULDING SALADS. 

Any kind of salad can be moulded in the jellies 
the same as chicken salad. Garnish with the greens 
and serve with mayonnaise, cooked, or sour cream 
dressings. 

TO GAENISH WITH CURLED CELERY. 

Cut the stalks of celery in one or two-inch lengths, 
then cut each piece in strips nearly to the center, be- 
ginning at each end, leaving enough whole to hold to- 
gether. Set in ice water one hour before using. 

TO UNMOULD JELLY. 

Place the mould quickly in warm water, remove, 
put the serving dish over the top of the mould and 
invert them together. A very little heat will melt 
gelatine. 

TOMATO JELLY. 



1 eup of any kind of strong 

soup stock. 

2 cups tomatoes. 
1 slice of onion. 
1 clove. 

4 peppercorns. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful catsup. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 



Boil all together for one-half hour or until the 
tomatoes are soft. Soften the gelatine in one-half cup 
of cold water, then stir it into the tomato when dis- 
solved, and mould. A very pretty eflFect is obtained 
by moulding it in a ring mould. Have celery salad 
in the center mixed with mayonnaise or a cooked 
dressing, and surround it with lettuce. Or, mould 
with a salad moulded inside, or in small moulds, and 
garnish a salad around with them. 



SALADS. 179 

Another nice way to serve it is to mould in the 
shape of a cup and fill with a salad, resting on lettuce. 
This is done the same as Moulded Chicken Salad 
No. 3 by placing one mould or cup inside of another. 

SOME SALADS TO SERVE IN WHOLE TOMATOES OR 
PEPPERS. 

Equal parts of celery, nuts and apples ; or celery 
and nuts, celery alone. Chicken salad, celery and 
sweetbreads, equal parts ; celery, mushrooms and Eng- 
lish walnuts, equal parts. Grape fruit and nuts, 
equal parts. Celery, cucumbers and sweetbreads, in 
fact, almost any salad with the exception of fish and 
fruit salad, are served in tomatoes or peppers. To 
prepare the peppers and tomatoes, scoop out the cen- 
ters and season. 

CELERY JELLY. 



1 cup cold water. 

2 cups celery cut in %-mch 

pieces and the roots 
cut fine. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
3 peppercorns. 



Cook slowly until the celery is very tender, keep- 
ing about a cup of water in it all the time. When 
tender, mash through a strainer. To two cups of 
celery, after it is strained, add one tablespoonful of 
granulated gelatine that has been softened in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Eeheat until the gela- 
tine is dissolved, then pour in moulds. Mould as 
you would chicken or tomato jelly. 

TO PREPARE WHOLE TOMATOES FOR SALAD. 

Scald and skin them, select all as near the same 
size as possible. Place on ice until half an hour before 



180 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

serving, then scoop out the center (saving the pieces 
for soup stock, or a sauce). Sprinkle with salt and 
a little pepper, turn over and drain, fill with mayon- 
naise, or any combination you care for. 

NEUFCHATEL SALAD. 

Fill the whole tomatoes with balls made from 
Neufchatel cheese and slices of stuffed olives, dress 
with FrencL dressing and serve on lettuce leaves, or 
surround the tomatoes with watercress. 

ITALIAN SALAD. 

Cook the large macaroni until tender in boiling 
salted water, drain through a colander and when cold 
cut in half-inch pieces, place in a salad bowl (without 
lettuce) and cover over with slic^ of hard-boiled egg ; 
pour over all a French mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 
A very good luncheon salad. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (To Serve with Fish). 

Peel the cucumbers, place them in ice-cold water 
to become crisp. (Do not add salt, as that wilts 
them). Wipe them dry, place on a flat dish and slice 
very thin without destroying the shape of the cucum- 
ber. Garnish with cress or lettuce. Pour over it all 
a French dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and place in ice water, then cut the cucum- 
ber across in lengths of three inches, scoop out the in- 
side to form a cup to hold the following salad : Equal 
parts of sweetbreads, cucumbers and English walnuts 



SALADS. 181 

mixed with mayonnaise. Fill up the cup with the 
salad, set on lettuce leaves, put a teaspoonful more 
mayonnaise on top of each salad and place on it a 
radish cut to represent a rose. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (No. 2). 

Pare and chill a cucumber, cut in half lengthwise, 
remove the seeds and dry. Till with the following: 
Chop fine the solid part of a peeled tomato, a thin 
slice of new onion, or a few sprigs of chives and a 
couple of stalks oi tender celery. Mix with Bear- 
naise sauce, French or mayonnaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad dish, then 
a layer of sliced cucumber and one of tomatoes sliced. 
Use a French or mayonnaise dressing. A good din- 
ner salad. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD (No. 2). 

Peel the tomatoes by dipping in boiling water, 
take out the centers, turn them upside down to drain. 
Sprinkle with salt and fill with cucumber that has 
been cut in cubes and mixed with mayonnaise. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE SALAD. 
(Very Nice to Serve with Game or a Winter Dinner Salad). 
Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad bowl, peel 
and cut seedless oranges in one-half inch slices, spread 
them over the lettuce, mix with French dressing. 



182 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD (To Serve with Game). 

Arrange on lettuce the same as orange salad. Peel 
and remove the pulp from the sections, cut up in inch 
pieces. Serve with French or v^ine dressing. 

RUSSIAN SALAD (No. i). 

One cup each of cooked carrots, beets, peas and 
string beans, all cut in cubes. Arrange on a salad 
dish in four mounds on four nests of lettuce. Mix 
and cover the top of each with mayonnaise or cooked 
dressing. Garnish the top of the carrot and beet salad 
with capers and pickles cut in fancy shapes, the peas 
and beans, with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg or the 
coral from the lobster. Have a tuft of lettuce in the 
center and arrange around each mound shrimps or 
lobster. 

RUSSIAN SALAD (No. 2). 

Fill the outside of a mould with clear aspic jelly 
and the center with a number of different vegetables 
mixed with mayonnaise. Cover the top with jelly. 
Serve on a flat dish. Garnish with plain or shredded 
lettuce. (See Moulding Salads.) 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Use the very small beans. After being cooked, 
cut in half -inch pieces. Serve on lettuce with French 
or mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with the yolk of 
hard-boiled egg that has passed through a potato ricer. 
String beans mixed with peas makes a delicious salad. 



SALADS. 183 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Use only the tips. CcMjk in salted water until 
tender. Chill, serve with French or mayonnaise 
dressing on lettuce, or in little cups made from the 
new turnips that have been cooked and scooped out. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD, GARNISHED WITH EGGS. 

Place a bunch of cooked asparagus on a bed of 
lettuce, cover with French dressing; over the center 
sprinkle the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs that have 
been pressed through a potato ricer ; cut the white of 
the eggs in rings and surround the outside. 

PEPPER SALAD. 

Plunge three green sweet peppers and one red 
one in boiling water, remove and rub off the skin. 
When cold cut the stem and remove the seeds ; slice in 
rings; also slice tender small onions in rings; cover 
all with French dressing and serve on lettuce. Slices 
of tomato can be added in place of the red pepper. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Two cups of cooked potato balls, or sliced potato. 
Sprinkle over each layer a grating of onion, a little 
celery cut fine, pepper and salt and the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, passed through a strainer. On the top 
sprinkle chopped parsley, mix with French or a 
cooked dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish 
around the mound with beets cut in slices or fancy 
shapes. 



184 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the meat from a fresh boiled lobster in one- 
inch pieces. Marinate (or mix with a French dress- 
ing) one hour before serving. Keep in a cold place, 
then drain it and mix with it a little mayonnaise. 
Place it on a flat dish surrounded by lettuce leaves. 
Smooth it off, leaving it high in the center. Cover 
quite thick with mayonnaise. Stick in the top the 
heart of the lettuce and sprinkle over it the powdered 
coral of the lobster. 

FISH SALADS. 

Salmon, shad roe or any firm white fish mixed 
with mayonnaise and garnished with lettuce can be 
served as a salad. Olives, pickles and capers are a 
pleasant addition to these salads, or tartare sauce 
may be used with them in place of mayonnaise. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cook the oysters in their own liquor until they 
are plump (about five minutes). Drain and chill. 
Mix with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Serve on let- 
tuce, garnish with olives, capers or pickles. Celery 
or tender young cabbage cut fine can be served with 
the oysters. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Peel two raw, tart apples, cut in dice, measure 
and take the same amount of celery cut in small 
pieces, mix with the apples. Mix with mayonnaise 
and serve on nests of lettuce or in red apples with the 
center removed to form cups. Set them on lettuce 
leaves. Have a layer of the dressing on top with a 
heart or small leaf of the lettuce stuck up in the cen- 
ter. 



SALADS. 185 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Use equal amount of pineapple cut in dice, cher- 
ries stoned and cut in halves, one-half the amount of 
strawberries cut in halves. Serve with a wine or 
mayonnaise dressing. If mayonnaise is used, mix it 
with one-half whipped cream. Serve the salad in the 
whole pineapple surrounded by lettuce leaves and a 
few sweet peas. Cut off the top of the pineapple 
about one inch deep. Scoop out the inside and use 
for the salad. Drain, chill and fill with the salad 
just before serving. 

A FRUIT SALAD SERVED IN CANTELOUPE. 

Equal parts of the cantaloupe (cut in dice), 
oranges and apples cut in small pieces, one-half the 
amount of English walnuts cut in small pieces. Mix 
with mayonnaise which is one-half whipped cream. 
Select small cantaloupes of uniform size, cut off the 
top and save to use for a cover. (A bow of narrow 
ribbon may be drawn through the top to form a 
handle.) Carefully remove the pulp for the salad, 
drain and fill just before serving. Surround each one 
by lettuce leaves. 

OTHER FRUIT SALADS (No. i). 

Equal parts of apple, celery and nuts, mixed with 
mayonnaise or cooked dressing, served on lettuce or 
in cups made from red apples, oranges or lemons. 

FRUIT SALAD (No. 2). 

Mix equal parts of bananas, oranges, white grapes 
and pecan nuts, cut in small pieces. Add a little 



186 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

lemon juice and mix witli mayonnaise which has a 
part of whipped cream with it. Serve on lettuce with 
some of the dressing on top. Garnish with slices of 
orange and nuts, 

FRUIT SALAD (No. 3). 

Eemove the stone from dates, halve them and 
press into the hole pieces of walnuts. Pour over a 
French or wine dressing. Serve on shredded lettuce. 

GRAPE SALAD. 

Eemove the seeds from malaga grapes, stuff each 
one with a filbert nut which has heen blanched (let 
them stand in boiling hot water five minutes, then 
remove the skin). Serve on a bed of lettuce, cover 
with mayonnaise which is a part whipped cream. 
Garnish around it with sections of orange. 

MANDARIN SALAD (Good Dinner Salad). 

Equal parts of mandarins sliced very thin with 
the skin on, white grapes seeded and halved, bran- 
died peaches, one-half of maraschino cherries and figs 
that are fresh and moist cut in inch pieces. Serve 
with wine dressing in punch glasses or in orange cups. 

NUT AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Two cups of cucumber, pared and cubed, one cup 
of Brazil nuts blanched and cut in small pieces. Serve 
with French or mayonnaise dressing on lettuce. Gar- 
nish with radishes cut to form roses. 



SALADS. 187 

CUCUMBER AND RADISH SALAD. 

Use equal parts of cucumber and radishes sliced 
very tMn. Serve in layers on lettuce leaves, with 
Prench dressing. 

CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM SALAD. 

Cut the chicken in dice shape, break fresh mush- 
rooms in small pieces, add a very little hot water, 
cook five minutes. When cold mix with the chicken, 
having equal quantities. Season with salt, mix with 
mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish by 
placing a few olives stuffed with peppers over the top. 

SALMON AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

While the boiled salmon is hot, flake in small 
pieces, sprinkle over it a little lemon juice, onion 
juice, pepper and salt. Set on the ice ; several hours 
before using mix lightly together with thin slices of 
cucumbers cut in halves. Cover with tartare sauce. 
Serve on lettuce. 

TRUFFLE SALAD (A Good Dinner Salad). 

Cut tender stalks of celery in half-inch pieces, 
put sliced truffles to soak in sherry wine for a half 
hour. Have equal quantities of truffles and celery, 
drain the truffles and mix with the celery. Sprinkle 
with a little salt. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce hearts and scatter a few capers over 
the top. 

EGG SALAD. 

Cook six eggs in water just off the boil for twenty 
minutes, chill and shell them. Cut the whites in 



188 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

strings and put the yolks through a potato ricer. Ar- 
range on shredded lettuce, making little nests of the 
whites and filling them with the yolks. Pour lightly 
over them a French dressing. Serve with cheese 
balls and toasted sandwiches or toasted crackers. This 
salad can be made by using little nests of the whites 
and filling them with balls of the yolks that have been 
mashed and mixed with French dressing. 

EGG SALAD (No. 2). 

Out hard-cooked eggs in halves, remove the yolks, 
mix them with olives, chopped fine and mayonnaise 
dressing. Fill the whites with the mixture and 
round them on the top to give the appearance of a 
whole yolk. Serve in nests 6f lettuce or watercress. 

EGG SALAD (No. 3). 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in slices. Serve on water- 
cress. Sprinkle over with finely chopped chives and 
French dressing. 

WATER LILY SALAD. 

Cut cold hard-boiled eggs in quarters lengthwise; 
if the eggs are very large cut in eighths. Place six of 
these pieces in a circle, one pointed end of each piece 
meeting in the center, to represent the lily. Arrange 
them on lettuce leaves and cover with French dress- 
ing. 



3 eggs cooked hard. 
1% cups of cream cheese 
cut in small dice. 



CHEESE SALAD. 

1 cup chicken cut in dice. 



SALADS. 189 

Rub the yolks through a ricer, mix with the chick- 
en and cheese. Serve with French or cooked dress- 
ing. Garnish with lettuce, the whites of eggs cut in 
shreds forming little nests around the mound of salad, 
each nest having two or three olives in it, stufPed with 
peppers, 

BIRDS' NEST SALAD. 

Use the soft cream cheeses. EoU into balls the 
size of a bird's egg, arrange in nests of lettuce, four 
or five balls to a nest. Cover with [French dressing 
and sprinkle a few specks of paprica over each egg. 
Or a little green coloring paste can be rubbed in the 
cheese to make the little green eggs. 

CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix with a soft cream cheese, one gherkin and 
three good-sized olives chopped fine and enough may- 
onnaise dressing to shape in its original shape. Chill 
thoroughly. Serve on a bed of lettuce surrounded by 
nasturtium blossoms. Cut in slices for serving. 

AMERICAN CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

One cup of the American cream cheese grated. 
Add to it one tablespoonful of chicken chopped fine, 
three olives, season with salt and pepper and mix to- 
gether with enough mayonnaise to shape it in the 
form of a cream cheese. Chill thoroughly, serve on 
lettuce, surrounded by olives or nasturtium blossoms. 
Cut in slices for serving. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred a red or white cabbage very fine, mix it 
with a French dressing, using twice the amoimt of 



190 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

vinegar used for Frencli dressing, or cover with 
the following dressing: Heat half a cup of vinegar 
with one teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, one^ 
half teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and pap- 
rica. While hot stir into it a tablespoonful of but- 
ter creamed, then pour over the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Cook over hot water until it thickens a little. 
Mix the dressing with the cabbage while hot. Serve 
cold alone as a salad or with broiled fish or fried 
oysters. 



EGGS. 191 



EGGS. 



Eggs are very valuable food, being highly nutri- 
tious and easily digested. Almost any of the fol- 
lowing receipts can be prepared in the chafing dish 
on the table. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. i). 

To cook the eggs soft, place in boiling water. Set 
on the back of the stove where it will not boil, for 
eight minutes, at a high altitude, one minute less for 
sea level. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. 2). 

Another way of cooking the egg soft is to place it 
in cold water on the stove, remove as soon as they 
reach the boiling point. Cooking eggs either by No. 
1 or No. 2, you will find the albumen is creamy and 
easily digested. Boiling eggs makes the albumen 
hard and homy, not easily digested. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. 3). 

To cook an egg hard, place in boiling water, set 
on the back of the stove from twenty minutes to a 
half hour. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Place in a frying pan as many muffin rings as 
you have eggs to poach, drop an egg in each ring, then 



192 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

turn in enough boiling water to cover them. Add a 
little salt, cook slowly on the side of the range. It 
should take from ten to fifteen minutes to cook them. 
Remove carefully, using a pancake turner, or a wide- 
bladed knife, onto a round piece of toast ; remove the 
rings. Season with a little salt, pepper and a piece 
of butter. Serve on a platter. Garnish with water- 
cress or parsley. Before toasting the bread cut the 
slices into rounds with a large sized biscuit cutter. 
To poach the eggs without rings break carefully in 
the boiling salted water. 



POACHED EGGS (No. 2). 

Add a little salt to the white of the egg, and beat 
to a stiff froth, place in a cup, and carefully drop 
the yolk (so as not to break it) into the center. Set 
the cup in a dish of boiling water, cover and boil four 
minutes. At sea level three minutes would be long 
enough. Season with a little butter, salt and pepper. 
Serve in the cup. A good way to serve an egg to an 
invalid. 

POACHED EGGS (No. 3). 

Spread the toast with creamed chicken, minced 
ham, anchovy or sardine paste, and place a poached 
egg on top. Or, serve poached eggs with boiled ham 
or bacon. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Put a little butter in a frying pan, when it is hot 
break in the eggs; cook slowly. If they are to be 
served hard, turn them and cook on the other side. 



EGGS. 19S 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat the eggs lightly, just enough to mix them. 
To each egg add two tablespoonfuls of milk, or half 
milk and half cream, a little salt and pepper. Put in 
a sauce pan a tablespoonful of butter; when it bub- 
bles add the eggs and stir constantly until they set. 
They should be just a little firm, but not hard. They 
can be mixed with chopped meats, chives, tomato that 
has been cooked, parsley, or anything that one has, to 
give a good flavor. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Individual baking dishes are generally used, al- 
though several can be cooked in one large dish. But- 
ter the dish, break into it an egg, sprinkle a little salt 
on the whites, cover with a tablespoonful of thick 
cream, or baste several times while baking with 
melted butter. Set the dish in a pan of hot water, 
cook until quite firm to the touch. 

EGGS COCOTTE. 

Butter individual baking dishes, and line with a 
paste of fine bread crumbs mixed with cream, or 
sprinkle the dish over with finely chopped ham, 
chicken or mushrooms mixed to a paste, with a little 
cream, or sauce, and seasoned. Lining with a thin 
layer, break in the egg and cook the same as shirred 
eggs. "When done cover the top with a little cream, 
tomato, or bechamel sauce, and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 

OMELETS. 

It is better to make several small omelets than one 
large one. An omelet should be served at once, and 



1B4 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

let the family wait for the omelet rather than the 
omelet for the family. With a little care one can 
soon become an expert at making them. They should 
cook slowly, be a delicate brown when done. Avoid 
burning. 

OMELET (No. i). 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until light and foamy, 
add one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper and 
a tablespoonful of milk for every egg used. Beat the 
whites stiff, fold lightly into the yolks, melt a tea- 
spoonful of butter in an omelet pan (it is best to keep 
this pan for omelets alone). Let the butter cover the 
pan; when bubbling turn in the omelet, cook slowly 
and carefully until brown on the bottom, then set the 
pan on the upper grate in the oven for a minute to 
dry. When the center is dry as you cut into it, run 
a knife around the edge, then under the half nearest 
the handle, and fold over to the right ; then invert the 
omelet on a hot platter ; garnish with parsley. 

OMELET (No. 2). 

Beat two eggs slightly, add one tablespoonful of 
milk, one-fourth teaspoonful salt and a little pepper. 
Melt a teaspoonful of butter in the omelet pan ; when 
bubbling pour in the egg. With a fork break the egg 
in several places, letting the uncooked egg run under 
and brown. When the egg is set, fold and serve on a 
hot platter the same as for omelet No. 1. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Make the same as No. 1 or 2. Add one-fourth 
cup of grated cheese to the yolks of two eggs, and a 
little paprica. 



EGGS. 195 

RUM OMELET. 

Make the same as omelet No. 1. Have the omelet 
slightly underdone; just before sending to the table 
pour two tablespoonfuls of brandy around it, dip a 
block of sugar in the brandy, set it on top of the ome- 
let and touch a lighted match to it, or light on the 
table. 

HERB OMELET. 

Mix chopped parsley, chives, chervil and tarragon 
with the eggs before cooking. 

HAM OMELET. 

Stir into omelet No. 1 two tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped ham. The same amount of chicken can be 
used, or mushrooms. 

PEA OMELET. 

Cover the omelet just before folding with a layer 
of creamed peas. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Broiled tomatoes may be used to cover the omelet 
before turning, or garnish the omelet with a row of 
them. 

JELLY OMELET. 

Make the same as No. 1 ; omit the pepper ; allow 
a teaspoonful of powdered sugar to each egg; when 
ready to fold, cover over with a layer of jelly or mar- 
malade. 



196 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE OMELET (Mrs. Lincoln). 

The thinly grated rind of one orange and three 
tablespoonfuls of the juice, three eggs and three ta- 
blespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Beat the yolks and 
the sugar, rind and juice. Fold in the whites and 
cook as omelet No. 1. Turn out, sprinkle thickly with 
powdered sugar and score in diagonal lines with a 
clean, red-hot poker. The burnt sugar gives the ome- 
let a delicious flavor. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET. 

Make the same as omelet ISTo. 1 ; omit the pepper 
and part of the salt ; add to the yolks two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and one-half cup of grated 
pineapple. When done sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and score the same as for orange omelet. Gar- 
nish if you like with slices of pineapple. Orange and 
pineapple omelets make delicious and quickly pre- 
pared desserts. 



Pour a cream tomato or mushroom sauce around 
omelets. 



A good change is to mix chopped chives or parsley 
with the omelet before putting in the pan. 

EGGS COOKED IN WHOLE TOMATOES. 

With a pointed knife take out the center of the 
tomato, season with salt and pepper, drop into it a 
whole egg, cover the top of the egg with a little 
cream sauce, set in a buttered pan and bake in the 
oven until the egg is firm; remove to a platter, gar- 



EGGS. 197 



nish around them with a cream sauce. The sauce can 
be omitted entirely, covering the top of the egg with 
a piece of butter. 



EGGS IN GREEN PEPPERS. 

Parboil the peppers in boiling water for five min- 
utes; when cool cut about an inch from the pointed 
end, take out the seeds, and out off the stem ; sprinkle 
the inside with salt and pepper, and break an egg 
into each ; put a little piece of butter on top and place 
in an agate plate; bake in the oven twenty minutes, 
or until the egg is firm. Serve on a slice of toast, sur- 
rouaided with white or tomato sauce. 



EGGS EN COQUILLE (Mis. Lincoln). 

Cut slices of stale bread in large rounds; with a 
smaller cutter, cut half way through and scoop out 
the center, leaving a cavity large enough to hold an 
egg; dip the bread shells in egg beaten with a little 
milk, and saute or fry in deep fat a delicate brown. 
Place them on a platter, cover with hot cream sauce, 
or poultry gravy. Serve a poached egg in each shell. 
The shells may be covered with melted butter and 
browned in the oven. 



POACHED EGGS A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Split and toast some round muffins; put on each 
a round, thin slice of broiled ham, and on the ham a 
poached egg. Pour over the top of each some Hol- 
landaise sauce. 



198 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Place a poached egg on a round slice of toast and 
surround it with celery sauce. Take one cup of cel- 
ery cut in half-inch pieces and cook in boiling salted 
water till tender. Make a white sauce by using two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and butter, one-half cup of 
cream and the same amount of the water the celery 
was cooked in (letting the water cook down to that 
amount), one-fourth teaspoonful salt, a little pepper. 
After the sauce has cooked over hot water ten min- 
utes, add the cooked celery, reheat and serve. 

EGG BALLS TO SERVE IN SOUP. 

Mash the cooked yolks of four hard-boiled eggs 
through a sieve, season with a little salt and pepper, 
one-half teaspoonful of melted butter and enough raw 
yolk of an egg to make the mixture the right consis- 
tency to mould in little balls. Then poach them in 
hot water, or dip in white of egg and flour. Saute 
in butter. It takes about three minutes to cook them. 

EGG TIMBALES (Miss Bairows). 

Beat four eggs slightly, add one cup of milk, 
chicken or veal stock, season with salt and pepper, 
and if desired onion juice and chopped parsley. 
Turn into buttered small moulds, and steam or bake 
in a pan of hot water till firm in the center. Turn 
out and serve hot with a cream or tomato sauce, or 
garnish with sliced cucumbers or olives. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Cook six eggs in hot water twenty minutes. Re- 
move the shells and with a sharp, thin knife cut in 



EGGS. 199 

slices. Saute one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
onion to two tablespoonfuls of butter, till a delicate 
brown, add two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with 
one-half tablespoonful of curry powder, stir until 
smooth, then add slowly one cup of white stock, cream 
or milk. Season with salt and pepper, cook till the 
onion is soft, then add the eggs when they are heated 
through. Serve on toast, or cover hot toast with slices 
of hard-boiled egg, and cover with the sauce. 

CUHRIED EGGS (No. 2). 

Boil rice so every kernel is separate (see boiling 
rice), make little nests of it and place in each nest 
one hard-boiled egg that has first been dipped in the 
sauce, then pour a tablespoonful more of the sauce 
over the egg. 

STUFFED EGGS (No. i). 

Cut hard cooked eggs in two lengthwise. Re- 
move the yolks and mash fine. Mix with them any 
finely chopped meat; ham or chicken are the best. 
If convenient a few mushrooms or truffles chopped 
fine, a little cream or any kind of sauce, a gherkin or 
a few capers if cared for. Season with salt and pep 
per, fill the whites with the mixture, smooth them 
over the top and rub a little raw egg over them, press 
the two halves together. Make a mound of the re^ 
maining yolks, place it in the center of the platter 
and the eggs around it, and pour around the eggs a 
cream sauce. 

STUFFED EGGS (No. a). 

Prepare and stuff the eggs (as stuffed eggs 'No. 
1). Eoll them in fine crumbs, then in egg, and in 



200 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

crumbs again. Fry in deep fat a rich brown. Serve 
surrounded by a white or tomato sauce. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Cut cold, hard-cooked eggs into slices. Butter a 
baking dish, cover the bottom with a layer of the egg, 
then a layer of grated cheese sprinkled over with 
paprica and a covering of cream sauce, and so on 
until the dish is full, having the cheese on top. Cook 
in a hot oven till the cheese is brown. This can be 
baked in individual dishes and makes a very good 
luncheon disL 

JAPANESE EGGS. 

Boil as many ^gs as you wish to use until hard, 
drop in cold water, remove the shell ; boil one cup of 
rice, when fuU and flaky drain and heap on a platter, 
cut the eggs in halves and press down in the rice; 
pour over all a cream or tomato sauce. 



SANDWICHES. 201 



SANDWICHES. 



Sandwiches, like salads, can be made in great 
varieties, only care and thought must he taken in 
selecting the combinations. 

Sandwiches can he made from white, brown, gra- 
ham bread, fresh rolls, crackers, etc., and may be cut 
in any shape, with or without the crust. To many 
the most appetizing part of the bread is sacrificed 
when the crust is removed. 

Some of the shapes may be cut in squares, rounds 
(with a biscuit cutter), triangles, hearts or rolled. 
To keep sandwiches moist cover with a damp napkin. 
The butter for sandwiches can be either salted or un- 
salted, and should be creamed before spreading, as it 
then will spread evenly without breaking the bread. 
Seasoning of chopped mint leaves or parsley, spinach 
juice that has been crushed and pressed through a 
cloth, a little tarragon vinegar, onion juice if cared 
for, capers, pickles, nasturtimnsi, or olives finely 
chopped can be added to the butter. 

Cut the bread in very thin slices, trimming off 
the crust before slicing, the crust and the trimmings 
can be dried for crumbs. Have the slices fit evenly 
one upon the other. Bread for sandwiches should be 
fine grained and a day old. Bolls used for sand- 
wiches should be fresh and small. 



202 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Lay a crisp, dry leaf of lettuce between thin slices 
of buttered bread, sprinkle with salt. Mayonnaise 
can be used in place of the butter. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES. 

Wash and dry the watercress, crush the leaves a 
little and prepare the same as lettuce sandwiches. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered graham bread with mixed mus- 
tard, a layer of cottage cheese, then with a layer of 
chopped olives or pickles mixed with mayonnaise. 

MEAT SANDWICHES. 

Spread the bread with butter or mayonnaise, or 
mix the meat with mayonnaise. A crisp lettuce leaf 
or watercress can always be used with the meat ; chop 
chicken and celery together, mix with mayonnaise or 
fresh dressing. Thinly sliced meat of any kind, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, and mustard if ham is 
used ; spread over with mayonnaise or French dress- 
ing, if liked. Meats chopped or pounded to a paste, 
mixed with hard-boiled eggs, mashed, a little cream, 
season with salt and pepper, and if you like, a littla 
onion juice. 

Chopped ham mixed with mustard, a little cream 
or mayonnaise, and a little chopped pickles or olives. 

Chichen livers cooked till tender, with a thin 
slice of onion, a few peppercorns and salt, chopped 
very fine, mixed with cream or mayonnaise. 



SANDWICHES. 203 

Game can be prepared the same as meat. A few 
chopped olives or pickles mixed with it is an im- 
provement. 

AUTOMOBILE SANDWICHES. 

Cut the bread in thin slices, leaving on the crust, 
spread with butter and cover with thin slices of com 
beef; cover the meat with a thin layer of chopped 
green sweet peppers and a little finely chopped onion 
and mayonnaise dressing ; cover with a slice of bread, 

GREEN PEPPER SANDWICHES. 

Can be made by chopping sweet peppers and 
onion very fine, mixing with a little mayonnaise and 
placing between thin slices of bread. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered bread with a little chopped pars- 
ley, watercress or olives, and cover with thin slices 
of hard-boiled egg. Chop the eggs fine, mix with 
mayonnaise, lay the egg between crisp lettuce leaves. 
Sliced boiled eggs can be covered with mayonnaise 
and laid between lettuce leaves. 

FISH SANDWICHES. 

Anchovies or sardines can be freed from the bone, 
pounded to a paste and moistened with a little lemon 
juice, or mixed with finely chopped pickles, olives or 
capers, served between thin slices of toasted bread 
or crackers, or the plain buttered bread or crackers. 
These sandwiches are sometimes served for the first 



204 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

course at a dinner, surrounded by lettuce or water- 
cress, as an accompaniment to oysters or alone. 

Shad Roe, made very fine, seasoned with salt, 
pepper and a little lemon juice and spread between 
lettuce leaves if you like. With bread or crackers 
any fresh boiled fish can be used in the same way. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Peanuts, walnuts, pecans, almonds and almost any 
kind of nut can be used for sandwiches. Chop them 
fine, mix with cream, mayonnaise or French dressing, 
or with cream or Neufchatel cheese. Nut S'andwiches 
are very nice made of graham or brown bread, as 
well as white bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut American or Swiss cheese in thin slices, cover 
with a thin coating of French mustard and put be- 
tween buttered graham or rye bread. Any hind of 
grated cheese can be mixed with salt, paprioa, a little 
cream or butter and spread between slices of brown, 
graham or white bread or crackers. Neufchatel 
cheese rubbed to a paste and put between thin slices 
of brown bread. 

Grated cheese and anchovies mixed with salt, pap- 
rica and a little vinegar. 

' " HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Out slices of bread two inches squara Out from 
the square a small square of bread, leaving the box a 
half inch thick all around, fill the space with a piece 
of American cheese, sprinkle it over with a little salt 



SANDWICHES. 205 

and paprica, cover the top with a thin slice of the 
bread, thus forming a box, brusb over with melted 
butter or beaten white of an egg, brown in a hot oven. 
These are delicious. Serve very hot on hot plates. 

CLUB HOUSE SANDWICHES. 

Use four pieces of toasted bread spread with may- 
onnaise dressing. Cover two of these vsdth lettuce 
leaves, lay thin slices of cold chicken upon the lettuce, 
over this thin slices of cold bacon or minced ham, 
then more lettuce, cover with the other slices of toast 
that have been spread with mayonnaise. Garnish 
with lettuce leaves and mayonnaise. 

HOT HAM OR CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered bread with chopped ham or 
chicken. If ham is used, mix it with a little mustard 
and moisten with a little cream if necessary. Mix 
chopped cbicken with pepper, salt and a little cream 
or chicken gravy. Dip each sandwich into a sligbtly 
beaten egg that has been diluted with two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk. Saute in butter, browning both sides. 
This can be browned in the chafing dish or on the 
stove. Serve with pickles or olives. 

SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of buttered bread with any 
kind of jam, jelly, preserves, candied fruits; the 
bread can be cut in fancy shapes or the sandwiches 
rolled. For rolling very fresh bread should be used, 
and the sandwiches should be fastened together with 
wooden toothpicks for an hour before serving, keep- 



206 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ing them moist by covering with a napkin ■wrung out 
in cold water. Spread thin slices of bread with 
orange marmalade or preserved ginger cut in thin 
slices. 

GINGERBREAD SANDWICHES. 

Bake gingerbread in thin sheets, when cold cut it 
open and into shapes for sandwiches. Spread with 
cream cheese and thin slices of preserved ginger, or 
the ginger can be chopped fine. These are nice for a 
picnic. 



CANAPES. 207 



CANAPES. 



Canapes are served hot and are thin slices of 
bread, sauted in butter or browned in the oven. 
They are cut in circles or strips. Sometimes they 
are used as the first course at a luncheon and some- 
times as a dessert. 

ANCHOVY OR SARDINE CANAPES. 

Spread strips or rounds of sauted bread with an- 
chovy or sardine paste that has been mixed wilii a 
little lemon juice. Arrange on top rosettes of hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine, the white and yolks ar- 
ranged separately or in alternate lines. 

HAM CANAPES. 

Cut thin slices of bread in rounds with a large 
biscuit cutter. Saute in butter or brown in the oven. 
Chop boiled ham very fine, mix with mustard and a 
little cream spread on the bread, cover the top with 
grated cheese with. a sprinkling of paprica, put in a 
hot oven for a few minutes for the cheese to melt. 



CHEESE CANAPES. 

Cover pieces of sauted bread with grated Parme- 
san cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprica, brown in 
the oven. Serve at once. 



208 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN CANAPES. 

Chop chicken and celery very fine, half and half, 
season highly, mix with gravy, stock or cream spread 
on sauted bread and serve with thin slices of hard- 
boiled egg in rows down the center. 

PRUNE OR FIG CANAPES. 

Soak the fruit in cold water for ten minutes, cook 
in a little hot water till tender, cut the figs in quar- 
ters, remove the stones from the prunes. Stew the 
fruit with sugar and a little water, using one table- 
spoonful of sugar and a half cup of water to a cup 
of the fruit. When the sugar and water is mostly 
cooked in the fruit, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry 
wine, cook for two or three minutes and place on 
sauted squares or rounds of bread, cover the top with 
whipped cream. These make a very nice dessert and 
can be cooked on the chafing dish. 

FRUIT CANAPES. 

All kinds of preserved fruit can be used, the fruit 
being heated and a little wine added if cared for, 
placed on the sauted bread, covered with whipped 
cream. Peaches and pineapple are particularly good 
served in this way. A little brandy can be added to 
the peaches. 

ALEXANDRA CANAPES. 

Butter small rounds of toasted bread, cover each 
piece with anchoviea Scatter over them hard-boiled 
eggs, olives and capers chopped together very finely 



CANAPES. 209 

APRICOT CANAPES. 

Out thin slices of bread into rounds. Saute a 
delicate brown in hot butter, cover with apricot mar- 
malade and dot with whipped cream. 



210 ROCKY MOUNTAIir COOK BOOK. 



PASTRY. 



The pie, although greatly abused, has more 
friends than any other dessert In New England, 
not many yearsi ago, it was the custom to make up 
enough mince pies a week before Thanksgiving to 
last a good part of the winter. In many homes the 
custom is still carried out It was no unusual sight 
to see forty or fifty pies all ready for the brick oven. 
The beauty of a pie is to have the pastry light and 
flaky and well browned. 

A well made plain pastry is good enough for most 
any pie. But the puff paste greatly improves a mince 
pie, especially for special occasions, like Thanksgiv- 
ing or Christmas. The puff paste is used mostly for 
pate shells, tarts, cheese straws, etc. 

PLAIN PASTRY (Enough for One good-sized Pie). 



lYg cups of flour. 

% cup of lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



% teaspoonful of salt. 
Ice water. 



Sift the flour and salt together, cut in the lard 
with a knife or rub in with the tip of the fingers, then 
cut in just enough ice water to hold it together. In 
putting in the water add only a few drops at a time, so 
as not to get too much. The pastry should be dry. 
Flour the board well, and roll out the pastry lightly, 
patting it with the rolling pin to get in shape to roll. 
Cover it over with one tablespoonful of butter cut in 
little bits; sprinkle a little flour over the butter. (The 



PASTRY. 211 

pastry should be rolled in an even square). Fold over 
the two sides to nearly meet in the center, then fold 
the ends over to the center, and the ends over again 
one over the other, making a square piece of pastry ; 
pat and roll out again, place the other tablespoonful 
of butter and roll and fold in the same way ; roll and 
fold once more, making three times in all. The pas- 
try is then ready for use. All pastry is better to re- 
main on the ice some time before using. It can be 
kept a week or more in this way. 

PUFF PASTE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Fqur cups of flour (or one pound), two cups of 
butter (or one pound), one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
ice water. This amount makes about twelve pate 
shells. 

Put the butter in a bowl of ice water, work it with 
the hands or wooden spoon until it becomes smooth 
and waxy. This is to wash out the salt and make it 
lighter. Then knead it in a napkin to get out all the 
water, pat it in half a dozen flat thin strips, lay it flat 
on a napkin in a pan; place this pan between two 
pans that are filled with cracked ice. This is done to 
thoroughly chiU the butter. Sift the flour and salt 
together, mix it to a stiff dough with ice water, using 
a knife and only a few drops of water at a time. 
Then knead it on the board until it is smooth, place 
on the ice for thirty minutes. Then flour the board 
well and toss the ball of dough on it, using a knife ; 
then roU out in a long sheet. Take one piece of the 
butter from the ice, roll it in a little flour, cut in thin 
strips and place on the pastry; fold over the sides of 
the pastry, letting the edges just meet in the center. 
Then fold the ends over to the center and double it 



212 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

over again; pound gently in a flat cake and roll out 
again. Eoll each, piece of butter in the same way. 
After the butter is all in, roll and fold once more, or 
as many more times as you care to do it. Should 
the paste become soft and sticky, put it on the ice for 
a while, then flour the board well and roU out. The 
paste should be folded and rolled till no streaks of 
butter remain. Then place it on the ice to chill, or 
cut out in the shapes to be used, place in the pans and 
chill on the ice for thirty minutes before baking. 

TO BAKE PUFF PASTE. 

The dough should be ice cold before putting in 
the oven. The oven should be hot, the greater heat 
at the bottom so the paste may rise before browning. 
It is well to place an asbestos' mat or paper on the 
grate above them so they will not brown too soon. A 
brown crust over the top will hold them down and 
prevent them being as light Pate cases should bake 
about twenty-five minutes, and tarts fifteen minutes. 

TO MAKE pIte'sHELLS FROM PUFF PASTE. 

Koll the paste to a quarter of an inch thickness. 
Cut into rounds with a fluted or plain cutter. Use 
the circles or rounds for one pate shell ; cut a hole in 
the center of two with a small cutter. Moisten the 
edge of each circle with a very little water, as too 
much water will hold the edges down and make them 
heavy. Place the two rings with the holes cut in 
them on top of the whole round, pressing the edges 
lightly together. Glaze them on the top with an egg 
if you like; the egg must not go over on the edges. 
Use the small pieces that are cut from the rounds for 



PASTRY. 213 

covers after the cases are filled. Bake them in a sep- 
arate pan, as they do not require as long a baking. 

Tarts are made with the two layers, cutting 
one in a circle and placing it on the round the same 
as for a pate. Fill with jelly, jam, preserves or 
lemon cream, the same as for lemon pie, first cooking 
the lemon cream in a double boiler. Wben cool fill 
the tart shells. Serve cold. 

VOL AU VENT. 

Can be cut in any shape required, a large round 
being most often used. EoU out the puff paste oner 
half inch thick ; turn a pie plate upside down on the 
paste, press it down to make a marking, and cut out 
with a sharp knife. Put two or three rims around 
the edge as you would a pie, only thicker ; place in a 
large pan on a paper; bake in a hot oven forty-five 
minutes . Fill with any kind of cream, meats, mush- 
rooms or oysters, or serve as a dessert, filled with 
stewed fruits covered with whipped cream. 

PUFF PASTE STRIPS. 

EoU out the paste one-fourth an inch thick, cut 
in strips with a pastry wheel one inch wide and four 
inches long; bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 
On a papered pan spread a strip with apricot or 
raspbeiry jam, cover with a strip, place a meringue 
over the top, brown in the oven and serve as a dessert. 
Cut puff paste in a three-inch square, bring the four 
comers to the center, moisten them a little to keep 
in place. Bake for twenty minutes and put a little 
jam or jelly in each comer, with a little whipped 
cream on the jelly. 



214 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO GLAZE PASTRY. 

Seat an ^g slightly, then mix with it a table- 
spoonful of water. Brush over the pastry with a 
brush very lightly, and dust with a very little pow- 
dered sugar. Thia gives a brown and glossy look. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Eoll pufE paste thin, sprinkle with grated cheese 
and a little paprica. Fold and roll out, sprinkle and 
fold twice more; roll the last time one-half inch 
thick, cut into straws, place in the pans, put on the 
ice for half an hour; bake in a hot oven for ten or 
fifteen minutes. 

APPLE PIE. 

Cut sour apples in quarters, peel and core, and 
slice. Place them evenly in the plate, piling a little 
in the center. Cover with half a cup of sugar; sea- 
son with one-half teaspoonful cinnamon or grated 
nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of butter. In the spring 
of the year when the apples have lost their flavor, 
season with lemon juice and a little of the grated 
rind. Out slits in the upper crust for the steam to 
escape, dampen the edges of both upper and under 
crust, press them together. Place around the edge a 
half inch strip of the pastry; moisten it before put- 
ting on so it will cling to the crust Bake about 
thirty minutes in a hot oven, try the apples to see if 
done, with a straw or fork. 



1 cup dry slated squash. 
IV^ cups scalded milk. 
Vi cup sugar. 



SQUASH PIE. 



^ teasporaiful 
/S^ teaspoonful 
2 eggs. 



PASTRY. 215 



Mix in the order given. Line a plate -with pastry, 
put on a rim. Bake until the center is firm. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 



Make the same as squash, only season with one- 
fourth teaspoonful each of ginger and cinnamon. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat three eggs slightly, then beat in six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
nutmeg or cirtnamon. Pour onto this mixture two 
cups of scalded milk. Line a deep plate with pastry, 
put a rim around and bake slowly. Wateh carefully, 
when it puffs up take out at once. 



RHUBARB PIE. 

If the rhubard is very young and tender do not 
peel it. If the skin has become tough, peel and cut in 
half -inch pieces. Line a plate with the crust, fill with 
the rhubard, sprinkle with one cup of sugar, and a 
teaspoonful of butter ; if liked, flavor with cinnamon 
or nutmeg, cover with a crust and put a rim around 
it. Bake in a quick oven for about thirty minutes. 



BERRY PIES. 

Pick over and wash the berries, line a plate with 
pastry, fill with the berries, sprinkle with half cup of 
sugar, or more if the berries are very acid ; cover with 
a crust; bake. 



216 SOCKV MOUNTAIIT COOK BOOK. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Stew the cranberries. Line a plate with pastry, 
and a rim of pastry around it. Fill with the cooked 
cranberries, having them cold, and cover the top with 
strips of pastry about haK an inch wide, having them 
cross each other to form little squares. Bake. A 
Thanksgiving pie. 

APPLE TART PIE. 

Make the same as cranberry pie. Stew the ap- 
ples, sweeten and season with lemon juice and nutm^. 

PRUNE, APRICOT OR PEACH PIE. 

Line a deep plate with pastry and bake, or invert 
the pie plate, and bake the pastry on the outside of 
it. When cold fill with, the stewed fruit, cover the 
top with whipped cream. 

Peach Pie can be made the same as a sliced apple 
pie. 

DELICIOUS LEMON PIE (Boston Cooking School). 

Beat two eggs with the yolks of two more ; add one 
cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon; mix all together, bake in a 
crust-lined plate till it puffs up, and when a knife 
will come out of it clean; cover with the following 
meringue : Beat the whites of three eggs until stiff, 
beat in four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar grad- 
ually, then fold in three more tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Bake about ten minutes in a slow oven. 



PASTRY. 217 

LEMON PIE (With Com Starch). 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of corn starch with one 
cup of sugar ; add one cup of boiling water, boil ten 
minutes, take from the stove; add a teaspoonful of 
butter, one whole egg and one yolk, the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon. Bake between crusts or with 
a meringue. 

CREAM PIE. 

Boil one cup and half of milk; stir into it one- 
fourth cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of com starch 
or flour mixed with the sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt; stir until smooth. Remove from the stove 
and add three egg yolks slightly beaten. Bake in a 
crust-lined plate. 

MINCE MEAT. 



4 cups chopped meat. 

1 cup chopped suet. 

8 cups chopped apple (sour) . 

2 cups meat liquor. 
2 cups brown sugar. 
2 cups molasses. 

2 cups cider. 

Juice and grated rind of two 

lemons. 
Juice and grated rind of 

three oranges. 
1 lb. of stoned and chopped 
raisins. 



1 lb. washed currants. 
% lb. chopped citron. 
y^ lb. chopped figs. 

% lb. chopped English wal- 
nuts, if liked. 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
2 teaspoonfuls mace. 
2 teaspoonfuls powdered 

cloves. 
2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

1 cup of brandy. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose water. 



Mix in the order given. Use cold tea in place of 
cider and brandy if you wish. Cook slowly in a pre- 
serving kettle for one hour, stirring often. Add the 
brandy and rose water after removing from the stove. 
Meat from the lower part of the round is the best to 
use. A little more brandy or wine can be poured 



218 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

over the pie just before the upper crust is put on. 
Mince meat is better to pack in an earthen jar, and 
to keep several days before using. Sauteme may be 
used in place of cider. 

PETITE PIES. 

Line small round patty or gem pans with plain 
or puff paste. Fill with lemon or cream filling, 
stewed fruits or berries. Cover with a crust, cut a 
dash in the center for the steam to escape. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

ENGLISH APPLE PIE. 

Fill a buttered pudding dish with tart apples cut 
in eighths, pared and cored; sprinkle with sugar, a 
little salt and grated rind of a lemon. Pile the apples 
high in the center ; add one-fourth cup of cold water, 
a few pieces of butter. Invert the dish upon the pas- 
try ; cut large enough to give place for the high center 
and shrinkage. Coyer the pie with the paste, putting 
a rim of paste around the edge. Bake about forty- 
five minutes. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 219 



HOT PUDDINGS. 

AU measurements level, with the exception of baking 
powder, which is measured rounding with the side of the can. 
Sift flour before measuring. 



CREAM RICE PUDDING. 



1 quart of milk. 
^ % cup well washed rice. 



3 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
A little " " " 



/¥'t<^ 



Soak half an hour in the milk. Bake slowly about 
an kour, or until the rice has thickened the milk, or 
a thick creamy substance. This is a delicious, inex- 
pensive and nutritious dessert. One-half cup of the 
whole raisins or a few pieces of preserved ginger can 
be cooked with it to give variety. Serve with butter 
alone, or butter and maple sugar, or cream. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Make the same as cream rice pudding, with the 
exception of using one-half cup of molasses in place 
of the sugar. Season with cinnamon; add one-half 
cup of raisins and one cup of sour apples, if liked, 
that have been pared, cored and quartered. Serve 
with cream. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

1 quart of milk. | % cup sugar. 

14 cup tapioca. | Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Soak the tapi- 
oca in it for one hour, or until it is transparent. Ee 
move from the stove ; add the beaten yolks and sugar, 



220 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

bake in buttered pudding dish for half an hour. Serve 
with lemon sauce, or remove from the oven, covesr the 
top with a layer of jam or jelly, and spread over it a 
meringue made from the whites of the eggs and four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown in the 
oven. 



APPLE AND PEACH TAPIOCA. 

Wash one-half cup of tapioca (the pearl is the 
best), pour over it one quart of boiling water, cook in 
double boiler till transparent (about an hour), stir 
often that it may not become lumpy ; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, core and pare eight tart apples, place 
them in a buttered pudding dish, and fill the cores 
with sugar, a little lemon juice and cinnamon ; pour 
the tapioca over them, and bake till the apples are 
soft Serve hot or cold with foamy sauce or sugar 
and cream. Peel the peaches, cut in halves, cook in 
the same way. 



SAGO PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler ; wash 
and add to it one-half cup of sago, and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt; let it cook till transparent, stirring 
often to prevent lumping. Beat two eggs with one- 
half eup of sugar. Remove the sago from the stove ; 
add the eggs and sugar. Bake in buttered pudding 
dish for one-half hour, or imtil it puffs up. Serve 
hot or cold, -with, cream. 

Make sago with apple or peaches the same as 
peach and apple tapioca. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



221 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mix one cup of yellow com meal, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of salt; pour onto them one 
quart of scalded milk, one-fourth cup of butter, and 
two beaten eggs; let bake in a deep pudding dish 
slowly for one-half hour, then pour in three pints of 
cold milk. Bake very slowly for five or six hours. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING. 

Mix one cup and a half of whole wheat flour, one- 
half cup of white flour, one-half teaspoonful each of 
soda and salt; sift, add one cup of milk, half a cup 
of molasses, one-half cup each of shelled and chopped 
walnuts and raisins. Steam for two hours and a 
balf. Serve with cream, foamy or lemon sauce, or a 
hard sauce flavored with lemon juice, or sherry. This 
wiU serve eight people. 

FIG PUDDING. 



12 butter crackers, rolled 

fine. 
14 lb. figs, chopped fine. 
Y2 cup of suet, chopped fine. 
2 eggs, well beaten. 
1 cup sugar. 

Mix in the order given, 
with a wine or hard sauce, 
generously, as it is a rich pudding. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING. 



1 cup of milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda dissolvad 

in the milk. 
4 teaspoonfuls of brandy. 
% nutmeg. 

Steam four hours. Serve 
Will serve eight people 



% cup flour. 

1% cups of soft bread 

crumbs. 
1 cup scalded milk. 

s cup 
5 eggs. 
1 cup raisins. 
% cup of currants. 
14 cup of finely chopped 
datM. 



% cup finely chopped citron. 
14 cup finely chopped suet. 
The grated rind of a small 

lemon. 
1/2 cup chopped walnuts. 
14 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
\% teaspoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls each of 

brandy and sherry. 



222 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Pour the hot milk over the crumbs. Mix in the 
order given. Steam in a buttered mould six hours. 



IV^ lbs. raisins, stoned. 
1% lbs. currants. 
1% lbs. suet, chopped fine. 
1% lbs. bread crumbs. 
1 lb. flour, or 4 cups. 
1 lb. sugar. 

1 lb. preserved lemon and 
orange peel mixed. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

% nutmeg. 

% ounce mixed spices. 

1 cup brandy. 

1 dozen eggs. 

1 cup scalded mUk. 



Pour the milk over the crumbs. Mix in the order 
given. This quantity makes four puddings. Steam 
six hours. 



SUET PUDDING. 



% cup chopped suet. 
% cup molasses. 
1 cup milk. 
1 cup stoned raisins. 
^2 cup chopped citron. 
% teaspoonful soda. 



Orated rind of half a lemon. 
% teaspoonful cinnamon. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
About two cups and a half of 
flour. 



Sift all the dry materials together, then stir in 
the others. One-half cup of butter can be used in- 
stead of liie suet. Steam in a buttered pudding mould 
three hours. Serve with hard, foamy or wine sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Remove the crusts and butter thin slices of stale 
bread. Lay them in layers in a pudding dish, alter^ 
nating with layers of stoned raisins.' When the 
dish is full pour over it two well-beaten eggs mixed 
wilih half a cup of brown sugar, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt, one pint of milk. Bake slowly for one hour. 
Sprinkle cinnamon and nutmeg over each layer of 
bread. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 223 



STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 



% cup currants or raisins. 
% cup candied orange peel. 
Yi teaspoonful salt. 



1 cup soft bread crumbs. 

2 cups scalded milk. 
% cup sugar. 
Yolks of three eggs. 

Mix in the order given. Steam three hours. 
Serve with wine or creamy sauce. 

BROWN BETTY. 

In a buttered pudding dish arrange alternate lay- 
ers of soft bread crumbs and sliced sour apples. Sea- 
son each layer with bits of butter, a little salt, and 
ground cinnamon. When the dish is full pour over 
it one-half cup of molasses, and a half cup of hot 
water. Bake for one-half or three-quarters of an hour 
or until the apples are soft. Raisins, chopped al- 
monds or walnuts can be used with the apple. Serve 
with cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

14 cup melted butter. 



eggs. 



1 cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 

1 rounding teaspoonful 
baking powder. 



Sift the dry materials together ; beat the eggs and 
sugar, and add them with the milk and melted butter. 
Bake in a round pan with a hole in the center for 
one-half hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

STEAMED BERRY PUDDING (Mrs. Lincoln). 



2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted 

butter. 



2 eggs. 

Vg.cup sugar. 

2 cups of berries, or fruit, 

raisins or currants 

may be used. 



224 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Sift the dry materials together ; add the fruit, stir 
it well around in the flour, then add the rest of the 
materials. Steam two hours. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter a mould well. Ornament it witli candied 
fruits. Arrange in it slices of sponge cake or lady 
fingers ; dip them lightly in sherry if you like. Ar- 
range alternate layers of cake and fruit, then pour 
over it all a custard made of a pint of milk, yolks of 
three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sugar; pour 
it into the mould, bake setting in a pan of water, for 
one hour. Serve with a wine sauce. 

BAKED PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and grate one pineapple ; to every cup of the 
pineapple add one-half cup of sugar and one-fourth 
cup of butter creamed together, one cup of thin 
cream and four eggs slightly beaten, a little salt 
Bake in rather a slow oven until it puffs up and the 
center seems firm. Cover with a meringue made 
with the whites of three eggs beaten foamy, beat in 
four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar till stiff, then 
fold in two tablespoonfuls. Bake in a slow oven for 
ten minutes. 

STEAMED ORANGE OR PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Let one cup of soft breadcrumbs soak in one cup 
of hot milk ten minutes ; add one cup of sugar, one 
cup of orange juice oi* one cup of grated pineapple 
and one tablespoonful lemon juice. If orange is 
used one tablespoonful of grated orange peel with the 
orange and lemon juice, two eggs, one tablespoonful 



HOT PUDDINGS. 225 

melted butter, one-fourth teaspooiiful salt, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder sifted with one-fourtli cup 
of flour. Steam in a buttered mould two bours and 
a half. Serve with a ca^amy sauce. 

QUINCE PUDDING (Mrs. HiU). 

Pare and grate six ripe quinces; mix the pulp 
as grated with the juice of a lemon to keep it from 
discoloring; add the grated yellow rind of a lemon, 
a cup of sugar, the beaten yolks of six and the whites 
of three eggs, and one cup of cream. Mix thoroughly 
and bake until firm in a buttered pudding dish, 
standing in a pan of hot water. Serve cold ; sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, or serve with sugar and 
whipped cream. 

BOSTON APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and core sour apples enough to make three 
good cups before they are cooked. Stew with them 
one cup and a half of sugar, one-half cup of water, 
two inches cinnamon bark; cook until they are soft, 
then mash through a sieve ; add one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, one cup hot cream, and the yolks of 
four eggs and one white, and a tablespoonful melted 
butter. Line a pudding dish with rich pastry and 
pour in the mixture; bake till firm, or butter a pud- 
ding dish and bake without the pastry until firm. 
Serve with cream, hot or cold. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Six ears of sweet corn, one quart of milk, or half 
milk and half cream, one-fourth cup of flour, four 
eggs, one^half cup of sugar, one^fourth teaspoonful 



226 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

salt, one tablespoonful melted butter. Out the com 
down through the kernels and press out the pulp. 
Bake in a buttered mould till firm. Serve hot with 
lemon sauce. 

SNOWBALL PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of four ^gs till light, then grad- 
ually beat in one cup of granulated sugar. When 
light add three tablespoonfuls of milk, one cup full 
of flour, with one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted 
with it Beat the white® stiff, fold lightly into the 
mixture. Fill well-buttered cups or moulds- two- 
thirds full; steam for one-half hour. Serve with 
lemon, foamy or win© sauce, or any fruit sauce. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Three^fourths cup of molasses, on&-half cup of 
chopped suet, one cup of sweet milk, two and one- 
half cups of flour, one cup seeded raisins, ojie cup 
chopped English walnuts, on&-half cup chopped figs, 
one-half grated nutmeg, one^half teaspoonf ul each of 
cinnamon and salt, three-fourths teaspoonful of soda, 
mix well together, steam three hours. Serve with 
a hard or orange sauce. 

WEYMOUTH PUDDING. 

Two cups stale bread crumbs soaked in one cup 
hot milk, one cup finely chopped suet, one cup each 
chopped figs and raisins, one cup sugar, onchhalf tea- 
spoonful salt, three eggs, juice and grated yellow of 
the rind of a lemon. Beat all the ingredients well 
together; steam in a well-buttered mould for three 
hours. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 227 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Place in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish 
six fresh cocoanut cakes. Pour over them a custard 
made of one pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, a little salt; bake till the custard is firm. 
Remove from the oven, cover the top with a layer of 
raspberry jam, or currant jelly; apricot jam is also 
very delicious with. it. Spread over it a meringue 
made of the whites of two eggs and three tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, beaten stiff. 

Macaroon Pudding can be made in the same way, 
using macaroons in place of cocoanut cakes. 



CRACKER PUDDING. 

Butter eight butter crackers ; place them in a but- 
tered pudding dish, pour over them a custard made 
of three cupsi of milk and the yolks of four eggs and 
white of one, half cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of salt; bake till firm. Serve with lemon or 
orange sauce. 



CORN STARCH PUDDING. 



2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn starch. 

14 teaapoonful salt. 



% cup sugar. 

Yolks of three eggs, white of 
one. 



Scald the milk in double boiler; sift the com 
starch, salt and sugar together, stir into the milk. 
Cook fifteen minutes, stirring until smooth, then add 
the eggs slightly beaten; cook ten minutes. Serve 
hot or cold with cream and sugar. 



228 KOCEY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 

1 egg. 



2 cups flour. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
% cup butter. 



1 cup milk. 
4 sour apples. 
Sugar and cinnamon. 



Sift the dry materials together ; rub in the butter, 
then the milk and beaten egg; spread on a buttered 
shallow pan; pare, core and quarter the apples, lay 
them in rows on top of tbe dougb and press the sharp 
edge a little in the dough; sprinkle them over with 
sugar and a little cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve hot with lemon or a hard 
sauce. Peaches can be used in place of the apples. 

APPLE SNOWBALL. 

Cook one cup of well-washed rice in a double 
boiler with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one cup of 
milk and one and one-half cups of water. When the 
rice has taken in all the liquid, butter small moulds 
or cups well, line them with one-half inch of the hot 
rice, fill the center with a quarter of a sour apple; 
siprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, or lemon juice. 
Cover it all over wili rice, and steam in a steamer, 
or setting in a pan of hot water on top of the stove 
for one-half hour. It is better to have the apples 
slightly cooked first. Peaches or pineapple are de- 
licious used in the same way. Serve with creamy 
sauce. Be careful in taking them from the mould 
that they do not lose their shape. 

STEAMED CARROT PUDDING. 



1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 cup carrot. 
1 cup potato. 
1 cup flour. 
1 cup molasses. 
1 eup raisins. 



1 cup currants. 

l^ cup suet. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonfvQ cinnamon. 

% tsaspoonful nutmeg. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 229 

Grate the carrot and potato, add the bread crumbs, 
sift the spices and soda with the flour, also salt Add 
the suet, molasses and fruit, dredge with a little 
extra flour. Steam in a well-buttered mould for 
four hours. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core six sour apples, and place them in 
a buttered pudding dish. Mix one-fourth cup of 
flour and one^f ourth teaspoonf ul salt with a little milk 
to form a paste; then add the yolks of four eggs, 
well beaten, a little more milk, then fold in the whites 
the rest of the milk, making two cups in all. Pour 
over the apples; bake in a moderately hot oven for 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve with any kind of a 
sauoe. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough ; roll it 
out and cut in squares; pare and core sour apples; 
All the center with sugar and a little cinnamon mixed 
with it, a little piece of butter ; wrap each apple in a 
square of dough, having the points meet on top; 
dampen them a little with milk and press together; 
bake for twenty-five minutes, or until the apples are 
tender, or steam for one hour. Serve with a molasses 
sauce. A hard or creamy sauce is also good. 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Make a rich biscuit dough. Eoll out about half 
an inch thick. Peel, core and quarter sour apples; 
place them in the dough, cover with a little sugar, 
cinnamon, nutmeg and bits of butter ; roll the dough 



230 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

over the apples, pressing tib.e ends tight together. 
Steam for an hour and a quarter. Serve with mo- 
lasses, hard or creamy sauce. Peaches can be used 
in the same way. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a mould or dish half full of sour apples that 
have been pared, quartered and cored, cover with half 
a cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
little pieces of butter ; cover the top with a rich bis- 
suit dough, cut a slit in the center for the steam to 
escape. Steam for one hour and a half, or bake in 
the oven until the apples are tender. Serve with 
lemon sauca 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Cut bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick, 
then in inch wide strips; dip each piece in melted 
butter and line a baking dish with them, having the 
pieces meet closely together. Fill the center of the 
mould with apple sauce, that has been cooked in quar- 
ter pieces, sweetened and flavored with lemon juice. 
Cover the top with strips of bread dipped in the 
melted butter. Bake in a hot oven forty minutee. 
Turn carefully out on a flat dish. Serve vsdth cream 
or a sauce. 

APPLES AND RICE. 

Steam one cup of well-washed rice in a double 
boiler with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one cup of 
milk and one cup of water till soft ; add a little more 
milk or water if necessary, also oook with it a little 



HOT PUDDINGS. 231 

nutmeg, cinnamon or rose water, and a half cup of 
chopped almonds, if cared for. When the rice is 
soft and has absorbed the liquid, press it in the shape 
of a bowl. O'ook sour apples that have been cored 
and pared, in a syrup made of half as much water as 
sugar, till they are tender; remove carefully with a 
big spoon, place around the rice and fill the inside 
with them, boil the syrup down and pour around 
them. Eill each apple up with whipped cream and 
put a piece of currant or raspberry jelly on top of 
each. Serve hot or cold. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Core and pare six or eight sour apples, cover the 
tops with sugar, a little grated orange or lemon peel 
and one-half cup of water ; cover and bake in a pud- 
ding dish till tender. Then cover with a meringue 
made of the whites of three eggs, beaten until foamy, 
then beat in gradually four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar ; bake in a slow oven ten minutes. Serve 
cold. 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 



1/4 cup sugar. 
% cup flour. 
2 cups hot milk. 
14 cup butter. 



Yolks of five eggs. 
White of five eggs. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



Mix the sugar and flour together with a little 
cold milk, stir into the boiling milk, cook for ten 
minutes, stirring until smooth, then add the butter; 
mix and stir in the well-beaten yolks. Eemove from 
the stove, add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a 
pudding dish or little moulds. Place the dish in a 
pan of hot water, bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 



232 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

If little moulds are used, bake twenty minutes. Serve 
at once. If the souffle is done before time to serve, let 
it remain in tbe oven with the door open. Serve with 
whipped cream or any light sauce. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 

Make the same as custard souffle; melt two 
squares of chocolate, mix it with two tablespoonfuls 
of hot milk and stir into the double boiler before the 
yolks are added. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE. 

Add one-half cup of grated pineapple to a custard 
souffle. After it is removed from the stove, just 
before the whites are added, use one more egg, and 
if the pineapple is not sweetened, one^half cup of 
sugar, instead of a fourth. Serve with whipped 
cream, flavored with pineapple. 

PRUira; SOUFFLE. 

Beat the whites of five eggs till foamy, add one- 
fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar, and beat till dry,* 
then beat in gradually half a cup of powdered sugar 
and one-half cup of prunes that have been cooked,- 
] stoned and chopped; turn into a buttered pudding; 
J dish, set in a pan of hot water and bake one-half 
/ hour. Serve at once, in the same dish, with whipped 
cream or a cold boiled custard. J Ss^^-^^fo-^^'Ti'^ [M 

CHERRY SOUFFLE. 

Two cups of canned cherries. Butter a mould 
well and decorate it with the cherries. Mix three 



HOT PUDDINGS. 233 

tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold cherry syrup 
and stir into one-half cup of the hot syrup. Stir 
until it thickens, beat the yolks of three eggs and stir 
into the mixture with one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Remove at once from the stove and when cool 
fold in the whites beaten stiffly. Turn into the mould, 
steam for one hour and a quarter, then take the 
souffle from the stove. Let it stand in the mould a 
few minutes before turning oiit. Serve with sweet- 
ened and flavored whipped cream, or with hot cherry 
juice. 

PEACH SOUFFLE. 

Make the same as cherry souffle, decorating the 
mould with half peaches and using two tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice. 

LEMON SOUFFLE (Boston Cooking School), 

Beat the yolks of three eggs till light and foamy, 
beat the whites till dry, then beat the yolks into the 
whites; beat in gradually a scant half cup of 
sugar and the juice and grated rind of a lemon, turn 
into a buttered pudding dish, dust with sugar and 
bake about twenty minutes. Serve at once with or 
without a sauce. 

RICE SOUFFLE. 

Cook one-half cup of well-washed rice in one cup 
of boiling water and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
When tender drain from the water and put the rice 
in a double boiler with one cup of milk and one of 
cream. Cook twenty minutes. Add the yolks of 
five eggs that have been beaten lightly with five table- 



234 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Eemove at once from 
the stove, set aside to cool, then add one tablespoonful 
of grated orange peel and a tablespoonful of the juice, 
fold in the stiffly-beaten whites. Bake in a well but- 
tered pudding dish forty minutes. Serve at once 
with a light, delicate sauce. 

GINGER PUDDING. 



2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking 

powder. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted 

butter. 



2 eggs. 

y^ cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

3 tablespoonfuls of finely 

chopped preserved ginger. 



Sift the baking powder, salt and flour together, 
then mix the ginger thoroughly into the flour, then 
add the sugar, melted butter, lemon juice, beaten eggs 
and milk. Steam two hours in a large mould or one 
hour in individual moulds. Serve with lemon sauce. 



DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler, then 
stir into it one-half cup of com starch that has been 
mixed to a paste with cold milk and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until perfectly smooth, then add the yolks of 
four eggs beaten with one-half cup of sugar. Cook 
for five minutes, then turn into a buttered pudding 
dish. Bake twenty minutes. Eemove from the oven, 
cover the top with a layer of jelly or jam and over 
that a meringue. Eeturn to the oven and brown 
slowly. Serve hot or cold, with or without whipped 
cream. 



HOT PUDDINGS. 235 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Fill a three-pint mould or pail two-thirds full 
with alternate layers of sliced sponge cake and maca- 
roons. Add to a pint of the strawberry juice one cup 
of cream, one-half ctip of sugar and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt. Pour it over the cake, cover the 
mould tightly, steam for two hours. Serve hot with 
whipped cream, flavored with a little sherry. 

VICTORIA PUDDING. 

Bake sponge cake in a round pan with a hole in it, 
fill up the hole with whipped cream and sprinkle the 
top with red cherries cut in fine pieces. Surround 
the cake with a Chocolate Sauce. 

MILTON PUDDING. 



2 cups fresh bread crumbs. 

4 cups milk. 

2 eggs. 

14 teaspoonful salt. 



3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
2 oz. or 2 squares of Baker's 
Chocolate. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler, add the choco- 
late, which has been scraped fine, the sugar and the 
salt. When the chocolate has dissolved pour the mix- 
ture over the bread crumbs, add the eggs, pour in a 
buttered baking dish and bake until the center is firm, 
about one-half hour. Serve with a liquid sauce. 



236 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COLD DESSERTS. 



GARNISHING. 

For garnishing cold desserts use fancy cakes, 
icings, fresh or candied fruits, compotes, jellies, nuts, 
currants, raisins, angelica, spun sugar, which can 
be made in nests, balls or to encircle a dish. Eresh 
flowers and leaves also make a most attractive decora- 
tion. Angelica can be cut in strips, then in little dia- 
mond shapes, making very effective decoration, and 
especially so when combined with candied cherries, 
sugared rose leaves or sugared violets or lilac blos- 
soms. Angelica is not expensive — a ten-cent piece 
will last quite a while. 

FLAVORING. 

Essences of fruit, flowers and nuts make some of 
the best flavoring. They cost about twenty cents a 
bottle. Vanilla is most commonly used, but many 
other flavors should help to take its place. It is not 
considered wholesome. Oranges and lemons are al- 
ways a pleasant flavor, using the juice or grated yel- 
low of the peel (not the white). The preserved peel 
makes a delicious flavor as well as a pretty garnish. 

LIQUEURS AND WINES. 

Liqueurs and cordials are rich syrups of different 
flavors, with only enough alcohol to keep them. They 



COLD DESSERTS. 237 

give a very delicate and pleasant flavor and are inex- 
pensive, as a bottle will last a long time. Maras- 
chino lias the flavor of bitter cherry, noyan of peach, 
Curacao of orange peel. Kum, brandy and wine, 
either madeira, sherry or port, are used a great deal 
and impart a very agreeable flavor, if not too gener- 
ously used. 

COLORING. 

Use the vegetable coloring paste ; it comes twenty- 
five cents a bottle. A bottle will last a long time, as 
it requires a very little to give the delicate coloring 
that you wish to use. Dilute a little in milk or water 
before using. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 



2 cups milk. 
Yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



Speck of salt. 

Flavor ■w'ith nutmeg, vanilla, 
or a little sherry vrine. 



Scald the milt in a double boiler, beat the yolks, 
sugar and salt together. Pour the hot milk slowly 
into the egg (stirring all the time), pour back in the 
double boiler and cook until it is thick like cream, or 
till it coats the spoon. As soon as it thickens, re- 
move from the stove at once, as too long cooking 
will cause it to curdle. Watch and stir it all the 
time it is cooking, then strain through a fine strainer 
and flavor. Using only the yolks gives a much 
smoother custard. Three yolks can be used, but four 
makes a much richer custard. 

Chocolate Custard. — ^Melt one-half ounce of Bak- 
er's chocolate with a tablespoonful of milk, stir into 
boiled custard just before straining, flavor with va- 
nilla. 



238 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Caramel Custard. — Melt four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar to a caramel with one tablespoonful of water. 
Stir into the hot milk before pouring on the egg yolks. 
Make the same as boiled custard. 

Nut Custard. — One-half cup finely chopped wal- 
nuts added to boiled custard after straining. 

Cocoanut Custard. — One cup finely grated cocoa- 
nut added to boiled custard after straining. 

Maple Custard. — ^Sweeten boiled custard with 
one-half cup of thick maple syrup, add it to the hot 
milk with the eggs. Candied fruits may be cut fine 
and added, making a fruit custard. 

BAKED OR STEAMED CUSTARD. 

1 quart of milk. | 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

6 eggs. I % teaspoonful of salt. 

Scald the milk, beat the eggs, salt and sugar to- 
gether. Pour the milk over them, stirring all the 
time. Strain into a baking dish, fiavor with grated 
nutmeg, bake standing in a pan of hot water until 
the custard puffs up, or try with a knife, if it comes 
out clean, free from the milk, it is done. Watch care- 
fully. Bake or steam in cups or moulds if desired. 

BAKED OR STEAMED CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Make the same as plain baked or steamed, with 
the exception of melting the sugar to a caramel with 
two tablespoonfuls of water, then adding it to the hot 
milk. Steam in a buttered mould and serve ; if you 
like, serve cold, with caramel sauce. 



COLD DESSERTS. 239 

BAKED OR STEAMED CHOCOLATE OR COCOANUT 
CUSTARD. 

Melt one ounce of chocolate in the hot milk for 
chocolate custard. Bake in a buttered mould, set in 
a pan of hot water. Serve very cold with custard 
sauce or surrounded with whipped cream that has a 
few maraschino or candied cherries strewn over it. 
Make the same as baked or steamed custard. 

Baked Cococmut Custard. — Add one cup of grated 
cocoanut to the hot milk. Bake or steam. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Beat the whites of three eggs stiff with one table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Scald two cups of milk 
for boiled custard, poach the whites in the milk until 
firm, two tablespoonfuls at a time. Kemove care- 
fully on a sieve. Make the boiled custard. Serve the 
whites on the custard with a piece of bright colored 
jelly on top, or blanched almonds, stuck endwise into 
the white. 

APPLE SNOW. 

Quarter and core two cups of sour apples (do not 
pare), steam or stew the apples till tender, masji 
through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff 
with half a cup of powdered sugar, add the apple and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice or a grating of nut- 
meg. Beat till like snow. Pile in a dish with bits 
of bright jelly on top. Serve with or without cream. 

IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE (Mrs. Lincoln). 



% cup Irish moss. 

1 quart of milk. 

14 teaspoonful of salt. 



1 teaspoonful vanilla, or two 
tablespoonfuls of wine. 



Vz cup sugar. 
2 cups cream. 
Flavor. 



240 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen minutes, 
pick it over, wash and tie in cheese cloth, boil it in the 
milk till it thickens when dropped on a cold plate, 
add the salt, strain, flavor. Mould in smaU cups or 
egg shells. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Blanc Mange may be made by using one table- 
spoonful of sea moss farina. Stir it into the boiling 
milk. Cook twenty minutes. 

PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM (Chocolate and Cofiee). 

2 tablespoonfulB granulated 

gelatine. 
2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, whip the cream 
until you have about three pints (if it is the thin 
cream; if heavy cream, use one cup). Scald the re- 
mainder of the thin cream, if thick cream is used, 
scald one cup of milk, add the gelatine to the hot 
milk. Strain, flavor with vanilla, wine, melted choc- 
olate or one-half cup of strong coffee. Place the dish 
in one of cracked ice, stir until it begins to thicken, 
then fold in the whipped cream. Pour into a mould. 
When stiff enough to drop from a spoon, mould in in- 
dividual or a large mould. The mould can first be 
decorated with half preserved peaches, slices of or- 
ange or pineapple, candied fruits or angelica. 

BAVARIAN CREAM WITH EGGS. 



2 cups heavy cream, 

whipped. 
2 cups milk. 
2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 



% cup cold water. 
% cup sugar. 
Yolks 4 eggs. 
Speck of salt. 
Flavoring. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, whip the cream, 
heat the milk in a double boiler, beat the egg yolks. 



COLD DESSERTS. 241 

sugar and salt together, stir into the hot milk, cook 
for two minutes, stirring constantly. Add the soaked 
gelatine. Strain into a big bowl or granite dish, set 
in a pan of cracked ice. When cool add flavoring, 
vanilla or almond, a teaspoonful each, a half cup of 
candied orange peel and two tablespoonfuls of the 
juice. Stir until it begins to harden, then fold in the 
cream. Mould. 

FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM. 



2 cups of any kind of fruit 

t juice or pulp sweet- 
, ened to taste. 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



3 tablespoonfuls gelatine. I 
% cup cold water. i 

% cup boiling Water. '''•^ 
2 cups heavy cream. " 

fet'vCSoak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in the 
boiling water. Add it to the fruit juice or pulp. Set 
the dish in one of ice water or cracked ice. Stir until 
it begins to thicken, fold in the whipped cream. The 
mould may be garnished with the whole fruit, or sur- 
rounded by it when served. To garnish the mould 
place the fruit around the mould, hold it in place with 
a little of the Bavarian cream. When it is firm pour 
carefully in the remainder. It is better to mould 
fruits in an earthen or agate mould. 

FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM (No. 2). 

If you wish to mould in layers, put half of the 
dissolved gelatine in the cream and the other half in 
the fruit Pour one-half of the cream first in the 
mould. When that is firm pour in the fruit. Allow 
that to become firm, then add the rest of the cream, 
making three layers, with the fruit in the center. 
Garnish with whipped cream, flavored with the fruit 
juice. 



242 KOCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BAVARIAN IN THE SHELL. 

Line a mould with lady fingers or maccaroons, 
dipped lightly in wine, if liked. Fill up with Ba- 
varian cream, garnish with whipped cream sprinkled 
over with candied fruits or nuts. 

BAVARIAN EN SURPRISE. 

Use a double mould for this, or one small mould 
set in a larger one. Line the mould with chocolate 
or coffee Bavarian. Fill the center with the plain 
Bavarian or flavor the plain with chopped nuts that 
have heen soaked a half hour in wine or orange juice. 
Or line a mould with the fruit Bavarian, fill the cen- 
ter with the plain, garnish with fruit or whipped 
cream. Or line the mould with Bavarian cream and 
fill the center with the fruit Bavarian. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM. 

Scald one pint of grated pineapple, add one-half 
package of gelatine, softened in one-half cup of cold 
water and the juice of one-half lemon. Set this mix- 
ture in a dish of ice water and stir till it b^ns to 
thicken, then fold in two cups of heavy cream beaten 
stiff, mould. One-half of this quantity will serve six 
people. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 



1 level tablespoonful of 

granulated gelatine. 
^ cup of cold Water. 

2 cups cream. 

% cup powdered sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls sherry, or 1 
teaspoonful of vanilla 
may be used in place of 
the wine. 

1 dozen lady fingers. 



Soak the gelatine a few minutes, add to it one- 
fourth cup of boiling water to dissolve it. "Whip the 



COLD DESSERTS. 243 

cream, add the sugar and flavoring, then gradually 
wliip in the gelatine, setting the dish in a pan of ice 
water ; line the mould with the lady fingers ; when the 
cream becomes stiff, pour into the mould. 

PETITE SPONGE BAVARIAN. 

'Bake sponge cake in very thin sheets ; vsdth a bis- 
cuit cutter cut from it small cakes. Make a plain 
Bavarian cream and spread one-half inch thick on the 
small cakes, place one on top, making a sandwich; 
when the Bavarian cream seems firm cover the sand- 
wiches all oveir with a chocolate frosting; sprinkle 
small candies over the top. 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 

Mould in a double mould. Line a mould one 
inch thick with wine, orange or lemon jelly, fill up 
the center with Bavarian cream. First decorate the 
mould with candied fruits, making same design, hold 
the decoration in place with a little of the jelly the 
mould is to be lined with. When firm, line with the 
jelly, decorate with whipped cream, sprinkle over 
with the fruits. 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Soften one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls of gran- 
ulated gelatine in one-fourth cup of cold water, dis- 
solve with one-fourth cup of hot milk, add one-half 
cup of sugar, one-half cup each of cooked figs and 
prunes, cut in small pieces, and one-half cup of white 
grapes skinned, seeded and cut in pieces. Mix all to- 
gether with one cup of heavy cream, whipped, stir oc- 
casionally until it begins to set, then mould. 



244 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

Two cups grated pineapple sweetened to taste, 
add one tablespoonful granulated gelatine that has 
first been softened in one-fourth cup cold water and 
dissolved in a little hot water. Set in a dish of cold 
water or cracked ice, stir until it begins to thicken, 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and fold in the 
whites of four ^gs. Mould, serve with whipped 
cream flavored with the pineapple or custard sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Make a lemon or orange jelly. When it begins to 
thicken beat in the whites of three eggs that have 
been whipped stiff. Beat all together vigorously un- 
til it is stiff enough to drop from a spoon, «iould, 
serve with custard sauce. 



LEMON JELLY. 



% box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
2 cups boiling water. 



1 cup sugar. 

% cup lemon juice. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve with the 
boiling water, then add the sugar and lemon juice. 
When all is dissolved, strain and mould. 



ORANGE JELLY. 



y^ box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
% cup boiling water. 



2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 cups orange juice. 



Soften the gelatine in cold water, dissolve it with 
the hot water, add the sugar, lemon juice, orange. 
When all is dissolved, strain through a cheese cloth. 



COLD DESSERTS. 245 

Mould, garnish the mould, if you like, with slices of 
orange held in place with a little of the jelly, unmould 
and surround with whipped cream, sprinkled over 
with candied orange peel. Or serve the orange jelly 
in orange basket made from the skin, with a little 
whipped cream on top. Set the orange basket on a 
few green leaves. 



COFFEE JELLY. 



V2 box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
% cup sugar. 



1 cup boiling water. 
1% cups strong coffee. 



Soften the gelatine in the cold water, add the boil- 
ing water, sugar, coffee. When well dissolved, strain 
through a cheese cloth, mould, serve with whipped 
cream flavored with a little orange. 

WINE JELLY. 



V2 box gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 

1 cup boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup sherry wine or one 

cup of madeira. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 



Soften the gelatine in the cold water, add the hot 
water and sugar and the rest of the materials, strain 
through a cheese cloth. The mould can first he deco- 
rated with maraschino cherries. 

CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 

Make the same as wine jelly, using one cup of 
champagne. Omit the brandy. 

SAUTERNE JELLY. 

Make the same as wine jelly, omit the brandy, use 
one cup and a half of sauteme. 



246 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ROMAN JELLY. 

Into one quart of lemon jelly put two wine glasses 
kirsch and one of rum, divide this into three equal 
parts, color one green, the other red and leave the rest 
uncolored. Whip each part till they begin to thicken, 
then put in a mould in alternate layers. 

PEACH CHARLOTTE. 



1 tablespoonful granulated 

gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
V4 cup boiling water. 
% cup sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

1 cup peach juice. 

Whites of three eggs, or one 

cup of heavy cream, 

whipped. 



Soften the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot 
water, add the sugar, lemon and peach juice, strain. 
"When it begins to thicken, fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites or the whipped cream. Line a mould with 
half peaches, hold them in place with a little of the 
jelly. When they are firm, gently pour in the char- 
lotte, garnish with whipped cream and peaches. 



ORANGE AND STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Make the same as peach charlotte. For orange 
use one cup of the orange juice and one cup of sugar. 
Line the mould with slices of orange. Garnish the 
dish with whipped cream, flavored with orange. 

For Strawberry Charlotte, line the mould with 
large strawberries, hold in place with the jelly. Make 
the same as peach charlotte, using one cup of straw- 
berry juice and one cup of sugar. Garnish the dish 
with whipped cream and strawberries. 



COLD DESSERTS. 247 

SPANISH CUSTARD. 



1 tablespoonful granulated 

gelatine. 

2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 
Vi cup boiling water. 
Yolks of three eggs. 



14 teaspoonful salt. 
2 cups thin cream. 
Whites of three eggs. 
Flavoring. 
% cup sugar. 



Soak tlie gelatine in cold water, then dissolve in 
boiling water. Beat the yolks, sugar and salt to- 
gether. Scald the cream and pour over the egg and 
sugar. Eetum to the double boiler and cook till it 
thickens, then add the gelatine and whites of eggs, 
take from the fire and flavor with an essence, wine or 
orange or lemon peel preserved. Mould. 

ITALIAN JELLY. 

Make a lemon, orange or wine jelly. Decorate 
the mould with preserved fruits or nuts, hold in place 
with a little of the jelly, just a few drops on each 
piece. "When it is set, pour in a layer of the gelatine 
an inch thick. When that is firm, cover with a layer 
of fruits or nuts, hold these in place with a little of 
the gelatine, and so on until the mould is full. Gar- 
nish with whipped cream and the fruits and nuts. 

RICE CREAM. 

Put one-half cup of well washed rice on to boil 
in one quart of boiling salted water, and the yellow of 
the rind of one-half orange, or lemon. When the 
rice is tender, drain, remove the peel, mix lightly 
with the rice one tablespoonful of gelatine that has 
been softened in a little cold water and dissolved with 
one-half cup of hot milk and one-half cup of sugar. 
When the mixture begins to be a little firm, flavor 
with three tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira (that 



248 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

can be omitted), and fold in one cup of heavy cream 
whipped stiff. Mould. This can be garnished with 
whipped cream and candied orange or lemon peel, or 
serve with plain cream or preserved fruits. 

RICE AND ALMOND CREAM (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Blanch and cut fine one-half cup of almonds. Put 
them in double boiler with three cups of milk, one- 
fourth cup of sugar and one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
When hot, add one cup of well-washed rice. Cook 
until the rice is tender. "When ready to serve dip out 
in frappe glasses, having them about half full, put on 
a teaspoonful of jelly, then fill with thick whipped 
cream, with more jelly on top. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Pare and core three or four cooking apples. Cook 
with them the yellow rind of half a lemon or orange 
and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Cook until the 
apple is very tender. Press through a sieve. There 
should be one cup of the pulp. Cook half a cup of 
sugar with one-fourth cup of water to the thread 
stage, pour slowly onto the white of one egg beaten 
stiffly, stirring all the time. Beat frequently until 
cold, then iidd to the apple with three tablespoonfuls 
of sherry wine and one tablespoonful of granulated 
gelatine that has been softened in one-fourth cup of 
cold water, then dissolve over hot water. Set the 
mixture in a pan of ice or snow, stirring until it be- 
gins to thicken, then fold in one cup of heavy cream 
that has been whipped stiff with one-fourth cup of 
powdered sugar. Fill the mould decorated with lady 
fingers or macaroons. Garnish, when unmoulded, 



COLD DESSERTS. 249 

■with whipped cream and cherries. Apricots can he 
used in place of the apples. 

CHARLOTTE SNOWBALLS. 

Bake sponge cake mixture in deep round gem 
pans. When cold ice the outside with a boiled icing. 
Fill up the center with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored. Place a candied cherry on top or fill with 
wine or orange jelly and whipped cream. The cakes 
may he surrounded with the jelly when served. 

CHOCOLATE BAVARIOSE (Boston Cooking School). 

Melt two ounces of chocolate (in a double boiler) 
with one-fourth cup each of sugar and water. Cook 
until glossy, add to it one cup of milk. When hot 
add the yolks of three eggs that have been well beaten, 
with one-fourth cup of sugar. Cook in the hot milk 
and chocolate till the mixture coats the spoon, then 
add one tablespoonful of granulated gelatine that has 
been softened in one-fourth cup of cold water, strain. 
Set the dish in cold water o:^ surround with cracked 
ice. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir 
until the mixture becomes thick, then fold in one cup 
of heavy cream that has been whipped stiff. Mould. 
When ready to serve, surround with whipped cream 
and garnish with a few candied cherries or other 
fruits. 

NEWPORT WHIPS. 

Mix two cups of sweet or sour cream with half a 
cup of fruit juice and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, and half a cup of powdered sugar. Beat till 
stiff. Serve in glasses with sponge cake or first line 
the glasses with lady fingers and fill up with the whip. 



250 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED FIGS. 

Select fine, large figs, wash them, make an opening 
on the side of each fig and press in a teaspoonful of 
English walnut meats finely chopped, fasten together 
with a toothpick. Cover with boiling water, cook 
until tender. The time depends upon the toughness 
of the figs. Ten minutes before removing from the 
fire add one-third cup of sugar and the juice of half 
e lemon (this amount is for a pound of figs). Flavor 
with sherry wine. Serve with whipped cream. 

ORANGE SECTIONS MOULDED IN JELLY. 

Make an orange jelly, have ready individual 
moulds. Set in ice water, pour in a very little of the 
jelly. When hard arrange in each a section of orange 
chat has been freed from the skin. Add a few drops 
of the jelly to hold it in place. When firm, fill up 
ohe mould with the jelly. To serve, remove from the 
mould, surround with whipped cream that has been 
sweetened. 

PINEAPPLE IN THE SHELL. 

Select a pineapple that has a nice green top. Cut 
a slice from the top, remove the pineapple, cut in 
small pieces and use the same amount of orange and 
bananas, mix with the pineapple, sprinkle with sugar, 
chill. When ready to serve, replace in the shell with 
the top on, surround the base with green leaves and 
serve from the shell. 

CHESTNUT PUREE WITH CREAM. 

Use the large French chestnuts. With a sharp- 
pointed knife, cut a cross on the shell of the chestnut, 



COLD DESSERTS. 251 

put in a pan in the oven witli a teaspoonful of bntter. 
Let bake until the shell is well broken open, then the 
skin will come from the nut shell, boil in hot water 
with a little salt till tender, then mash through a 
puree sieve. Put in a double boiler, sweeten, flavor, 
add a little cream, stir over the hot water till almost 
dry, press through a colander or potato ricer, onto the 
serving dish, making a mound, surround with 
whipped cream that has been sweetened a little and 
flavored. 

CHESTNUTS WITH CREAM. 

Kemove the shell and skin (as given in chestnut 
puree), boil till tender, then add sugar (a half cup 
of sugar to a pound of chestnuts), and boil until clear. 
Let them remain in the syrup until cold, then drain. 
Pile on a dish, boil the syrup down to a thick con- 
sistency, pour over the nuts. Serve cold with whipped 
cream. 

PARIS DE MARRONS (Chestnuts). 

Make a puree of boiled chestnuts (see chestnut 
puree with cream), sweeten and flavor with lemon, 
vanilla or sherry to one pint of puree, add one table- 
spoonful of granulated gelatine that has been softened 
in a little cold water and dissolved over hot water, 
and one-half cup of heavy cream whipped. Mould, 
garnish with whipped cream and glace chestnuts. 

CHERRY CREAM. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of granulated gel- 
atine softened in one-fourth cup of cold water, then 
add one-half cup of boiling water, one-half cup of su- 
gar (the amount of sugar depends upon the acidity 



252 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of the fruit), one cup of cherry juice, juice of haK a 
lemon. When this is cold enough to hold together, 
add one cup of whipped cream. This is very pretty 
moulded in individual moulds and served on sponge 
drops. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 253 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



Frozen desserts are much more acceptable in 
warm weather than hot desserts. They can be pre- 
pared several hours before using, which is often 
greatly in their favor. Every household should be 
supplied with an ice cream freezer, and the art of 
making frozen desserts (which is very simple), should 
be acquired. 

Proportions of Salt and Ice. — The ice should be 
cracked very fine. Use coarse rock salt. In freezing 
ice cream or sherbets, three measures of ice to one 
of salt is used. Place the can inside the freezer 
with the mixture in it, put on the cover and adjust 
the crank firmly, turn the crank to see that it is 
in proper working order, pack the three measures of 
ice and one of salt around the can and so on till the 
freezer is full. Turn slowly at first (this makes it 
fine grained) ; turn constantly until the mixtiire stiff- 
ens — this you can tell by the way the crank moves. 
Before removing the cover wipe off all the ice and 
salt, remove the paddle, pack down the mixture solid 
with a spoon, replace the cover, put a cork in the hole, 
drain off the water and if not to be used at once, pack 
the freezer full with ice and salt. Cover the top with 
an old piece of carpeting or thick cloth. 

Mousses, Parfaits, are whipped cream flavored 
with or without eggs, packed in ice and salt. To pack 
them use two measures of ice to one of salt. 

To JJnmould Frozen Desserts. — ^Dip the mould in 
cold water, wring out a cloth in warm water, wrap 
around it and invert on the serving dish. 



254 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PUNCHES AND SHERBETS. 

These are water ices and are usually served in 
glasses. Punches are siipply ices or sherbets, with 
liquors added. 



LEMON SHERBET. 



1 quart of water. 
2% cups of sugar. 

2 cups of lemon juice. 



Juice of one orange. 
White of one egg. 



Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes ; 
when cold add it to the lemon and orange juice; 
freeze. When nearly frozen, add the white of egg 
beaten to a foam. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Make the same way as lemon sherbet, using one 
pint of orange juice, juice of one lemon, two cups of 
sugar. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

1 quart of Water. Juice of two lemons «bs4 ese 

2 cups of sugar. » — ge. 

1 can grated pineapple. White of one egg. 

Make the same as lemon ice. The sherbet is 
made more delicate by pressing the pineapple through 
a sieve or squeezing through cheese cloth. 

STRAWBERRY, RASPBERRY AND CURRANT SHERBETS. 

Heat the berries in a little hot water for about five 
minutes, then squeeze through cheese cloth; to every 
pint of juice add the juice of one lemon. Boil two 
cups of water, one and one-half cups of sugar to- 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 255 

gether for ten minutes, add to the juices, freeze, add- 
ing tlie white of egg just before it is frozen. 

CHEERY, PEACH, APRICOT AND PLUM SHERBETS. 

These fruits should be cooked in a very little 
water. When tender, squeeze through cheese cloth. 
Make the same as strawberry sherbet. One cup of 
whipped cream may be added to sherbets after they 
are frozen, stirring the crank a few times to mix the 
cream with the sherbet. 

APPLE SHERBET. 

Select nice, bright-flavored apples ; cook with them 
a .piece of cinnamon bark and a pinch of salt, and 
water enough to cover. When very soft and fine, 
mash through a puree sieve ; add a grating of nutmeg 
and the juice of a lemon; sweeten to taste. Freeze, 
adding the beaten white of egg, as in other sherbets. 
A little preserved ginger cut in small pieces may be 
added with the white of egg. 

BOSTON SHERBET. 

Four cups raspberry juice, from fresh or pre- 
served berries; juice of one lemon; sweeten to taste, 
then add one-half cup of maraschino; freeze. When 
frozen, stir in one-half cup of maraschino cherries, 
cut in small pieces. Add the white of egg as in other 
sherbets. 



GRAPE SHERBET. 



3 cups water. 

2 cups sugar. 

%, cup lemon juice. 

% cup orange juice. 



2 cups grape juice (purple 

grapes). 
White of one egg. 



256 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Boil the sugar and water for fifteen minutes ; add 
the fruit juices, freeze, and add the white of egg be- 
fore it is quite stiff. 

MILK SHERBET (Mrs. Durand). 



4 cups of milk. 
Juice of three lemons and 
grated rind of one. 



3 cups sugar. 
White of one egg. 



Do not add the milk until ready to freeze. Serve 
ten people. 

GRAPE BOMBE. 

Line a mould with the grape sherbet an inch 
thick. A melon mould makes a pretty bombe. Fill 
the center with sweetened whipped cream ; cover the 
top over with the sherbet; pack, buried in ice and 
salt, for three hours, using two measures of ice to 
one of salt. 

Bombes. — ^Any of the sherbets used the same as 
the grape, makes delicious bombes, strawberry or 
raspberry being particularly delicious. 

FRAPPE. 

Frappes are made the same as sherbets, only not 
frozen as hard. 

COFFEE FRAPPe'. 

1 quart of clear black | Speck of salt. 

cofifee. I White of one egg, added be- 

1 cup sugar dissolved in I fore it is quite frozen. 

the coffee. | 

Serve in glasses with a little whipped cream on 
top. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 257 

PUNCHES. 

Punches are used to serve between courses, or 
with a meat course. They should be frozen only to 
a mush. 

TOMATO PUNCH. 

Cook together one-half can of tomatoes, one cup 
of water, three apples cut in eighths (without peel- 
ing), one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of gin- 
ger. "When the apples are tender, rub through a 
fine sieve and add the juice of one lemon, two table- 
spoonfuls of preserved ginger cut in fine pieces, four 
tablespoonfuls of maraschino; freeze; serve in 
glasses. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Make one quart of strong tea, made from Ceylon 
or Oolong ; add the juice of one orange and of half a 
lemon, one cup of sugar, and before it is quite frozen 
add the beaten white of an egg. After freezing, stir 
in one cup of whipped cream ; or, omit the cream in 
the freezing and put a spoonful on the top of the 
glasses when serving. 

GRAPE FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil one cup of sugar and two cups of water for 
fifteen minutes ; add one cup of grape fruit juice, and 
the juice of one large lemon, the beaten white of one 

egg- 

MINT PUNCH. 



4 cups water. 

2 cups sugar. 

1 cup lemon juice. 

Juice of one orange. 



White of one egg. 
1 cup creme de menthe cor- 
dial. 



258 KOCEY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Just before the punch ia frozen, add the beaten 
white of egg, finish freezing and stir in the cup of 
creme de menthe ; pack for one hour ; serve in glasses. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Make the same as the mint punch, using the lemon 
ice for the foundation, and add, after freezing, a cup 
of rum. Orange ice may be used in place of the lemon 
ice for any of the punches. 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

Make an orange sherbet. When frozen, add a cup 
of champagne. 

SAUTEENE PUNCH. 

Make the same as champagne punch, using one 
cup of sauterne in place of the champagne. 

CURACAO, MARASCHINO, NOYON PUNCH. 

Make a quart of pineapple, orange or lemon sher- 
bet; when frozen, stir in one cup either of cham- 
pagne, sauterne or rum, and a half cup of any of the 
above cordials. 

GINGER ALE IN PUNCHES. 

In making the sherbets for the punches, one 
quart of ginger ale can be used in place of the water. 
This gives a very bright, sparkling punch, and when 
sauterne is added to it, can hardly be recognized from 
champagne punch. 

Serving. — These punches will serve twelve peo- 
ple. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 259 

ICE CREAMS. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

4 cups of cream. I 1 tablespoonful of vanilla. 

1 cup of sugar. | 1 egg. 

Beat the egg until foamy, then beat in the sugar, 
add flavoring and cream ; freeze. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Make the same as vanilla, omitting the vanilla, 
and adding the juice of one lemon. Decorate the ice 
cream with preserved lemon peel. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

4 cups heavy cream. | 1% cups of sugar. 

1 cup orange juice. I 1 egg. 

Juice of one lemon. | 

Beat the sugar and egg together, add the orange 
and lemon juice, and just before freezing mix it with 
the cream. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 

1% cup sugar. 

1 cup grated pineapple. 



Juice of one lemon. 

1 egg. 

More sugar if necessary. 



Mix all together, beating the egg and sugar till 
light; add the pineapple and lemon and cream just 
before freezing. 

PEACH AND APRICOT ICE CREAM. 

4 cups cream. I 1 cup of the fruit pulp. 

1 egg. I Sweeten to taste. 

Beat the egg, mix all together, freeze. 



260 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

4 cups heavy cream. I 1 cup black coffee. 

1 cup sugar. | 1 egg. 

Beat the egg, add sugar, cream and coffee, freeze. 



WALNUT ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 
1 egg- 



1 cup walnut meats chopped 
fine. 



The walnut meats can be soaked in a little sherry 
wine one hour before freezing if liked. Beat egg, 
add sugar and cream, and freeze. When frozen, stir 
in the nuts. 



GINGER ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 

1 egg. 

14 cup sugar. 



1 cup preserved ginger cut 
in small pieces. 



Beat the egg, add sugar to cream, freeze. When 
nearly frozen add the ginger. 



ALMOND ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 
1 egg. 



2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 
1 teaspoonful almond. 



Color green with coloring paste, mix and freeze. 



RICE ICE CREAM. 



Cook one-half cup of rice till very tender, with 
the yellow rind of half a lemon. Make a vanilla or 
lemon ice cream. When frozen, stir in the rice. 
Make this cream fully an hour before serving. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 261 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

Make a vanilla ice cream; pack one-third of it 
in a mould. Mix one square of Baker's chocolate 
with another third; pack that in the mould; add a 
teaspoonful of almond to the last third and color 
green with coloring paste; pack smoothly over the 
chocolate, cover the mould securely; pack in ice and 
salt for two hours. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Cook three-fourths of a cup of sugar to a caramel 
and dissolve with one-half cup of hot water ; add the 
water gradually and let remain on the back of the 
stove until the caramel dissolves. "When cool, add it 
to one quart of cream, one-half cup of sugar and one 
beaten egg; freeze. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Make a vanilla ice cream, using four cups of 
cream. Roll half a dozen macaroons to a powder, 
soak in sherry for ten minutes, add to the cream af- 
ter it is frozen. The sherry may be omitted if de- 
sired. 

FRESH FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Make a plain ice cream, the same as for vanilla 
ice cream, omitting the vanilla. Use two cups of the 
fresh fruits and pulp; sweeten to taste. In using 
raspberries for raspberry ice cream, it is better to 
cook them for about five minutes, then they will mash- 
through a sieve more easily. 



262 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 
1 egg- 



2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 
1 teaspoonful almond. 
Green vegetable coloring. 



Beat the egg, add sugar, cream and flavoring; 
these two flavorings give the flavor of pistachio, and 
color with a little of the coloring that has been dis- 
solved in a little of the cream. 



FROZEN PUDDING OR TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

Make a vanilla ice cream, using heavy cream. To 
one quart of the ice cream add, after it is frozen, one 
cup of candied plums, apricots and cherries (one cup 
all together) that have been cut in fine pieces and 
soaked in sherry or maraschino, with a tablespoonful 
of brandy, if cared for, for one hour. Turn in a 
mould, pack in ice and salt two hours before serving, 
or serve from the freezer. 



PLUM PUDDING GLACE. 

Make one quart of chocolate ice cream, prepare 
and add one cup of the fruits, as given in frozen pud- 
ding. 

FROZEN ELLIOTT PUDDING. 

Make a vanilla ice cream. Line a melon mould 
with macaroons that have first been dipped lightly 
in sherry; spread them over with apricot jam, fill up 
the mould with the vanilla ice cream, pack in ice and 
salt for two or three hours before serving. This pud- 
ding can be served with a brandy sauce. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 263 



FROZEN BANANAS. 



1 dozen bananas. 

2 cups of sugar. 
2 cups of water. 



Juice of three oranges. 
2 cups heavy cream. 



Boil the water and sugar five miniates, cool, then 
add the bananas, which should be mashed to a pulp, 
and juice of oranges ; freeze. Just before it is frozen 
add the cream, which has been whipped stiff. Any 
fruit can be used in this way. This will serve fif- 
teen people. 

ORANGE DELICIEUSE. 

Boil together for ten minutes three cups of sugar 
and one and one-half cups of water ; cool, add three 
cups of orange juice. Scald in double boiler one and 
one-half cups of cream ; when scalded, add the beaten 
yolks of three eggs ; cook till it coats the spoon (about 
five minutes). When cold, mix with the syrup; 
beat one cup and a half of thick cream and add to 
the other ingredients, then freeze at once. When 
nearly frozen, stir into it one-half cup of finely 
shredded orange peel. This will serve eighteen peo- 
ple. This receipt can easily be divided, using one 
or two thirds, as one likes. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Place on each side of a melon mould a nice slice 
of canned pineapple. Put one cup of the juice in a 
sauce pan with the yolks of four eggs (beaten slight- 
ly), stir until it begins to thicken; remove from the 
fire and beat with a Dover beater until cool, then add 
half a cup of grated pineapple and one cup of heavy 
cream beaten stiff. Pill up the mould with the mix- 
ture, pack in ice and salt for three hours. Oranges 



264 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

may be used in this way, filling the mould with orange 
ice cream and lining it with slices of orange. 

PEACHES, APRICOTS AND GRATED PINEAPPLE 
FROZEN IN THE CAN. 

Place a tin can of any of these fruits in a deep . 
pail or tub, pack with ice and salt (two measures of 
ice to one of salt) for three hours. Open the can with 
the can opener, remove, without breaking, onto the 
serving dish, surroimd with whipped cream and serve. 

Serve Ice Creams or Sherbets in champagne 
glasses with whipped cream on top, coloring the cream 
an opposite color from the frozen cream, using the 
juices of fruits or berries or jellies. 



LALLA 



ROOKH OR FROZEN EGG-NOG. 11 J - - 

3 ~ 4 cups of cream. % nutmeg grated. ^ ■fT O 

5-4 eggs. % cup of mm. ^ jATi. 

1 cup sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. / iJX • 



Beat the eggs to a stiff foam, add the sugar and 
beat again. Mix with the cream nutmeg and a speck 
of salt and freeze; when frozen, stir in the rum and 
brandy. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Make a vanilla ice cream with a rich, thick cream. 
Boil one cup of blanched French chestnuts until ten- 
der; mash through a puree sieve, one cup of mixed 
candied fruits cut in small pieces ; moisten with two 
tablespoonfuls of maraschino, sherry or orange juice. 
Stir the fruit into the cream after it is frozen; let 
stand fully an hour before serving. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 265 

SULTANA ROLL AND CLARET SAUCE. 

Line one-pound baking powder cans -witli pis- 
tachio ice cream, sprinkle with sultana raisins that 
have first been boiled for five minutes, then soaked 
several hours in brandy (drain from the brandy be- 
fore using). Fill the center with whipped cream 
that has been sweetened and flavored; cover the top 
with pistachio ice cream ; pack in ice and salt for two 
hours before serving. Serve with claret sauce. 

Boil one cup of sugar and one-half cup of water 
to a thick syrup ; when cool (not cold), add one-third 
cup of claret. Serve very cold over the sultana roll. 

MARASCHINO, SHERRY, PORT AND BRANDY SAUCES. 

Make the same as claret sauce, using whatever 
liquor you like. 



SAUCES FOR ICE CREAM. 

Can be made from sweetened whipped cream, 
chilled and flavored. 



GINGER SAUCE (Boston Cooking School). 

Dilute two teaspoonfuls of com starch with water 
and stir in one-fourth of a cup each of brandy and 
ginger syrup, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice ; 
cook five minutes, then add one-fourth cup of finely- 
chopped ginger, a few gratings from the rind of a 
lemon and one teaspoonful of butter. Serve hot or 
cold. 



266 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MAPLE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil two cups of maple syrup until quite thick, 
then add one-half cup of cream and a speck of salt ; 
cook until it will form a soft ball when tried in cold 
water, then pour over the ice cream. Keep it hot by 
standing the dish in hot water until ready to use. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Mix one ounce of grated chocolate with one cup 
of sugar, add one-fourth cup of water, one-fourth 
cup of cream, speck of salt, cook till it will form a 
soft hall when tried in cold water. Serve at once, 
or keep hot by setting in hot water. This sauce may 
be used cold if preferred. 

HOT COFFEE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of cream for 
five minutes, vsrith a speck of salt, then add one cup 
of strong black coffee ; boil for ten minutes, or imtil 
it becomes a thick syrup. 

HOT RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of sugar, two cups of fruit juice and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice to a thick syrup. 
Serve hot or cold. 

HOT ORANGE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Mix with one cup of orange juice and the juice 
of one lemon one teaspoonful of com starch that has 
been dissolved in a little cold water, one cup of sugar ; 
cook to a thick syrup, strain, and serve hot or cold. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 2«7 

MOUSSES. 

Mousses are whipped cream, fruit pulps and fla- 
vorings mixed together and packed in ice and salt to 
freeze. 

FRUIT MOUSSES. 

Whip two cups of cream stiff. If the thin cream 
is used, drain it through a sieve before adding to the 
pulp. Mix enough sugar to the pulp to sweeten — the 
amount depends upon the acidity of the fruit — then 
mix with the cream, pour in a mould, pack in ice and 
salt for three hours, using two measures of ice to one 
of salt. Raspberries and peaches make very delicious 
mousse, the flavor of the preserved being almost as 
good as the fresh fruit. ^ ^A.cud,M.^ l^ f^ 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, CURACAO OR NOYON MOUSSES. 

Whip two cups of cream stiff, add to it three- 
fourths cup of black coffee that has been cooked to 
a thick syrup with three-fourths cup of sugar, then 
cooled. Pack in ice and salt. 

Chocolate Mousse. — Melt two ounces of choco- 
late, add to it one-half cup of cream; add three- 
fourths cup of sugar ; melt all together, cool, and add 
to two cups of whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt 
for three hours. 

Curacao and Noyon Mousse. — ^Add one-half cup 
of Curacao or noyon to two cups of whipped cream, 
sweeten with a little powdered sugar if necessary. 
Pack for three hours in ice and salt. 



268 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PARFAITS. 

Parfaits are flavorings, whipped cream and eggs. 
They are frozen by being packed in ic© and salt. 



ANGEL PARFAIT. 

Boil one cup of sugar and one-half cup of water 
till it threads, then pour in a fine stream on the 
whites of two eggs beaten till foamy. Set in a dish 
of ice water and beat until cold. Add two tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla, fold into it two cups of heavy 
cream beaten stiff. Turn into a mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours, two measures of ice to 
one of salt. 



PINEAPPLE PARFAIT. 

Make the same as angel parfait, omitting the va- 
nilla and stirring into the syrup and eggs when cold 
one cup of grated pineapple. 



MAPLE PARFAIT. 

To one cup of ridi maple syrup add the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, cook in a sauce pan, stirring con- 
tinually till it boils. Boil for five minutes, strain, 
set aside to cool. Beat two cups of heavy cream un- 
til stiff, then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Whip the syrup with a Dover beater until very light, 
and stir all the ingredients together ; mould and pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. This amotmt will 
serve twelve people. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 269 

GINGER PARFAIT. 

Heat one cup of ginger syrup, pour slowly over 
the whites of two eggs ; beat two cups of heavy cream 
stifF, add to the other ingredients when cold, with 
half a cup of the preserved ginger that has been put 
through a meat grinder, or chopped very fine. Pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

Boil one cup of clear black coffee and'' three- 
fourths of a cup of sugar to a thick syrup, then slowly 
pour over the whites of two eggs that have been beaten 
to a foam ; beat till cold, mix with two cups of heavy 
cream that has been whipped stiff, mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours. 

PARFAITS OF CHESTNUTS OR CANDIED FRUITS, 

Make an angel parfait ; when ready to put in the 
mould, add a cup of boiled chestnuts or candied 
fruits that have been soaking in brandy for half an 
hour; drain well from the brandy, roll in powdered 
sugar and mix with the parfait; mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours. 

PARFAITS OF TEA AND ORANGE PEEL. 



1 cup of strong black tea. 
1 cup of sugar. 
4 eggs. 



2 cups heavy cream. 

% cup candied orange peel. 



Mix the tea, sugar and beaten yolks of eggs to- 
gether, cook in double boiler until thick and creamy. 
"When cold, mix with it the cream beaten stiff, and 
the whites of the eggs, also. Cut the candied peel in 



270 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

small pieces, soak until very soft in maraschino or 
orange syrup or juice, fold into the mixture ; pack in 
ice and salt for three or four hours. Serve, garnished 
with candied peel. 



BANANA PARFAIT. 

Peel and mash to a pulp half a dozen bananas; 
add to them a wine glass of rum and one of maras- 
chino, a tablespoonful of lemon juice (a few drops of 
yellow vegetable coloring mixed with a little cream 
will improve the color), one-half cup of sugar, three 
eggs, the yolks and whit^ beaten separately, one cup 
of heavy cream whipped stiffly ; mix all together, fold- 
ing the whites in last; put in a mould, pack in ice 
and salt for four hours, using equal parts of ice and 
salt. The liquor can be omitted; three hours would 
be long enough to freeze. Apricots or peaches can be 
used in the same way. 



BISCUIT GLACt OR TORTONI. 

Make a thick syrup of one cup of sugar and one- 
fourth cup of water. Beat the yolks of four eggs. 
When the syrup is cool, add to the eggs with half a 
cup of cream. Cook all in a double boiler until the 
mixture coats the spoon like a custard, then place in 
a dish of ice water and whip till cold; then fold in 
two cups of heavy cream whipped stiff, flavor with 
vanilla or maraschino. Put the mixture in paper 
boxes, sprinkle over the top almonds browned and 
chopped fine, or macaroons rolled to a fine powder. 
Put the boxes in a tin pail, place paper between each 
layer. Pack in ice and salt for four hours. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 271 

MACEDOINE FRAPPE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Make a syrup by boiling four cups of water and 
two cups of sugar ten minutes; add the sbaved rind 
of one lemon, cool, strain out the lemon; add the 
juice of three lemons and one-half cup of orange 
juiee, one-half cup of strong tea, one grated pine- 
apple, one pint of apoUinaris; add more sugar if 
needed. Freeze to a granular consistency, using as 
much salt as ice. 

COLLEGE ICES. 

Put into a frappe glass two tablespoonfuls of 
any kind of fruit or berries that have been sugared 
and flavored with a little brandy or wine; fill the 
glass with vanilla ice cream; pour over the top a 
little fruit syrup or chocolate sauce. 

GOOSEBERRY SORBET. 

Cook together one quart of gooseberries, two cups 
of water and one cup of sugar till soft, then add a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice and a little green vege- 
table coloring. When cold freeze. When quite stiff, 
add a wine glass of maraschino and two tablespoonfuls 
of rtmi. Before adding the lemon juice and coloring, 
mash through a fine sieve. 

CHOCOLATE SURPRISE. 

Line a melon mould with a rich chocolate ice 
cream about one inch thick, fill up with orange sher- 
bet, cover the top with the ice cream. Pack the mould 
in ice and salt for two hours. When ready to serve, 
surround with crystallized orange peel. 



272 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

COtrPE DE JAQUE. 

Fill frappe glasses one-third full of the following 
mixture: Cut in small pieces equal quantities of or- 
ange, pineapple, white grapes and English walnuts; 
soak in brandy for two hours. Fill up the glasses 
with orange sherbet. 



CASES. 27S 



CAKES. 

All measurements level, with the exception of baking 
powder, which Is measured rounding with the side of the can. 
Sift flour before measuring. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CAKE. 

The baking of cakes is more affected by tbe high 
altitude than anything else we cook. Our sea level 
receipts can be used in high altitudes by adding one 
more egg, not changing the receipt in any other way, 
in this way making a rich, moist cake. 

Baking Cake. — The oven should be slow, and 
enough fire to last until the cake is done. Grease the 
pans with lard, as butter burns very quickly, making 
the cake black. 

Preparing the Materials for the Cake. — The but- 
ter and sugar should be creamed together very lightly, 
making a creamy, soft mixture. A great deal depends 
upon creaming the butter and sugar properly. The 
eggs should be beaten light and foamy. When the 
whites are to be beaten alone, put them in a flat dish 
— a plate or platter — and beat with the Daisy beater ; 
they beat up much quicker beaten in this way, al- 
though if one cares to, they can beat the whites in a 
bowl with the Dover beater before beating the yolks, 
thus having the beater to wash but once. Sift salt and 
baking powder with the flour. When fruit is used, 
roll it in flour and add it last. When a cake cracks 
open in baking, too much flour has been used. It is 
hard to give the exact amount of flour a cake will take, 
as some flour will take more moisture than others. 
Layer cakes require a hotter oven than thick cakes. 



274 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

When a cake browns before it has raised, the oven is 
too hot. Any loaf cake can be baked as a layer cake. 
All cakes should be baked as soon as they are made. 
Mix cake in an earthen bowl and beat with a wooden 
spoon. Do not use a cheap quality of butter or stale 
eggs. For cake making use a very fine granulated su- 
gar; the coarse sugar makes cake heavy and coarse- 
grained. Have everything ready before beginning to 
make the cake. Cakes are divided into two classes — 
cakes with butter, and cakes without butter. 



SPONGE CAKE. 



4 eggs. 

% cup of sugar. 

1 cup of flour. 



% teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



(In making this cake at a low altitude, use one 
whole cup of sugar.) Separate the whites from the 
yolks, putting the yolks in the mixing bowl; beat 
them until creamy and gradually beat in the sugar; 
add lemon juice. Beat the whites till stiff; sift the 
salt with the flour, add one-fourth of the whites to 
yolks; sift over it one-half of the flour, then add an- 
other fourth of the whites ; fold in, sift in the rest of 
the flour, then fold in the remainder of the whites. 
Bake in a slow oven about thirty minutes, or until the 
cake leaves the side of the pan. If you care for a 
sugary top, sprinkle a little sugar over it before put- 
ting in the oven. This cake can be baked in loaf, 
layer or drop cakes. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Make the same as above; spread very thin on 
shallow pans ; bake in a moderate oven ; spread with 
jelly while warm ; roll up. 



CAKES. 275 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE (No. 2). 

Beat the yolks of five eggs till light ; heat in grad- 
ually one cup of sugar and alternately half a cup of 
heavy cream and two cups of flour ; sift with the flour 
one teaspoonful of haking powder and one-half tea- 
spoonftil of salt ; add the grated rind of half a lemon, 
and lastly fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, 
Bake about forty-five minutes. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat seven eggs two minutes (at a low altitude use 
six eggs) ; add three cups of sugar, beat five minutes, 
two cups of flour sifted with one teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; beat two minutes ; one cup of cold water, beat 
one minute; one-fourth teaspoonful of salt sifted in 
two cups of flour, beat three minutes ; grated rind and 
juice of one lemon, beat one minute. Observe 
the time exactly. This quantity makes three loaves. 

LADY FINGERS. 



4 eggs. 

% cup of powdered sugar. 

^ teaspoonful of salt. 



1 teaspoonful of lemon or 
vanilla flavoring. 



Make the same as sponge cake. Drop in buttered 
lady finger pans, sprinkle the top with powdered 
sugar. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes. Drop by 
the spoonful on a buttered pan for sponge drops. 



GOLDEN ROD CAKE. 



Beat the yolks of six eggs till light; gradually 
beat into these one-half cup of sugar, then two table- 
spoonfuls of orange juice and one-half cup of sifted 



276 KOCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

flour, sifted again with a level teaspoonful of baking 
powder and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt; bake in 
small cakes and cover with orange icing. 



ANGEL CAKE. 

One cup of flour, sifted ; mix with, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar and sift four times. Beat the 
whites of twelve eggs until stiff. (Eleven eggs can be 
used in a low altitude.) Add one cup and a half of 
fine granulated sugar and beat again. Add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla or almond, then mix in the flour 
quickly and lightly. Bake in a funnel cake pan; line 
the bottom with paper, not greased ; pour in the mix- 
ture and bake fifty minutes. 



MARSHMALLOW ANGEL CAKE. 

Bake a thin angel cake. When cold, cut through 
the center. Spread over it a layer of flavored and 
sweetened whipped cream that has one-half cup of 
marshmallows cut in small pieces and whipped with 
the cream. Cover with the cake and spread a little 
of the cream on top, with the whole marshmallows for 
garnish. 

CAKES WITH BUTTER. 

By changing the receipts a little, various cakes 
can be made from one receipt, simply by adding spices, 
fruits, chocolate and different flavorings. "When the 
fruits are used, roll in flour first. Where chocolate is 
used, vanilla combines with it to give the best flavor- 
ing. 



CAKES. 277 

SPICE CAKE. 

(Made from the Yolks of Angel Cake. Mis. Duiand). 

10 yolks. I 1 scant cup granulated 

1% cups of flour. I sugar. 

Put the yolks in a granite sance pan, beat the 
sugar gradually into the eggs with a flat beater ; beat 
till light and thick ; set the sauce pan in a pan of boil- 
ing water on the stove. Cook till thick. When cool, 
add two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of cloves and one cup of nut meats cut fine, and 
the flour that has been sifted four times. 

WHITE CAKE (Mrs. Gaylord). 



% cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 
1 cup of milk. 



Whites of five eggs. 
3 cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla or 
rose Water. 



Cream butter and sugar, sift the baking powder 
and flour together, add half of the flour and half of 
the milk until used up, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites and flavoring. 



GOLD CAKE. 



14 teaspoonful of salt. 
2 cups of flour. 
Flavor with mace, nutmeg 
or vanilla. 



14 cup of butter. 
ly^ cups powdered sugar. 
% cup of milk. 
Yolks of five eggs. 
l^ teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the flavoring, 
beaten yolks, part of the flour that has the salt and 
baking powder sifted in it, the milk, then the rest of 
the flour. Bake from thirty to forty minutes. 



278 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Make the same as the gold cake, using the whites ; 
add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar, then 
add part of the flour, part of the whites, the rest of 
the flour, and fold in the remaining whites; flavor 
with almond or lemon juice. 

BRIDE'S CAKE. 



1 cup butter. 

1% cups powdered sugar. 
Whites of eight eggs. 

2 cups floiu". 

% teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 



14 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful of lemon or 
rose extract or % tea- 
spoonful of almond. 



Oream the butter and sugar, add the flavoring, 
the sifted flour that has the salt and baking powder 
sifted in it, half of the beaten egg; beat thoroughly. 
Fold in the rest of the whites. Bake in a round pan 
with a tube. Cover with boiled icing. 



POUND CAKE. 



1 lb. of sugar (or 2 cups). 
8 or 9 eggs (if small, nine). 



1 lb. of flour (4 cups). 

2 tablespoonfuls of wine and 

2 of brandy. 



In a low altitude one pound of butter could be 
used. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually and 
cream, then the brandy and wine. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs very light, add those alternately with flour; 
fold in the whites last. One cup of currants, raisins 
or citron may be added, or spices. 



CAKES. 



279 



ALMOST POUND CAKE. 



1 cup sugar. 
% cup butter. 
4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
1% cups flour. 



% teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 
Little nutmeg. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, nutmeg, milk; sift the flour before measur- 
ing, then sift again with the baking powder and salt ; 
beat all together for ten minutes, bake in a loaf or 
small cakes. 



WEDDING CAKE. 



lb. currants. 

lb. dates, chopped fine. 

lb. currants. 

lbs. raisins. 

lb. citron. 

teaspoonful each cinna- 
mon, mace, allspice, 
cloves and 2 grated 
nutmegs. 



% cup brandy. 

1 lb. butter. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 

9 eggs. 

4 cups floiur. 

14 teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoon- 
ful of w'ater. 



Cream butter and sugar, add yolks well beaten, 
part of flour, spices, part of brandy, rest of flour, then 
the whites of eggs ; lastly the fruit that has been rolled 
lightly in flour. Bake in a wooden starch box, lined 
with three layers of paper. This cake requires from 
five to six hours' baking in a moderate oven. 



FRUIT CAKE. 



% cup of butter. 

% cup of sugar. 

y^ cup dark molasses. 

y^ teaspoonful soda sifted 

in the floiu-. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful mixed 

spices. 

2 cups flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls brandy. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

% cup of candied orange 
peel. 

14 cup walnut meats chopped 
fine. 

% cup each of raisins, cur- 
rants and citron. 



280 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Slice the citron and orange peel. Cream the but- 
ter and sugar, add spices and molasses, the beaten 
yolks of eggs, part of the flour, whites of eggs beaten 
stiff, lastly the fruit floured, and nuts. Bake in a slow 
oven for about an hour and a quarter. 

LIGHT FRUIT CAKE. 

Make a pound cake ; add one cup of currants and 
raisins (one cup in all), and one-half cup of sliced 
citron, one tablespoonful of mixed spices, the juice 
and grated rind of half a lemon. Flour the fruit and 
add it last. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE. 



1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

5 eggs (4 eggs can be used 
at low altitude). 



2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
% teaspoonful of baking 

powder and salt. 
About 1% cups of flour. 



This cake should have a good, long beating after 
all the ingredients are mixed. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add the eggs well beaten, part of the flour that 
has the baking powder and salt sifted with it, then 
the milk and the rest of the flour. Bake in little 
cakes, or one loaf. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Cream one cup of butter and two cups of pow- 
dered sugar (at a low altitude granulated sugar can 
be used), beat the yolks of six eggs till thick and 
light, add alternately one cup of milk and four cups 
of flour sifted with one-half teaspoonful of soda ; beat 
thoroughly, then add the beaten whites of the eggs, 
lastly the grated yellow rind of a good-sized lemon 



CAKES. 281 



with the juice. Cover with an icing flavored with 
lemon juice. 



ALMOND CAKE. 



Make the same as spice cake, omitting the spices, 
adding one-half cup of chopped almonds, one-half 
teaspoonful of almond extract; flour the nuts, cover 
with a boiled icing and sprinkle over with almonds 
cut in strips. 



PISTACHIO CAKE. 

Bake a silver or bride's cake in a large, shallow 
pan. "When cold, cover with a boiled icing, colored 
green with vegetable coloring and flavored with al- 
mond. Sprinkle with blanched and finely choppel 
pistachio nuts. 

NUT CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of chopped nuts (floured) to 
"Rocky Mountain" cake. Sprinkle a layer of 
chopped nuts and a little powdered sugar over the top 
just before putting in the oven, or frost with a white 
or chocolate frosting, and decorate with the whole nut 
meats. A maple icing is delicious on this cake. 

FIG CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of flnely chopped figs (floured) 
to spice cake after it is mixed. 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN CAKE (Loaf or Layer Cake). 



1 scant cup of sugar. 

14 cup of butter. 

14 teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
14 teaspoonful of salt. 



% cup of milk. 

3 eggs. 

1% cups of flour. 

Flavoring. 



282 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add flavoring of any 
kind, the well-beaten eggs, part of the flour (with the 
salt and baking powder sifted in it), the milk and 
the rest of the flour ; beat thoroughly for ten minutes. 
Bake in gem pans if you like. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Make the same as "Kooky Mountain" cake, add- 
ing the grated yellow of the rind of one orange. 
Bake in layers and spread with orange filling. Cover 
with orange icing. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Make a "Rocky Mountain" cake; mix melted 
chocolate with one-third of it ; put in the pan a layer 
of the plain cake, then the chocolate mixture, after 
that the remainder of the mixture. A very nice way 
to make marble cake is to take one-third of the mix- 
ture of "Rocky Mountain" cake and mix with it 
spices, currants and citron, or a little preserved or- 
ange or lemon peel. 

SPICE CAKE. 



% cup of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

% cup of milk. 

1% cups of flour. 

% teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
'/4 teaspoonful of salt. 



Juice and grated rind of a 

lemon. 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Several gratings of nutmeg. 
% teaspoonful allspice. 
3 whole eggs and the yolk of 

one. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add spices, the 
beaten yolks of eggs, lemon juice and rind, part of 
the flour which has sifted in it the baking powder 
and salt, then the milk, the rest of the flour and the 



CAKES. 283 



stiffly beaten whites. Bake until the cake leaves the 
side of the pan. 



CURRANT CAKE. 

Make the spice cake, omitting the spices and add- 
ing one-half cup of currants that have been floured. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of grated oocoanut that has been 
floured to "Rocky Mountain" cake just before put- 
ting in the oven. Cover with boiled icing that has 
two tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut mixed with it, 
or ice with the icing and sprinkle the cocoanut over 
the top. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Add one square of Baker's chocolate (melted) to 
"Eocky Mountain" cake; after the cake is mixed, 
flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla ; ice with a boiled 
or chocolate icing. 

LOAF CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Boil to a thick cream one-half cup each of sugar 
and milk and one square of chocolate; let cool; 
then cream together one-half cup of butter and one 
cup of sugar, then add three well-beaten eggs, one- 
half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder 
sifted with two cups of flour, a little salt, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and the chocolate mixture added 
last. 

TWELFTH NIGHT CAKE. 

Beat to a cream one cupful of butter and two of 
granulated sugar. Beat the whites and yolks of six 



284 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

eggs separately; beat tlie yolks into the creamed but- 
ter and sugar, a little at a time, then add one-half cup 
of milk alternately with three cups of flour that has 
one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted with it, then 
fold in the beaten whites of the eggs, lastly add the 
grated rind and juice of half a lemon, a cup of seeded 
raisins soaked in brandy and rolled in flour, and a tea- 
spoonful of caraway seed. Bake in a round pan with 
a tube in the center, line it with buttered paper. Roll 
the silver pieces in thin white paper, then in flour; 
place in opposite sides of the cake. Bake slowly. 
When cold, ice with a thick white frosting, decorate 
with candied cherries and angelica, surround with 
holly and stick a piece in the center. 



FIG CAKE (No. 2). 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 
6 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 

2 cups raisins. 

2 cups chopped figs. 



1 cup blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful of honey. 
3% cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, and the honey. Soak the fruit in brandy for 
a half hour, sift in the flour, baking powder and salt, 
add fruit, mix with the" flour, then the milk. Mix 
well and bake in two loaves. 

ANGEL OR SPONGE CAKE WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Make an angel or sponge cake; bake in a sheet. 
When cold, cut in halves and cover with a layer of 
chestnuts and whipped cream; or, bake in a round 
pan ; when cold, cut out the center, flU with the cheat- 
nuts and cover the top with whipped cream flavored 



CAKES. 285 



with maraschino. Shell and blanch the chestnuts, boil 
in sweetened water. "When soft mash through a sieve, 
then use in the cake. 



ROOSEVELT CAKES. 

Cut rich white cake in squares ; cut the squares in 
halves and spread with apricot jam; cover with the 
other half. Press whipped cream through a pastry 
bag in fanciful shapes on top, or if the bag is not 
used, dot with the cream and sprinkle with finely-cut 
angelica. 

POUND CAKE WAFERS. 



% lb. butter (1 cup). 
% lb. sugar (1^2 cups). 
4 eggs. 

14 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



1 tablespoonful caraway 

seed. 
Nutmeg. 



Flour enough to roll thin, cut out in rounds, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in a quick oven. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, nut- 
meg, flour and baking powder sifted together, then 
caraway seeds. 

VENETIAN CAKES. 

Yg cup of butter. I 1 cupful of chopped almonds 

% cup of powdered sugar. I or walnuts. 

1 cup of flour. I 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

I Yolks of 3 eggs: 

Cream the butter and sugar till very light, add 
the well beaten yolks, the almonds, flour and vanilla. 
Take a small piece, roll it in powdered sugar, then 
make a ball of it in the hands ; put a piece of the nut 
on the top of each. Place them an inch apart, bake 
in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 



286 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE QUARTERS. 

Make an orange or sponge cake; drop in tins 
made for these cakes. Bake in a moderate oven; 
cover with orange icing. 

ALMOND WAFERS. 

Cream half a cup of butter and one cup of pow- 
dered sugar together, then beat in, very slowly, half 
a cup of milk, and lastly two cups of flour and half 
a teaspoonful of vanilla. Spread very thin on the 
inverted bottom of a dripping pan, buttered. Mark 
in squares, sprinkle with blanched almonds chopped 
fine. Bake in a moderate oven five to eight min- 
utes. Lift from the pan with a Imife, roll on the hot 
pan, putting one corner over the other, or one side 
over the opposite side. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 



4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

1 egg. 

14 cup of sugar. 

1 cup of flour. 



1 teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
Speck of salt. 
1 cup of shelled and chopped 

peanuts. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten egg, 
then the flour, salt and baking powder sifted together, 
the nuts last. Roll into little balls. Place an inch 
apart. Bake ten to fifteen minutes. 



HONEY CAKES. 



Four pounds of strained honey, one and one-half 
pounds brown sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, cloves 
and cinnamon to taste, one-half pound citron, cut in 
strips, one quart hickory nut meats, one pound shelled 



CAKES. 287 

almonds, flour enough to roll out and cut in little 
squares. Warm the honey, then add sugar, add soda 
dissolved in warm water, add the citron, nuts, chopped 
fine. Warm the flour before adding. Bake slowly in 
pans, not to touch. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR COOKIES. 



1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 
4 cups of flour. 



4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of caraway 
seed or spices to taste. 



Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, 
then flour and spices. If you like, cover the tops 
over with finely chopped preserved ginger, or pre- 
served orange peel and a sprinkling of sugar. Add 
ginger to the mixture and bake as a sugar ginger- 
bread in one sheet. 

JUMBLES. 

Roll one-two-three-four cookies a little thicker, cut 
with a doughnut cutter and sprinkle over with sugar. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 
% lb. brown sugar. | 6 tablespoonfuls of flour. 



Beat the yolks till light, beat in the sugar, add the 
flour and nuts and beaten whites of eggs. Drop by 
spoonfuls on larded tins that have been sprinkled with 
flour. Bake quickly. 



SUGAR COOKIES 



Vi cup of butter. 

1 cup of powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. 



1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



Flavor with lemon juice, vanilla or nutmeg. Use 
flour enough to roll out ; speck of salt. 



288 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

HERMITS. 

Add haK a cup of stoned and chopped raisins to 
sugar cookies ; a little cinnamon and nutmeg. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Add a half cup of grated cocoanut to sugar cook- 
ies. 

MARGARET DELAND CAKES. 

Beat two eggs and the yolk of another until 
foamy; add one-half cup of brown sugar, three- 
fourths cup of sifted flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt sifted to- 
gether, then stir in one cup of pecan nuts cut in small 
pieces. Put the mixture in small gem or muffin pans 
with a pecan nut meat in the center of each. Sift a 
little powdered sugar over the top. Bake about fifteen 
minutes. 

PEPPER NUTS. 



2 cups of powdered sugar. 

4 eggs. 

^ teaspootiful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
% lb. citron. 



1 cup of hickory nuts cut 

fine. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
As much flour as you can 

knead in. 



Beat the eggs well, then add sugar and beat again. 
Cut the citron in bits, add it with the nuts and spices, 
sift flour, soda and salt together. After the flour is 
added, roll in little balls, place an inch apart and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

PECAN WAFERS. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter and one-half cup 
of sugar together, add almost drop by drop four table- 



CAKES. 289 

spoonfuls of milk and one cup of flour ; spread on the 
bottom of a buttered pan as thin as possible. Sprinkle 
with chopped nuts, mark in squares and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

SNOW BALL CAKES. 

Bake angel or bride's cake in small round gem 
pans. Cover with a boiled icing flavored with lemon 
and put a piece of candied ginger in the center of 
each. Cut in diamond shape. 



290 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKE. 



CHOCOLATE FILLING. 



1% cups granulated sugar. 

% cup cream. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 



Speck of salt. 

Square of Baker's chocolate. 



Cut the chocolate in small pieces; put all on to- 
gether to cook. Try it in cold water ; when it reaches 
the soft ball stage remove from the fire. When cool, 
beat until a thick cream ; spread on the cake. Do not 
stir the filling after it b^ns to boil. 



FIG FILLING. 

% lb. of figs. I Juice of half a lemon. 

% cup sugar. | 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry. 

Chop the figs fine, boil till tender, then add the 
sugar and lemon juice. Cook till smooth. Remove 
from the fire and add the sherry. 



CREAM FILLING. 

For Cream, Cakes and Layer Cakes. — Scald one 
cup of milk, or part milk and cream. When scalded, 
add one egg beaten with one-fourth cup of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and a speck of salt. Beat all 
together with a Dover beater; stir into the milk. 
Cook ten minutes and flavor. 



FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKE. 291 

FIG CARAMEL ICING. 

1 cup of brown sugar. I 1 tablespoonfiil butter. 

14 cup of cream. | Speck of salt. 

Boil all together until it will form a soft ball 
when tried in cold water. Remove from the stove. 
"When cool, add one-half cup of figs chopped fine; 
beat till cool enough to spread. Dates or cooked 
prunes can be used in the same way. 

PRUNE WHIP FILLING. 

Bate sponge cake in layers. Whip a cup of 
cream, sweeten with powdered sugar. Out up cooked 
prunes to make one-half cup ; add to the cream. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING AND FILLING. 

Make a boiled icing, using the white of two eggs 
instead of one; cut one-half pound of marshmallows 
in small pieces and melt in a double boiler with two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water. When melted, stir 
into the boiled icing; flavor with vanilla and spread. 
Use for a filling or icing. 

LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING. 

Mix the juice and grated rind of one lemon with 
one cup of sugar and the beaten yolks of two eggs 
and two tablespoonfuls of milk, a speck of salt. Cook 
in a double boiler, stirring constantly until it thick- 
ens. Spread when cold. To make orange filling, use 
the grated rind and juice of one orange and two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice. Make the same as lemon 
filling. 



292 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BANANA FILLING. 

Make a boiled icing. When it is thick enough to 
spread, stir into it one-half cup of bananas cut in 
thin, small pieces. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

Add one-half cup of grated pineapple to boiled 
icing when it is ready to spread, 

NUT FILLING. 

Add one-half cup of any kind of nuts (chopped 
fine) to boiled icing when thick enough to spread, or 
nuts may be added to a lemon or orange filling. 



ICINGS FOR CAKES. 293 



ICINGS FOR CAKES. 



PLAIN ICING. 



White of one egg. 
1 teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. 



About one cup of powdered 
sugar. 



Stir tiie sugar in the white of egg without first 
beating the white; flavor with the lemon or any fla- 
voring you prefer. 

ORANGE ICING. 

Juice of half an orange, one-half teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, powdered sugar; stir enough powdered 
sugar into the juice to spread a thin icing. 

CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING. 

To two tablespoonfuls of boiling water or boiling 
fruit juice and one teaspoonful of lemon juice, add 
enough confectioners' sugar to spread. 

BOILED ICING. 



1 cup granulated sugar. 
% cup of boiling water. 
White of one egg. 



1^ teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. 



Boil the sugar and water without stirring until 
the syrup threads; beat the egg stiff, add the cream 
of tartar and pour the boiling syrup over the egg 
in a fine stream, beating all the while. When it is 
thick enough to spread, put it on the cake. 



294 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ROYAL ICING. 

This icing is thickened largely by the beating. 
Beat the white of one egg and a tablespoonful of con- 
fectioners' sugar vigorously for two minutes ; add the 
sugar by the tablespoonful, beating after each one for 
some time. Keep on adding the sugar and beating 
till the mixture begins to sugar on the spoon, and a 
knife will make a clean cut through it. Add a few 
drops of lemon juice at a time until a tablespoonful 
has been used. 

YELLOW FROSTING. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs till light colored, then 
stir in powdered sugar till stiff enough to spread. 
Flavor with lemon, vanilla or wine. 

MOCHA FROSTING. 

Wash one cup of butter in cold water to free from 
the salt, pat to remove the water and beat to a cream- 
Beat in the yolk of an egg, then gradually one and 
one-half cups powdered sugar, add coffee extract to 
give the desired flavor. It should be like strong 
coffee and cream. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Stir into boiled icing a square of melted choco- 
late; add it to the icing before it is thick enough to 
spread. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING (No. 2). 

1 cup granulated sugar. 



i square of scraped choco- 
late. 



14 teaspoonful of salt. 
Speck of cinnamon bark — 
Cook with it if cared for. 



ICINGS FOR CAKES. 295 

One-half cup of milk and one tablespoonful of but- 
ter may be used in place of tbe cream. Cook all 
together without stirring till it will fly a fine thread 
when tried. Remove from the fire. When cold, beat 
to a thick cream ; flavor with vanilla (if the cinnamon 
is used). Eemove the cinnamon before starting to 
beat it. 

NUT ICING. 

Stir into a boiled or plain icing one-half cup of 
any kind of nuts you prefer. Chop the nuts flne. 

BANANA ICING OR FILLING. 

Add to a boiled icing one-half cup of bananas 
cut in fine pieces; flavor with one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

PINK ICING. 

Color the plain or boiled icing with a little of 
the pink vegetable coloring. 

CARAMEL ICING. 



1 cup of brown sugar. 
% cup of cream or milk. 



If milk is used, add one 
tablespoonful of butter 
with it. 

% teaspoonful of salt. 



Boil without stirring till the mixture threads. 
Eemove from the fire and when cool beat to a cream 
and spread over the cake. 

MAPLE ICING. 

Boil the maple until a thick syrup, then add one- 
fourth cup of cream and a little salt ; then boil till it 
threads. Make the same as caramel icing. 



296 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

GINGERBREAD, DOUGHNUTS, COOK- 
IES AND CREAM PUFFS. 

All measurements level, with the exception of baking 
powder, which is measured rounding with the side of the can. 
Sift flour before measuring. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 



% cup molasses. 

% cup milk. 

1 egg. 

14 cup melted butter. 



Vi teaspoonful each of 

namon and ginger. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 
% teaspoonful of soda. 
1% cups flour. 



Sift the dry materials all together ; mix with the 
others. Bake about one-half hour. If sour milk is 
used, take one teaspoonful of soda; if heavy sour 
cream, omit the butter. 



SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 



% cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 egg. 
>4 cup of milk. 



2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



Mix stiff enough with flour to roll out. Bake in 
a sheet ; mark off the top in diamond shapes. 

SOFT GINGER COOKIES. 

Put one -teaspoonful of ginger and soda in a mix- 
ing bowl. Heat one cut of molasses and put in the 
bowl. Scald half a cup of buttermilk, add to the 
molasses; stir in sifted flour enough to form a soft 
dough, then half a cup of softened butter. Chill 
thoroughly; roll out, cut into cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Do not change the order of mixing. 



GINGERBREAD, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 
HARD MOLASSES COOKIES. 



297 



1 cup molasses. 

1 eup of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 



1 tablespoonful of ginger. 
I^ teaspoonful of salt. 



Heat the molasses and butter together until the 
butter is melted. When cool, add one teaspoonful of 
soda and the flour and salt. Use enough flour to roll 
out, but not more than is necessary. 



GINGER SNAPS. 



1 cup molasses. 
% cup sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 



1 teaspoonful of soda. 
% cup softened butter. 
Flour enough to roll very 
thin. 



Heat the molasses, pour it over the sugar, then 
add to it the rest of the materials. Bake quickly. 



DOUGHNUTS. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der. 



Flavor with cinnamon, nutmeg or vanilla. Use 
only as much flour as is necessary to roll out. Cook 
in hot, deep fat four to six at a time. Roll out only 
a part of the dough at a time. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 



2 cups raised bread dough. 
% cup sugar. 
2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



Spice to taste. Flour enough to roll. Mix the 
ingredients well into the dough. Cut out and fry at 



once. 



298 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PUFFS AND ECLAIRS. 



Vi cup of butter. 
1 cup boiling Water. 
1 cup flour. 



3 

Speck salt. 



Put the butter and water in a sauce pan. When 
the butter is melted and the water boiling, stir in the 
flour and salt all at once. Stir quickly until the mix- 
ture is quite firm (a minute or two), remove from 
the fire. When cool, beat in the eggs one at a time, 
until the mixture is light and smooth. Drop in ta- 
blespoonfuls a little distance apart on buttered tins. 
Bake in quite a hot oven, for thirty minutes. "^Splity" 
when cool, fill with a whipped or made cream. 

Eclairs. — ^Make the same as for cream puffs. 
Bake in strips four inches long and one wide. When 
cool, fill with cream. Cover with chocolate or any 
frosting you care to use. 

CREAM 1 OR CREAM PUFFS AND ECLAIRS. 



% cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

Speck of salt. 



2 cups milk scalded in 

double boiler. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 eggs. 

Mix the salt, sugar and flour together,^ wet witfi' 
a little cold milk; stir into the hot milk; cook ten 
minutes, then add the beaten egg ; cook five minutes. 
Eemove from the fire; flavor to taste. When cool, 
use for the filling. 

MERINGUES OR KISSES. 

Beat the whites of four eggs till stiff and flaky. 
Beat into them gradually one cup of powdered sugar. 
When it has become thick drop in tablespoonfuls on 



GINGERBREAD, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 299 

buttered paper placed on a board. Bake slowly in 
a warm oven for half an hour, or until they feel 
hard and hollow to the touch. When cool, remove the 
soft part, fill with ice cream, sherbet or whipped and 
flavored cream; put two together. Place on the pa- 
per in oblong shape, for meringues ; for kisses, drop 
from a teaspoon in any shape. 



300 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOE BOOK. 

COMPOTES, PRESERVING, JELLIES 
AND PICKLES. 



COMPOTES OF APPLES, PEARS, PEACHES AND 
APRICOTS. 

Pare, core or stone the fruit, cut in quarters or 
halves, according to the size of the fruit. Make a 
syrup of one-half as much water as sugar. When the 
syrup is quite thick, put in the fruit and cook until 
tender. Do not use over-ripe fruits — rather a lit- 
tle under-ripe. Then remove from the syrup with a 
skimmer, lay carefully on a serving dish in a circle, 
or letting each piece overlap the other. Boil the 
syrup down till thick; pour over the fruit. Serve 
cold. Compotes are very delicious when used to sur- 
round moulds of rice or cornstarch, decorated with 
whipped cream. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Core and pare sour apples ; put in a shallow agate 
or earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar, chopped 
nuts, chopped dates, or figs. In place of the sugar 
maple syrup can be used. When nuts or fruit are 
used to fill them, use sugar or syrup, too. Add water 
to cover the bottom of the dish. Cook in a quick 
oven till tender. Remove carefully on the serving 
dish. Let the syrup cook down until quite thick. 
Pour over the fruit. A little mound of whipped 
cream can be served on each appla Pears and 
quinces can be baked in the same way. A little 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 301 

lemon juiee or some of tihe grated rind can be used for 
flavoring. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 

Wash, and if the rhubarb is a little tough, peel, 
cut in inch pieces'. Oook till tender in a granite 
sauce pan. Use one cup sugar to two of the fruit, 
and enough water to well cover the bottom of the dish. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash very carefully, soak in cold water for two 
hours. If they seem soft and fresh, do not soak them. 
Put in porcelain kettle with boiling water to cover. 
Boil until tender, then add a tablespoonful of sugar to 
every cup of prunes. .Boil ten minutes longer. 
Lemon juice may be added. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE AND JELLY (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Put three pints of washed cranberries in a granite 
sauce pan. On top of them put three cups of sugar 
and three gills of water. After they begin to boil, 
cook them ten minutes, closely covered and do not 
stir them. To make the jelly, add equal quantities 
of sugar and cranberries. 



PRESERVING. 

Select the best of fruits. Have them ripe and 
fresh. The cans should be carefully washed and 
filled up with hot water. Wash the covers and put in 
hot water. Use new rubbers every year to prevent 
any air reaching the fruit. 



302 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PEACHES AND APRICOTS. 

Peel tlie peaches by placing in a wire basket and 
plunging into boiling water, then the skins will slip 
easily. Halve them or leave them whole. Use a few 
of the pits — they improve the flavor. Weigh the 
fruit and use three-fourths or one-half (just as you 
prefer) as much sugar as you have fruit. Make 
syrup by adding half as much water as you have 
sugar. Cook dowa until quit© thick (about as thick 
as molasses), then add the fruit. Oook until trans- 
parent; remove the scum as it forms. Skim the 
fruit from the syrup and fill the jars. If the syrup 
seems a little thin, cook down; pour into the jars, 
filling full ' to overflovsdng. Tightly screw on the 
covers; turn bottom side up, and as they cool, the 
covers can be tightened. 

BRANDIED PEACHES OR APRICOTS. 

Prepare and cook the peaches as above, leaving 
them whole. Pill jars with the fruit; to every pint 
jar of the peaches, add to it one-fourth cup of brandy. 
Cook the syrup down very thick, fill up the jars with 
it and seal. 

PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Prick the fruit with a fork in several places ; this 
prevents the skin from breaking somewhat, or they 
may be skinned the same as the peaches. Cook in 
the same way. 

BRANDIED PLUMS. 
Make the same as brandied peaches. 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 303 

PRESERVED QUINCES AND PEARS. 

Pare and quarter, reraoving the core; preserve 
the same as peaches. Pears are improved by cooking 
in the syrup a little of the yellow rind of oranges or 
lemons. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 

Pare and remove the eyes; us© a silver fork to 
shred it, or cut in slices or inch pieces, not using the 
core. Preserve the same as peaches. 

GRAPES. 

Wash and press the pulp from each grape; boil 
the pulp till tender ; press through a sieve to remove 
the seeds, add the pulp to the skins, measure, add 
two cups of sugar to every three cups of the fruit. 
Boil all together until quite thick and seal while hot 
like the other preserves. 

CITRON. 

Pare and core the citron, cut in cubes or in fancy 
shapes, or scallop the edges. Cook the same as 
peaches, tie a little ginger root in a piece of cheese 
cloth and cook in the syrup to flavor, or a little of 
the yellow rind of lemon. 

CHERRIES. 

Wash, remove the stones and preserve the same as 
peaches'. 



304 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS. 

Wash, remove from the stems and preserve the 
same as peaches. 

SUNSHINE STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS. 

Select and hull three pounds of perfect fruit 
Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar and two 
cups of boiling water until a light thread is formed. 
Do not stir the sugar after it begins to boil. Cook 
the fruit in the syrup ten minutes. After it begins 
to boil, then pour out in platters and let stand in the 
sun for two days. Cover with cheese cloth. Put in 
the jars cold, have them fresh scalded. Berries are 
delicious done in this way; they absorb the syrup, 
making them plump and full. 



CANNING. 



Prepare the fruit the same as for preserving. 
Canning differs from preserving only in the amount 
of sugar used, and often no sugar at all is used. The 
proportion of sugar used is one-fourth as much as 
fruit, and a pint of water to a pound of sugar in 
making the syrup. Another way of canning is to 
pack tibe fruit tightly in the jars, fill the jars with 
the syrup, place the jars in a kettle of hot water, rest- 
ing lie bottles on slats of wood or folded paper. Do 
not let them touch. Cover the boiler, let them cook 
till the fruit is tender. The fruit will shrink a little, 
so the jars will have to be filled up. It is well to re- 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 305 

serve a little syrup for this purpose. Place on the 
tops and seal at onoa Another way is to oook them 
in their own juices. Fill the jars with the fruit, put 
on in the kettle with cold water to reach half way up 
the jars. Raise to the boiling point and cook until 
the fruit is tender. Let stand in the water till cold 
again. If the fruit has shrunken, fill up the jars, 
using the contents of one to do it. 

The fruit may be cooked without sugar and will 
keep as well by ^oroughly cooking in a little water 
and sealing immediately. 

CANNING TOMATOES. 

Remove the skins by first dipping the tomatoes 
in boiling water. Out in small pieces, reject the 
pith or any bad specks. Cook them until soft, with- 
out adding water, then put in the jars at once; have 
the jars hot and freshly scalded. 



JAMS OR MARMALADES. 

Use equal quantities of fruit and sugar. Pare, 
core and cut in small pieces the large fruits ; the small 
ones wash and hull, place in the preserving kettle the 
fruit and sugar in layers: Let stand half an hour to 
extract the juice. Cook it slowly. When it becomes 
dear, put a little on a cold plate, if it hardens it is 
done; put in glasses or jars and cover. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

For making marmalade buy Messina or SaviUe 
oranges if you can. 



306 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

1 dozen oranges. I 3 lemons. 

4 grape fruit. | 

Slice the fruit very thin. Kemove the seeds, 
weigh it, to every pound, or two cups, allow three cups 
of water; put in a crock and let stand twenty-four 
honrs, then put on the fire and boil one-half hour. 
Return it to the crock and let remain another twenty- 
four hours, then measure. To every pint add two 
and one-fourth cups of sugar, then boil until it jellies 
slightly. This amount will make about twelve quarts. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. 

Cut rind of orange in thin strips. Soak two days 
in cold water. Cover well with water and change 
fully ten times a day. Drain, put on the stove cov- 
ered with cold water. Let come to a boil, then drain. 
Make a thick syrup, cook the straws in the syrup till 
it hairs, then remove from the syrup and roll in gran- 
ulated sugar. 



JELLIES. 



To make clear jelly, select perfect fruit, wash it 
and put in a porcelain-lined kettle with one quart of 
water to twenty-four boxes of fruit. Apples and 
quinces require twice that amount of water. Oook 
slowly till the fruit is tender, strain through a flan- 
nel bag, measure the juice, allow one cup less of sugar 
than you have of juice. Warm the sugar in the oven, 
but do not allow it to bum. Boil the juice twenty 
minutes, then add the hot sugar, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, skim thoroughly and cook about ten min- 
utes, or until it jellies when a little is dropped on a 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 307 

cold plate. Turn at once in glasses, let .remain to 
settle twenty-four hours, tiien cover the tops with 
melted paraffine. Over-ripe fruit will not jelly. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash the currants, pick off any that are not per- 
fect, but do not stem them. A few boxes of raspber- 
ries cooked with the currants gives a delicious flavor. 
Four boxes of raspberries to twenty-four boxes of cur- 
rants' give a delicate flavor of the raspberries. Pro- 
ceed with making the jelly as directed above. 

CRABAPPLE AND APPLE JELLY. 

Wash, cut in quite small pieces, but do not pare. 
Barely cover with cold water, cook till soft, then 
strain. A little of the yellow of lemon or orange peel 
improves the flavor, cooked with the apples, or a little 
of the root ginger. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Make the same as apple jelly. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Select under-ripe grapes ; the wild grapes give the 
best flavor. Wash them, add a quart of cold water 
to twelve boxes of grapes, cook until they are tender 
and well broken apart and proceed the same as di- 
rected. 

PLUM JELLY. 

Make the same as grape jelly, using the wild 
plums if convenient. 



308 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PICKLES. 

TO SWEET-PICKLE FRUIT AND BERRIES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Eight pounds of frudt, four pounds of best brown 
sugar, one quart of best vinegar, one cup of mixed 
whole spices, stick cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice 
and cloves, less of the latter than of the former. Tie 
the spices in a bag and boil with the vinegar and 
sugar. Skim well, then add the fruit Obok till the 
fruit is clear. Remove carefully from the syrup and 
put in a jar or a crock Boil the syrup down nice 
and thick and pour over the fruit. Seal. 

PEACHES. 

Scald to remove the skins, leave them whole, cook 
without breaking. Do not stick with cloves. 

PEARS. 
Pare them, leave lihem whole with the stem on. 

CUCUMBER, WATERMELON AND CANTELOUPE. 

Pare them, remove the soft part from inside, cut 
in pieces to serve. Cook in boiling water for ten 
minutesj drain and cook in the hot syrup till clear 
and tender. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Pare, remove the eyes, cut in serving pieces or 
slices and cook in the syrup till clear. 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 300 

CURRANTS, GRAPES AND ALL BERRIES. 

Eemove from the stemSj wash, and cook in the 
syrup until they form the consistency of jam. Pret- 
pare the grapes for the syrup, as given for preserving. 

PICKLED WALNUTS (Boston Cooking School). 

Take the walnuts when they are well filled out 
and tender, pierce each one with a strong needle three 
or four times and lay them in a brine which com- 
pletely dissolves its salts, changing for fresh every 
day for nine days, then spread the nuts in the air un- 
til they become black. Put them in crocks and pour 
over them this mixture, boiling hot : A gallon of vin- 
egar, an ounce each of ginger root, allspice, mace an(' 
whole cloves, and two ounces of peppercorns, boilt 
all together for ten minutes. Cover, pressing tht 
nuts under the vinegar with a plate. Let them stand 
six weeks before using. 

APPLE CHUTNEY (Boston Cooking School). 

Pare and core a dozen sour apples, peel a mild 
onion and seed one cup of raisins, chop the apples, 
onions, raisins and three green peppers very fine, add 
one pint of cider vinegar, half a cup of currant jelly 
and let simmer an hour. Then add two cups of su- 
gar, the juice of four lemons, one tablespoonful of 
ground ginger and a tablespoonful of salt, and cook 
another hour, stirring almost constantly. Store as 
canned fruit. 

GINGER APPLE. 

Five pounds of sour apples chopped fine, three 
pounds brown sugar, one ounce ground white ginger 



310 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

root, one cup of water. Cook slowly three or four 
hours or till transparent 



UNCOOKED PICKLES. 

Use medium-sized pickles, cut in slices one-fourth 
inch thick; pack them in quart jars, with three me- 
dium-sized onions sliced very thin, and one hot red 
pepper to each jar; add one tablespoonful of salt and 
fill up with water. Add one-half teaspoonful of pul- 
verized alum. Let stand over night, then drain off 
the water and rinse. Eill the jars full of the pickles, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil and fill with a 
good, sharp vinegar. Seal. 



PICKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Make a brine of one pint of coarse salt and 
six quarts of boiling water, boil and skim clear, 
wash one hundred and fifty small cucumbers, put in 
the brine and let remain forty-eight hours, covered, 
then drain. Soak in cold water for two hours, drain 
and put them in a crock. Stick one large onion full 
of cloves, an ounce of horseradish root and several 
little red peppers, and put with the cucumbers and a 
piece of alum the size of a pea. Fill a muslin bag 
with one cup of mixed spices, celery seed, white mus- 
tard seed, whole cloves, allspice, peppercorns, stick 
cinnamon, boil this in vinegar enough to cover the 
cucumbers for ten minutes. Put the bag in the 
crock with the vinegar, pour off the vinegar the third 
day, reheat it and return to the piddes. Do not use 
for three weeks. 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 311 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Anything that you wish to use can be added to the 
cucumbers in the brine^ — pieces of cauliflower, small 
onions, nasturtium seeds, watermelon, beans. All 
make good pickles. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Equal quantities of small cucumbers, button 
onions, cauliflower picked apart, sliced green toma- 
toes and two or three sliced green peppers. Soak in 
the brine and drain, as given in Pickled Cucumbers. 
Prepare enough of the following mixture to cover: 
To one quart of vinegar, use one cup of brown sugar, 
one-half cup of flour and one-half cup of ground mus- 
tard. Boil the sugar and vinegar for five minutes, 
skim, mix the mustard and flour together, pour the 
hot vinegar slowly onto it, stirring until smooth. 
Pour hot over the pickles. They will be ready to use 
in three weeks. 

PICCALILLI OR CHOW-CHOW. 



1 peck of green tomatoes. 

1 cup of salt. 

2 cups brown sugar. 
8 small onions. 

2 heads of celery. 
1 teaspoonful of white 
pepper. 



1 tablespoonful whole cin- 
namon, broken up. 

1 tablespoonful of whole all- 
spice. 

1 tablespoonful mustard 

seed. 

2 quarts best vinegar. 



Chop or slice the tomatoes, sprinkle the salt over 
them and let stand over night, in the morning drain 
off the water and chop the onion and celery, place all 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, sprinkle with sugar, tie 
the spices in a bag, add those and the vinegar, cook 
slowly all day. Put in jars or earthen crock. 



312 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Make the same as the chow-chow, only using ripe 
tomatoes and chop them quite fina To every peck 
of the tomatoes use one pound of onions chopped fine. 
Salt over night and proceed the same as the above 
receipt. 

TOMATO CATSUP (Mrs. CampbeU). 

Boil one bushel of ripe tomatoes, akins and all. 
When soft, mash through a colander to remove the 
skins and seeds. Mix one cup of salt, two pounds 
of brown sugar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, 
three ounces each of ground allspice, mace and celery 
seed, two ounces of ground cinnamon, tie in a mus- 
lin bag, add to the tomato two quarts of best vinegar. 
Cook slowly till reduced to one-half. It is an im- 
provement to add a cup of brandy a few minutes be- 
fore it is done. Put in small bottles, seal, keep in a 
cool place. 

SWEET PICKLED MELON. 

Canteloupe or watermelon rind may be used. Ke^ 
move the seed and rind, cut in pieces to serve ; weigh 
the melon and take one-half the weight in sugar, a 
pint of vinegar, ounce of cloves, two ounces of cinna- 
mon bark. Make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar 
with the spices added ; put in the melon and cook till 
tender. Skim out of tie syrup, fill jars. Cook the 
syrup down till quite thick and fill up the jars. 
Watermelon rind should be cooked until partly ten- 
der in boiling water before adding to the syrup. This 
is not necessary with canteloupe or musk melon. 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, ETC. 313 

CONFITURE. 

5 boxes of cherries. I 5 oranges. 

5 lbs. sugar. I 2 lbs. raisins. 

Grate rind of half tlie oranges; peel the rest 
and slice in thin pieeces ; chop raisins ; stone cherries ; 
first add the sugar and let remain until the other 
things are prepared, then mix together and boil hard 
thirty minutes. 



314 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CANDffiS. 



FONDANT. 

Fondant is the basis of all French cream candies 
and can be kept any length of time, if air tight and in 
a cool place. A great variety of bonbons and choco- 
lates can be made from it by using different flavor- 
ings, nuts and fniits, and also makes a delicious icing 
for small and large cakes. White grapes and straw- 
berries with the hulls on dipped in the fondant makes 
a delicious bonbon. 

To Make Mints. — When the fondant is rather a 
thin cream, flavor with mint, drop on buttered slab 
or rice paper from a teaspoon. 

VEGETABLE COLORING. 

The vegetable colorings are perfectly harmless; 
use only a small quantity, as a little will color a large 
amount of fondant. 

TO MAKE FONDANT. 

2 cups of sugar. | % teaspoonful of cream of 

% cup of water. j tartar. 

Do not stir after it begins to boil ; let it cook until 
it reaches the soft ball stage ; the thermometer regis^ 
ters at that stage 236° — 238°, or try a little in cold 
water, and if it forms a soft ball in the flngers, it is 
done, and must be removed at once. Let it cool until 
it forms a crust; if stirred while too warm it will 



CANDIES. 315 

grain. Stir until it becomes thick and creamy. If 
it becomes grainy, cook again with a little cold water. 
Various candies can now be made by using the differ- 
ent flavorings, niits and fruits. Fondant is used for 
creaming nuts, figs and dates. 

COATING FOR CHOCOLATE. 

Place equal quantities of fondant and chocolate 
witli a few drops of vanilla, over hot water, stirring 
constantly until melted. Dip, place on rice paper, 
allow to harden. If the chocolate gets thick, add a 
few drops of hot water, also place the dish that holds 
the chocolate in warm water while dipping to keep 
from hardening. 

GLACE ORANGES, GRAPES, NUTS, ETC. 

2 cups sugar. | % cup water. 

Boil together without stirring, until the thermom- 
eter registers 340°, or until the syrup crackles and 
breaks when a little is put in cold water. Eemove 
from the fire, drop the pieces into the syrup one at a 
time with a candy wire, or two forks, place on an 
oiled slab or rice paper to dry. 

To glace oranges, divide the sections carefully, 
allow them to dry several hours before dipping. To 
glace grapes, wipe the grapes dry and leave the little 
stem on to prevent them from getting moist. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 



2 cups fine granulated su- 
gar. 
% cup cream. 



2 squares of Baker's choco- 
late or 2 tablespoonfuls 
of cocoa. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Speck of salt. 



316 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Stir until the ingredients are melted, but not after 
it begins to boil. Cook until it forms the soft-ball 
stage when tried in cold water. Eemove from the 
fire. When cool, stir until thick and creamy, pour 
into a pan and when cold cut in squares. One^half 
cup of chopped nuts can be added just before taking 
from the fire. 



MAPLE FUDGE. 

2 cups thick maple syrup. | 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
% cup of cream. | Speck of salt. 

Make the same as chocolate fudge. If the syrup 
is not very thick, cook down before putting in tbe 
other ingredients. 



PANOCHA. 



2 cups brown sugar. 

% cup cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Speck salt. 

% cup chopped Walnuts. 



Make the same as fudge, add tbe nutsi just before 
removing from the fire. 



OPERA CARAMELS. 

3 cups fine white sugar. I %, teaspoonful of cream of 

1 cup of cream. | tartar (scant). 

Boil together until it readies' the soft-ball stage. 
When cool, flavor, add one-half cup of any chopped 
nuts, or fruits, or a mixture of both. Stir to a thick 
cream, then turn into a buttered dish to the depth of 
half an inch. When cold cut in little squares. 



CANDIES. 317 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 



% cup white sugar. 
V2 cup brown sugar. 
% cup molasses. 



2 squares Baker's chocolate. 
% cup of cream or milk. 



If milk is used, add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir the mixture constantly while cooking. When it 
snaps and cracks tried in cold water, remove from 
the fire, pour in buttered pans, add chopped nuts be^ 
fore removing from the fire if desired. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 

2 cups sugar. I 14 cup butter. 

% cup cream. | 

Cook all together imtil it snaps when tried in cold 
water. Pour in buttered pans, cut in little squares 
before quite cold. 



PEANUT CANDY. 

Fill a tin one-half inch deep with the nuts. Cook 
sugar with a little water until it crackles when tried 
in cold water, pour over the nuts. 



VINEGAR CANDY. 

2 cups sugar. I 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

14 cup water. | 4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Cook all together until it hardens when tried in 
cold water. Pour in a buttered pan. When cool 
enough to handle pull until it is white and creamy 
looking, cut in squares or sticks. 



318 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

2 cups molasses. ^ cup of butter. 

1 cup of white or brown 



Cook until it hardens when tried in oold water. 
Pour in buttered pans. When cool enough to handle 
pull till light colored. Cut in sticks. One cup of 
chopped nuts may be added just as you take it from 
the stove. 



BEVERAGES. 319 



BEVERAGES. 



To make good, bright-tasting tea and coffee, the 
water should be freshly boiled. Water that has been 
boiled for some time loses its life and gives a dull 
taste to drinks. Before making tea or coffee, scald 
the pot. 

TEA. 

Put the tea in a strainer and wash with cold 
water, then put in the scalded pot and pour on 
the freshly boiled water, let remain on the back of the 
stove for five minutes, then pour the tea from the 
leaves into a hot pot and serve, often the tea is left 
to remain on the leaves, it then soon becomes bitter. 
The proportion used depends upon the strength re- 
quired, and the kind of tea used. Tea is considered 
by some to be better if made very strong and diluted 
with boiling water. When a quantity of tea is to be 
made, as for a reception, tie the tea in muslin bags, 
put the bag in the boiling water, let remain for five 
minutes, then remove. 

Tea Ball. — The boiling water is poured from the 
samovar into the cup, the ball is placed in the cup, 
removed when the right color is attained. 

Russian Tea. — Is made by adding sugar and a 
thin slice of lemon to each cup. 



320 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Tea Punch. — Is made by first soaking the sugar 
in rum or brandy and adding the lemon. 

Iced Tea. — ^Make the tea several hours before 
using. When cool, put on ice. If not cold enough 
when wishing to serve, put cracked ice in each glass, 
one tablespoonful lemon juice, sugar to taste, added 
when hot. 

COFFEE. 

To Iilake Coffee. 

Oftentimes the coffee leaves its flavor in the 
kitchen by too long a cooking. There are now 
many reliable coffee cookers that can be used on the 
table. Coffee made in this way is preferable, as it 
is served as soon as made. The coffee pot should be 
kept scrupulously clean and aired. Great care should 
be taken to have the spout free from grains. Coffee 
will go much farther if finely ground, and should 
always be freshly made. 



BOILED COFFEE. 

The white of one egg is sufficient to clear one cup 
of ground coffee. Use one level tablespoonful of 
coffee for every cup. Mix the coffee in a bowl with 
the white of egg and a very little cold water (one- 
fourth cup to a cup of ground coffee), put into the 
scalded pot and pour on the boiling water; let boil 
three minutes. Remove to the back of the stove, add 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water, let settle for ten 
minutes, pour the coffee from the grounds and send 
to the table. If stronger coffee is required, increase 
the proportion of coffee. 



BEVERAGES. 321 

DRIP COFFEE. 

Use one rounding tablespoonful of coffee to a 
cup, put tlie coffee in a flannel bag, lay on tlie strainer 
and pour the boiling water over it. Have the pot 
hot to begin with and stand in a pan of hot water 
while dripping. 

BREAKFAST COFFEE (Mrs. T. L. Watson). 

This is to be mixed the night before. Mix six 
tablespoonfuls of coffee with the white of an egg (or 
smaller quantity if you like) . Put into a small cov- 
ered earthen dish, pour over it two cups of cold water, 
cover tightly, a preserve jar would do, and the next 
morning put into the coffee pot, pour the boiling 
water over it, using a cup to every tablespoonful, let 
it boil up just once, pour into it half a cup of cold 
water, let settle a few minutes before serving. This 
can be made for after-dinner coffee by preparing in 
the morning. 

TURKISH COFFEE. 

Have the coffee very finely ground, using a table- 
spoonful to a cup, put in a pot, add cold water. When 
it touches the boiling point it is ready to serve. The 
Turk does not use cream or sugar. 



BLACK COFFEE. 

Is made by any of the above receipts, using about 
double the proportion of coffee. 



322 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Iced coffee is served in glasses. Add cream and 
sugar to the coffee and chill on the ice several hours 
before serving. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scald two cups of milk in double boiler, then add 
to it one square of Baker's chocolate that has been 
broken up in pieces, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
a pinch of salt. When the chocolate has dissolved, 
add a few drops of vanilla if you like. Beat wij;h a 
Dover egg beater for a few minutes and serve at 
once. Put a teaspoonful of whipped cream in the 
cup before pouring in the chocolate. 

MAILLARD'S CHOCOLATE. 

For each cup of chocolate use one cupful of milk 
and one bar of chocolate. Put the milk in a sauce 
pan, porcelain-lined, break the chocolate in small 
pieces, add to the milk, stir constantly with a wooden 
spoon until the chocolate is dissolved, and the milk 
has boiled up once. Add more hot milk if too rich. 
Beat vigorously. Serve at once. 

COCOA. 

Dissolve one tablespoonful of cocoa in two of 
water. Add to two cups of boiling milk, let boil up 
once. Sweeten to taste, beat well and serve. 

SHELLS. 

Steep one cup of shells in one quart of boiling 
water three hours, adding more water as it boils 
away. Stain, serve with cream and sugar. 



BEVERAGES. 323 

LEMONADE. 

Allow the juice of two lemons to three glasses of 
lemonade. Sweeten with sugar, or better still, sugar 
syrup. Add the water and cracked ice, put a thin 
slice of lemon in each glass. 

ORANGEADE. 

To the juice of two oranges add the juice of a 
half of a lemon. Sweeten, add water and ice, half 
a thin slice of orange for each glass. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Beat an egg thoroughly, beat in four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the juice of two lemons, three cups 
of water, two tablespoonfuls of maraschino, if liked, 
ice and serve. 

SUMMER DRINK. 



4 quarts of lemonade. 
1 pint of pineapple juice. 
1 pint of strawberry or 
raspberry juice. 



A few thin slices of lemon 
and a few of the ber- 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil a grated pineapple, four cups of sugar and 
four cups of water twenty minutes, add one cup of 
strong tea, then strain. When cold, add the juice of 
five lemons, six oranges, one pint of strawberry, rasp- 
berry or grape juice, half a pint of maraschino cher- 
ries, six quarts of water and a big piece of ice. When 
ready to serve, a bottle of apollinaris water, or gin- 
ger ale, mint leaves, pieces of pineapple or berries can 
also be used, with or without the cherries. 



324 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

COBBLERS. 

Cobblers are made by filling a glass with cracked 
ice, adding any kind of wine, and a little water if de- 
sired. Sweeten with sugar syrup, add a strawberry, 
raspberry, bit of pineapple, slice of orange, maras- 
chino cherry, or any fruit you happen to have. 



CLARET CUP. 



1 pint of claret. 

1 pint of soda water. 

Juice of 1 lemon and 

orange. 
1 glass of curacao. 



Slice of cucumber. 
Sweeten with sugar syrup. 
Bunch of mint. 
Have it well iced. 



CHAMPAGNE CUP. 



1 quart of champagne. 
1 glass of sherry. 
1 glass white curacao. 
Juice of one orange and 
lemon. 



1 pint of apollinaris. 
Slice of cucumber. 
Bunch of mint. 
Large piece of ice. 



GINGER ALE PUNCH. 



Juice of six lemons and six oranges, two quart 
bottles of ginger ale, one pint of champagne, sweeten 
with sugar syrup, a large piece of ice and thin slices 
of lemon and orange. 



SAUTERNE PUNCH. 



The juice of six oranges and lemons, two quarts 
of sauterne, one pint of sherry, one cup of curacao, 
one pint of soda water, sweeten with sugar syrup, 
add a few pieces of any kind of fruits and a large 
piece of ice. 



BEVERAGES. 325 

EGG-NOG. 

Beat the yolk of one egg and one teaspoonful of 
sugar until very light and thick, beat the white to a 
stiff foam, mix together, turn into a glass, add a tea- 
spoonful of rum or brandy, or both may be used, stir 
or shake all together, add a little grated nutmeg. 
Whipped cream may be used instead of the milk. 
Add more sugar and rum if desired. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Add to a glass of milk a tablespoonful of sherry, 
rum or brandy, sweeten to taste, shake, or mix well, 
put a little nutmeg on top. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Add one quart of water to four quarts of grapes 
that have been washed and removed from the stems. 
Let them come slowly to the boiling point and set on 
the stove for fifteen minutes, then strain through a 
thick cloth, return the liquid to the fire, let it come to 
the boiling point, turn into glass jars and seal. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Turn over four quarts of ripe raspberries one 
quart of vinegar. Let remain for twenty-four hours, 
then strain through a cheese cloth, turn the liquor 
over four quarts more of fresh raspberries ; let stand 
for twenty-four hours; again strain out the juice, 
and to each two cups of juice add two cups of sugar. 
Boil for twenty minutes, turn into bottles, cork when 
cold. When used, dilute, using three parts of water. 



326 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



INVALID COOKERY. 



Nothing but the best of cooking should be served 
to the sick. 

First. — The greatest care should be taken in se- 
lecting the best materials. 

Second. — The greatest care should be taken in 
cooking them. 

Third. — The food should be served on the dainti- 
est of china and glass, and the freshest of linen. 

Fourth. — Those whose profession it is to care for 
the sick are not competent to cook for them until they 
have had thorough instruction in the art by a profes- 
sional teacher. Cooking should be an important ad- 
junct of nurse training. A very great deal depends 
upon the patient being properly nourished during con- 
valescence, and if the food is not well cooked it can- 
not easily be digested, the materials are spoiled, and 
the result of nourishing the patient is not obtained. 
Cooking eggs in various ways, broiling (see broiled 
steak), bread making, soups, fancy dishes and ices 
are found in the book. 

TO MAKE TOAST. 

Select bread that is fully twelve hours old (if 
newer bread has to be used, cut in thin slices and set 
in the oven to dry out the moisture before toasting; 
if moist bread is used to toast, the inside will be soft 
and indigestible), cut in thin slices, cut off the crust 



INVALID COOKERY. 327 

unless preferred on, toast slowly a delicate brown on 
both sides, butter while warm, and serve only while 
it is fresh. 

CREAM FOR CREAM TOAST. 

Scald one cup of milk in the double boiler ; melt 
in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted stir into it two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour 
(level) , pour onto it a little of the hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then the rest of the milk ; turn all back 
in the dduble boiler and cook ten minutes. This way 
the flour is thoroughly cooked, and if well stirred can 
not be lumpy. 



TO MAKE TEA. 

Use only freshly boiled water. Scald the teapot. 
Put the dry tea into a strainer and let the cold water 
run through to wash out the dust. Put the tea in the 
teapot, pour the boiling water over it ; set on the back 
of the stove to steep five minutes. Pour the tea from 
the grounds into a hot pot and serve at once. The 
amount of tea to be used depends upon the strength 
required. 

COCOA. 

Heat two cups of milk in the double boiler ; when 
scalded add two tablespoonfuls of cocoa, one of sugar 
and a few grains of salt. Dissolve the cocoa, sugar 
and salt in a little boiling water, stir into the hot 
milk, cook for fifteen minutes, beat with the Dover 
beater for a minute and serve at once. 



328 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO COOK AN EGG IN THE SHELL. 

If the egg is to be served soft in the shell (the 
white cooked and the yolk soft), place the egg in a 
sauce pan, cover with water that has come to the 
boil, set on the back of the stove for ten minutes 
(where it won't boil), or cover the egg with cold 
water, place on the front of the stove and allow it to 
just reach the boiling point; remove from the water 
at once. Eggs cooked in this way are easily digested ; 
the white is of a jelly-like consistency, not hard and 
horny as when boiled. To cook the egg hard, let re- 
main in the water longer. 

TO COOK CEREALS. 

Cereals should be thoroughly cooked. It is best 
to use a double boiler, as cereals being starchy will 
easily stick on. Put the cereal in the double boiler, 
with a little salt, a half teaspoonful to a cup of the 
dry cereal, cover with boiling water and cook fast on 
the top of the stove for five minutes,, stirring a little 
to prevent sticking ; then place in the boiler and cook 
for a half hour, anyway. Some cereals require longer 
cooking. 'Now many of them go through a steaming 
process before being put on the market, so that the 
five minutes of hard boiling and the half hour cook- 
ing in the double boiler is all that is required. The 
cooking of rice and all kinds of cereals are given in 
the book. 

TO COOK CORN STARCH OR TAPIOCA. 

Heat the milk in double boiler ; when scalded add 
the corn starch that has been mixed smooth the thick- 
ness of cream with a little cold milk and a little salt. 



INVALID COOKERY. 329 

Stir into the hot milk and cook for twenty minutes 
before sugar or eggs are added. Various ways for 
cooking corn starch and tapioca are given in the book. 
Wash the tapioca and add to the hot milk, stirring 
frequently. 

CORN STARCH GRUEL. 

Scald two cups of milk in a double boiler ; mix a 
tablespoonful of corn starch with a little cold milk 
and an eighth of a teaspoonful of salt; stir into the 
hot milk and cook for twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. If too thick, add a little hot milk. Flavor 
with a little sugar and nutmeg, or lemon or orange 
juice. 

Make Arrowroot Gruel the same as com starch. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

1 cup of milk I 1 dozen raisins, quartered. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. | % teaspoonful of salt. 

Scald the milk in double boiler, rub the flour to 
thin paste with a little cold milk, add to the hot milk 
with the salt, stir till smooth; cook twenty minutes. 
The raisins should be washed in cold water, quartered 
and boiled for ten minutes, letting the water boil out, 
then add to the milk after the flour has been put in. 
Flavor with a little sugar and nutmeg. 

CRACKER GRUEL. 

Brown fresh crackers in the oven until a light 
brown is reached. Roll very fine ; use two tablespoon- 
fuls of the powdered cracker, one-half cup boiling 
water and one-half cup hot milk, speck of salt; stir 



330 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

the cracker crumbs in the milk and water, add salt, 
let boil for one minute. A little sugar and flavoring 
may be added. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL. 



2 tablespoonfuls of com 

meal. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 



% teaspoonful of salt. 
2 cups of milk or water. 



If milk is used, heat in double boiler to prevent, 
burning. Mix the meal, flour and salt to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, pour onto it the milk 
or boiling water, a little at a time, stirring rapidly. 
When smooth the liquid can be added more rapidly. 
Let cook for thirty minutes. It can be thinned with 
hot milk and flavored with a little sugar, nutmeg or 
lemon. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

2 cups boiling water. I %, teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal. | 

Boil all together for one hour; add more boiling 
water if necessary, strain. Serve with hot milk or 
cream. 

RICE WATER. 

1 tablespoonful of rice. I 14 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 quart of cold water. | 

Put the well-washed rice and salt in the cold 
water; let cook for one hour, or until it is soft. A 
little cream, sugar and flavoring may be added. 

BARLEY WATER (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1 tablespoonful pearl bar- 
ley. 
3 blocks of sugar. 



% lemon. 

1 quart boiling Water. 



INVALID COOKERY. 331 

Wasli the barley in cold water ; put barley, sugar 
and lemon into the boiling water; let it stand cov- 
ered on the back of the stove for three hours, then 
strain it and serve. Currant jelly or orange juice 
may be used instead of the lemon. This is a valu- 
able demulcent for colds and affections of the chest. 



TOAST OE CRACKER WATER. 

Toast in the oven bread crumbs or crackers very 
brov5Ti, but do not burn. To a cup of crumbs or 
crackers add one cup of cold water ; let stand for one 
hour, then strain; add cream and sugar to taste. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA. 

Pour one cup of boiling water over one teaspoon- 
ful of the powdered slippery elm, or a little of the 
bark. When cool, strain, flavor with lemon juice 
and sugar. Serve cold. 

BEEF TEA. 

Remove the fat from one pound of round steak, 
cut in small pieces, put in a glass jar, add one cup of 
cold water; set the jar in cold water, after being 
closely covered; heat very slowly, taking fully an 
hour or more, or till the meat is white ; strain, press- 
ing the meat to obtain all the juice ; season with salt. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Remove the fat from a slice of the round of beef, 
wipe with a cloth that has been dipped in warm 
water. Broil for a few seconds to start the juice. 



332 ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Out the meat in small pieces, press through a meat 
press. Pour boiling water through the press just be- 
fore using it. Season with salt. 

LAMB BROTH. 

Cut lean, juicy meat in inch pieces, cover with 
cold water; let stand for half an hour, then put on 
the stove and heat gradually. Cook slowly after it 
begins for a half hour. Salt, peppercorns and a small 
onion may be added when it is put on the stove. 
Strain, season if more is needed, add a little well- 
cooked rice. The fat should be all skimmed off be- 
fore serving. Do not skim until the broth is strained. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

The best flavor and most nourishment is obtained 
from an old chicken. Cut apart the joints, remove 
all the fat" that is possible. Cover the chicken with 
cold water, let stand for a half hour, then put on the 
stove where it will heat slowly. Simmer till the meat 
is cooked from the bones ; add salt, peppercorns and a 
small onion when put on the stove. Strain before 
serving. Kemove the fat and add a little well-cooked 
rice. 

ACID DRINKS. 

Pour boiling water onto any kind of acid berries ; 
when cold, serve, or dissolve acid jelly in cold water. 
Barberry and currant are especially good. 

TAMARINDS WATER. 

Boil one-half cup of tamarinds in three pints of 
boiling water for one hour ; cool ; sweeten a little if 
cared for. 



INVALID COOKERY. 333 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of a small lemon, cutting off a thin slice to 
put in the glass; one glass of ice water, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, or, much better, a little sugar 
syrup. 

ORANGEADE. 

Make the same as lemonade, using the juice of 
half a lemon and half an orange. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Pour one quart of boiling water over four table- 
spoonfuls of whole flaxseed and steep three hours; 
strain, add the juice of two lemons, sweeten to taste ; 
add a little more water if the liquid seems thick. 
This is soothing to colds. 

ALBUMENIZED WATER. 

Beat the white of one egg slightly; mix with a 
glass of cold water ; flavor with brandy, wine, lemon 
or orange juice, as directed. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK. 

Shake the white of an egg and a glass of milk in 
a jar or shaker until they are mixed thoroughly; 
sweeten, and flavor to taste. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 

Use one-fourth as much corn meal as mustard; 
mix to a consistency to spread with warm water. 

FLAXSEED POULTICE. 
Mix the ground flaxseed with hot water. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



BREADS. 



Page 

Milk Bread 5 

Milk Bread (with Sponge) 6 

"Water Bread 6 

Cheese Bread 6 

Walnut Bread 6 

Whole Wheat Bread 6 

Graham Bread 6 

Rye Bread 7 

Rolled Oats Bread 7 

Parker House Rolls 7 



Page 

Bread Sticks 7 

Cinnamon Rolls 8 

Bunns 8 

Squash Bread 9 

Corn Meal Bread 9 

French Rolls 9 

Beaten Biscuit 10 

German Coffee Cake 10 

Rusks U 

Zwieback 11 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER 



Baking Powder Biscuit 12 

Entire Wheat Biscuit 12 

Cream Scones 12 

Short Cake 13 

Cream MuSlns 13 

English Muffins 13 

Bice Muffins 14 

Muffins 14 

Rye Muffins 14 

Entire Wheat Muffins 14 

Graham Muffins 15 

Pop-Overs 15 

Date Gems 15 

Sally Lunns 15 

Corn Cake 16 

Spider Corn Cake (Miss Par- 
loa) 16 



Corn Cake (Mrs. Lincoln) 16 

Corn Meal Mush 17 

Parker House Corn Meal 

Gems 17 

Spoon Bread 17 

Boston Brown Bread 18 

Sour Milk Brown Bread (Mrs. 

Lincoln) 18 

Griddle Cakes 18 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 18 

Entire Wheat Griddle Cakes. 19 

Flannel Cakes 19 

Rice Griddle Cakes 19 

Pancakes 19 

Waffles 19 

Lemon Syrup (Serve with 

Waffles) 20 



To Boil Rice. 



CEREALS. 

...21 I Steamed Rice 



21 



General Rules for Soup Stock 

Caramel for Coloring Soups 
and Gravies 

To Clear Soup Stock ; 

Garnishes for Soups 

Croutons 

Egg Balls 

Marrow Balls 

Noodles 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Ver- 
micelli 

Royal Custard to Serve with 
Consommfi 

Force Meat Balls 

Brown Soup Stock 

White Stock 



23 



24 



SOUPS. 

White Soup 

Consomme 

Julienne Soup 

Macaroni or Vermicelli Soup. 

Julienne Soup 

Bouillon 

Tomato Soup 

Vegetable Soup 

Mock Turtle Soup 

Ox-Tail Soup 

Mullagatawny Soup 

Black Bean Soup 

Clam Bouillon 

Scotch Broth 

Mutton Broth 

25 Chicken Broth 



336 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CREAM SOUPS. 



Page 

Oyster Soup 31 

Potato Soup 31 

Mock Bisque Soup 32 

Split Pea Soup 32 



Green Pea Soup. 

Green Corn Soup 33 

Cream of Corn Soup 33 

Clam Chowder 33 

Cream of Clam Soup 34 

Asparagus Soup 34 



Page 

Peanut Soup 35 

Almond Soup 35 

Mushroom Soup 35 

Mushroom Stock Soup 36 

Bermuda Soup 36 

Spinach Soup 36 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup... 37 

Cream of Stock Soup 37 

Summer Soups 38 



Strawberry Soup 38 

Raspberry, Currant and 
Gooseberry Soup 



FRUIT SOUPS. 



Plum, Cherry, Pineapple and 

Peach Soup 39 

Orange Soup 39 



FISH. 



To Skin and Boil a Fish 40 

To Boll Fish 40 

To Broil Fish 41 

To Bake Fish 41 

Stuffing for Fish 41 

To Bake a Whole Fish 42 

To Cook Smelts 42 

Fillets Baked with Tomatoes. 42 
Stuffed Fillets or Siloed Fish. 43 

Boiled Salmon 43 

Salmon Cutlets 43 



Pish Timbale 44 

Planked Shad and Potato 

Roses 44 

Casserole of Fish 45 

Creamed Pish Served in 

Mashed Potato Case 45 

Cream Salt Fish 45 

Salt Fish Balls 45 

Salmon Pish Balls 46 

Petite Pish Balls 46 



SHELL PISH. 



Oysters Raw 47 

Oysters Cooked in the Shell.. 47 

Oysters Served in Ice 47 

Fried Oysters 48 

Broiled Oysters 48 

Oyster Cocktail 49 

Panned Oysters 49 

Creamed Oysters 49 

Oysters in Shells or Ramquin 

Dishes 49 

Scalloped Oysters 50 

Pigs in Blanket 50 



Oysters in Batter 50 

Clams 50 

Roasted Clams 51 

Steamed Clams 51 

Clams in Batter 51 

Scallops 51 

Crabs 51 

Soft Shell Crabs 52 

Boiled Crabs 52 

Deviled Crabs 52 

Fried Frog Legs 52 

Deviled Shrimp 52 



LOBSTERS. 



To Boil a Lobster 53 

To Open a Lobster 53 

To Broil a Live Lobster 54 

Plain Lobster 54 



Saute Lobster 54 

Creamed Lobster 54 

Deviled Lobster 64 

Lobster a la Newburg 55 



MEATS. 



To Roast Beef 56 

Gravy for Roast Beef 57 

Yorkshire Pudding 57 

Fillet of Beef 57 

Braised Beef or Pot Roast — 68 

Beef a la Mode 58 

Beef Stew with Dumplings... 59 

Dumplings 60 

Meat Pie 60 

Warmed-Over Beef 60 

Rolled StufEed Plank 60 

Boiled Dinner 61 



Pressed Corn Beef 62 

Corn Beef Hash 62 

Vegetable Hash 62 

Spiced Beef 62 

Broiled Beefsteak 63 

Spanish Steak 63 

Broiled Fillet of Beef 63 

Hamburg Steak 64 

Beef Tongue 64 

Smoked Tongue 64 

Frest Tongue 64 

Tongue in Jelly 66 



GENERAL INDEX. 



337 



PORK. 



^ Page 

Roast Pig 66 

Roast Pork 66 

Pork Chops 66 

Bacon 67 

Fried Apples 67 

Broiled Ham and Eggs 67 



Pried Ham 

Boiled Ham 

Baked Ham 

Sausages (Mrs. Lincoln) 

To Try Out Lard 

Boston Baked Pork & Beans. 



Page 

...67 
...67 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



Roast Leg of Mutton 70 

Roast Loin of Mutton 70 

Crown Roast 70 

Roast Saddle of Mutton 71 

Roast Leg of Mutton Stuffed. 71 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 71 

Ragout of Mutton 72 



Curry of Mutton 

Mutton and Lamb Chops. 

French Chops 

Chops in Paper Cases 

Roast Spring Lamb 

Boiled Lamb Tongues 



72 
72 
73 
73 
73 
73 



VEAL. 



Roast Veal 74 

Stuffed Shoulder of Veal 74 

Stuffing 74 

Veal Cutlets 75 

Veal Cutlets with Cream 75 

Veal Stew 75 

Veal Loaf 76 

Scalloped Veal 76 

Braised Calf's Liver 77 

Broiled Liver 77 

Calf's Heart Roasted 77 



Calf's Head with Brain 

Sauce 78 

Sweetbreads 78 

To Prepare Sweetbreads 78 

Pried Sweetbreads 79 

Larded Sweetbreads 79 

Creamed Sweetbreads 79 

Sweetbreads Served in Ram- 
quins or Shells 79 

Tripe 79 

Broiled Tripe 80 

Tripe in Batter 80 



POULTRY. 



Poultry and Game 81 

To Clean and Truss Poultry.. 81 
To Stuff and Truss a Powl 

for Roasting 82 

Stuffing for Roast Turkey or 

Chicken 83 

Glblet Sauce JZ 

To Dress Fowls or Birds for 

BroiUng 83 

To Bone a Bird, Powl or 

Turkey 83 

Forcemeat for Stuffing Boned 

Fowls 84 

To Boil Fowl 85 

Braised Chicken 85 

Broiled Spring Chicken 86 

To Broil a Turkey 86 

Panned Chicken 86 

Fricassee Chicken 87 



Chicken Stew with Dumplings 

Chicken Curry 

Spanish Chicken 

Chicken Julienne 

Chicken Fritters 

Stuffed Chicken or Turkey 

Legs 

Chicken a la Maryland 

Chicken Soufflg 

Planquette of Chicken 

Chicken a la Bechamel 

Chicken Pie 

Chopped Puff Paste for 

Chicken Pie 

Roast Goose 

Potato Stuffing 

Boast Tame Duck 

Oyster Stuffing 

Chestnut Stuffing 



89 



GAME. 



Canvasback and Redhead 

Ducks 95 

Salmi of Duck or Game 95 

Larded Grouse 96 

Potted Pigeons 96 

Roast Pigeons or Squabs 96 

Quails Broiled 97 

Quails Roasted 97 



Woodcock Roasted .. 

Venison Roasted 

Venison Steak 

Roasted Partridge . . 

Stewed Pigeons 

Pigeons in Casserole. 
Hot Pigeon Pie 



97 



99 
99 



338 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ENTREES. 



Page 

Croquettes 100 

Chicken Croquettes 100 

Sauce for Croquette Mixture.lOl 
To Prepare the Egg and 

Crumbs for Croquettes 101 

To Mould Croquettes 102 

To Fry Croquettes 102 

Sweetbread Croquettes 102 

Mushroom Croquettes 103 

Nut Croquettes 103 

Egg Croquettes 103 

Cheese Croquettes 103 

Hominy or Rice Croquettes... 104 

Corn Meal Mush 104 

Macaroni and Spaghetti Cro- 
quettes 104 

Oyster Croquettes 104 

Shad Roe Croquettes 105 

Lobster Cutlets 105 

Salmon Cutlets 105 

Clam Croquettes 106 

Sweet and White Potato Cro- 
quettes 106 

Potatoes in Surprise 106 

Celery Croquettes 106 

To Prepare Mushrooms 107 

Saute Mushrooms 107 

Creamed Mushrooms 107 

Mushrooms a la Poulette 108 

Broiled Mushrooms 108 

To Prepare Calf's Brains 108 

Chicken a la Duxelle 108 

Pressed Chicken 109 

Scalloped Chicken or Turkey.109 
Chicken Timbale 109 



Page 

Macaroni Timbale 110 

Honeycomb Timbale 110 

Macaroni and Cheese Tim- 
bale Ill 

Turban of Macaroni and 

Ham Ill 

Ham Timbales Ill 

Boudans 112 

Aspic Jelly 112 

To Mould in Aspic Jelly 113 

To Unmold Jelly 113 

Chicken Chartreuse 114 

Chicken Terrapin 114 

Mock Terrapin 114 

Chicken, Pigeons or Game of 

Any Kind in Casserole 115 

Chicken Livers 115 

Salmi of Duck or Game 115 

Meat Pie 116 

Meat Pie (No. 2) 116 

Beef Loaf 116 

Spanish Rice 117 

Ragout of Mutton or Lamb.. 117 

Liver Loaf 118 

To Broil Venison Steak 118 

Sweetbreads a la Touraine..ll8 

Ham Puffs 119 

Terrapin 119 

To Prepare Terrapin 119 

Stewed Terrapin 120 

Terrapin a la Newburg 120 

Cocktail of Little Neck 

Clams and Oysters 120 

Baked Bananas 121 

Sultana Sauce 121 



FRITTERS. 



Fritter Batter 122 

Oyster Fritters 122 

Peach Fritters 122 

Clam Fritters 122 

Banana Fritters 122 

Orange Fritters 123 

Apple Fritters 123 



Vegetable Fritters 123 

Queen Fritters 123 

Sauce for Fritters 123 

Batter for Timbale Cases or 

Fontage Cups 123 

Bread Boxes 124 



VEGETABLES. 



To Boil Potatoes 125 

Old Potatoes 126 

New Potatoes 126 

Mashed Potatoes 126 

Riced Potatoes 126 

Potato Cakes 127 

Potato Roses 127 

Potato SouiflS 127 

Creamed Potatoes 127 

Scalloped Potatoes 128 

Delmonico Potatoes 128 

Potatoes a la Bechamel 128 

Viennese Potatoes 128 



Mashed Potatoes Milanese... 129 

Potato Balls 129 

Fried Potato Balls and 

Straws 129 

French Fried Potatoes 130 

Potato Nests 130 

Waldorf Potatoes 130 

Potato Chips 130 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 131 

Fried Potatoes 131 

Franconia Potatoes 131 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 131 

Broiled Potatoes 131 



GENERAL INDEX. 



339 



Page 
Baked Sweet and White Po- 
tatoes 132 

Stuffed Potatoes 132 

Stuffed Potatoes (No. 2) 132 

Sweet Potatoes, Southern 

Style 132 

Greens 133 

Spinach 133 

Spinach SouiH6 133 

Spinach Timhale 134 

Cabbage 134 

Cabbage Balked with Cheese.. 134 

Routh Krouth 134 

Cauliflower 135 

Cauimower Italian 135 

Brussels Sprouts 135 

Asparagus 135 

Asparagus Loaf 136 

Articholces 136 

Egg Plant 136 

Stuffed Egg Plant 136 

Salsify or Oyster Plant 137 

Raw Tomatoes 137 

Stewed Tomatoes 137 

Scalloped Tomatoes 137 

Stuffed Tomatoes 138 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Cheese.139 

Curried Tomatoes 139 

Tomatoes with Celery Sauce. 139 
To Prepare Peppers for Stuf- 
fing . 139 

Peppers Stuffed with Oysters.140 
Peppers Stuffed with Sweet- 
breads 140 

Broiled Tomatoes 140 

Baked Tomatoes 140 



Page 

Chestnut Pureg 141 

Boiled Onions 141 

Roasted Onions 141 

Pried Onions 142 

Scalloped Onions 144 

Stuffed Spanish Onions 142 

Carrots 142 

Turnips 142 

Stuffed Turnips 143 

Parsnips 143 

Pried Parsnips 143 

Beets 143 

Corn on the Bar 143 

Succotash 144 

Green Peas 144 

String Beans 144 

Shelled Beans 144 

Dried Lima Beans 145 

Celery 145 

Creamed Celery 145 

Boiled Celery 145 

Winter Squash 145 

Baked Squash 145 

Summer Squash 146 

Corn Mock Oysters 146 

Sweet Corn in Cream with 

Cheese 146 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Ver- 
micelli 146 

To Cook Macaroni 147 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese. 147 
Macaroni with Tomato or 

Other Sauces 147 

Macaroni and Eggs 148 

Florentine Macaroni 148 

Spaghetti 148 



SAUCES. 



Drawn Butter Sauce 149 

Caper Sauce 150 

White or Cream Sauce 150 

Shrimp Sauce 150 

Egg Sauce 150 

Lobster Sauce 150 

Oyster Sauce 151 

Celery Sauce 151 

Mushroom Sauce 151 

Mushroom Sauce (Canned 

Mushrooms) 161 

Sauce Piquante 152 

Allemande Sauce 152 

Bechamel Sauce 152 

Poulette Sauce 152 

Curry Sauce 153 

Bread Sauce (for Game) 153 

Hollandaise Sauce 153 

Horseradish Sauce (for Fish 

and Veal) 153 

Cucumber Sauce (for Fish)... 154 

Mint Sauce (for Lamb) 154 

Mustard Sauce (Corn Beef or 

Fish) 154 



Horseradish Sauce 154 

Champagne Sauce (for Ham). 154 
Maitre d' Hotel Sauce 

(Broiled Fish and Steak)... 155 

Espagnole Sauce 155 

Brown Sauce 155 

Brown Mushroom Sauce 156 

Sauce Poinade 156 

Brown Sauce Piquante 156 

Robert Sauce 156 

Currant Jelly Sauce (for 

Mutton and Game) 156 

Olive Sauce (for Roast Duck)156 

Flemish Sauce 157 

Spanish Sauce 157 

Tomato Sauce (No. 1) 157 

Tomato Sauce (No. 2) 157 

Chestnut Sauce (for Roast 

Turkey) 158 

Port Wine Sauce (for Venison)158 
Giblet Sauce (Roast Poultry). 158 

Cranberry Sauce 158 

Apple Sauce (Roast Pork) 159 

Cheese Sauce 169 



340 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 



Page 

Plain Hot Pudding Sauce 160 

Brown Sugar Sauce 160 

Molasses Sauce (good with 
Apple and Rice Puddings) .160 

Caramel Sauce 161 

Hot Fruit Sauce 161 

Creamy Sauce 161 

Egg Sauce 161 

Foamy Sauce 162 

Hard Sauce 162 

Sabayon Sauce 162 

Wine Sauce 162 

Wine Sauce (No. 2) 163 



Page 

Brandy Sauce 163 

Lemon Sauce 163 

Pineapple Sauce 163 

Richelieu Sauce (for Hot 

Puddings) 163 

Golden Sauce 164 

Orange Sauce 164 

Syrup Sauces 164 

Maple Pudding Sauce 164 

Chocolate Sauce 165 

Maple Sugar Sauce (for Ice 

Cream) 165 

Coffee Sauce 165 



CHEESE DISHES. 



Cottage Cheese 166 

Cheese Souffle 166 

Cheese Crackers 166 

Cheese Water Crackers 166 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 1) 167 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 2) 167 



Cheese Timbales 167 

Frozen Cheese (to Serve with 

Salad) 168 

Cheese Balls (To Serve with 

Salad) 168 

Cheese Pudding 168 



SALADS. 



To Prepare the Greens 169 

To Prepare Meat for Salad... 169 

To Marinate 170 

Some Things That Can Be 

Served with a Salad 170 

Radish Roses 170 

Radish Tulips 170 

French Dressing 170 

Mayonnaise Dressing 171 

Cooked Salad Dressing (Miss 

Howard) 171 

Cooked Salad Dressing 172 

Cooked Dressing 172 

Wine Salad Dressing 172 

Sour Cream Dressing 173 

Tartare Sauce 173 

Bearnaise Sauce 173 

Lettuce and Watercress 

Salad 173 

Celery Salad 174 

Stuffed Celery Salad 174 

Chicken Salad 174 

Moulded Chicken Salad 175 

Moulded Chicken Salad (No. 2)176 
Moulded Chicken Salad (No. 3)176 
Moulded Chicken Salad (No. 4)177 
Moulded Chicken Salad (No. 5)177 
Moulded Celery and Walnut 

Salad 177 

Moulded Sweetbreads and 

Cucumber Salad 177 

Moulding Salads 178 

To Garnish with Curled 

Celery 178 

To Unmould Jelly 178 



Tomato Jelly 178 

Some Salads to Serve in 
Whole Tomatoes or Pep- 
pers 179 

Celery Jelly 179 

To Prepare Whole Tomatoes 

for Salad 179 

Neufchatel Salad 180 

Italian Salad 180 

Cucumber Salad (To Serve 

with Pish) 180 

Cucumber Salad 180 

Cucumber Salad (No. 2) 181 

Cucumber and Tomato Salad. 181 
Cucumber and Tomato Salad 

(No. 2) 181 

Orange Salad 181 

Grape Fruit Salad 182 

Russian Salad (No. 1) 182 

Russian Salad (No. 2) 182 

String Bean Salad 182 

Asparagus Salad 183 

Asparagus Salad, Garnished 

with Eggs 183 

Pepper Salad 183 

Potato Salad 183 

Lobster Salad 184 

Fish Salads 184 

Oyster Salad 184 

Waldorf Salad 184 

Pineapple Salad 185 

Fruit Salad Served in Cante- 

loupe 185 

Other Fruit Salads (No. 1)....185 
Fruit Salad (No. 2) 185 



t 



GENERAL INDEX. 



341 



Page 

Prult Salad (No. 3) 186 

Grape Salad 186 

Mandarin Salad (Good Dinner 

Salad) 186 

Nut and Cucumber Salad 186 

Cucumber and Radish Salad.. 187 
Chicken and Mushroom Salad 187 
Salmon and Cucumber Salad. 187 
Truffle Salad (A Good Dinner 

Salad) 187 



Page 

Egg Salad 187 

Egg Salad (No. 2) 188 

Egg Salad (No. 3) 188 

Water Lily Salad 188 

Cheese Salad 188 

Bird's Nest Salad 189 

Cream Cheese Salad 189 

American Cream Cheese 

Salad 189 

Cold Slaw 189 



EGGS. 



Eggs Cooked in the Shell 

(iNO. 1) 191 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 

(No. 2) 191 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 

(No. 3) 191 

Poached Eggs 191 

Poached Eggs (No. 2) 192 

Poached Eggs (No. 3) 192 

Fried Eggs 192 

Scrambled Eggs 192 

Shirred Eggs 193 

Eggs Cocotte 193 

Omelets 193 

Omelet (No. 1) 194 

Omelet (No. 2) 194 

Cheese Omelet 194 

Rum Omelet 195 

Herb Omelet 195 

Ham Omelet 195 

Pea Omelet 195 



Tomato Omelet 195 

Jelly Omelet 195 

Orange Omelet 196 

Pineapple Omelet 196 

Eggs Cooked in Whole To- 
matoes 196 

Eggs in Green Peppers 197 

Eggs en Coquille 197 

Poached Eggs a la Hollan- 

daise 197 

Poached Eggs with Celery 

Sauce 198 

Egg Balls to Serve in Soup... 198 

Egg Tlmbales 198 

Curried Eggs 198 

Curried Eggs (No. 2) 199 

Stuffed Eggs (No. 1) 199 

Stuffed Eggs (No. 2) 199 

Eggs with Cheese 200 

Japanese Eggs 200 



SANDWICHES. 



Lettuce Sandwiches 

Watercress Sandwiches ... 

Spanish Sandwiches 

Meat Sandwiches 

Automobile Sandwiches .. 
Green Pepper Sandwiches. 

Egg Sandwiches 

Fish Sandwiches 



.202 



.202 
.203 
.203 
.203 
.203 



.204 



Nut Sandwiches 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Hot Cheese Sandwiches 204 

Club House Sandwiches 205 

Hot Ham or Chicken Sand- 
wiches 205 

Sweet Sandwiches 205 

Gingerbread Sandwiches 206 



CANAPES. 



Anchovy or Sardine Canapes.207 

Ham Canapes 207 

Cheese Canapes 207 

Chicken Canapes 208 



Plain Pastry 

Puff Paste 

To Bake Puff Paste 

To Make Pate Shells from 

Puff Paste 

Tarts 

Vol au Vent 

Puff Paste Strips 



Prune or Pig Canapes. 

Fruit Canapes 

Alexandra Canapes ... 
Apricot Canapes 



PASTRY. 



.208 
.209 



.210 
.211 
.212 

.212 
.213 
.213 
.213 



To Glaze Pastry 214 

Ch€ese Straws 214 

Apple Pie 214 

Squash Pie 214 

Pumpkin Pie 215 

Custard Pie 215 

Rhubarb Pie 215 

Berry Pies 215 



342 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Cranberry Pie 216 

Apple Tart Pie 216 

Prune, Apricot or Peach Pie. 216 

Delicious Lemon Pie 216 

Lemon Pie (with Corn Starch)217 



Pajre 

Cream Pie 217 

Mince Meat 217 

Petite Pies 218 

English Apple Pie 218 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



Cream Rice Pudding 219 

Baked Rice Pudding 219 

Cream Tapioca Pudding 219 

Apple and Peach Tapioca 220 

Sago Pudding 220 

Baked Indian Pudding 221 

Whole Wheat Pudding 221 

Fig Pudding 221 

Thanksgiving Pudding 221 

English Plum Pudding 222 

Suet Pudding 222 

Bread and Butter Pudding 222 

Steamed Bread Pudding 223 

Brown Betty 223 

Cottage Pudding 223 

Steamed Berry Pudding 223 

Cabinet Pudding 224 

Baked Pineapple Pudding. .. .224 
Steamed Orange or Pineapple 

Pudding 224 

Quince Pudding 225 

Boston Apple Pudding 225 

Corn Pudding 225 

Snowball Pudding 226 

Nut Pudding 226 

Weymouth Pudding 226 

Cocoanut Pudding 227 



Macaroon Pudding 227 

Cracker Pudding 227 

Corn Starch Pudding 227 

Dutch Apple Cake 228 

Apple Snowball 228 

Steamed Carrot Pudding 228 

Bird's Nest Pudding 229 

Baked Apple Dumplings 229 

Rolled Apple Dumplings 229 

Steamed Apple Pudding 230 

Apple Charlotte 230 

Apples and Rice 230 

Apple Meringrue 231 

Custard Souffle 231 

Chocolate Soufflg 232 

Pineapple Souffle 232 

Prune Souffle 232 

Cherry Souffle 232 

Peach Souffle 233 

Lemon Souffle 233 

Rice Souffle 233 

Ginger Pudding 234 

Delmonico Pudding 234 

Strawberry Pudding 235 

Victoria Pudding 235 

Milton Pudding 235 



COLD DESSERTS. 



Garnishing 236 

Flavoring 236 

Liqueurs and Wines 236 

Coloring 237 

Boiled Custard 237 

Chocolate Custard 237 

Caramel Custard 238 

Nut Custard 238 

Cocoanut Custard 238 

Maple Custard 238 

Baked or Steamed Custard.. 238 
Baked or Steamed Caramel 

Custard 238 

Baked or Steamed Chocolate 

or Cocoanut Custard 239 

Baked Cocoanut Custard 239 

Floating Island 239 

Apple Snow 239 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange 239 

Plain Bavarian Cream 240 

Bavarian Cream with Eggs.. 240 

Fruit Bavarian Cream 241 

Fruit Bavarian Cream (No. 2)241 
Bavarian in the Shell 242 



Bavarian en Surprise 242 

Pineapple Bavarian Cream... 242 

Charlotte Russe 242 

Petite Sponge Bavarian 243 

Diplomatic Pudding 243 

Fruit Cream 243 

Pineapple Sponge 244 

Snow Pudding 244 

Lemon Jelly 244 

Orange Jelly 244 

Cofeee Jelly 245 

Wine Jelly 245 

Champagne Jelly 245 

Sauteme Jelly 245 

Roman Jelly 246 

Peach Charlotte 246 

Orange and Strawberry Char- 
lotte 246 

Spanish Custard 247 

Italian Jelly 247 

Rice Cream 247 

Rice and Almond Cream 248 

Apple Charlotte Russe 248 

Charlotte Snowballs 249 



GENERAL INDEX. 



343 



Page 

Chocolate Bavariose 249 

Newport Whips 249 

Stuffed Figs 250 

Orange Sections Moulded in 
Jelly 250 



Page 

Pineapple in the Shell 250 

Chestnut Purge with Cream.. 250 

Chestnuts with Cream 251 

Paris de Marrons 251 

Cherry Cream 251 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



Proportions of Salt and lee. . .253 
Mousses,. Parfalts 253 



To Unmould Frozen Desserts.253 



PUNCHES AND SHERBETS. 



Lemon Sherbet 254 

Orange Sherbet 254 

Pineapple Sherbet 254 

Strawberry, Raspberry and 

Currant Sherbets 254 

Cherry, Peach, Apricot and 

Plum Sherbets 255 



Apple Sherbet 255 

Boston Sherbet 255 

Grape Sherbet 255 

Milk Sherbet 256 

Grape Bombe 256 

Frappg 256 

Coffee Prappg 256 



PUNCHES. 



Tomato Punch 257 

Tea Punch 257 

Grape Fruit Punch 257 

Mint Punch 257 

Roman Punch 258 



Champagne Punch 

Sauterne Punch 

Curacoa, Maraschino, Noyon 

Punch 

Ginger Ale In Punches 



258 



ICE CREAMS. 



Vanilla Ice Cream 259 

Demon Ice Cream 259 

Orange Ice Cream 259 

Pineapple Ice Cream 259 

Peach and Apricot Ice Cream. 259 

Coffee Ice Cream 260 

Walnut Ice Cream 260 

Ginger Ice Cream 260 

Almond Ice Cream 260 

Rice Ice Cream 260 

Neapolitan Ice Cream 261 

Caramel Ice Cream 261 

Macaroon Ice Cream 261 

Fresh Fruit Ice Cream 261 

Frozen Pudding or Tuttl 

Fruttl 262 



Pistachio Ice Cream 262 

Plum Pudding Glac6 262 

Frozen Elliot Pudding 262 

Frozen Bananas 263 

Orange Delicieuse 263 

Frozen Pineapple Pudding.... 263 
Peaches, Apricots and Grated 

Pineapple Frozen in the 

Can 264 

Lalla Rookh or Frozen Egg 

Nog 264 

Nesselrode Pudding 264 

Sultana Roll and Claret 

Sauce 265 

Maraschino, Sherry, Port and 

Brandy Sauces 2GS 



SAUCES FOR ICE CREAM. 



Ginger Sauce 265 

Hot Chocolate Sauce for Ice 

Cream 266 

Hot Coffee Sauce for Ice 

Cream 266 



Hot Raspberry and Straw- 
berry Sauce 266 

Maple Sauce for Ice Cream... 266 
Plot Orange Sauce for Ice 

Cream 266 



MOUSSES. 



Fruit Mousses 267 



Coffee, Chocolate, Curacoa or 
Noyon Mousses 267 



344 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PARFAITS. 
Page 



Angel Parf ait 

Pineapple Parf alt 

Maple Parf ait 

Ginger Parf ait 

Parfaits of Chestnuts or 

Candled Fruits 

Parfaits of Tea and Orange 

Peel 



Page 

Cafe Parf alt 269 

Banana Parfalt 270 

Biscuit Glac6 or Tortonl 270 

Macedolne Frapp§ 271 

College Ices 271 

Gooseberry Sorbet 271 

Chocolate Surprise 271 

Coupg de Jaque 272 



CAKES. 



Directions for Making Cakes. 273 

Sponge Cake 274 

Roll Jelly Cake 274 

Cream Sponge Cake (No. 2)... 275 

Berwick Sponge Cake 276 

Lady Fingers 275 

Golden Rod Cake 275 

Angel Cake 276 

Marshmallow Angel Cake 276 

Cakes with Butter 276 

Spice Cake 277 

White Cake 277 

Gold Cake 277 

Silver Cake 278 

Bride's Cake 278 

Pound Cake 278 

Almost Pound Cake 279 

Wedding Cake 279 

Fruit Cake 279 

Light Fruit Cake ii80 

One-Two-Three-Four Cake .... 280 

Lemon Cake 280 

Almond Cake 281 

Pistachio Cake 281 

Nut Cake 281 

Fig Cake 281 

Rocky Mountain Cake 281 

Orange Cake 282 



Marble Cake 282 

Spice Cake 282 

Currant Cake 283 

Cocoanut Cake 283 

Chocolate Cake 283 

Loaf Chocolate Cake 283 

Twelfth Night Cake 283 

Fig Cake (No. 2) 284 

Angel or Sponge Cake with 

Chestnuts 284 

Roosevelt Cakes 285 

Pound Cake Wafers 285 

Venetian Cakes 285 

Orange Quarters 286 

Almond Wafers 286 

Peanut Cookies 286 

Honey Cakes 286 

One-Two-Three-Four Cookies.287 

Jumbles 287 

Walnut Wafers 287 

Sugar Cookies 287 

Hermits 288 

Cocoanut Cookies 288 

Margaret Deland Cakes 288 

Pepper Nuts 288 

Pecan Wafers 288 

Snow Ball Cakes 289 



FILLINGS FOR LATER CAKE. 



Chocolate Filling 290 

Fig Filling 290 

Cream Filling 290 

Fig Caramel Icing 291 

Prune Whip Filling 291 



Marshmallow Icing and Fill- 
ing 291 

Lemon or Orange Filling 291 

Banana Filling 292 

Pineapple Filling 292 

Nut Filling 292 



ICINGS FOR CA3CBS. 



Plain Icing 293 

Orange Icing 293 

Confectioners' Frosting 293 

Boiled Icing 293 

Royal Icing 294 

Yellow Frosting 294 

Mocha Frosting 294 



Chocolate Frosting 294 

Chocolate Frosting (No. 2).... 294 

Nut Icing 295 

Banana Icing or Filling 295 

Pink Icing 295 

Caramel Icing 295 

Maple Icing 295 



GENERAL INDEX. 



345 



GINGER BREAD, DOUGHNUTS, COOKIES & CREAM PUFFS. 

Page Page 

Soft Gingerbread 296 Raised Doughnuts 297 

Sugar Gingerbread 296 Cream Puffs and Eclairs 298 

Soft Ginger Coolcies 296 Cream for Cream Puffs and 

Hard Molasses Cookies 297 Eclairs 298 

Ginger Snaps 297 Meringues or Kisses 298 

Doughnuts 297 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, JELLIES AND PICKLES. 



Compotes of Apples, Pears, 

Peaches and Apricots 300 

Baked Apples 300 



Stewed Rhubarb 301 

Stewed Prunes 301 

Cranberry Sauce and Jelly... 301 



PRESERVING. 



Peaches and Apricots 302 

Brandled Peaches or Apricots. 302 

Preserved Plums 302 

Brandled Plums 302 

Preserved Quinces and Pears. 303 

Preserved Pineapple 303 

Grapes 303 

Citron 303 



Cherries , 303 

Preserved Strawberries, Rasp- 
berries, Blackberries, 
Gooseberries arid Currants. 304 
Sunshine Strawberries, Rasp- 
berries, Blackberries, 
Gooseberries and Currants.304 



CANNING. 

Canning Tomatoes 304 | Orange Marmalade . . , 

Jams or Marmalades 305 I Candled Orange Peel., 



.306 



JELLIES. 

Currant Jelly 307 I Grape Jelly 

Crabapple and Apple Jelly... 307 Plum Jelly . 
Quince Jelly 307 I 



.307 
.307 



PICKLES. 



To Sweet Pickle Fruits and 
Berries 

Peaches 

Pears 

Cucumber, Watermelon and 
Canteloupe 

Pineapple 

Currants, Grapes and All 
Berries 

Pickled TValnuts 

Apple Chutney 



308 



308 
309 



Ginger Apple 309 

Uncooked Pickles 310 

Pickled Cucumbers 310 

Mixed Pickles 311 

Mustard Pickles 311 

Piccalilli or Chow Chow 311 

Chili Sauce 312 

Tomato Catsup 312 

Sweet Pickle Mfflon 312 

Confiture 313 



CANDIES. 



Fondant 314 

To Make Mints 314 

Vegetable Coloring 314 

To Make Fondant 314 

Coating for Chocolate 315 

Glace Oranges, Grapes, Nuts, 

Etc 315 

Chocolate Fudge 315 



Maple Fudge 316 

Panocha 316 

Opera Caramels 316 

Chocolate Caramels 317 

Butter Scotch 317 

Peanut Candy 317 

Vinegar Candy 317 

Molasses Candy 318 



346 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BEVERAGES. 



Tea 


Page 
319 


Tea Punch 


320 


Iced Tea 


320 


CofCee 


. 320 


Boiled Coffee 

Drip Coffee 


320 

321 


Breakfast- Coffee 

Turkish Coffee 

Black Coffee 


321 

321 

321 

322 




322 


MalUard's Chocolate ... 


322 

322 


Shells 


322 



Page 

Lemonade 323 

Orangeade 323 

Egg Lemonade 323 

Summer Drink 323 

Fruit Punch 323 

Cobblers 324 

Claret Cup 324 

Champagne Cup 324 

Ginger Ale Punch 324 

Sauterne Punch 324 

Egg Nog 325 

Milk Punch 325 

Grape Juice 325 

Raspberry Vinegar 325 



INVALID COOKERY. 



To Make Toast 326 

Cream for Cream Toast 327 

To Make Tea 327 

Cocoa 327 

To Cook an Egg In the Shell. .328 

To Cook Cereals 328 

To Cook Corn Starch or 

Tapioca 328 

Corn Starch Gruel 329 

Milk Porridge 329 

Cracker Gruel 329 

Corn Meal Gruel 330 

Oatmeal Gruel 330 

Rice tVater 330 

Barley Water 330 



Toast or Cracker Water 331 

Slippery Elm Tea 331 

Beef Tea 331 

Beef Juice 331 

Lamb Broth 332 

Chicken Broth 332 

Acid Drinks 332 

Tamarinds Water 332 

Lemonade 333 

Orangeade 333 

Flaxseed Lemonade 333 

Albumenized Water 333 

Albumenlzed Milk 333 

Mustard Poultice 333 

Flaxseed Poultice 333 






NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736274 1 






IV 

i \ \ V 



THE 



ROCKY MOUNTAIN 
COOK BOOK 



BY 

CAROLINE TRASK NORTON 

Graduate from the Boston 
School of Domestic Science. 

Formerly Teacher of Cooking at the School of 
Domestic Science, Denver, Colo. 



This Book is adapted to cooking in both high and low altitudes. 

All the receipts given have been thoroughly 

tried by the author. 



DENVER, COLO. : 
THE W. F. ROBINSON PRINTING Co. 

1903. 



i. 






COPYRIGHT, 1903, 
BY CAROLINE TRASK NORTON, 



This book is dedicated to my Denver friends, whose words 
of encouragement and appreciation have so greatly aided me 
during my two years of work with them. 



PREFACE. 



Knowing the difficulty of most people in this high altitude 
to find their cooking always satisfactory, the author has en- 
deavored to give them in this book the benefit obtained from 
teaching and housekeeping in Denver, making high altitude 
cooking a special study. The greatest difference between sea 
level cooking and here is in the cakes. Most of the sea level 
receipts can be used here by adding another egg to them, that 
gives a delicious moist, rich cake. 

Water boils at sea level at 212. In Denver, where the 
air is much lighter, it boils at 202; therefore, it does not 
get as hot here, so vegetables or anything boiled requires a 
little longer cooking. 

The luscious Boston baked beans can be cooked equally as 
good here if soaked eighteen hours before parboiling. The 
author has endeavored to make her receipts practical, whole- 
some, and easily followed by the most inexperienced cooks. 
She has not attempted giving much information on chemistry 
and food values, leaving that for the cooking schools that are 
becoming such a necessity all over the country. No girl's 
education is complete without such a course. Girls should not 
take upon themselves the most important position in life 
without a thorough knowledge of its requirements. Such a 
knowledge will enable them to feed their families intelligently, 
inexpensively, and to give them the variety that the system 
requires. 

Food for invalids should be selected and cooked with the 
greatest care. At the end of the book are given a few 
receipts that can be used for invalids. Scientific cooking 
should fill an important part in the training of a nurse. 

The desire of the author will be obtained if the book 
proves helpful to all who use it and inspires them with the 
wish for more knowledge in the art of cooking. 



GENERAL RULES. 



Be correct in measurements for perfect results. 

Use a standard measuring cup. 

Scald milk over hot water. 

Cook vegetables in freshly boiled salted water. 

To butter crumbs one tablespoonful of melted butter 
mixed with two tablespoonfuls of crumbs. 

To get the juice from onions, cut across the grain, cutting 
in halves and grate. 

Caramel. Caramel is used for sauce and to color soups and 
sauces. The flavor depends upon the degree to which the sugar 
is cooked. Put one cupful of granulated sugar in a sauce pan, 
stir until the sugar has melted and turned brown, then add 
three-fourths cup of hot water; let it cook slowly until the 
sugar has dissolved and cooked to a thin syrup. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page 

Breads 5 

Breads with Baking Powder 11 

Griddle Cakes 18 

Cereals 19 

Soups 21 

Cream Soups 30 

Summer Soups 36 

Fish 38 

Shell Fish 45 

Meats 54 

'Pork 63 

Mutton and Lamb 67 

Veal 71 

Poultry and Game 78 

Entrees 96 

Fritters 116 

Vegetables 120 

Sauces 142 

Puddings and Ice Cream Sauces 152 

Cheese Dishes 158 

Salads 161 

Eggs 181 

Sandwiches 191 

Canapes 196 

Pastry 198 

Hot Puddings 207 

Cold Desserts 224 

Frozen Desserts 240 

Cakes 259 

Fillings for Layer Cake 275 

Icings for Cakes 277 

Gingerbread Cookies and Doughnuts 280 

Compotes, Preserving Jellies and Pickles 284 

Candies 296 

Beverages 300 

Invalid Cookery 307 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BREADS. 



Sift flour before measuring. 

All measurements level, excepting baking powder. 

Baking powder measured rounding with the side of the can. 

One-half the amount of yeast can be used in the 
following receipts if preferred and time will allow. 
In all of the receipts given for bread or rolls with the 
amount of yeast used the bread or rolls can be started 
in the morning and finished by noon. 

MILK BREAD. 



2 cups of milk (scalded). 

1 cake of compressed 

yeast, dissolved in half 
a cup of lukewarm 
water. 



2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Flour enough to make a stiff 
dough 6 or 7 cups. 



Pour the hot milk over the sugar and salt. When 

cool add the dissolved yeast cake, then with a knife 

t/ 

cut in the flour and knead for twenty minutes. Put 
in a warm place to rise. When risen twice the bulk, 
cut down and let rise again. Make out in two loaves 
and a pan of biscuits, rise double the bulk in the pan. 
Bake forty-five minutes. 

MILK BREAD (With Sponge.). 

Pour two cups of scalded milk on to one table- 
spoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt. When 
cool add one yeast cake dissolved in one-half cup of 
lukewarm water. Stir in three cups of flour, beat 
well. Let rise until light and bubbly, about an hour, 



6 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

then add enough flour to knead, and knead twenty 
minutes. Let rise and bake the same as milk bread. 

WATER BREAD. 



2 cups boiling water. 
1 veast cake. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Put butter, sugar and salt in mixing bowl, add the 
boiling water, when cool dissolve the yeast cake, then 
cut in enough flour to knead. Knead and let rise the 
same as directed for milk bread. 



WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 



1 cup white flour. 
5 or 6 cups of whole wheat 
flour or enough to knead. 



2 cups of milk scalded. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 yeast cake. 

Make the same as milk bread with sponge. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Make the same as whole wheat bread, using one 
cup of flour and the rest graham. 

Graham is not nearly as nutritious as whole 
wheat. 

RYE BREAD. 

Rye bread may be made the same as whole wheat, 
using two tablespoonfuls of molasses in place of the 
sugar, if preferred. 

ROLLED OATS BREAD. 

Pour two cups of scalded milk over two cups of 
rolled oats, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tea- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 7 

spoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of butter. Dis- 
solve one yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm water. 
When cool add the yeast and flour, enough so the 
dough will drop from the spoon. Let rise double the 
size, cut down and let rise again the same, then put in 
small pans, let rise slowly twice the size, and bake for 
forty-five minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 



2 cups scalded milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 yeast cake. 



Pour the hot milk over the sugar, salt and butter. 
When cool, add yeast cake that has been dissolved in 
one-half cup of lukewarm water, then beat in thor- 
oughly three cups of flour. Let rise until light and 
bubbly, then add flour enough to knead. Knead 
about ten minutes. Let rise twice the bulk. Shape 
the rolls. Let rise in the pan twice the size. Bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Make the same as Parker House rolls. Mould in 
small balls, then roll under the hand, 011 the board, 
in thin sticks about six inches long. Let rise slowly, 
placing them in the pan one inch apart. Bake in a 
slow oven that they may dry before browning. Serve 
with soups or salads. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Make the same as Parker House rolls. Roll the 
dough one-half inch thick, spread with a thin layer 
of melted butter, cinnamon and currants. Roll up 
like jelly roll. Cut in slices an inch thick, place 



8 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

them on a well-greased pan one inch apart, sprinkle 
the top with a little powdered sugar. Let rise in the 
pans twice the size. Bake in a quick oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Parker House dough can be made in braids, cres- 
cents or rolled and cut the same as for cinnamon rolls, 
without the spice, sugar and currants. 

To Make Crescents.- -Roll the dough until only 
an eighth of an inch thick. Cut in pieces about four 
inches square, and then into triangles. Hold the 
apex of the triangle in the right hand, roll the edge 
next to the left hand over and over towards the right, 
stretch the point and bring it over and under the roll. 
Bend the ends of the roll around like a horseshoe. 
Let rise twice the size. Bake in a quick oven. 



BUNNS. 



1 cup scalded milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



1 yeast cake. 

2 cups of flour. 



Pour the hot milk over the salt, sugar and butter. 
When cool add the yeast that has been dissolved in 
one-half cup of lukewarm water, and the egg well 
beaten. Beat in the flour, let rise about two hours, 
then cut in flour enough to make a stiff dough with 
one-half cup of well washed currants and one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon. Let rise again twice the size. 
Shape in small balls, place on buttered pan. When 
well risen bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 
Brush over with milk just before taking from the 
oven. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 9 



SQUASH BREAD. 



1 cup squash, stewed and 

sifted. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

cups scalded milk. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

1 yeast cake. 

Flour enough to knead. 

Mix the sugar and salt and squash, add butter and 
hot milk. When cool add yeast cake that has been 
dissolved in one-half cup of warm water. Add flour. 
Knead twenty minutes. Let rise until light, shape 
in loaves, let rise and bake. 

CORN MEAL BREAD. 

Make the same as for any of the white bread re- 
ceipts, using one cup of corn meal with the white flour. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Soften one yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm 
water. Stir in flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Knead and shape into a ball, score on the top in two 
parallel cuts. Put the dough in a bowl of lukewarm 
water, the cuts upward, and set aside in a warm place. 
In a few minutes the ball will swell and float, then 
remove to a pint of lukewarm water in which one- 
fourth cup of butter has been melted. Add two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt and flour to make a stiff dough, 
knead fifteen minutes. Set aside until it has risen 
twice the bulk, then shape in rolls. Take a small 
ball of the dough, roll under the hand to give an ob- 
long shape with pointed ends. Set some distance 
apart on the baking pan and let rise to double the 
bulk. Score the tops diagonally with a sharp knife. 
When nearly baked brush over the tops with milk. 
Return to the ovn to finish baking. 



10 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BEATEN BISCUIT. 



4 cups flour. 
^ cup lard. 



y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
1 cup cold water. 



Rub lard and salt in the flour and mix with the 
water to a stiff dough. Knead ten minutes, then beat 
hard with a rolling pin or beater, turning it over and 
over until it begins to blister and is light and puffy. 
Then cut with a small biscuit cutter, place some dis- 
tance apart on the pan, prick with a fork. Bake in a 
hot oven twenty minutes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 11 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 



2 cups white flour. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Lard can be used if wished. 
Milk to make a soft dough. 



Sift flour, salt, baking powder together, rub in the 
butter, add the milk gradually, cutting it in with a 
knife. Turn it onto a well-floured board, knead it 
quickly to get in shape. Koll out half an inch thick. 
Cut in biscuits and bake in a hot oven at once. 



ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUITS. 

Make the same as baking powder biscuits, using 
the entire wheat flour with one-third white flour. 



CREAM SCONES. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 eggs. 

1/3 cup cream. 



Sift dry materials together, work in the butter 
with the fingers, beat eggs well and add to the cream. 
Stir this into the dry materials and butter. Roll out 
three-fourths inch thick. Cut in diamond shape, 
brush over with white of egg, slightly beaten, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Bake ten minutes in hot oven. 



12 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Dissolve one yeast cake in one-half cup warm 
water, add it to one cup of scalded and cooled milk, 
with flour enough to make a stiff batter. Let rise. 
When light and bubbly add one-third cup melted but- 
ter, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
one egg, well beaten, grating of lemon rind and flour 
to make a stiff batter. Beat well. Let rise twice the 
bulk, then spread in a dripping pan, cover and let 
rise again. When risen, brush over with beaten egg 
and dust with sugar and cinnamon mixed. Bake in 
a hot oven twenty minutes. 



SHORT CAKE. 



4 cups flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



y 2 tablespoonful salt. 
8 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Milk enough to roll out. 



Sift dry materials together, mix in the butter 
with the fingers, then add milk gradually. Do not 
use more flour than necessary to roll. Divide the 
dough in halves. Roll out one-half inch thick, place 
one-half in buttered pan, spread in over with melted 
butter, place the other half on top of it and bake 
twenty minutes in hot oven. Remove from pan. 
Take top layer off. Butter the inside well of both 
layers. Cover the bottom layer thickly with crushed 
sweetened fruit and a layer of whipped cream. Place 
the other layer on top. Cover the top with whipped 
cream, colored with the fruit juice if liked, or fruit 
sprinkled over the top. Serve while warm. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



13 



CREAM MUFFINS. 



2 cups flour. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



% cup cream. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 



Mix in order given, sifting dry materials together. 
Add cream and yolks well beaten, then fold in the 
whites stiffly beaten. Bake in gem pans to serve at 
once. 

RICE MUFFINS. 



y 2 cup well-cooked rice. 
iy 2 cups white flour. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 



i tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 
1 cup milk. 



2 eggs. 



Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together, 
then add rice, well beaten eggs, milk and butter. 
Bake in muffin pans for twenty minutes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Very Fine. 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup rye meal. 
1 cup entire wheat or 
white flour. 



y 2 cup molasses. 

y 2 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 



Mix in order given, dissolve soda in molasses. 
Steam three hours. 



SOUR MILK BROWN BREAD (Mrs. Lincoln.). 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup rye meal. 
1 cup graham flour. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups sour milk. 



Mix in order given, dissolve the soda in the milk, 
add more milk or water if not thin enough to pour. 



14 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Steam three hours. One-half cup raisins can be 
added to, or any receipt for brown bread. Then it is 
called a plum loaf. 



MUFFINS. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow - 

der. 
i/4 teaspoonful salt. 



1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted 



butter. 



2 eggs. 



Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together. 
Stir in the beaten eggs, milk and melted butter. Bake 
in hot gem pans ten or fifteen minutes. 

Rye Muffins. Can be made the same, using one 
cup and a half of rye and one-half cup of white flour. 

Entire Wheat Muffins.- -Made the same as muf- 
fins, using one cup and a half of entire wheat and 
one-half cup of white flour. 

Graham M uffins.- -Make the same as muffins, us- 
ing one and one-half cups graham to one-half cup of 
white flour. 

POP-OVERS (For Colorado Altitude). 



3 eggs. 

l / 2 teaspoonful salt. 



i 



1 cup milk. 
1 cup flour. 

These can be made with one egg in the East. 

Mix the salt with the flour. Beat the yolks well 
and add to the milk, then add slowly to the flour to 
make the batter smooth, then fold in the whites that 
have been beaten stiff. Fill the hot greased gem pans 
half full. Bake at once in a hot oven for thirty min- 
utes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 15 



RUSKS. 



1 cup scalded milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



2 eggs. 



1 yeast cake. 

1/2 teaspoonful salt. 

Flour. 



Make a sponge of the milk, salt and yeast that 
has been dissolved in half a cup of warm water. Add 
flour enough to make a pour batter. When it is 
light and full of bubbles, add the butter, sugar and 
well beaten eggs. Stir in enough flour to make a 
stiff dough. Knead it twenty minutes. Let it rise 
to double the bulk. Then mould with the hands into 
oblong biscuits the shape of an egg. Place them in 
the baking pan near together, let rise double the bulk. 
When ready for the oven brush over the top with milk 
and sprinkle sugar over them, if liked sweet. Bake 
in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Make the receipt for rusks in one large loaf the 
same shape as the rusks, or two loaves can be made 
from it, if liked small. Rise and bake well. When 
cold, cut in half-inch slices and dry them in a very 
slow oven, until dried through and of a deep yellow. 

SALLY LUNNS. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



2 eggs, beaten separately. 

% cup milk. 

y 2 cup melted butter. 



^4 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt. Add the 
beaten yolks and melted butter, then add the stiffly 
beaten whites. Fill the muflin rings half full and 
bake ten minutes in hot oven. If liked sweet, add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar to the flour. 



16 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CORN CAKE. 



iy 2 cups flour. 

}4 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup yellow corn meal. 

^ tablespoonfuls sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
2 eggs, beaten separately. 



Cream, butter and sugar together. Sift meal, 
flour, salt and baking powder together, add to them 
the creamed sugar and butter, beaten yolks. Mix 
well. Add milk slowly, and lastly whites beaten 
stiff. Bake in muffin rings or in a pan in hot oven. 

CORN CAKE (Mrs. Lincoln.) 



1 cup corn meal. 
y 2 cup flour. 

i/4 teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der. 

1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
Yolks of two eggs, white of 

one. 
li/4 cups milk. 



Bake in a brick loaf bread pan half an hour. 



SPIDER CORN CAKE (Miss Parloa). 



% cup corn meal. 
Flour to fill the cup. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1/2 teaspoonful salt. 
14 teaspoonful soda. 



1 



egg- 



1 cup sweet milk. 
y z cup sour milk. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



Mix together the meal, flour, salt and soda. Add 
the beaten egg. Add half the sweet milk and all the 
sour milk. Melt the butter in a hot spider or 
shallow round pan and pour the mixture into it. 
Pour the other half the mixture over the top, but do 
not stir it. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 



THE ROCKY MQJJNTAIN COOK BOOK. 17 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Put one quart of water on to boil with one tea- 
spoonful salt. Sift together one cup of corn meal 
and one tablespoonful flour. Stir this gradually in 
the boiling water. Let it cook hard for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Then place in the double boiler 
and cook for two hours. Eat hot or pour in a pan. 
When cold cut in half-inch slices, dip in flour and 
brown each side in hot butter. 



PARKER HOUSE CORN MEAL GEMS. 

Sift together one cup of flour, one cup of yellow 
corn meal, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Cream one-fourth cup of butter. 
Add gradually half a cup of sugar, then three well 
beaten eggs and one cup of milk. Bake in buttered 
gem pans in a quick oven. 



SPOON BREAD. 

Sift together one cup of yellow or white corn 
meal, half a teaspoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat two eggs very light and stir 
into the dry ingredients with one quart of sweet milk. 
Turn the mixture into a well buttered baking-dish 
holding three pints, add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Cut in small pieces. Bake in a hot oven about one- 
half hour. Stir often until the bread begins to 
thicken. Serve with a spoon from the dish in which 
it is baked. Eat with butter. A good breakfast or 
luncheon dish. 



18 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



cups flour, 
teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 well-beaten egg. 
1 cup milk. 



^4 teaspoonful salt. 

Sift all the dry materials together. Add milk 
and egg. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Made the same as griddle cakes, using one-half 
cup of corn meal and the rest white flour. Pour the 
milk hot over the corn meal. When cool add the 
other things. 

ENTIRE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Make the same as griddle cakes using one cup of 
the entire wheat flour to one-quarter cup of white 
flour. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 
teaspoonful salt. 



1% cups milk, 
i teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 



2 eggs, beaten separately. 

Sift dry materials. Cream, butter and sugar. 
Add milk and yolks well beaten, lastly the stiffly 
beaten whites. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 



1 cup milk. 

y 2 cup well-cooked rice. 

l / 2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 



1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Flour enough to make a thin 

batter or thick enough to 

fry well. 

Flour enough to make a thin batter, or thick 
enough to fry well. 



der. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 19 

PANCAKES. 

Fry several large griddle cakes as large as a good 
sized platter. Pile one on top of the other, well but- 
tered. Cut down like a pie. 

WAFFLES (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1^4 cups milk. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. 



2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
l / 2 teaspoonful salt. 

3 eggs. 

Sift dry materials together, add the beaten yolks 
with the milk, then melted butter and the stiffly beaten 
whites. 

LEMON SYRUP (Serve with Waffles). 



1 cup sugar. 
y 2 cup water. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Boil the sugar and water until it is a thin syrup, 
then add butter and lemon juice. 

CEREALS. 

Cereals contain a large per cent of starch, so 
should have a rapid cooking in boiling water for a few 
minutes when first started. Then they may be put 
inside the double boiler to continue to cook more 
slowly. Care should be taken that the cereal does 
not stick to the dish when it is having its first hard 
boiling. 

TO BOIL RICE. 

"Wash thoroughly one-half cup of rice. Have two 
quarts of water boiling hard in the kettle, with one 



20 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonful of salt. Throw in the rice and allow to 
boil rapidly without a cover until the rice is tender, 
then drain through a colander. Put on the stove to 
dry, lifting the rice apart to allow the steam to escape. 
Rice that is cooked in this way will have every kernel 
separate. 

STEAMED RICE. 

Put in your double boiler two and one-half cups 
of milk or water or a part of each. Add to it one- 
quarter teaspoonful salt. Set the inside of the boiler 
on top of the stove. When it comes to a boil add one- 
half cup well washed rice. Let it boil hard for five 
minutes. Then replace it in the double boiler, and 
let cook until soft. The time of cooking depends on 
the age of the rice. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 21 



SOUPS. 



GENERAL RULES FOR SOUP STOCK. 

Meat and bones for soup stock should be allowed 
to soak in the cold water fully one hour before putting 
on the stove, to extract the juices. Soup stock should 
simmer on the back of the stove and not boil hard. 
The meat should be cut in small pieces and washed 
clean. Soup meat, when cooked has no nutrition 
left in it. If properly made, the goodness of the meat 
is in the stock. 

Use one quart of cold water to every pound of 
meat and bones. Add seasoning in the following pro- 
portions. 

For every quart of water, one even teaspoonful 
of salt, three peppercorns, or a little ground pepper, 
two cloves, a celery root, or the outside stalk, a sprig 
of parsley, a tablespoonful each of onion, carrot and 
turnip, a part of a bay leaf, a pinch of sage, summer 
savory, thyme and marjoram. It is not necessary to 
have all the herbs. A very nice flavored soup can be 
made with the vegetables alone. 

If you wish to have a dark-brown stock, reserve 
part of the lean meat and part of the vegetables, and 
brown them in a little fat taken from the meat. A 
tablespoonful of browned sugar or caramel will also 
give a brown color to the stock. Do not remove the 
scum from the soup while it is cooking, as that is the 
albumen of the meat. As soon as the soup is done 



22 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

strain at once and set aside until cold and the fat has 
formed a cake on top. Remove the far and reheat, 

Soup stock should cook from six to eight hours. 

Whole rice is sometimes served in a white soup. 
Boil the rice until tender then add to the soup. 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

Melt one cup of sugar with two tablespoonfuls 
of water in a sauce pan. Stir until it is a dark-brown 
color. Add one cup of boiling water, let simmer 
for fifteen minutes. Bottle for use when cool. 

TO CLEAR SOUP STOCK. 

Remove the fat. Allow the white of an egg to 
every quart of stock. Mix the beaten white with the 
cold stock. Set on the fire, stirring all the time until 
it reaches the boiling point, then let it boil without 
stirring for ten minutes, then draw it on the back of 
the stove and add one-half cup cold water. Let it 
stand for ten minutes, then strain through a cheese 
cloth and colander. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 

Croutons. Out stale bread into cubes and brown 
in butter in an omelet pan, or butter first, cut in 
cubes and brown in the oven. Serve with thick soups. 

Egg Balls.- -Rub to a paste with a wooden spoon 
the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pep- 
per or paprica and melted butter, add enough raw 
yolk or white to mould them. Roll them in white of 
egg, slightly beaten, and dip in flour. Have them 
about one-half the size of a yolk. Fry them in butter. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 23 

Serve one to each person. Put the balls in the tureen 
and add the soup. 

Marrow Balls.--~h'Lelt a tablespoonful of the mar- 
row, beat it until creamy, then add to it a well-beaten 
egg and a little salt and pepper and as much soft 
bread crumbs as it will take. Mould in little balls 
and cook them in boiling water for ten minutes. 
Place them in the tureen first before serving. 

Noodles.- -Two eggs slightly beaten, mix with 
them two tablespooxifuls of water, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of salt and enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Knead it well for fifteen minutes, then cut 
off small pieces at a time and roll them as thin as 
wafers. When very thin sprinkle with flour and roll 
into a tight roll, cut from the end into thin slices 
or threads for the soup. Let them dry in a slightly 
warm oven for an hour. These can be cut before 
rolling into fancy shapes with the vegetable cutter. 
Before serving put them in boiling salted water and 
let them boil for fifteen minutes. Serve in thin 
soups. 

Lemon cut in thin slices is served, a slice to each 
person. 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vermicelli is broken in 
three or four-inch lengths and put on to cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender, then remove from the 
water in a colander let the cold water run through. 
Place on a board and cut in one-inch pieces. If the 
large-size macaroni is used, cut into one-fourth inch 
pieces, thus forming rings. Put in the tureen just 
before serving. 



24 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ROYALE CUSTARD TO SERVE WITH CONSOMME. 



2 yolks. 
1 egg. 



teaspoonful salt. 



Little pepper. 

% cup beef stock. 



Beat the eggs slightly or until well mixed, add 
the seasonings and the clear stock. Pour into a dish 
so it will be about one inch thick. Set it in a pan of 
hot water and place in a moderate oven until it is 
firm. Do not let it brown on top. When cold cut 
it into cubes or into fancy shapes with the cutter. 
Place carefully in the tureen after the soup is in it. 
Allow four or five pieces to each person. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Chop any cooked meat very fine, season highly 
with onion, lemon juice, salt and pepper, add enough 
yolk to hold them together. Mould in little balls, 
roll them in egg and flour, fry them in butter. 
Serve in the soup. 

Grated cheese may be passed with the soup. 

Butter crackers and brown them in the oven. Pass 
with soup. 

Serve pop corn with any kind of soup. 
BROWN SOUP STOCK. 



3 Ibs. shin of beef. 

3 quarts cold water. 

9 peppercorns. 

5 cloves. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 good-sized onion. 



1 good- sized carrot, or 2 

small ones. 
1 turnip. 

3 sprigs of parsley. 
Celery root or stalks and 
herbs, if you like. 



Put half the meat and bones in the water, brown 
the rest of the meat and vegetables and add them. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 25 



WHITE STOCK. 



3 Ibs. knuckle of veal, or 

one fowl. 
Herbs. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 
Peppercorns. 



1 onion. 

2 celery roots or 4 stalks. 
1 turnip. 

1 good-sized carrot. 

3 quarts water. 



WHITE SOUP. 



Three tablespoonfuls of butter and flour. Melt 
the butter and stir into it the flour. Add slowly one 
quart of the white stock and one pint of cream. Sea- 
son to taste. 



CONSOMME. 



2 Ibs. shin of beef. 

2 Ibs. knuckle of veal or a 

small fowl or lien. 

3 quarts of water. 
A slice of lean ham. 
6 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 



1 tablespoonful salt. 

2 onions. 
2 carrots. 

1 turnip. 

2 roots of celery. 

3 sprigs parsley. 



Brown half the meat and the vegetables, simmer 
for eight hours. Strain. When cold remove the fat 
and clear. Add lemon juice and thinly shaven rind 
when ready to serve. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Julienne soup is made by adding to the plain 
consomme stock, vegetables cut in thin strings or 
fancy shapes. Add salt and hot water to the vege- 
tables. Cook until tender, then add to the stock and 
serve. 



26 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

"^ 

MACARONI OR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Cook the macaroni or vermicelli in boiling salted 
water until tender, drain, pour cold water over it, 
then lay the sticks close together. Cut in inch pieces 
and add to a plain soup stock. 

BOUILLON. 



4 Ibs. beef from the round. 

2 Ibs. bone. 

3 quarts water. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 



3 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 

1 celery root. 

1 teaspoonful mixed herbs. 



6 peppercorns. 

Boil down to two quarts then remove the fat and 
clear. Add more seasoning if desired. 



TOMATO SOUP. 



1 quart of stock. 

1 can tomatoes. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



Add the tomato, sugar, salt and pepper to the 
stock, let it cook one hour. With cold water make a 
thickening of the flour and add that, cook ten minutes. 
Strain through a fine sieve. Just before serving add 
one-half cup of cream if liked. This is a great im- 
provement. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 



1 quart of stock. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

l / 2 cup each of chopped 

onion, carrot, turnip 

and cabbage. 



y 2 cup cooked and strained 
tomato. 

1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley. 

1 teaspoonful salt and a 
little pepper. 



Cook the vegetables in the stock until tender, or 
the vegetables can first be cooked in boiling salted 
water and then added. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 27 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Clean a calf's head thoroughly, cut in several 
pieces, then soak an hour in cold water. Drain off 
the water, add four quarts of cold water and a table- 
spoonful salt and cook slowly until the meat slips 
from the bones. Remove the meat but let the bones 
remain, then add 



5 cloves. 

8 peppercorns. 

5 allspice. 

2 onions, sliced. 

2 carrots, sliced. 



1 turnip, sliced. 

3 celery roots. 

1 tablespoonful herbs. 

Inch of stick cinnamon. 



Let simmer for two hours, strain and set away 
until cold. Before serving, remove the fat and for 
every quart of stock, brown one tablespoonful of 
butter, when brown add one tablespoonful of flour, 
and gradually the stock. Season with salt and pep- 
per if required. Cut in small dice one-half cup of 
the cooked meat to every quart and add to the stock 
with slices of hard-boiled egg or the yolk of egg made 
in little balls, the juice of half a lemon and thin slices 
of the rind, two tablespoonfuls of sherry. This can 
be omitted if desired. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 



2 ox tails. 
1 onion. 

1 tablespoonful beef or 
salt pork drippings. 
4 quarts of water. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 



6 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 

2 roots celery. 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

parsley. 
1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. 



Wash and cut the ox tail in the joints. Heat the 
fat and saute the onion and half the tail in the fat. 
Put all in the soup kettle with the water. When it 
comes to a boil add the seasoning and vegetables. 



28 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Cook for six hours slowly. Strain, saving out some 
of the pieces of meat. When ready to serve remove 
the fat, reheat and season more if necessary. Add 
small pieces of meat and serve one or two to each 
serving. 



MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 



3 Ibs. chicken or fowl. 

Knuckle of veal. 

3 cloves. 

8 peppercorns. 

3 sour apples, medium size. 

Juice of a lemon. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 



1 tablespoonful curry pow- 
der. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

4 quarts of water. 

1 tablespoonful of well- 
cooked rice. 



Make the same as for soup stock. When tender, 
strain leaving small pieces of the meat in the soup. 
Reheat, add more seasoning, if desired, the rice and 
pieces of meat. 



BLACK BEAN SOUP. 



2 cupfuls black beans. 

1 quart soup stock. 

1 tablespoonful butter and 

flour. 
1 sprig parsley. 



1 celery root. 
Vo bav leaf. 

/ At v 

3 peppercorns. 
1 clove, 
onion 



Soak the beans over night, drain off the water, 
add the seasonings, tied together in a cheese cloth, 
cover with cold water and boil slowly until tender, 
adding water when needed. When the beans are 
soft, remove the seasonings and pass the beans through 
a sieve, mashing them through with a spoon. Then 
add the stock to them. Melt the butter, stir into it 
the flour and gradually stir into that stock. Season 
with salt and pepper. Put in the tureen just before 
the soup is added two tables poonfuls sherry wine, thin 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 29 



slice of lemon, egg balls and the white of egg cut in 
dice. 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

Wash clean two quarts of clams (in the shell) 
cover with boiling water, let boil for twenty minutes, 
strain, let the bouillon settle, strain again, reheat, 
season with pepper and butter. Serve in bouillon 
cups with whipped cream on top. A few of the 
clams can be chopped fine and added to the bouillon. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 



2 Ibs. mutton (neck). 
2 quarts water. 
*4 cup carrot, turnip and 
a small onion. 



2 celery stalks, cut fine. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
}4 teaspoonful white pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Soak the barley over night. Eemove the fat and 
skin from the mutton. Cut the meat from the bones 
and into small pieces. Put the bones on to boil in 
one pint of cold water and the meat on in three pints 
of cold water. When it boils up add the barley. 
Cut the vegetables in dice and fry for five minutes in 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and add to the meat. 
Cook slowly for four hours. Strain the bones from 
the water and add it to the meat with the salt and 
pepper. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Get a piece from the neck or shoulder. For every 
pound of meat and bones add a quart of water. Sim- 
mer for five hours very slowly. (A small onion may 
be added). Strain when cold, remove the fat, season 
with salt and pepper and add some w r ell cooked rice 
and serve. 



30 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Remove the skin and fat from the chicken. Cut 
at the joints and make the same as mutton broth. 

CREAM SOUPS. 

Part cream may be used instead of all milk, mak- 
ing a much richer soup or a little whipped cream 
may be added when served. 



OYSTER SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 
1 pint of oysters. 



4 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



4 teaspoonfuls flour. 

Put on the milk in the double boiler to scald. 
Melt the butter and stir the flour into it. When the 
milk has scalded, stir the butter and flour into it, 
stirring until it is smooth. Cook for ten minutes. 
Wash and pick over the oysters, put them on to cook 
in their own liquor. Cook until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl. Put them at once in the 
thickened milk and season. Serve. It should not 
be seasoned until the oysters are added, as some 
oysters are more salty than others. 



POTATO SOUP. 



1 pint milk. 

1 cup mashed potato. 

y 2 teaspoonful salt. 



Pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 slice of onion. 



Put the milk on to scald in the double boiler. 
When scalded add the potato, cook it ten min- 
utes. Melt the butter, brown the onion in it, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 31 



then remove the onion and add the butter to the soup. 
Add seasoning and strain through a strainer. Reheat 
and serve. Sprinkle on the soup or pass with it 
croutons. 



MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 



1 quart milk. 
1 can tomatoes. 
J 4 cup butter. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

Pepper. 

^4 teaspoonful soda. 



3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Scald the milk in the double boiler. Melt 'the 
butter in a sauce pan. Stir into it the flour, salt and 
pepper. When smooth stir it into the hot milk. 
Allow it to cook ten minutes, stirring until smooth; 
cook the tomatoes until soft, Mash through a strainer 
and add the soda. When ready to serve put the to- 
mato and milk together. Serve at once, or it may 
curdle. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 



1 cup dried split peas. 
3 pints cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Pepper. 



Wash the peas well and soak in the cold water a 
day and night (in high altitude, in lower altitude 
one night will be sufficient). Put on to boil in fresh 
water, let cook until soft, supplying water as it cooks 
out. When soft mash through a strainer. Melt the 
butter, stir into it the flour and seasonings and grad- 
ually one cup of milk or enough when added to peas 
to make a thick creamy consistency. Cook the 
strained peas and creamed milk together for ten min- 
utes. Serve with fried dice of bread. This soup 
cannot be satisfactorily made in a high altitude as the 
long cooking necessary for the peas spoils the flavor. 



32 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



GREEN PEA SOUP. 



1 quart of milk. 
1 can of peas. 
^4 cup butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Little pepper. 



Scald the milk in double boiler. Melt the butter, 
stir into it the flour and seasoning. When smooth 
stir into the milk, cooking for ten minutes, stirring 
until smooth. Heat up the peas in their own liquor. 
Mash through a strainer and add the pulp to the milk. 
This is a delicious and nutritious soup. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 



4 good sized ears of corn. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 
Little pepper. 



Cut the kernels from the ear with a sharp knife. 
Put the cobs on to boil in enough cold water to cover. 
Boil half an hour and strain, then cook the pulp in 
the corn water for twenty minutes, then add the sea- 
sonings. Melt the butter, stir into it the flour and 
when smooth stir into the hot milk. After cooking 
ten minutes add the corn with the liquid and season- 
ings. Half a can of corn can be used instead of the 
green corn. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP (Made from Can Corn). 

Make the same as the pea soup made from the 
can peas. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

y a peck clams in the shell. | Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 quart potatoes, sliced j *4 cup butter. 



thin. 
pound salt pork. 



1 onion. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 quart hot milk. 
Crackers. 



Wash the clams until clean. Put them in a kettle 
with one quart of cold water. Set them on the stove 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 33 

to cook until the top ones are broken open, then re- 
move from the stove. Skim out the clams. Pour 
the liquid in a dish to settle. When the clams are 
cool, cut off the heads with scissors. Fry the onion 
in the pork in the kettle that you are going to make it 
in. When brown remove the pieces of onion and 
pork, then add the potatoes and the clam liquor, 
which should be carefully poured in, not to disturb 
the settlings. When the potatoes are soft, add the 
clams, seasonings and hot milk, more water if desired. 
Melt the butter, stir into it the flour and add to the 
chowder, or, better still, to the hot milk, before it is 
added. Put the crackers in the tureen and turn the 
chowder on them. 

CREAM OF CLAM SOUP. 

Melt in a double boiler two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and a little pepper, or paprica, then 
add gradually two cups of milk. When hot and 
smooth, stir in one small can of minced clams. Cook 
for twentv minutes, then strain and reheat, add one- 

i/ 

half cup of cream and serve at once. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 

1 good- sized bunch of as- 

paragus. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Pepper. 



Put the asparagus on to cook in cold water enough 
to cover. Cook until very tender. Cut off a few of 
the tips to serve in the soup. Mash the rest, with the 
water they are cooked in, through a strainer. Scald 
the milk. Melt butter, stir into it flour and season- 



34 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ings, theii stir it into the milk. Add the asparagus 
pulp and tips. Serve. This is pretty for a green 
luncheon. 

PEANUT SOUP. 

Cook two cups of shelled and blanched peanuts 
with a slice of onion and a stalk of celery until ten- 
der. Mash through a sieve. Stir into it a pint of 
white stock and one pint of hot milk or thin cream, 
which has been added to it. Two tablespoonfuls of 
butter melted with one tables poonful of flour and one- 
half teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper stirred 
into it. 

ALMOND SOUP. 



1 quart of white stock. 
1 pint of cream. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 

y 2 cup of blanched almonds 

that have been chopped 

and pounded fine. 



]\lelt the butter, stir into it the flour. When 
smooth, stir it into hot cream. Cook for ten min- 
utes. Add the hot stock and season, then add the 
nuts and serve. 



MUSHROOM SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 

% cup of cream. 

y 2 pound fresh mush- 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 



rooms. Yolks of 2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. ^Jelt the but- 
ter, stir into it the flour, salt and pepper. Stir this 
into the hot milk, let cook for ten minutes, then add 
to it the beaten yolks and cream, stirring and cooking 
five minutes. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stems 
and break them in small pieces. Put them in a sauce 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 35 

pan with just enough hot water to keep them from 
sticking. Let them cook five minutes. Add them 
to the cream soup and serve. The eggs may be 
omitted. 

MUSHROOM STOCK SOUP. 

Two cups of chicken or turkey stock, one-half 
pound of fresh mushrooms that have been cooked and 
added to the stock. Melt two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, add to it two of flour and the hot stock. Cook 
ten minutes, strain out the mushrooms, add one cup 
of cream and season. This is a most delicious rich 
soup. 

BERMUDA SOUPS. 

Peel and slice three Bermuda onions, brown a 
delicate brown in pork fat or a little butter, then cook 
in boiling salted water till tender. Melt in a double 
boiler two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, then gradually two cups of 
milk. When smooth put in the onion and cook for a 
half hour. Mash all through a sieve, reheat, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Add 
half a cup of cream and serve at once. 

SPINACH SOUP. 

Wash half a peck of spinach, put it on to cook 
without adding water there is enough that clings to 
the leaves to cook it one teaspoonful salt, a small 
onion sliced. When tender, mash through a strainer 
or puree sieve. Scald two cups of milk in double 
boiler, melt in sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, stir into it one of flour. When blended, stir it 
into the hot milk. Cook ten minutes, then add one 
cup of the spinach pulp and the yolk of one egg di- 



36 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

luted with a half cup of cream. Cook ten more min- 
utes. Season with salt and pepper. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

Let a cauliflower stand in cold water, head down, 
for one hour in cold salted water this is to draw 
out any insects that may be in it. Put on to boil in 
chicken or veal stock or hot water and one onion, a 
sprig each of parsley and celery. When tender, mash 
through a sieve or potato ricer. For every cup of 
the pulp make a white sauce of two cups of milk 
stirred into two tablespoonfuls of butter that has had 
two tablespoonfuls of flour stirred into it, one-half 
teaspoonful salt and a little pepper. Cook ten min- 
utes, then stir in the pulp. Cook for five minutes. 
Add one-half cup of cream. Serve. 

CREAM OF STOCK SOUP. 

Use any stock made from veal, poultry or game. 
Stock made from turkey bones is very delicious for 
this soup. Melt in a sauce pan four tablespoonfuls 
of butter. Stir into it three tablespoonfuls of flour 
and half a teaspoonful of salt, gradually stir into the 
butter three cups of the well-seasoned stock. Boil 
ten minutes. Add one cup of thick cream, heat for 
five minutes. Serve a few fresh mushrooms that 
have been cooked for five minutes, then added to the 
stock just before serving gives a delicious flavor. 
Serve for luncheon in bouillon cups or for a dinner 

soup. 

SUMMER SOUPS. 

Make a rich chicken broth or bouillon, chill sur- 
rounded by ice or freeze to a frappe. Serve in bouil- 
lon cups with or without whipped cream. 

Clam Bouillon can be served in the same way. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 37 

FRUIT SOUPS. 

Fruit soups originated with the Germans. They 
are made from the fruit juices seasoned and thick- 
ened. These soups to be palatable must be served 
very cold. 

STRAWBERRY SOUP. 

One pint of strawberries and one pint of water, 
cook together until the strawberries are soft, then add 
one-half glass currant jelly. When the jelly is dis- 
solved, strain, thicken with a scant teaspoonful of 
corn starch. Cook for ten minutes and, if necessary, 
strain again. Serve very cold in bouillon cups with 
chipped ice. 

RASPBERRY, CURRANT AND GOOSEBERRY SOUP. 

One pint of the fruit and one pint of water. Cook 
together until the fruit is tender. Strain, add one 
tablespoonful of sugar, a few grains of salt and a lit- 
tle cornstarch to thicken slightlv. Cook for ten min- 

O u 

utes. If necessary strain a^ain. Serve very cold 

i */ 

in cups with chipped ice. 

PLUM, CHERRY, PINEAPPLE AND PEACH SOUP. 

Cook one pint of fruit with a pint of water till 
very soft, mash and sift. Sweeten slightly and thick- 
en a very little with corn starch, a little lemon or 
orange juice will improve these soups. Serve very 
cold with chipped ice. 

ORANGE SOUP. 

The juice of six oranges and one lemon, sweeten 
slightly, add a little sherry wine if desired. Chill. 
Serve with chipped ice. 



38 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FISH. 



Fish, to be palatable and nutritious, should be 
fresh, well cleaned and thoroughly cooked. When 
fresh, the eyes are bright, the flesh firm and elastic 
to the touch. Fish should be cleaned, washed in cold 
water and dried (not soaked) as soon as it reaches 
us and put directly on the ice or in a cold place. It 
should not be put in the compartment with milk or 
butter, as they absorb the odors very quickly. Fro- 
zen fish should be laid in cold water until they be- 
come limber. 

TO SKIN AND BONE A FISH. 

Cut through the skin, down the back bone, taking 
off the fins. Beginning at the head, loosen the skin 
and strip it down. Use a knife to help loosen the 
skin and a little salt on the fingers enables one to get 
a firmer hold. Then slip the knife under the flesh, 
keeping it close to the bone, to remove the flesh or fil- 
lets. They can be served whole or divided in uni- 
form pieces if the fish is large. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Put the fish into a kettle of boiling water, enough 
to cover with a tea spoonful of salt and a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar or half the juice of a lemon. This 
hardens the fish. Do not let the water boil rapidly 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 39 

after the fish is put in, as that breaks it ; let it simmer 
on top of the stove. A little celery, onion, bay leaf 
tmd peppercorns put in the water improves the flavor 
of white fish. Allow fifteen minutes to a pound. If 
a fish kettle is not used, place the fish in a plate and 
tie the plate in a cloth before putting in the kettle. 
Prepared in this way it s much easier to remove from 
the kettle. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Clean the fish, wash and wipe dry. Cover the 
fish with a little softened butter, season with salt and 
pepper. Rub the broiler with salt pork or butter. 
Broil first the flesh side until brown before turning'. 
A thick fish should cook about twenty minutes, a thin 
one less time. Try with a fork. When done, place 
on a hot platter, season with butter, salt and pepper, 
ti little chopped parsley. Garnish with lemon or 
water cress or serve with a sauce. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Place in the bottom of the pan two or three thin 
slices of salt pork to prevent the fish from sticking, 
or on the rack, if rack is used. If part of a fish is to 
be baked, wash it and wipe dry, cover the fish with 
buttered cracker crumbs that have been well seasoned 
with salt, pepper, lemon juice, chopped parsley and a 
little onion juice, or sprinkle with flour ; or, salt and 
pepper, little pieces of butter, and five minutes before 
removing from the oven cover the top with grated 
cheese, seasoned with a little salt and paprica. 



40 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



STUFFING FOR FISH. 



1 cup of powdered cracker 
crumbs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Half as much pepper. 

1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley. 



1 teaspoonful onion juice, 
i/i cup melted butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls of pickles, 

chopped or one of capers 
and one of pickles. 



If not moist enough, use a little hot water, and 
egg may be used, but it is not necessary. This should 
be a dry stuffing. 

TO BAKE A WHOLE FISH. 

Stuff and sew up the fish. Place the fish upright 
in the pan. If broad and short they may be kept in 
place by propping up. If not the right shape to 
prop, skewer in the shape of the letter S. If pre- 
pared in this way will keep their shape after cooking. 
Place when done on a hot platter. Pour a sauce 
around it, place a slice of lemon in the mouth. Be- 
fore baking cut gashes (three or four) across the back 
and place in each a slice of salt pork. The head and 
tail should be left on. 

TO COOK SMELTS. 

Clean, wash and dry them, season with salt and 
pepper, dip in fine granulated corn meal or flour. 
Fasten together with a toothpick forming a ring (or 
fry without). Place in as many as will cover the 
bottom of a frying basket, dip in smoking hot fat and 
cook for one minute. Or. fry out in frying pan half 
a dozen slices of salt pork. Oook the smelts in this, 
first on one side and then the other, until thev are 

t/ 

brown. Serve with tartare sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 41 

FILLETS BAKED WITH TOMATOES. 

Any kind of fillets or sliced fish can be cooked in 
this way. Place on the bottom of the pan four slices 
of salt pork, one onion cut in slices, wash and wipe 
the fish dry, cover the top with butter-seasoned 
crumbs. Place in the pan on top of the pork and 
onions. Wipe clean half a dozen tomatoes (or enough 
to serve one to each person), place them around the 
fish. Cook in a hot oven until the fish is done, bast- 
ing several times, both the tomatoes and fish with the 
fat in the pan. When done place the fish carefully 
on a hot platter and arrange the tomatoes around it. 
Serve with Hollandaise, white or Bearnaise sauce. 

STUFFED FILLETS OR SLICED FISH. 

Wash and wipe the fish dry, season with salt and 
pepper, spread a layer of "stuffing for fish" over the 
pieces, about an inch thick. Roll up and tie se- 
curely with a string. Place in a buttered pan or on 
slices of salt pork. Cover the top and sides with but- 
tered crumbs. Cook in a hot oven three-quarters of 
an hour. Serve with maitre d'hotel butter or a white 
sauce made from the fat in the pan. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Prepare and cook as for boiled fish. Serve on a 
hot platter with Hollandaise sauce and the little ball 
potatoes, placing some of the potatoes on top of the 
fish to form a bunch of grapes. 

SALMON CUTLETS. 

One cup of cold fish minced fine, season with 
one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, one tea- 



42 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonful chopped parsley, two teaspoonfuls lemon 
juice. Mix with one-half cup of thick white sauce. 
(See sauces.) When cold shape in cutlet form. 
Roll in crumbs and egg and crumbs again. Fry in 
deep hot fat until brown. Serve with the paper 
ruffles stuck in the small end of each, placing the large 
end to the center of the platter. Pour around them a 
Hollandaise or white sauce. Any left-over white fish 
is delicious prepared in this way. 

FISH TIMBALE. 

Cut one pound of raw fresh white fish in small 
pieces, chop or pound to a pulp, press through a 
coarse sieve. To every cup of the fish pulp add one 
tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs that have soaked 
in a third of a cup of milk or cream until soft. One 
teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper, 
one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, the yolk of one 
egg well beaten. Beat all well together for five min- 
utes, then fold in lightly the stiffly beaten white. But- 
ter a mould or bowl, fill it not over two-thirds full 
set it in a pan of hot water. Cover the mould with a 
greased paper and set in a moderate oven. Cook un- 
til the center is firm from twenty minutes to one hour, 
according to size of the timbale. Turn from the 
mould and surround with a lobster, shrimp or tomato 
sauce. 

PLANKED SHAD AND POTATO ROSES. 

Place the shad that has been fixed as for broiling 
on a thick hard wood board, hold it down with a few 
tacks. Season it with salt and pepper and cover with 
buttered crumbs. Shape hot mashed potato through 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 43 

a pastry bag and tube, in the form of roses around the 
fish, brush over with the yolk of egg that has been 
slightly beaten. Cook in a hot oven for twenty-five 
minutes. 

CASSEROLE OF FISH. 

Line a mould or baking dish with seasoned 
mashed potato, first buttering it well. Fill up the 
mould with any kind of highly seasoned creamed fish, 
or fish that has been mixed with tomato sauce. Cover 
the top over with an inch layer of mashed potato, 
brush over with a beaten yolk of egg. Bake in a hot 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

CREAMED FISH SERVED IN MASHED POTATO CASE. 

Line a baking dish with mashed potato. Cover 
with the beaten yolk of egg. Set in a hot oven to 
brown, then serve in it any kind of creamed fish. A 
good luncheon dish. Creamed meats are nice served 
in this way. 

CREAM SALT FISH. 

Cook the salt fish in boiling water until tender, 
changing the water once. Pick in small pieces and 
mix with a white sauce. Serve on toast or on a plat- 
ter garnished with broiled sweet or white potatoes. 



SALT FISH BALLS. 



1 cup raw salt fish. 

2 cups potatoes. 



Little pepper. 



Pick the fish in small pieces, free from bones. 
Pare the potatoes cut in quarters. Cook the potatoes 



44 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and fish together in boiling water until tender. Drain 
off the water and mash until very light, add the pep- 
per and when a little cool, the egg, well beaten. Drop 
from a tablespoon into smoking hot fat. Fry until 
brown. Cook onlv three or four at a time, as too 

t. 

many cool the fat. Drain on soft paper. Serve 
with a white sauce. It is better not to form the mix- 
ture into shapes, as it makes them heavy. 

SALMON FISH BALLS. 

Mix one-half cup of salmon with one cup of 
mashed potato. Season and add one egg. Shape in 
little fiat cakes. Cover with melted butter and broil, 
or fry in salt pork fat. Brown on one side and then 
the other. The salt pork gives a very nice flavor. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 45 



SHELL FISH. 



OYSTERS RAW. 

Oysters to be served raw should be very fresh, 
and should not be served at all from the 1st of May 
to September, as their flavor is not as good and they 
are not so healthful. For serving raw, the small 
oysters should be used. Look them over carefully to 
see that there are no pieces of shells. Leave them on 
the deep half, of the shell and arrange regularly 
around the plate, giving six to each person. Have a 
little ice in the center of the plate, chipped fine. 
Place on the ice a little parsley or watercress and a 
quarter of a lemon on that. Serve with them paprica 
or tobasco sauce, horseradish, thin slices of brown 
bread buttered or crackers. 

OYSTERS COOKED IN THE SHELL. 

These are very delicious and should be served as 
soon as ready. They make a very palatable dish for 
Sunday night supper. 

Wash the shells clean, put them in a pan with 
the round side down to hold the juice, and cook in a 
hot oven until the shells break open. Remove the up- 
per shell. Season to taste when served. 

Clams are delicious cooked in this way, in their 
own juices. 



46 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

OYSTERS SERVED IN ICE. 

Have fresh small oysters that have been well 
picked over. Make a cavity in a smooth block of ice 
with a hot brick, or pail or can of hot water. Place 
the ice on a platter with colored tissue paper under 
it if you want the color effect. Surround it with 

i/ 

parsley or watercress and quarters of lemon, then 
place in the oysters. 

Oyster CoMail is very nice served in this way. 

Individual cakes of ice can be made in the same 
way. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select large oysters for frying. Pick them over 
carefully to see that none of the shell adheres. Put 
them in a strainer and let the cold water run through 
them just to rinse them. Drain well, season finely 
rolled cracker crumbs with salt and pepper, dip the 
oysters in the crumbs, then into egg, which has just 
been beaten slightly, to mix it, and has two tablespoon- 
fuls of water added to it, then into the crumbs again. 
Put five or six at a time in the frying basket and 
plunge in the smoking hot fat. Cook until a golden 
brown. These should not be fried until time to 
serve. Pickles, horseradish, chow T -chow, tartar sauce 
or celery salad can be served with them, either as a 
garnish or separately. Fried oysters may be pre- 
pared some time before cooking. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Prepare the oysters as for fried. Dry them well. 
Dip them in melted butter, rub a fine wire broiler 
with butter or salt pork, place them on the broiler 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 47 

over hot coals and cook until the juice flows. Place 
them on rounds or squares of toast, three or four on 
each piece. Pour a little melted butter over them, 
season with pepper. ' Serve any kind of pickles with 
them. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 



1 pint of small oysters. 
Cleaned and thoroughly 

chilled. 

1 tablespoonful horseradish. 
5 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



3 tablespoonfuls Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls catsup. 

1 teaspoonful tabasco sauce. 

1 teaspoonful salt, or more 
if needed. 



Serve in cocktail glasses or in lemon cups, or to- 
mato cups, on a hed of green, or cups shaped from 
tomato or celery jelly. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a hot sauce pan, 
then add the oysters that have been well picked over 
and cleaned. Let them cook until the edges curl, 
then place them on pieces of toast or hot crackers 
that have been moistened with the liquor. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Cook one pint of oysters in their own liquor un- 
til plump and their edges curl. Drain off the liquor. 
Make a sauce by melting two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and stirring into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt (or more if needed), a little 
pepper or paprica. Stir slowly into this one-half cup 
of the oyster liquor to one-half cup of cream or milk. 
Cook ten minutes and add the oysters. Let them 



43 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

reheat in the sauce for five minutes. Serve on toast 
or in patty shells, timbale cases or bread boxes. 

OYSTERS IN SHELLS OR RAMQUIN DISHES. 

Cook the oysters and make the sauce the same as 
for Creamed Oysters. Remove the sauce from the 
fire, add the oysters and the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
butter the shells or dishes and fill about two-thirds 
full. Cover the top with buttered bread crumbs and 
bake in a hot oven for five minutes, or until the 
crumbs are brown. 

To Butter Crumbs.- -Melt one tablespoonful of 
butter, add to it two tablespoonfuls of crumbs, stir 
them into the butter. 

SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 

Wash and pick over the oysters. Butter a baking 
dish and place in a layer of oysters. Sprinkle them 
with salt, pepper and bits of butter and a layer of 
cracker crumbs. Before putting on the top layer of 
crumbs add three tablespoonfuls of sherry, if liked. 
Cover the top with buttered crumbs. (Buttered 
crumbs given in the preceding receipt.) Bake for 
twenty minutes in a hot oven or try the oysters in 
the center and see if the edges are curled. 

PIGS IN BLANKET. 

Season large oysters with salt and pepper an hour 
before using, then wrap each oyster in a thin slice of 
bacon and fasten with a wooden toothpick. Cook on 
a hot spider or frying pan or in the chafing dish until 
the bacon is brown. Serve on small pieces of but- 
tered toast. 

Oysters in Batter.- -(See fritter batter). 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 49 



CLAMS. 

Little Neck Clams are the best for serving raw. 
Serve the same as raw oysters. 

ROASTED CLAMS. 
Roast the same as oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS. 

Wash the shells until clean and free from grit. 
Put them in a kettle without water, cover closely and 
cook until the shells open. Serve hot in the shells, 
with melted butter. Serve a small glass of the clam 
water to each person. 

CLAMS IN BATTER. 

Cook the same as for steamed clams. Cut off 
the head (the black tip) and dip in batter, fry in 
smoking hot fat until brown. (See fritter batter). 
The clams may be chopped before adding to the batter 
if desired. 

SCOLLOPS. 

Wash quickly, dry between cloths, dip in cracker 
crumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, 
then in slightly beaten egg that has two tablespoon- 
fuls of water added to it, and in the crumbs again. 
Place them in a frying basket, immerse it smoking 
hot fat for one minute. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve with tartare sauce. 

CRABS. 

Crabs are at their. best during the months of May, 
June, July and August, Crabs, like lobsters, shed 



50 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

their shell once a year. When the shell is forming 
they are soft shell crabs. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Soft Shell Crabs should be used only when fresh. 
Remove the sand bag, gills and intestines. Wash and 
wipe dry. Roll in cracker crumbs, egg and crumbs 
again, immerse in smoking hot lard for two minutes 
or roll in flour and saute in hot butter on both sides. 
Serve with tartare sauce. 

BOILED CRABS. 

Plunge them head first in hot water (not boiling), 
then add one tablespoonful of salt, boil for twenty 
minutes. When cold remove the outside shell and 
take out the meat carefully. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Mince the meat fine and mix with half the amount 
of white sauce, season with salt, paprica, or a little 
cayenne, teaspoonful chopped parsley, teaspoonful 
lemon juice, yolk of hard boiled egg. Replace in the 
shell, cover with buttered crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. 

FRIED FROG LEGS. 

After being skinned, dip in cracker crumbs, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, then in egg and the 
crumbs again. Put in a frying basket, immerse in 
smoking hot fat for one minute. Drain. Serve with 
a cream or mushroom sauce or a drawn butter sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 51 



DEVILED SHRIMP. 



1 pint of shrimp. 

1 cup white stock or milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 
i/i teaspoonful cayenne. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Make a sauce by melting the butter, stirring in 
the flour and seasonings and the milk or stock. When 
smooth add the minced shrimps. Sprinkle shells or 
ramkin dishes with buttered crumbs, cut in the 
shrimp mixture. Cover over with buttered crumbs. 
Cook from ten to twelve minutes in a hot oven. 

LOBSTERS. 

Lobsters are difficult to digest and should only be 
eaten when fresh. Select a heavy lobster for the size. 
These will be found to be the most meat. 

TO BOIL A LOBSTER. 

Have enough water in a kettle to cover the lobster 
before the water gets very hot put in the lobsters. 
This seems the most merciful way, as it smothers them 
at once. Add two tablespoonfuls of salt, cover and 
boil for thirty minutes. 

t 

TO OPEN A LOBSTER. 

When the lobster is cold, break off the large claws, 
separate the tail from the body. Remove the small 
claws. Save the coral and the green liver. Break 
the tail by pressing the sides together, then open and 
take out the meat and remove the intestinal canal 
which runs the full length. Break off the gills. The 
gills, stomach and intestines are the only part not 
used. Break the body in the middle and pick the 



52 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

meat from the joints. Hammer the claws near the 
edges, so as not to break the meat. Remove the meat. 
If the body of the shell is to be used for serving, cut- 
down the underside with a sharp knife. 

TO BROIL A LIVE LOBSTER. 

With a sharp knife cut quickly down the back, 
remove the intestines and stomach. Broil over a 
moderate fire for thirty minutes, shell side down. 
Spread a little butter over it when broiling to keep 
it moist. When done break the claws, season with 
salt, pepper and melted butter. 

PLAIN LOBSTER. 

Remove the meat from the shell, place on a plat- 
ter, garnish with the little claws and parsley. Sea- 
son individually with salt, pepper, vinegar and oil or 
melted butter. 

SAUTE LOBSTER. 

Break the lobster meat in small pieces, heat in 
hot butter in sauce pan or chafing dish, season with 
salt, pepper and a little vinegar. Cook for about five 
minutes. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

Cut the meat quite fine, reheat in a white sauce, 
seasoned with salt, pepper or paprica, lemon juice. 
Serve on toast or in patty cases, timbale cases, bread 
boxes, or in shells or ramquin dishes, baked for five 
minutes in the oven with the buttered crumbs on top. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 53 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Chop the lobster very fine, season highly with 
lemon juice, paprica, a little chopped celery, two small 
pickles chopped fine, salt. Mix with a white sauce, 
using half as much sauce as meat. Fill the tail of 
the lobster shells with the mixture, setting them in the 
pan with the meat side up. Cover the top with but- 
tered crumbs. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. Place two tails together lengthwise, 
the crumb side up and garnish with the claws and 
parsley or watercress. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Cut the meat from a two-pound lobster in inch 
pieces. Melt in the chafing dish or sauce pan two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add the lobster and one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne, or pap- 
rica. (A truffle chopped fine may be added.) Cover 
and let cook for five minutes, then add one-fourth cup 
of sherry or madeira, or half sherry and half brandy, 
and cook for five minutes. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs and mix them well with a cup of cream, add this 
and stir until it thickens. Serve at once or the eggs 
may cause it to curdle. 



54 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



MEATS. 



The cheaper cuts of meat should have a long, slow 
cooking to break up the fiber. A cheap cut of meat 
often contains more nourishment than an expensive 
cut. For example, there is more nourishment in a 
well-cooked piece of round than in a well-cooked fillet. 
Tough meats are better boiled, as a lower degree of 
heat can be used and slower cooking. 

TO ROAST BEEF. 

Beef should be well streaked with fat, of a bright 
red color, elastic to the touch, and have a thick out- 
side layer of fat. Put the meat in the pan which 
has been heated hot on top of the stove, then sear the 
meat in the hot pan on all sides, turning it with a 
fork. Then place it in the pan on a rack, sprinkle 
first with flour, then with salt and pepper. ,Put two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings in the pan if you have 
them, but no water, as water steams the meat. Cook 
in a very hot pan for ten minutes, then reduce the 
heat, basting often with the fat in the pan. Roast 
ten minutes to a pound, if liked rare, and fifteen min- 
utes if liked well done. 

Rolled Roast. --Should be cooked a little longer. 

> 

Searing and first putting the meat in a hot oven 
hardens the outside and keeps the juices in. Place 
on the platter with the fat side up. Carve in thin 
slices across the grain. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 55 

GRAVY FOR ROAST BEEF. 

Pour the fat from the pan in a bowl, then pour 
about a pint of hot water or stock in the pan, to get all 
of the settlings. Put four tablespoonfuls of hot fat 
in a sauce pan, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
well mixed, stir in the hot water or stock from the 
pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, Worcester- 
shire sauce, ketchup or mushrooms. Cook for ten 
minutes. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Beat two eggs very light, add one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and one cup of milk. Stir this gradually on 
three-fourths cup of flour, beat until smooth. Pour 
in hot gem pans that have in them drippings from the 
roast beef. Bake in a hot oven thirty minutes, bast- 
ing twice with beef drippings, but not until they have 
been baking for fifteen minutes. Serve around the 
roast beef. This is a much better way than baking it 
in a pan. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

Have your butcher remove the fat veins and trim 
into shape. The best way of cooking it is to lard it. 
If you do not care to do that, first place it in the pan 
on several slices of pork and cover the top with thin, 
narrow strips, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, or 
cover the top of the fillet with buttered, seasoned 
crumbs. Place around the fillet one carrot, turnip 
and onion, cut in thin slices, and a couple of stalks of 
celery. Cook in a hot oven for thirty minutes. After 
ten minutes' cooking pour into the pan one cup of 
stock. Baste frequently. The fillet should be served 
rare. Put in a sauce pan a couple of tablespoonfuls 



56 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of butter and one of flour. When melted, stir slowly 
in the gravy from the pan, which has been strained 
from the vegetables, and the fat skimmed off. Pour 
into it a half can of mushrooms that have been 
drained from the liquor. Cook ten minutes. Pour 
around the fillet. If this does not make gravy enough 
add a little hot water to it. 

BRAISED BEEF OR POT ROAST. 

Four to six pounds of beef from the lower part of 
the round or rump. Place on the bottom of the pan 
six thin slices of salt pork and on the pork lay one- 
half cup each of carrot, turnip, onion and celery, cut 
in small slices. On the vegetables place the meat. 
Dredge well with flour, pepper and salt. Place in a 
hot oven for fifteen minutes. Then add two cupfuls 
of stock or hot water. Place slices of vegetables on 
top of the meat, cover closely with a pan. Cook 
slowly for four hours. When done, garnish the plat- 
ter with the vegetables, after being strained from the 
gravy. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into 
it one of flour and slowly the gravy. Cook ten min- 
utes. Serve as a gravy with the meat. This way of 
cooking beef may be done in a pot, then it is called a 
pot roast. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Use five or six pounds of beef from the lower part 
of the round, cut thick. Lard it well with a larding 
needle, or make incisions into the meat with a sharp- 
pointed knife. Press into them thin strips of salt 
pork. This is called daubing. It can be done by the 
butcher. Put several thin slices of pork or two table- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 57 

spoonfuls of drippings in the pot. When hot, put in 
the meat and brown it on all sides by turning it, then 
dredge with flour, salt and pepper, half cover the meat 
with boiling water. Add to it one-half cup each of 
carrot, turnip, onion, cut in slices, and a sprig of pars- 
ley. Cover the pot tight and simmer slowly for four 
or five hours ; add more water when necessary, having 
about a cup of the liquor when the meat is done. 
Place the meat on a hot platter, thicken the gravy a 
little with the vegetables, pour around it. This is 
very good cold. 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

The cheaper cuts of meat can be used for a stew. 
The aitch bone, or two or three pounds from the shin, 
or flank, or upper part of chuck rib. Stew can be 
made from cooked meat, the flank from a roast or left- 
over pieces of fresh meat. Remove the meat from 
the bones, cut in two-inch pieces, season with flour, 
salt and pepper, brown all over with fat from 
the meat or drippings. Put in the stew pan, add 
one onion cut in thin slices, one good-sized turnip, 
two carrots. Add boiling water enough to cover. 
Cook slowly for two hours, then add six potatoes that 
have been pared, sliced thin and soaked in cold water 
for half an hour. Cook for five minutes, then add 
the dumplings, having the liquor come up even with 
the potatoes and the dumplings resting on top. Cover 
closely and cook for ten minutes. Put the meat in 
the center of the platter, the vegetables and dumplings 
around the outside. Thicken the gravy a little and 
pour around the vegetables. Season the gravy more 
if desired. 



58 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

DUMPLINGS. 

1 cup flour. | 1 teaspoonful baking 

i/4 teaspoonful salt. powder. 

Mix with one-half cup of milk into a dough soft 
enough to handle. Pat out in small cakes or roll and 
cut with a small biscuit cutter. Cook for ten minutes 
in the boiling stew, being careful that the water does 
not boil on them, as that would make them soggy. 

MEAT PIE. 

Lay in a baking dish a few thin slices of cold 
meat, a grating of onion, salt and pepper, a layer of 
thin-sliced potatoes. (Cold cooked potatoes can be 
used, cut in thicker slices.) Fill up the dish with 
these layers. Pour over it any cold gravy, tomato 
sauce, or soup stock. Cover the top with pastry, 
rolled a half inch thick. Bake in a hot oven for 
about one-half hour. Any kind of meat can be used 
in this way, and other vegetables used if desired. 

WARMED-OVER BEEF. 

Cut the beef in small thin slices. Make a gravy 
of two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour, when 
browned a little add a cup of stock or gravy and one 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and one table- 
spoonful of catsup. Season with salt and pepper. 
Add the meat. Simmer for fifteen minutes. Place 
on a hot platter, garnish with three-cornered pieces of 
toast or little ball potatoes. 

ROLLED STUFFED FLANK. 

Take the inside flank, wipe it clean and dry, re- 
move the fat, spread it evenly with a bread stuffing. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 59 

highly seasoned, about an inch thick. Roll it up and 
tie securely with a white twine. Cut into slices an 
onion, carrot and turnip. Place them in the pan, lay 
the meat on them and dredge with flour, salt and pep- 
per. Add a bay leaf, sprig of parsley and the root 
or stalk of celery, one cup of water or stock. Cook 
for fifteen minutes in a very hot oven, then cover with 
another pan and cook slowly for four hours, basting 
frequently. It must have a long, slow cooking to be 
tender. When done, strain out the vegetables, make 
a gravy of the liquor and serve with the meat. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Select a piece of corn beef that is well streaked 
with fat. Wash it in cold water, put on to boil in 
cold water enough to cover. When it begins to boil, 
skim. Allow it to simmer slowly, until tender, about 

t/ ' 

forty minutes to a pound. Scrape, wash and quarter 
the carrots, peel and quarter parsnips, peel and slice 
in inch slices the turnips, quarter the cabbage, peel 
the potatoes and cook whole. About one hour before 
the meat is done add the turnips, carrots and parsnips 
and a half hour before done add the potatoes. Tie 
the cabbage in a piece of cheese cloth and cook it in 
a separate kettle in some of the liquor from the corn 
beef. Cook one hour or until tender. 

Cook the beets separately in boiling water. When 
done plunge them into cold water and rub off the skin. 
Serve hot or cold. Place the corn beef in the center 
of the platter and the carrots, turnips, parsnips and 
potatoes around. Serve cabbage and beets in separate 
dish. 



60 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PRESSED CORN BEEF. 

Remove the beef from the bones, pick in rather 
small pieces, put layers of lean and fat in a round 
baking dish. Cover the top with a plate and press 
down with a brick or flat iron for several hours. Then 
slice thin. Serve with baked potatoes and pickles. 

CORN BEEF HASH. 

Half corn beef and half mixed vegetables. Chop 
all together until fine. Season with a very little salt 
and pepper. Put one tablespoonful of drippings in 
the frying pan. When hot add the hash. When 
brown, cover the top with a plate; quickly turn the 
hash into it by turning the frying pan upside down. 
Put another tablespoonful of drippings in the pan 
and brown the hash on the other side. Remove to a 
hot platter, garnish with pickles, cut lengthwise in 
half, or parsley. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Equal parts of all the left-over vegetables. Put 
into the frying pan a tablespoonful of drippings, add 
the vegetables and cook until heated through, stirring 
often. This is very nice served with the cold corn 
beef. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Select a piece from the middle cut of shin or the 
round. Wash the meat quickly and cut in four 
pieces. Cover with boiling water. After it has boiled 
for one-half hour, add the following seasonings, tied 
in cheese cloth: Six cloves, twelve peppercorns, one 
bay leaf, half teaspoonful sage, half teaspoonful 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 61 

thyme, three or four celery roots or stalks. Simmer 
slowly now until the meat falls apart, pack and press. 
(See corn beef.) When cold, serve in thin slices. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut off the flank end to use in other ways, as that 
is toughened by broiling. Grease the broiler with a 
little fat from the meat. Broil over red-hot coals, 
turning at first every ten seconds (to sear the outside 
and keep the juices in). If liked rare, broil eight 
minutes; well done, twelve minutes. Select a steak 
one inch and a half or two inches thick. Serve on a 
hot platter, season with butter and salt, maitre d'hotel 
sauce or mushroom sauce. 

BROILED FILLET OF BEEF. 

Cut the fillet in slices three-fourths an inch thick. 
Grease the broiler well. Broil over clear coals for 
six minutes, turning every ten seconds, at first. Place 
on rounds of toast the size of the slices. Season with 
salt, pepper and butter and garnish with peas or with 
mushroom sauce. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Use one pound from the round or the ends of 
steak. Put through a meat grinder or chop very fine. 
To it add 



1 tablespoonful of onion 

juice. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 



i 



l /4 teaspoonful of pepper. 
1 beaten egg. 



Form into flat cakes, dredge with flour and saute 
in a little hot butter or drippings. Brown well 



62 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



on both sides. Remove to a hot platter, stir into 
the hot fat left in the frying pan one tablespoonful 
of butter. When brown, stir slowly into it one cup 
of stock or hot water. Season to taste with pepper 
and salt and add a few mushrooms or peas, or cubes 
of carrot that have first been cooked. Heat through 
and pour around the steaks. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Smoked Tongue. Soak for one hour in cold 
water, pour off the water and put on to cook in cold 
water. Let it come to a boil, pour off the water 
again, Put on in fresh cold water and boil until ten- 
der. Remove the skin, roots and fat. Serve hot or 
cold. 

Fresh Tongue.- -Wash and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Remove the skin and fat. 

TONGUE IN JELLY. 

Cut the tongue in slices and hold in shape. Place 
in a mould or dish the right size to hold it in place. 
Pour around it half inch thick of aspic jelly. When 
that is nearly firm, cover with the jelly. Serve when 
cold and firm. (See aspic jelly). 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 63 



PORK, 



ROAST PIG. 

Select a pig from three to five weeks old. Wash 
well and stuff with a potato stuffing. 

Staffing.- -Two cups mashed potato, season with 
one-fourth cup of butter, tw r o tablespoonfuls of 
chopped onion, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful sage, stuff and 
sew. 

Skewer the fore legs forward and the hind ones 
backward. Rub over with softened butter, sprinkle 
with flour, salt and pepper. Put in a hot oven with a 
little water in the pan. Baste often with melted but- 
ter at first to soften the skin. Bake about three hours 
or until tender when tried with a fork. Arrange on 
the platter in a bed of parsley, with a slice of lemon 
in the mouth. Serve with apple sauce or fried ap- 
ples. 

ROAST PORK. 

The loin, spare-rib and shoulder are best for roast- 
ing. Sprinkle well with flour, salt, pepper and sage. 
Cook in a hot oven, allowing twenty-five minutes to a 
pound. Pork should be well cooked. It requires 
five hours for digestion, and is more easily digested 
when cold. 

PORK CHOPS. 

To fry or saute them, have them cut one-half inch 
thick, dredge with a little flour, sage, salt and pepper, 



64 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and cook until brown on both sides. It will take 
about twenty minutes. Serve on a hot platter, gar- 
nished with fried apples. 

BACON. 

Slice very thin, remove the rind, place in a hot 
frying pan. Cook until crisp. Drain on soft paper. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Cut slices of sour apples, one-half inch thick. Do 
not remove the skin. Saute in beef drippings, pork 
fat or butter until tender. 

* 

BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Have the ham cut in very thin slices. Place it in 
hot water for three or four minutes to take out a little 
of the salt, wipe dry, broil over hot coals for about 
five minutes. Fry out several slices of salt pork, add 
the eggs and cook until the white is firm, basting them 
with the fat from the pan. 

FRIED HAM. 

Put the slices on a hot frying pan, brown on both 
sides. Remove and cook the eggs in the fat left in 
the pan. Place the eggs around or on top of the ham. 

BOILED HAM. 

If salt, soak for several hours. Wash thoroughly, 
trim off any of the black part. Cover with cold water 
and let it cook slowly, allowing one-half hour to a 
pound. Remove from the fire, let it remain in the 
water until nearly cold, then cut off the skin. Press 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 65 

into the fat a number of whole cloves, sprinkle the top 
with cracker crumbs and brown sugar. Bake in 
quite a hot oven for fifteen minutes. A half glass of 
sherry wine may be added to the boiling ham just be- 
fore it is done. 

BAKED HAM. 

Prepare the ham the same as for boiling. Let it 
simmer slowly for two hours, then remove it and cut 

t/ 

off the skin. Press cloves into the fat. Bake in a 
moderate oven for two hours, basting at first with one- 
half cup of sherry wine, and then with the fat in the 
pan. Fifteen minutes before it is done cover with 
cracker crumbs and one-fourth cup of brown sugar. 
Serve hot or cold. If serving hot, make a gravy of 
two tablespoonfuls of the fat in the pan. Stir into it 
one tablespoonful of flour and one cup of brown stock. 

SAUSAGES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Use sweet fresh pork. Take one-third fat and 
two-thirds lean. Chop or grind very fine ; season for 
every pound of meat and fat two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of sage, one-half teaspoonful of pep- 
per. Make cotton bags, one-half yard long and four 
inches wide. Dip them in strong salt and water and 
dry. Crowd the meat into them, tie the bag tightly 
and keep in a cool place. When wanted for use turn 
the end of the bag back, cut off the meat in half -inch 
slices, fry in hot frying pan until brown on both sides. 

TO TRY OUT LARD. 

Cut the leaves in small pieces, remove all flesh. 
Put a few pieces in the kettle first. When they are 



66 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



tried out put in the remainder. Cook slowly until 
the scraps are crisp, strain through cheese cloth into 
pails. 

Many like to add one pound of suet to every five 
of the leaves. This makes a firmer lard. 

BOSTON BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak two cups of pea beans in cold water over 
night. (For Colorado and high altitudes soak them 
one day and night.) In the morning drain off the 
water, put on fresh cold water and parboil them on the 
stove until the skin breaks, or you can pierce them 
with a pin. Then drain them through a colander, 
and pour cold water over them. Place in the pot. 
Clean one-fourth pound of salt pork, cut the top in 
gashes, place on top of the beans, pressing it down 
in them until the rind just shows. Mix one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, 
one tablespoonful of molasses in one cup of hot water 
and pour over the beans. Keep water enough in 
them to come to the top of the beans. Bake in a slow 
oven for eight hours. One small onion can be baked 
in the beans if the flavor is liked. The bean pot 
should be earthen, with bulging sides and have a close 
cover. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 67 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



Good mutton should have thick, white, hard, fat, 
fine-grained red meat, 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Have the bone cut short, wipe it all over with cold 
water, dredge with flour. Salt and pepper. Place 
in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then add to the pan 
one cup of hot water, baste frequently, allowing ten 
minutes to a pound if liked rare, and fifteen minutes 
if liked well done. Garnish the end of the bone with 
a paper frill or a bunch of water cress or parsley. 

ROAST LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Remove the fat and kidney. Have the joints 
cracked, so as to be easily carved. Roast the same as 
the leg. Serve with mint sauce. 

CROWN ROAST. 

This can be prepared by your butcher and makes 
a very handsome and delicious roast. Cut a full loin, 
trim the rib bones as for French chops and chop them 
to a uniform length, then roll the loin backwards into 
a circle and tie securely. Tie around each bone a 
slice of salt pork so they will not burn. Baste fre- 
quently with the fat in the pan. Allow fifteen min- 
utes to a pound. Cover each bone with a paper ruffle, 
fill up the center with potato chips and garnish 



68 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

around the roast with them, or, garnish with timbale 
cases filled with creamed peas, or pea timbales. 

ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

The saddle is the back ; if split it is the loin. Re- 
move the pink skin, as that contains the strong flavor, 
and the fat and kidneys from underneath. Roll the 
flank under and tie it into a good round shape. Dredge 
with flour, salt and pepper. Cook in a hot oven, baste 
frequently, allowing ten minutes to a pound if liked 
rare, and fifteen minutes if liked well done. Carve 
slices parallel to the back bone, then slip the knife 
under and separate them from the ribs. After the 
top is carved, turn the saddle and carve the tender- 
loin, which lies underneath. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON STUFFED. 

Remove the bone, sprinkle the inside with salt 
and pepper, stuff and sew. Cook the same as roast 
leg of mutton. 

Stuffing. One cup of stale bread crumbs, one- 
fourth cup melted butter, one-fourth teaspoonful each 
salt, pepper, marjoram and sage, a teaspoonful of 
onion juice if desired and hot water if not moist 
enough. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put the mutton into boiling water to cover, boil 
for fifteen minutes, then set aside and simmer, allow- 
ing twenty minutes to a pound. One-half hour be- 
fore removing the meat add turnip cut in half-inch 
slices. Remove the meat to a hot platter, garnish 
with the turnip, cover the top with chopped parsley or 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 69 

capers. Serve with caper sauce. Save the water to 
use with the bone and left-over pieces for soups. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 



2 Ibs. from the neck or 

flank. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



% can peas. 

2 cups of water or stock. 

1 clove. 

Sprig of parsley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Put the butter into the frying pan. When melted 
add the flour and brown. Then add the carrot and 
onion cut in small dice and the seasonings and mut- 
ton. Cook, stirring frequently until all are brown, 
then add the stock or water. Cover closely, let sim- 
mer for two hours, add the peas just before serving. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

Fry one large onion cut in thin slices in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Mix with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of curry powder, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. Stir 
into the butter and onion. Add gradually two cups 
of stock. Cut two pounds of lean mutton in two- 
inch pieces, add them to the sauce and simmer until 
tender. Place the meat on a hot platter with a border 
of rice around it. 

MUTTON AND LAMB CHOPS. 

Broil the chops over hot coals, turning every ten 
seconds, the same as steak, thus searing over the chops 
and keeping the juice inside. When the meat looks 
puffy it is done. It requires ten minutes to broil 



70 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

chops one inch thick, if liked rare eight minutes. 
Place on a hot plater, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, garnish with points of toast and a little parsley 
or watercress, or with peas, French-fried potatoes, 
potato balls or straws. 

French C7* ops.- -Have the meat and fat scraped 
from the bone. When served the bone is usually cov- 
ered with a ruffle. 

CHOPS IN PAPER CASES. 

Place the chop on well-greased heavy writing 
paper, season with salt and pepper, fold the paper 
over the chop and turn the edges over twice to hold 
them securely. Broil over a moderate fire, turning 
frequently. These may be served in the paper. 
These are very delicate to serve to invalids. 

V 

ROAST SPRING LAMB. 

Spring lamb is divided into fore and hind quar- 
ters. The whole of either not beeing too much to roast 
at one time. The fore quarter is less enpensive than 
the hind. It should be fresh and thoroughly cooked. 
Roast in a hot oven, season with flour, salt and pepper. 
After fifteen minutes cooking add one cup of hot 
water, baste frequently, allowing about twenty min- 
utes to a pound. Serve with mint sauce and green 
peas or asparagus and new potatoes. 

BOILED LAMB'S TONGUES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Boil six tongues in salted water with the juice of 
half a lemon until tender. Serve cold with tartar 
sauce, or pickle them by covering with hot-spiced vin- 
egar. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 71 



VEAL. 



The flesh of veal should be pink and firm, if it 
has a white or blue tinge it is unwholesome. It con- 
tains less nourishment than any other meat and less 
flavor, so should be highly seasoned, and, like lamb, 
should be thoroughly cooked. 

ROAST VEAL. 

The loin, breast and fillet (a thick piece from the 
upper part of the leg) are best for roasting. Remove 
the bone from the fillet and stuff with a highly- 
seasoned bread stuffing, skewer into shape. To pre- 
pare the veal for roasting, cover the top with thin 
strips of salt pork, or lard with a larding needle, sea- 
son with flour, salt, and pepper. Allow twenty-five 
minutes to a pound. Make a gravy from the drip- 
pings in the pan. Horseradish is very acceptable to 
serve with veal. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Have the blade removed and fill the space with a 
highly-seasoned stuffing, sew up the opening and truss 
with strips of salt pork. Allow thirty minutes to a 
pound. 

STUFFING. 

To one cup of stale bread crumbs add ^ne-half 
tablespoonful of salt, sage, thyme, one teaspoonful 
lemon juice, of chopped salt pork, one-quarter tea- 



72 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonful pepper, one-quarter cup melted butter, one 
egg beaten until light, and if too dry add a little not 
water. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Dredge the cutlets with salt and pepper, dip in 
fine cracker crumbs, then in egg, then again in the 
crumbs. Saute in hot fat, either salt pork or beef 
drippings. Brown well on both sides, place on a hot 
platter and surround with a tomato or Bernaise sauce 
or make a gravy by adding one tablespoonful of flour 
to the fat, adding one cup of stock and season with 
salt, pepper and a teaspoonful of lemon juice or 
season with butter, salt and pepper and pass with 
them tartar sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS WITH CREAM. 

Divide the cutlets into sections. Dip them in 
cream, then sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. 
Saute in hot butter until well browned on both sides. 
Remove to a hot platter and surround with a sauce 
made by adding one tablespoonful of flour to the fat 
and cream left in the frying pan and one cup of 
cream. Cook for five minutes, season to taste and 
add to the sauce a handful of fresh mushrooms if you 
have them and allow them to cook five minutes in the 
sauce. 

VEAL STEW. 

The ends of the ribs, the neck and knuckle may be 
used for the stew. Cut about two pounds of the meat 
in two-inch pieces. Cover the meat with boiling 
water. Let simmer until tender. Add one onion 
sliced thin, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth tea- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 73 

spoonful of pepper, two carrots sliced, one turnip 
sliced one-half inch thick when the meat is put on to 
cook, twenty minutes before the meat is done add four 
good-sized potatoes that have been sliced and soaked in 
cold water for an hour. Remove the meat and vege- 
tables on a platter, thicken the gravy with one table- 
spoonful of flour and season with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one-half cup of milk or cream. 

For Veal Pot Pie add dumplings with the pota- 
toes, the same as for beef stew. 



VEAL LOAF. 



5 pounds of veal. 

1 cup finely powdered 

cracKer crumbs. 
y 2 cup of stock. 
3 eggs. 
1 tablespoonful finely 

chopped onion. 
1 teaspoonful thyme. 



1 teaspoonful summer sa- 
vory. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

*4 cup of salt pork chopped 
fine, or 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted 

butter. 



Chop the veal fine, add cracker crumbs and sea- 
sonings, stock and eggs slightly beaten. Form with 
the hands into a loaf, cover the top with slightly- 
beaten egg, and a layer of cracker crumbs. Place in 
a baking pan on four thin strips of salt pork. Bake 
for three hours, basting frequently with butter and 
hot water. This is better served cold. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 

Cut cooked veal in thin slices or cubes. Put in a 
baking dish alternate layers of veal and buttered 
crumbs, seasoning each layer of meat with salt and 
pepper. Over the top pour a tomato sauce and 
sprinkle over with a layer of buttered crumbs. Bake 
for half an hour. 



74 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BRAISED CALF'S LIVER. 

Lard it in three rows, or place several strips of 
salt pork over the top. Cut into slices one carrot, one 
turnip, one onion and two slices of salt pork; put 
them in the baking pan. Place the liver on them. 
Add one cup of stock or hot water, one teaspoonful 
of salt and four peppercorns, a sprig of parsley. 
Cover with another pan, and cook in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half, basting often. Add more stock 
or water if necessary. Make a gravy by melting in a 
sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter stirring into 
it one of flour. When brown gradually stir in one 
cup of the stock left in the pan that has been strained 
from the vegetables. Season with more salt and pep- 
per if necessary. Pour around the liver. 

BROILED LIVER. 

Slice in three-fourth inch slices. Soak in cold 
water for five minutes to draw out the blood. Wipe 
dry. Dip in melted butter. Broil from five to eight 
minutes, turning at first every ten seconds. Season 
with butter, pepper and salt. Broiled bacon is often 
served with it. 

CALF'S HEART ROASTED. 

Wash the heart clean and wipe. Fill with a 
cracker or bread stuffing seasoned with melted butter, 
salt, pepper, onion and sage. Bake for two hours. 
Reason the outside with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
with flour. Baste with hot water and butter. Make 
a gravy from the liquid in the pan. Garnish around 
with boiled onions or stuffed tomatoes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 75 



CALF'S HEAD WITH BRAIN SAUCE. 

Soak the head in cold water for two hours. Take 
out the brains. Scrape the head very clean, then pin 
in a floured cloth. Put on to boil in salted, boiling 
water enough to cover. After boiling two hours, add 
the brains, which have first been pinned in a floured 
cloth, liver and lights, and boil two hours longer. Re- 
move the cloth from the head and the large bones will 
slip out. Lay on the platter with the skin side up. 

To Make the Brain Sauce. Take one quart of 
liquor that the head has been boiled in, one-third of 
the liver chopped fine, also the brains chopped fine. 
Melt one-half cup of butter, stir into it five tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. When smooth add the hot liquor, a lit- 
tle at a time. Stir in the chopped brains and liver, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a half cup of 
white and red wine. Salt and pepper to taste. A 
little grated nutmeg, if cared for. Cook ten minutes. 
Skin the tongue and slice the remainder of the liver, 
and surround the head with them. Pour over a part 
of the gravy. Garnish with slices of lemon and 
radishes cut to represent roses. Send the remainder 
of the gravy to the table in a dish. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads are two large glands lying along 
the back of the throat and in the breast, Sweetbreads 
found in veal are considered the best. Sweetbreads 
spoil very quickly and should be put in cold water at 
once and parboiled before using in any form. 

To Prepare Sweetbreads. Put them in cold 
water. Remove the pipes and membranes. Cook in 
boiling salted water with one tablespoonful of lemon 



76 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

juice or one-half tablespoonful of vinegar, for twenty 
minutes, then plunge in cold water for ten minutes 
to harden. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS. 

Cut the parboiled sweetbreads in slices. Dip in 
egg, crumb and egg again. Fry in deep fat for one 
minute, or season the slices with salt and pepper. 
Saute in hot butter. Garnish with parsley and olives 
or pickles and slices of lemon. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Lard the parboiled sweetbreads in even rows, and 
bake in the oven until brown, first sprinkling with 
flour, salt and pepper. 

Creamed. Cut in cubes and serve in white sauce, 
on toast, patty cases, bread boxes or timbale cases. 
They may be served in the same way with poulette 
sauce. 

SWEETBREADS SERVED IN RAMKIN DISHES OR 

SHELLS. 

Mix the parboiled sweetbreads with a cream or 
poulette sauce. Butter well the dishes, fill two-thirds 
full, cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot 
oven for eight minutes. Serve at once. Mushrooms 
or oysters can be added to them. 

TRIPE. 

Soak tripe for one-half hour in cold water, chang- 
ing the water twice, then cook in boiling water for 
twenty minutes before cooking in any form. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 77 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Dry it after boiling. Dip into melted butter, then 
season with salt and pepper, and broil for ten min- 
utes. Season again and serve. 

TRIPE IN BATTER. 

Cut the boiled tripe in two-inch pieces, dip in 
batter and fry one minute in deep fat. Or fry out sev- 
eral pieces of salt pork and brown in the fat. 

Batter. One egg, one-fourth cup of cold water, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt, and flour to make a drop batter (a batter that 
will drop from the spoon, not pour). 



78 THE KDCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



POULTRY. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

Poultry should be drawn as soon as killed, to be 

j ' 

perfectly wholesome. That custom is not used in our 
markets, but it should be made compulsory for the 
good of the meat. To tell the age of poultry, press 
the end of the breast bone. Tf it is soft and bends 
easily the bird is young. If the end is hardened 
it is over a year old. Pin feathers indicate a 
young bird, and long hair an old one. The skin 
should be firm, smooth and white. Geese and ducks 
should not be over a year old, have soft yellow feet, 
tender wings and thick, hard breast. Wild ducks 
have reddish feet. 

TO CLEAN AND TRUSS POULTRY. 

Singe the hair and down by holding the fowl over 
the gas, or over a roll of lighted paper held over the 
fire. Cut off the necks close to the body, leaving skin 
enough to fold over on the back (if to be roasted). 
Remove the windpipe and crop, then remove every- 
thing from the inside that can come out. Be sure that 
the lungs are taken out. Thev lie close to the back- 

O i/ 

bone, and are a bright-red spongy mass. l^ext take 
the leg, bend it back slightly and carefully cut the 
skin on the joint just enough to expose the sinews 
without cutting them. Run a fork or skewer under 
them, pulling them out. The drum stick is much im- 
proved by removing the sinews or tendons. Cut out 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 79 

the oil bag in the tail. Wash out the inside very 
quickly with cold water, and with a bowl of water 
and cloth wash the outside. Do not allow them to 
soak in water, as that will extract the flavor and 
nourishment. 

Gut the gall carefully from the liver. Cut the 
outer coat of the gizzard and draw it carefully away 
from the the inner sack. Open the heart and wash 
away the clot of blood. The heart, gizzard and liver 
are the giblets. All poultry and game are cleaned in 
this way. , Wild ducks, coot and geese should be 
washed thoroughly with soap and water, as the skin 
is very oily and can not be cleaned without. 

TO STUFF AND TRUSS A FOWL FOR ROASTING. 

After the fowl has been prepared as given above, 
place it in a bowl or platter, put a little of the stuffing 
in the opening at the neck, the rest in the body, filling 
out the breast until plump, then draw the neck skin 
over on the back and sew it, and if the opening of 
the body is full, sew that up with a coarse thread; 
if it is not, it is not necessary. Press the legs close to 
the body and cross over the tail, and tie firmly with 
twine. Put a long skewer through the thigh into the 
body and out through the opposite thigh, and another 
through the wings, drawing them close to the body. 
Wind a string from the tail to the skewer in the 
tie around the tail. If you have no skewers, the legs 
and wings can be kept in place by tying firmly to the 
body with string. Put the fowl on a rack in a pan, 
rub well with softened butter, dredge with flour, salt 
and pepper. Put in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, 
thigh, then up to the one in the wing, across the back 
to the other wing, then down to the other thigh, and 



80 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

then reduce the heat, add a little hot water to the pan 
to prevent burning. Baste with butter and hot water 
until brown, then baste frequently with the fat in the 
pan. Cook until the legs will separate from the body. 
Draw out the skewers and cut the strings. Allow 
about three hours for an eight-pound turkey. Serve 
cranberry sauce or jelly with roast turkey, currant 
jelly with roast chicken and game, apple sauce with 
roast goose. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Boil the giblets in salted water until tender, chop 
them quite fine, put a tablespoonf ul of flour in the pan 
in which the fowl was roasted. Let it brown, then 
add, stirring constantly, one cupful of the water the 
giblets were cooked in. Season with salt and pepper, 
strain and add the chopped giblets, and serve in a 
gravy boat. 

TO DRESS FOWLS OR BIRDS FOR BROILING. 

Singe, wipe off with a cloth and cold water, split 
down the middle of the back, lay open, and remove the 
contents from the inside. 

TO BONE A BIRD, FOWL OR TURKEY. 

The skin should be firm and unbroken, and the 
bird should not be drawn. Remove the head, wash 
and singe. Remove the tendons from the legs as di- 
rected, loosen the skin around the end of the drum 
sticks. The work of boning is not difficult but re- 
quires time and patience. Use a small pointed knife. 
A regular boning knife is the best. Cut the skin 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 81 

down the full length of the back, scrape the meat 
away from the bone, beginning at the neck, until you 
feel the shoulder blade, loosen the flesh from this, and 
then follow the bone to the wing joint, and to the 
middle joint in the wing. Care must be taken to 
avoid cutting through the skin at these places as the 
skin is very near the bone. Leave the first bone in 
the wing, then remove the flesh from the breast. Be 
careful and do not cut through the skin at the ridge, 
or to cut through the membrane into the inside. 
Remove the flesh around the second joint, then the 
drumstick, turning the flesh wrong side out. Turn 
the bird and do the same on the other side. When 
the meat is free from the carcass lay the bird on a 
board, skin side down. Place the flesh in place, 
sprinkle it with salt and pepper, stuff out the legs and 
wings with the force meat and fill the bird with it. 
Draw the skin up and sew it together, turn it over 
and skewer and tie the legs and wings in position 
of a trussed fowl, press and tie the body into natural 
shape, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, cover with 
several slices of salt pork. Roast, allowing twenty- 
five minutes to a pound. Baste frequently. Make a 
gravy by using six tablespoonfuls of the drippings 
in the pan, one of flour, and a cup of cream or 
white stock. Season. 

FORCEMEAT FOR STUFFING BONED FOWLS. 

Use the cooked or uncooked meat of another fowl 
or veal, or a part of both, chop fine. To every cup of 
meat add one-fourth cup of bread or cracker crumbs, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter, one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of onions, chopped 
fine, one-fourth teaspoonful each of sage, thyme, pep- 



82 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

per, one-half teaspoonful salt, one stalk of celery, 
chopped fine. Moisten with, stock the meat was 
cooked in, or leftover gravy. 

TO BOIL FOWL. 

Boiled fowl are sometimes cooked with oysters, 
bread or chestnut stuffing, but as the stuffing is apt 
to get wet and soggy they are better cooked without 
it. Clean, sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper, 
put on to cook in boiling water enough to cover, with 
one teaspoonful of salt and one whole small onion. 
Simmer until tender. (The time depends upon the 
age and size of the fowl). Serve with oyster, celery 
or caper sauce, using some of the liquor the fowl was 
boiled in for the sauce. Pour the sauce around the 
fowl., or garnish with a border of rice. 

BRAISED CHICKEN. 

Take an old chicken, prepare it for roasting. 
Dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Brown all over in 
hot butter, or chicken fat, then place in the roasting 
pan on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, turnip and cel- 
ery. Cover the top with four slices of salt pork, add 
two cups of water, cover closely with another pan, 
roast for three hours, basting often and replenishing 
the water so as to keep about two cups in the pan. 
Remove the fowl on a platter, garnish with the vege- 
tables, and make a gravy of the liquid in the pan. 
Season to taste. Cook in a pot on top of the stove, 
if liked. 

BROILED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Split down the back, remove the entrails and 
breast bone and the oil bag from the tail. Wipe them 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 83 

clean with a cloth and cold water. Rub with soft but- 
ter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on a broiler 
the inside down, broil over a slow fire for twenty-five 
minutes. When nearly done turn and let the skin side 
brown. Place on a hot dish, spread with butter, or 
with maitre d'hotel butter. Garnish with watercress 
or parsley and slices of lemon. 

TO BROIL A TURKEY. 

Select a very small, fat, young one, weighing 
not over five pounds. Have it split as you would a 
chicken for broiling. Place it in the roasting pan 
seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, with a half cup 
of water in the pan. Cook until the meat is tender, 
then broil over a rather slow fire. When brown put 
on a hot platter, spread with butter and season with 
salt. Save any liquid left in the pan for chestnut 
sauce to pour around it. If the turkey is unusually 
young and tender it can be broiled without cooking 
in the oven. 

PANNED CHICKEN. 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling. Place them 
in a pan, skin side up, rub with softened butter, 
dredge with flour, salt and pepper, put in a hot oven. 
After ten minutes baste with butter and a little hot 
water. Cook for thirty minutes, baste three times, 
using not over a half cup of water, the rest butter. 
Remove to a hot dish and make a gravy from the 
fat in the pan. Add to it one tablespoonful of flour. 
When brown, add a cup of thin cream or white stocks. 
Cook until smooth, stirring all the time, pour around 
the chicken. 



84 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces for serving, put 
in the pot with warm water enough to cover, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and two stalks or roots of celery. 
Cook slowly until tender, remove the chicken and 
strain the celery from the liquor. Fry out half a 
dozen slices of salt pork, and one onion sliced thin in 
the frying pan. Butter or chicken fat can be used 
in place of the pork. When the fat is hot put in the 
chicken and brown on all sides. Arrange on the plat- 
ter. Remove the onion from the fat, add two table- 
spoonsful of flour to it, and two cups of the liquor 
gradually. When smooth, add one-half can of peas 
or the same amount of mushrooms drained from the 
liquor, cook for five minutes, pour around the 
chicken and garnish with points of toasted bread or 
toasted crackers. 

CHICKEN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

An old chicken is the best. Have it cut in four 
pieces, and make the same as beef stew. 

CHICKEN CURRY (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut the chicken at the points, and remove the 
breast bone, wipe, season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in hot butter. Put in a stew 
pan. Fry one large onion, cut in thin slices, in the 
butter left in the pan, till colored, not browned. Mix 
one large tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
sugar and one teaspoonful of curry powder, and 
brown them in the butter. Add slowly one cup of 
water or stock and one cup of strained tomatoes, or 
one sour apple chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 85 

Pour this sauce over the chicken and simmer one 
hour or until tender. Add one cup of hot milk or 
cream. Boil one minute longer and serve with a 
border of boiled rice. Rabbit, veal and lamb may be 
curried in the same way. 

SPANISH CHICKEN. 

Split tender broilers in halves, rub with salt, 
sprinkle over with finely-chopped cloves and Spanish 
peppers. Over all put thin strips of bacon or salt 
pork. Bake in a hot oven till the chicken is tender. 
Watch carefully that it does not burn. If necessary, 
add a little water. When tender remove from the 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat left 
in the pan and one cup of thin cream, one-fourth cup 
of water, cook on top of the stove for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Season to taste if salt or pep- 
per is required. Pour around the chickens. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Cut cold chicken or turkey off the bones in as 
large pieces as possible. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dip in fritter batter and fry in deep fat until a 
good brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with pou- 
lette, Bernaise or tartare sauce. 

STUFFED CHICKEN OR TURKEY LEGS. 

Remove the tendons from the drum sticks, remove 
the bone, stuff the leg with a force meat. (See force- 
meat for boned chicken or turkey.) Draw the skin 
over the ends and sew securely, keeping the shape. 
Lay them in a baking pan, cover with boiling water 



86 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and simmer in the oven until tender about an hour 
and a quarter. Remove from the water, let cool, take 
out the stitches, roll in beaten egg and seasoned fine 
bread crumbs, then in egg again, and fry in deep fat 
for one minute. Serve with olive, tart are, celery or 
currant jelly sauce. 

CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND. 

Clean the chicken, remove the head and legs. Put 
it on to cook in a pot of warm water, enough to 
cover. Cook with it one sliced onion, carrot, turnip, 
one bay leaf, two cloves, six peppercorns, two celery 
roots or two or three stalks of celery. Cook slowly 
until the chicken is tender, then remove the meat 
from the bones. Cut in two-inch pieces. Cook the 
stock down to one cup, heat and strain one cup of to- 
matoes, melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, add one tablespoonful of flour. When smooth 
stir in slowly the cup of stock, then the tomato, and 
the chicken. Cook for ten minutes. Surround with 
points of toast or serve in fried bread baskets or 
timbale cases. This can be made in the chafing dish 
by having the chicken prepared before. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 
Chicken, veal or lamb may be cooked in this way : 



2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
^4 teaspoonful salt. 
A little pepper. 
1 teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. 



1 cup of milk, or chicken 
stock. 

1 cup of finely chopped 

chicken. 
10 drops onion juice. 

2 eggs. 



Make a sauce by melting the butter, then adding 
flour, salt and pepper. Cook for ten minutes, stirring 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 87 

until smooth. Add the rest of the seasonings to the 
chicken, mix the sauce and chicken together, then stir 
in the well-beaten yolks. Stir over the fire for five 
minutes. Set aside to cool. When cool beat very 
stiff the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly into 
the chicken. Put in a buttered pudding dish, bake in 
a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve at once in the 
same dishes. This can be baked in individual ram- 
quin dishes or shells 

PLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN. 

An old chicken will do as well as a young one. 
Cook until tender in boiling water, with a teaspoonful 
of salt, a small onion, and two stalks of celery. 
Strain the stock and cook down to one cup. Melt two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it one of flour. 
When smooth, stir gradually into the stock and one- 
half cup of cream. Cook ten minutes, then add two 
well-beaten yolks of eggs, cook five minutes, but do 
not boil, as it might curdle. Remove from the fire, 
add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice ; cut the chicken 
in small pieces, add to the sauce. Serve on toast, 
surrounded by a border of rice. 

CHICKEN A LA BECHAMEL. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir into it 
one of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, then add one-half cup each of chicken stock 
and cream. Stir until smooth, cook for five minutes, 
then remove from the fire, and beat into it three well- 
beaten eggs and two cups of chopped chicken. Turn 
into buttered ramquin dishes or in a baking dish, and 



88 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

bake standing in a pan of hot water about twenty 
minutes. The water should not boil. Salmon or any 
kind of white fish can be used in this way. 

i 

CHICKEN PIE. 

One good-sized, old chicken. Put it in the pot 
and cover with warm water (use warm water so that 
part of the nourishment may be in the gravy), add to 
it two teaspoonf uls of salt, six peppercorns, one onion, 
sliced, three stalks of celery or the celery root, one car- 
rot and one turnip sliced. Cook slowly for two hours, 
or until the meat will leave the bones. Boil the liquor 
down to two cups. Melt in a sauce pan one-fourth 
cup of butter, stir into it one tablespoonful of flour, 
and gradually the two cups of liquor. When that is 
smooth, stir in one-half cup of thick cream, season 
with salt and pepper. Pick the chicken mostly from 
the bones, leaving a few of the small bones to hold up 
the pie. Put a layer of the chicken in the bottom of 
the baking dish, then cover with a layer of the gravy. 
In the center of the dish place the breast bone to hold 
up the crust, fill up with the layers, and put a crust 
on top three-fourths an inch thick, cutting a slit in the 
center to let out the steam. Layers of thin-sliced po- 
tatoes may be added to the pie, a few trufHes or mush- 
rooms, or alternate layers of chicken, oysters, and the 
gravy. The baking dish is often lined with a thin 
layer of pastry, but it is very apt to be soggy. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. To cover the pie use plain 
pastry, chopped puff pastry, or a rich baking powder 
biscuit dough. 

Veal Pie. Can be made in the same way. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 89 



CHOPPED PUFF PASTE FOR CHICKEN PIE. 



2 cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
1 cup butter. 



i 



cup ice water. 



l / 2 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Beat the egg until light, add to it lemon juice and 
water. Sift all the dry materials together and chop 
the butter with them. Add the liquid, roll and fold 
four times. Bake in a hot oven. 



ROAST GOOSE. 

A young goose four or five months old is the best. 
Singe, remove the pin feathers, then wash in warm 
soap suds to cleanse it, and open the pores, then draw 
it as you would a turkey or chicken. Wash in cold 
water and wipe dry inside and out. Stuff with a 
potato stuffing, sew and truss. Put on a rack in the 
pan, cover the breast with slices of fat salt pork. 
(The pork fat aids in drawing out the oil). Place in 
the oven for an hour, then take the pan from the oven 
and pour off all the fat, dredge with flour. When the 
flour is brown, add a little hot water, baste often. 
Cook until brown and tender. Make a gravy from 
some of the fat in the pan, flour and hot water, season 
to taste. Serve with apple sauce. 

POTATO STUFFING. 



1 cup mashed potatoes. 
1 tablespoonful of onion 

chopped fine. 
1 tablespoonful of sour 

apples chopped fine. 



i 



l / 2 teaspoonful sage, 
teaspoonful salt, 
teaspoonful pepper. 



90 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ROAST TAME DUCK. 

Singe, clean, remove the crop, oil bag, legs, en- 
trails. Stuff, truss and dredge with flour, salt and 
pepper. After they have been in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, add a little hot water to the pan, and baste 
often. Roast thirty minutes, if liked rare, and forty- 
five minutes, w r ell done. Stuff with a potato or bread 
stuffing, or with celery and apples. Serve with an 
olive or bread sauce. 

OYSTER STUFFING. 



2 cups of oysters. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



^4 teaspoonful pepper. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Pick over and wash the oysters. Mix with the 
crumbs and seasonings, and stuff any kind of poultry. 
Turkeys are the best stuffed with oysters. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Cut across in the shells of one quart of the large 
chestnuts. Place them in a pan with a teaspoonful 
of butter and bake in a hot oven until the shells break 
open. The skin will come off with the shell. Re- 
move from the shell and cook in boiling water with 
one-half teaspoonful salt until tender. While hot, 
mash a few at a time through a colander or potato 
press. Season with two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, salt and pepper, and moisten with one-half cup 
of stock. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 91 



GAME. 



CANVASBACK AND REDHEAD DUCKS. 

Pick, singe, draw them, leaving on the head. Cut 
an opening to remove the crop, and through it draw 
the head and neck, letting the head come out at the 
back between the drumsticks. Tie firmly in place. 
With a howl of cold water wipe out the inside and out- 
side. Cut off the wing at the second joint. Sprinkle 
the inside with salt and pepper, dredge the outside 
with flour, salt and pepper, and cover with thin strips 
of salt pork. Put inside of the duck a teaspoonful 
of currant jelly, a sour apple, quartered and cored, or 
a couple sticks of celery cut in pieces. Place in 
the baking pan with a little hot water, and bake in a 
very hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Wild 
ducks should be served rare and very hot. Serve fried 
hominy and currant jelly with" the ducks. 

The canvasbacks have a purple head and silver 
breast and are in season from September to May. 
The redhead is often taken for it. 

SALMI OF DUCK OR GAME. 

Cut the game in small pieces, put them in a hot 
oven for five minutes to start the juices. Put in a 
sauce pan tw r o tablespoonfuls of butter, one-fourth 
pound of salt pork, cut in dice, one tablespoonful 
of onion and carrot chopped fine, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful each of salt, sage and one bay leaf, ten pepper- 
corns. Cook for ten minutes, stirring often, then add 



92 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

one tablespoonful of flour, let it brown, then add two 
cupfuls of brown stock. Cook very slowly for thirty 
minutes, strain, add one-fourth cup of madeira and 
the pieces of game, cover and cook slowly for forty 
minutes, garnish with croutons and truffles. The 
truffles should be added five minutes before the salmi 
is done. Cooked game can be used. Simmer only for 
ten minutes after it is added to the sauce. 

LARDED GROUSE. 

Draw, wipe clean, inside and out, lard the breast, 
and truss. Rub with softened butter, dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper. Roast for twenty-five minutes. 
Serve with bread or olive sauce. 

POTTED PIGEONS. 

Clean and truss them, dredge with flour, salt and 
pepper. Place them in a stew pan on slices of bacon, 
the breasts up. Add a carrot and onion cut in dice. 
Cover with stock or hot water. Let them simmer un- 
til they are tender. Serve each pigeon on a thin slice 
of buttered toast. Make a gravy and pour around 
them. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it 
one of flour, gradually stir in the liquor and vegeta- 
bles left in the boiler, season to taste with salt and 
pepper. 

ROAST PIGEONS OR SQUABS. 

To roast they should be young. Draw, clean and 
truss them, tie thin slices of bacon or salt pork over 
the breasts, dredge with flour, put a small piece of 
butter inside. Roast from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
baste with butter, and a very little hot water. Or 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 93 

they can be split down the back, and covered with 
slices of pork or pieces of butter, dredged with flour 
and roasted in the oven. Serve on slices of toast, 
garnish with parsley, shoe string, French-fried or 
Saratoga potatoes. 

QUAILS BROILED. 

Split down the back. Rub with melted butter, 
broil over hot coals for eight minutes. Serve on slices 
of buttered toast, season with butter, salt and pepper. 

QUAILS ROASTED. 

Draw them and wipe inside and out with a cloth 
and cold water. Truss, letting the legs stand up. 
Tie around each one a thin slice of salt pork or bacon. 
Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste fre- 
quently with butter and a little hot water. Serve 
on slices of toast. Season with a little salt, pepper 
and the melted butter in the pan. A very nice way 
is to lard them. 

WOODCOCK ROASTED. 

Dress, wipe clean inside and out, cut off the feet, 
tie the legs close to the body. Skin the head and neck 
and tie the peak under the wings. Tie thin slices of 
pork or bacon around them. Bake in a hot oven for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Baste with butter. Clean and 
cook in boiling salted water the hearts and livers, 
then pound to a paste, season with salt and pepper. 
Butter thin slices of toast, large enough for one bird, 
cover with the paste, place the birds on the toast, 
moistening them with the butter in the pan. Garnish 
with watercress or pieces of parsley. 



94 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

VENISON ROASTED. 

It should be wiped clean with a cloth and cold 
water, and roasted the same as heef or mutton, allow- 
ing twelve to fifteen minutes to a pound. Serve with 
currant jelly sauce and a simple salad. 

VENISON STEAK. 

Venison steak is cooked the same as beefsteak, 
serving currant jelly with it or around it on the plat- 
ter, forming a sauce. The roasting pieces are the sad- 
dle and haunch or leg. Steak is cut from both. 

ROASTED PARTRIDGE. 

Partridges have a white meat and should be well 
done. Dress and truss, cover with thin slices of salt 
pork, dredge with flour. Bake about forty-five min- 
utes, basting often with hot water and butter. Place 
on a hot platter, and surround with coarse crumbs of 
bread fried in butter, and serve with it a bread sauce. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Clean and wipe the pigeons dry. Make a stuffing 
of half a cup of pitted olives with the livers chopped 
fine, a tablespoonful each of finely-chopped onion 
and parsley. Moisten two cups of stale bread crumbs 
with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a little 
hot water. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of paprica and a tablespoonful of 
currant jelly. Stuff the pigeons, and truss well with 
twine. Place in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter. When hot brown the pigeons in it, then stir into 
it two tablespoonfuls of flour, and gradually three 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 95 

cups of boiling water. When smooth, add a small 
onion, two carrots and two stalks of celery, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, six peppercorns. Cook very slowly, 
tightly covered, for one hour and a quarter, or till 
they seem tender. Serve the pigeons on slices of toast. 
Strain and thicken the gravy and serve separately. 

PIGEONS IN CASSAROLE. 

Clean and truss the pigeons. Brown in hot but- 
ter. Place them in the cassarole, pour what butter is 
left from the sauce pan around them with a table- 
spoonful each of chopped onion, celery and carrot, 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Pour in a half cup of dry 
white wine. Cover and cook in the oven for one hour. 
Serve on slice of toast that has been moistened with 
the sauce from the cassarole. Garnish with parsley. 
Served with orange and lettuce salad. 

HOT PIGEON PIE. 

Bone the pigeons. Brown in butter. Put on to 
stew with sliced onions, carrots and two stalks of 
celery cut in half-inch pieces, salt and pepper. Stir 
into the butter after the pigeons are removed two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, mix till smooth, add two cups 
of hot water gradually, replace the pigeons and cook 
slowly till tender, then pour into a baking dish, cover 
with puff paste, with slits cut in the center for the 
steam to escape. Bake in a hot oven twenty-five 
minutes. 



96 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ENTREES. 



Entrees are served between courses, and for reg- 
ular course. 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes are made of nearly all kinds of meat, 
fish, vegetables, cheese, eggs and nuts. When shaped 
flat like a chop they are called cutlets. To prepare 
them the materials should be cooked tender, well 
seasoned and finely chopped, (a meat chopper is 
best to use for meat croquettes), mixed together with 
a creamy sauce, moulded, rolled in bread or cracker 
crumbs, dipped in slightly-beaten egg, rolled in 
crumbs again (this prevents the fat from getting in- 
side), and fried a rich brown in clear smoking hot fat. 
They are usually surrounded w T ith a sauce or peas. 
If not, should be garnished with celery tips, parsley, 
watercress or small leaves of lettuce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

An old chicken can be used. They are cheaper 
than young one, and the flavor is better. Clean the 
chicken well, and plunge in a kettle of boiling salted 
water. Place the kettle on the stove where it will 
have a slow cooking. Add to it one good-sized onion, 
cut in slices, eight peppercorns, two or three roots of 
celery, or a few of the outside stalks (celery seed 
may be used in place of celery). A small amount of 
thyme and bay leaf can be used if desired. Let cook 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 97 

until tender. Remove from the liquid and when cold 
chop fine and mix with a cream sauce. The liquid 
should be strained and when cold remove the fat and 
use for the sauces. Veal or lamb can be cooked in 
this way for croquettes. 

SAUCE FOR CROQUETTE MIXTURE. 

All Croquettes Are Mixed With a Sauce. 



1 cup milk, cream or stock. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 



teaspoonful salt, 
teaspoonful pepper. 



A dash of nutmeg can be used. When stock is 
used, take one-half cup of milk or cream. Scald the 
cream, milk or stock in a. double boiler, melt the butter 
in a sauce pan, stir into it the flour and seasonings. 
When smooth, add it to the scalded milk. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring frequently. Add it to the chopped 
mixture, and when cool mould in shape, and dip first 
in crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again. When 
meat is used, allow about one-half as much sauce as 
meat. It is well to add the sauce to the meat grad- 
ually, so as not to get the mixture too thin. It should 
be as thin as possible to mould. The beauty of a 
croquette is to have it creamy inside. 

TO PREPARE THE EGG AND CRUMBS FOR CROQUETTES. 

Beat the egg slightly until it is thoroughly mixed. 
Add to it two tablespoonfuls of cold water or milk. 
Put the bread or crackers through a meat grinder, 
or roll them. Always sift them. Bread should be 

*/ 

thoroughly dry before rolling. 



98 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO MOULD CROQUETTES. 

Take a tablespoonful of the mixture, roll lightly 
between the hands in a ball, roll the ball lightly in 
bread crumbs and mould with the hands in any shape 
you like. Dip in the egg, and see that all parts are 
covered (this prevents the fat from getting inside), 
lift out on the blade of a knife and again roll in the 
crumbs. Set aside if possible fully one hour before 
frying. Croquettes can be made up the day before 
frying if kept in a cool place and covered. 

TO FRY CROQUETTES. 

Have a good clean fat. Let it become smoking hot. 
It can be tested by a piece of bread. If it colors while 
counting twenty it is right, Place four or five at a 
time in the frying basket, plunge in the hot fat and 
cook until brown. Remove them to a soft paper to 
drain. Have the fat smoking hot each time before 
immersing the basket. Croquettes can be fried with- 
out the basket, it being much more convenient to 
use it. 



SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Clean the sweetbreads. Cook in boiling salted 
water with two tablesponfuls of lemon juice (or one 
tablespoonful to each pair) until tender. \Vhen cold 
cut in small cubes and mix with sauce. Add one 
beaten egg to the sauce five minutes before removing 
from the stove. A couple of tablespoonfuls of finely- 
chopped chicken can be used with the sweetbreads. 
Chicken or veal stock can be used with the milk to 
make the sauce or the milk used alone. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 99 

MUSHROOM CROQUETTES. 

Peel the mushrooms, break in small pieces. Cook 
in sauce pan with two tablespoonfuls of water and a 
little salt. Let boil for five minutes, drain from the 
liquid and use it with cream to make the sauce. Add 
one egg to the sauce. Mushrooms and sweetbreads 
are often used together. Chicken may be added to 
either the sweetbreads and mushrooms. 

NUT CROQUETTES. 

Brazil, English walnuts or pecans can be used. 
One cup of chopped chicken or veal, one-half cup of 
nuts chopped fine. Mix with sauce. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Cook eggs in water, just off the boil, for thirty 
minutes. When cold remove from the shell. Chop 
the whites fine, lift the yolks, mix together with one 
egg slightly beaten. Season with salt and pepper 
and finely-chopped parsley or chives. A few cooked 
mushrooms can be added. Mix with heavy white 
sauce. Set aside until cold, then mould, dip in the 
crumbs and egg. Fry. Serve with a white sauce 
alone or add a few peas, small beans, mushrooms or 
asparagus tips. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

One-half cup grated Parmasan cheese, one cup 
American cheese, grated or cut in small pieces, mix 
together with a slightly-beaten egg. Season with one- 
fourth teaspoonful of paprica, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, mix with heavy white sauce. When cold, shape, 






100 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry. These 
are very nice to accompany a salad. 

HOMINY OR RICE CROQUETTES. 

Add to one cup cooked hominy or rice while warm 
one teaspoonful of sugar, the beaten yolk of an egg, a 
little hot milk or cream to moisten, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, or moisten with a little tomato sauce. 
After shaping, press a cavity in the center of each and 
put in half a teaspoonful of jelly or marmalade. 
Close the rice over it, mould, dip in crumbs and egg, 
the same as other croquettes. These croquettes are 
nice to serve with game. 

Corn Meal Mush. Sliced in plain or fancy 
shapes, dipped in crumbs, egg and crumbs again and 
fried in deep fat, is served with game. Before the 
mush is quite cool it can be moulded in croquette 
shapes, crumbed and egged. 

MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI CROQUETTES. 

Break in small pieces, plunge in boiling salted 
water, cook until tender, drain, cool, then cut in small 
rings. Add to each cupful one tablespoonful of 
grated cheese, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprica and 
mix together with a very little heavy white sauce, just 
enough to hold the mixture together. When cool 
mould and dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Serve 
with tomato, poulette, or mushroom sauce. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Pick over carefully, so as to remove all pieces of 
shell. Mince through a strainer. Allow them to 
cook five minutes in their own liquor. Drain. When 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 101 

cool cut in small pieces. Mix with a sauce made of 
one-half cream, and the rest of liquid the oysters were 
strained from. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a sauce pan, add to it three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt, a speck of pepper. When 
smooth stir into it gradually the oyster liquor, then 
the cream. Cook for ten minutes, stirring often, then 
add a slightly-beaten egg. Cook five minutes, mix 
with the oysters ; when cold, egg and crumb. Serve 
with cream or shrimp sauce. 

SHAD ROE CROQUETTES. 

Cook the roe in boiling salted water, with one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, for twenty minutes. 
Drain, cut in fine pieces, mix with the heavy white 
sauce that has had one egg added to and cooked in it 
for five minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 
When cold mould egg and crumb. Serve with Hol- 
landaise or cucumber sauce. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

These can be formed in the shape of a croquette or 
cutlet. Buy a cooked lobster, remove the meat, cut 
in fine pieces, mix with the heavy white sauce that 
has an egg cooked in it for five minutes, mould and 
crumb. Fry. Stick into the small end of the cutlet 
a claw. Serve surrounded with peas, a white or Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Salmon Cutlets. Are made in the same way, with 

e/ f 

the addition of lemon juice and a little chopped pars- 
ley. White fish can be used the same. 



102 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CLAM CROQUETTES. 

One cup of minced clams drained from the liquid. 
Mix with heavy white sauce made of half cream and 
half the liquor from the clams. Season with salt and 
pepper. When cool mould, egg and crumb. Serve 
with Bernaise or tartar sauce. 

SWEET AND WHITE POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Two cups hot, well-mashed potato, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a little pepper, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, the beaten yolk of an 
egg, add a little cream or milk if^not moist enough to 
mould. Roll in crumbs and egg and crumbs. Fry 
in smoking-hot fat. 

POTATOES IN SURPRISE. 

Use for these sweet or white potato croquette mix- 
ture. Take one tablespoonful and mould it flat in the 
hand, about half an inch thick. Drop into the center 
of it one teaspoonful of creamed chicken, mushrooms 
or sweetbreads that have been highly seasoned, fold 
the potato over it and mould egg and crumb, like other 
croquettes. Serve with poulette sauce. 

CELERY CROQUETTES. 

Cut well-cleaned celery in very small pieces, cook 
until soft in boiling salted water. Drain, mix with 
a heavy sauce made by melting two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and stirring into it four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one-half cup of the water drained from the celery 
and one-half cup of cream, one-fourth teaspoonful 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 103 

salt. Cook for ten minutes, stirring, then add a 
slightly-beaten egg. Cook five minutes, mix with the 
celery, mould, egg and crumb. These are delicious 
served with the roast or game course. 

TO PREPARE MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms contain almost as much nutrition 
as meat. The simplest way of cooking mushrooms is 
the best. Sherry and madeira are sometimes used 
with them for flavoring, but to many their flavor, 
alone, is far preferable. They decay quickly and 
should not be used unless fresh. Use silver knife for 
peeling. Wash them, remove the stem and peel the 
caps. The stems can be boiled separately and the 
water used to flavor sauces or soups. 

Saute Mushrooms. Cut or break the caps in 
pieces, put them in a sauce pan or chafing dish with 
some butter. Let cook in the butter for ten minutes. 
Season with salt and pejyper and a little sherry if you 
like. Serve on toast. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 

Break the caps in small pieces. Cook with a very 
little water for five minutes, then add one-half cup of 
cream that has had a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with it, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and a little pep- 
per, add a tablespoonful of butter. Cook ten minutes. 
This amount of cream and seasoning for one pound of 
fresh mushrooms. Serve on toast, or as filling for 
patty cases, timbale cases or bake ten minutes in ram- 
quin dishes, covered with buttered crumbs. 



104 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MUSHROOMS A LA POULETTE. 

Stew the mushrooms in a little water with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Season with salt and pepper. 
When tender add a little chicken stock and cream and 
the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir until it thickens. 
Serve at once. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

The largest size should be used for broiling. Peel 
them and remove the stem, brush over with melted 
butter, broil as you would steak, for about five min- 
utes. Place on buttered toast, season with salt, pep- 
per and butter and a little chopped parsley. 

TO PREPARE CALF'S BRAINS. 

Soak for an hour in cold water, then cook slowly 
in boiling water for twenty minutes with a tablespoon - 
f ul of vinegar or lemon juice. Slice of onion, a little 
thyme, bay leaf, salt and peppercorns. Place again 
in cold water to blanch, remove the skin and fibers 
and cook by any of the receipts given for sweetbreads. 

CHICKEN A LA DUXELLE. 

For a chicken weighing three pounds use two cups 
of stock or water, two tablespoonf uls butter, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, a 
few drops of onion juice, one teaspoonful lemon juice, 
one teaspoonful salt, pepper, crumbs. Cut the chicken 
as for fricassee, sprinkle with the salt and pepper. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings, grad- 
ually the stock, stirring all the time, dip the chicken 
in the sauce, then roll in fine crumbs, sprinkle over 



THE ROCKET MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 105 

lightly with salt and pepper, place in baking pan. 
Cook thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve with Bech- 
amel, mushroom or poulette sauce. Garnish with 
thin pieces of toast cut in fancy shapes. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil an old chicken in as little water as possible 
until the meat slips from the bones. Remove the 
skin, pick the meat apart, remove all the fat. Season 
the liquor highly with salt, pepper and celery salt, or 
cook a few stalks of celery with the chicken. Cook 
down to one cup. Butter a mould; decorate it with 
slices of hard-boiled egg, truffles, sliced pickles and 
olives if liked. Pack the meat in, mixing the light 
and dark. Over each layer of meat pour some of the 
liquor, until all is used. Set away until cold, with 
a weight on top. When ready to serve remove from 
the mould. Garnish with lettuce, parsley, water- 
cress, hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, radishes or 
olives. 

SCOLLOPED CHICKEN OR TURKEY. 

Take equal parts of cold chicken or turkey and 
boiled rice or macaroni. Put in layers in a baking 
dish, cover with poulette or tomato sauce, well sea- 
soned. Cover with buttered crumbs. Bake until the 
crumbs are a rich brown. 

CHICKEN TIMBALE. 

Chop the meat from the breast and second joints 
of an uncooked chicken by passing it through the meat 
chopper several times. To one cup of the meat add 
five eggs, one at a time, beating them in thoroughly. 



106 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Then add one teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful 
pepper, a little celery salt and one-half cup of fresh 
mushrooms, if convenient. They can be omitted. 
Two cups of heavy cream. Decorate a well-buttered 
mould with slices of hard-boiled egg or truffles. Turn 
in the mixture and cover with a buttered paper. Cook 
standing in a pan of hot water until the center feels 
firm to the touch, from thirty to forty-five minutes. 
It can be cooked either on top of the stove or in the 
oven. Do not let the water boil. Put the bones of 
the chicken on to cook in cold water enough to cover, 
season highly with soup seasonings and cook slowly 
on the back of the stove for three hours. Reduce the 
stock to one cup, strain and use with one-half cup of 
cream thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour that 
has been added to two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
Season to taste and pour around the timbale when 
ready to serve. 

Individual Moulds. Can be decorated with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in fancy shapes, truffles, pickles or 
peas, and filled with the same mixture. Cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Macaroni Timbale. Cook until tender in boiling 
salted water long sticks of very fine macaroni or spa- 
ghetti. When soft lay carefully on a napkin to cool. 
Butter well a mould, wind the macaroni around it, 
pressing it gently into the butter to hold it, then fill up 
carefully with the timbale mixture. 

HONEYCOMB TIMBALE. 

Cook in boiling salted water the largest-size mac- 
aroni. When tender remove to a cloth to cool, then 
cut in pieces one-half an inch long. Butter a dome- 
shaped mould or bowl thickly, cover it with the mac- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 107 

aroni by sticking each piece into the butter, one at a 
time, as closely together as possible. Fill with the 
chicken timbale mixture. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE TIMBALE. 

Line the mould with cooked macaroni and fill with 
the following mixture: One cup of cooked macaroni, 
cut in small pieces, one-half cup of grated cheese. 
Stir these into a sauce made by melting two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, stirring into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one cup of milk. When smooth add one- 
half teaspoonful salt and paprica. Stir in two eggs 
slightly beaten, mix with the macaroni and cheese, fill 
up the mould and poach in hot water until firm. Serve 
surrounded by a white sauce. 

HAM TIMBALES. 

Soak one tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs in 
one cup of thin cream for half an hour, then add two 
well-beaten eggs, one cup of finely-chopped cooked 
ham, one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
mustard and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Turn 
into well-buttered timbale moulds, or use one large 
mould. The moulds can just be decorated with slices 
of hard-boiled eggs, cut in fanciful shapes. Cook, set- 
ting the moulds in a pan of hot water till the centers 
are firm. Serve with a white sauce. 



BOUDANS. 



1 Ib. of cooked chicken 
breasts (2 cups). 



cup of butter, 
cup salt pork. 



Put the meat and pork through the grinder, add 
to it three eggs, beating in one at a time until smooth 



108 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and light, add a teaspoonful of onion juice and one 
of salt, pepper to taste, add one-half cup of the liquor 
the chicken was boiled in, cook in well-buttered 
moulds, either one large one or small one, as you 
mould a timbale. Serve with a sauce made of one- 
half cup of chicken stock, one-half cup of cream and 
one-half cup of canned mushrooms, seasoned and 
thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour that has 
been added to two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 



ASPIC JELLY. 



1 fowl. 

1 shin of beef. 
1 knuckle of veal. 
5 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 



2 large onions. 

3 carrots. 

4 stocks of celery. 
2 turnips. 

1 cup of sherry or madeira. 
6 peppercorns. 



iy 2 package of gelatine. 

The wine can be omitted. Put the meats in a ket- 
tle just covered with cold water and simmer for five 
hours. An hour before removing from the fire, add 
seasonings and vegetables that have been browned in 
marrow from the soup bone or butter, strain the 
stock ; it should be cooked down to two quarts. When 
cold remove all the fat, and stir into it the beaten 
whites of two eggs, clear as you would clear soup 
stock, then add the gelatine which has been softened 
in cold water. Aspic jelly can be made from any 
soup stock by clearing it and adding gelatine, 

TO MOULD IN ASPIC JELLY. 

Pack the mould in a pan of broken ice, have it set 
in the pan firm and straight, pour in a little of the 
jelly; when firm, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, vege- 
tables, macaroni, nuts, olives, pickles, truffles, all 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 109 

cut in fancy shapes. Fasten each piece in place with 
a few drops of jelly, and when hard, add a little more 
jelly to cover. Then place whatever you wish to 
mould in the center carefully, pour in a little more 
jelly to hold it, when hard fill up the mould with the 
jelly. To decorate on the sides, dip the ornaments 
in the jelly and place on the sides after the mould is 
very cold. All kinds of meat, game or fish can be 
moulded in this way, either in one large mould or 
in individual moulds. A whole tongue is very nice 
moulded in Aspic. 

TO UNMOULD JELLY. 

Dip the mould quickly in warm water, put the 
dish over it and invert dish and mould together, gar- 
nish with some of the jelly cut in small pieces, pars- 
ley or any green. Nasturtiums, with the leaves, 
make a very effective garnish. 

CHICKEN CHARTREUSE. 

Mix finely-chopped cooked chicken (or any meat) 
that has been highly seasoned, with acream, or pou- 
lette sauce, or left-over sauce from the meats, line a 
well-buttered mould with hot cooked rice an inch 
thick, fill the center with the meat and cover the top 
with rice, cover the mould and cook standing in hot 
water for forty-five minutes, serve surrounded by a 
tomato sauce. A very nice way of using up left- 
overs. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

To be cooked on the chafing dish or over hot 
water. Cut one cold chicken and one parboiled 



110 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sweetbread quite fine, make one cup of cream sauce 
by using two tablespoonfuls of butter melted, add- 
ing to it two of flour, one cup of thin cream, season 
with salt and pepper, then put in the meat, when 
heated add the yolks of two beaten eggs, cook five 
minutes, then add a wine glass of sherry or madeira. 
Serve. 



2 ducks. 

1 Ib. calf's liver. 
1 onion. 

3 stalks celery. 



MOCK TERRAPIN. 



2 cloves. 



1 tablespoonful salt. 
6 peppercorns. 
Sprig of parsley. 



Clean the ducks and put them on to cook in boil- 
ing water with the liver and seasonings, cook slowly 
until tender, remove from the kettle when cold. Cut 
ducks and liver in dice, mash the hard-boiled yolks 
of six eggs to a smooth paste, add gradually a cup of 
thick cream, melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
sauce pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half 
cup of milk, stir until smooth, gradually stir in the 
egg yolks and cream, stir constantly until it reaches 
the boiling point, season with salt and pepper, then 
add the meat, heat and serve. 

CHICKENS, PIGEONS OR GAME OF ANY KIND IN CAS- 
SEROLE. 

Singe and draw them, wipe dry, saute to a rich 
brown in frying pan, using butter, bacon or pork fat, 
then place in a casserole, add to the fat in the pan 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and two cups of stock, 
chicken, veal or beef stock, season with salt, pepper, 
a teaspoonful of parsley or cloves, chopped fine, a 
half teaspoonful of onion juice. Cook the sauce for 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 111 

a few minutes. Turn it into the casserole, put on the 
cover, and cook slowly in the oven about two hours, 
according to the tenderness of the fowl or game. 
Skin off the fat, and if game, add half cup of stoned 
olives that have been heated or two tablespoonfuls of 
capers. Serve in the casserole. 

CHICKEN LIVERS. 

Put in the chafing dish or sauce pan (over the 
fire) two tablespoonfuls of butter. When hot add 
the livers cut in pieces. Turn them to brown on all 
sides, dredge with flour, add a cup of stock after 
they have been cooking five minutes ; season with 
salt and pepper, add one-fourth cup of madeira or 
sherry, a few stoned olives. Serve on toast. 

Chickens Livers. May be cooked in butter until 
brown, sprinkled with flour, add cream and season- 
ings. 

SALMI OF DUCK OR GAME (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut the meat from cold-roasted game or duck into 
small pieces. Break up the bones and remnants, cover 
with stock or cold water, add a pinch of herbs, two 
cloves and two peppercorns. Boil down to a cupful 
for a pint of meat. Fry two small onions cut fine in 
two tablespoonfuls of butter till brown, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, stir till dark brown. Strain the 
liquor in which the bones were boiled and add it grad- 
ually to the butter and flour, add more salt if needed, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls 
of Worcestershire sauce, and the pieces of meat. 
Simmer fifteen minutes, add a dozen mushrooms and 
a glass of claret if you like, or the juice of a sour 



112 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

orange. Serve hot on slices of fried bread. Garnish 
with parsley and slices of orange, or serve canned 
peas in the center with the meat on toast around them. 

MEAT PIE. 

Cut cold-cooked meat into thin slices, remove all 
the gristle, put in baking dish, cover with gravy or 
tomato sauce. Season well. Spread a crust of mashed 
potato over the meat, brush over with beaten egg 
and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

MEAT PIE (No. 2). 

Put layers of cooked sliced meat and potato in a 
baking dish (other vegetables can be used if liked), 
cover with a gravy, season and spread over with a 
plain pastry rolled one-half inch thick, bake in a hot 
oven for thirty minutes, or covered with a baking 
powder biscuit dough. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Put through the meat grinder two pounds of beef 
from the top of the round. Add one-half cup of 
cream, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter, two tea spoonfuls of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of sage, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Pack solidly in a bread pan and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes. When cold slice 
thin, garnish with sliced pickles or olives. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Cut cooked mutton or lamb in thin slices or 
cubes. Place in a baking dish a layer of meat, 



THE ROCKiT MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 113 

sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper and cover a 
quarter of an inch thick with cooked rice, then with 
tomato sauce, and so on until the dish is full. Spread 
buttered crumbs over the top, bake in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Two pounds from the neck of mutton or lamb, 
cut in inch pieces. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
into a frying pan, add one onion cut in thin slices, 
one good-sized carrot sliced, and the meat well 
browned, being careful that it does not burn, then stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of flour and gradually add a 
cup and a half of water, teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, tie in a piece of muslin 
a sprig of parsley, half a bay leaf and a clove (remove 
before serving). Cover closely and simmer for two 
hours. Add one-half can of peas ten minutes before 
serving. This can be cooked in a casserole dish. 

Cooked mutton or lamb may be prepared in the 
same way, cooking slowly one hour. 

LIVER LOAF. 

Put a calf's liver through the meat grinder, sea- 
son lightly with salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne and 
nutmeg and three eggs, one-fourth cup of melted but- 
ter ; mix well together, put into a well-buttered mould 
or bread pan, bake standing in a pan of hot water 
for one hour. Serve cold, garnished with slices of 
hard-boiled egg and pickles or olives. Or serve hot 
with a brown sauce. 



114 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO BROIL VENISON STEAK. 

Cover with melted butter and then broil as yon 
would other steaks. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter, or cover with maitre d'hotel sauce. Serve at 
once. 

SWEETBREADS A LA TOURAINE. 

Parboil two sweetbreads ; melt three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, saute the sweetbreads in it with two 
good-sized slices of onion and one carrot sliced. 
When browned remove the sweetbreads to a baking 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry, one-half cup 
rich stock, cook in the oven for half an hour, basting 
often. Mash a pint of cooked peas through a sieve, 
reheat, allowing the water to cook out of them, 
season with butter, pepper and salt, shape in- 
to nests (on the platter) one for each sweetbread). 
Arrange the sweetbreads in the nests and pour around 
them the following sauce : Saute six fresh mush- 
rooms, cut in strips, in butter, stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour ; when blended with the butter add a cup 
of thick cream and the gravy left in the pan after 
cooking the sweetbreads. A nest of the whole peas 
may be used. 



HAM PUFFS. 



2 cups water. 
4 eggs. 
2 cups flour. 
y 2 cup finely chopped 
cooked ham. 



1/2 teaspoonful curry powder. 

^4 teaspoonful salt. 

A little cayenne or paprica. 



As soon as the water boils stir into it the flour, 
beat well, stir until the batter leaves the sides, re- 
move from the fire, beat in the eggs one at a time, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 115 

add the ham and seasonings. Drop the batter from 
the tip of the spoon into smoking-hot fat, cook until 
brown, drain on soft paper. Serve with white sauce 
or cabbage salad. 

TERRAPIN. 

The best terrapin are the "Diamond Back," 
from Chesapeake Bay. Very good ones are taken in 
Long Island waters and along the sea coast. The 
season for eating them is from December to April. 

TO PREPARE TERRAPIN. 

Drop the live terrapin into boiling hot water, let 
them remain for twenty minutes, remove the skin 
from the head and feet by rubbing with a cloth, 
wash in several waters ; then put into fresh boiling 
water, cook until tender. This is shown by pressing 
the feet between the fingers. If they are not tender 
in an hour's cooking they probably are not good, the 
meat will be stringy and tough. Remove as soon as 
tender. When cold cut off the nails, remove the 
shells, very carefully take the gall sacks from the 
liver (if the sacks be broken, so the liquid touches the 
liver or meat, it will give a very disagreeable bitter 
taste). Remove the entrails, lights, heart, head, tail 
and white muscles; separate the pieces from the 
joints, divide the meat in pieces an inch and a half 
long. Do not break the bones. Place the meat, ter- 
rapin eggs and liver in a stew pan, cover with boiling 
water and boil until the meat is ready to drop from 
the bones. 



116 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



STEWED TERRAPIN. 

Mash the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs to a paste, 
mix them with one-fourth cup of butter, stir this in- 
to two cups of hot cream, cook in double boiler, stir 
until smooth ; season with salt, paprica and a dash of 
nutmeg, add one quart of the cooked terrapin and 
cook for fifteen minutes. Just before serving add 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Serve in very hot soup 
plates. 

TERRAPIN A LA NEWBURG. 

Put in a double boiler or chafing dish one quart 
of terrapin, one cup of cream. When it is well heat- 
ed through add to it the well-beaten yolks of four 
eggs, mixed with one cup of cream ; stir until it 
thickens ; season with salt, pepper, paprica and two 
tablespoonfuls madeira or sherry just before serving. 

COCKTAIL OF LITTTLE NECK CLAMS AND OYSTERS. 

Chill thiroughly one-half dozen of little neck 
clams or oysters for each person ; mix one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup, six drops of tabasco sauce, a little paprica, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
horseradish, allow a tablespoonful and a half for each 
person. Serve in sherry glasses, grape fruit, lemon 
and orange shells, fresh tomatoes or peppers. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 117 



FRITTERS. 



FRITTER BATTER (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Yolks of two eggs well beaten, add one-half cup of 
milk or water, and one tablespoonful of olive oil, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one cup of flour, or enough 
to make it a drop batter. When ready to use add the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff. If intended for fruit, 
add a teaspoonful of sugar to the batter, if for clams, 
tripe or meat add one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
This batter will keep several days. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Cook the oysters until they are plump, drain 
from the liquor (use the liquor instead of milk to 
make the batter). Dip each oyster into the batter, 
fry until brown in deep fat. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Select large, fine peaches, skin and halve them, dip 
in batter and fry. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Chop the clams, mix with the batter, drop from 
a spoon into the fat. Use some of the clam water to 
make the batter in place of the milk. 

X 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Cut the banana in two-inch pieces, dip in the bat- 
ter and fry a rich brown, drain on paper. Serve with 
or without a sauce. 



118 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Slice in half-inch slices, dip in batter and fry the 
same as banana fritters. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core the apple, slice in half-inch thick 
slices, dip in batter and fry. Any of these fritters 
can be sprinkled with powdered sugar and served 
with a sauce. It is better to steam the apples a few 
minutes. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Cook the vegetables until tender, cut in small 
pieces, dip in the batter and fry. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Make the same mixture as for cream puffs, drop 
from a spoon into hot fat, cook until brown, drain. 
Serve with a sauce. 



SAUCE FOR FRITTERS. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt with a cup of sugar, pour over it one 
cup of boiling water, stir and boil for ten minutes, 
then add one tablespoonful of creamed butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira, or flavor with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, nutmeg, or the juice of 
half an orange and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Fritters are served as an entree or dessert. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 119 

BATTER FOR TIMBALE CASES OR FONTAGE CUPS. 

Yolks of two eggs well-beaten, half a cup of 
water, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of olive oil, one cup of flour, or enough to make a 
thin batter. Let it stand for two or three hours be- 
fore using. Have a kettle of hot fat, place the iron 
in the fat until it is very hot, or until the fat smokes, 
letting the iron heat up with the fat ; remove the iron 
from the fat and quickly wipe a little of the fat from 
the mould, dip it in the batter until it is coated, place 
again in the hot fat, cook a delicate brown, drain on 
soft paper. Be careful in cooking them that the iron 
does not touch the bottom of the kettle as that will 
break them at the bottom. Use them to hold creamed 
meats, mushrooms, vegetables, fish, or anything that 
you care to serve individually. 

BREAD BOXES. 

For these use stale bread, cut from a loaf slices 
an inch and a half thick, trim off the crusts, making 
a trim thick slice, cut out a square from the inside, 
making a box to hold creamed meats or vegetables. 
Cover the boxes with melted butter and brown in the 
oven. These can be cut in rounds, squares, hearts, 
diamonds or any fancy shapes. 



120 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



VEGETABLES. 



When convenient, vegetables should be freshly 
picked and thoroughly washed. The most simple 
ways of cooking them is the best, they then retain 
their own flavor. Most all vegetables should be 
cooked in boiling salted water, and removed from the 
stove as soon as done, as over-cooking will make them 
soggy. Green vegetables keep their color better by 
cooking without a cover. The time for cooking de- 
pends upon their freshness and the altitude. A high 
altitude requires a longer cooking. They should be 
seasoned with salt, pepper, butter, cream and sauces. 
Fresh green vegetables that contain sugar should 
have a small quantity of sugar added to the season- 
ing to replace that which is boiled away in the water. 
One vegetable, besides the potato, is served with the 
meat course; other vegetables, like egg plant, stuffed 
tomatoes and peppers, artichokes, mushrooms, maca- 
roni and many others, can be served as a separate 
course. 

POTATOES. 

To Boil Potatoes.- -Wash them well with a brush, 
pare them and drop at once in cold water, having 
them uniform size so they will be done together. Put 
them on to cook in boiling salted water, about half 
a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water, boil slowly 
till they are done (as violent boiling breaks them). 
Then drain off all the water, return to the back of 
the stove, shake gently to allow the steam to escape, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 121 

sprinkle with a little salt and serve on a hot dish. 
Potatoes cooked in this way will always be light and 
palatable. 



OLD POTATOES. 

In the spring of the year the potatoes become 
withered (the water evaporates from them), they 
should then be pared and allowed to soak in cold 
water two or three hours before cooking, so that they 
may take in some of the water they have lost. 

NEW POTATOES. 

New potatoes are boiled with the skin on. As 
soon as they are done peel them and dry on the 
stove, season with salt alone, or cover them with a lit- 
tle melted butter and a sprinkling of finely-chopped 
chives or parsley, just a little cream, pepper and 
salt make a nice dressing, or cover with cream sauce. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil and dry the potatoes as directed, mash them 
in the same dish in which they are boiled. For two 
cups of potato use one-half cup of milk or cream, 
heated with two tablespoonfuls of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, add slowly to the potato, beating all 
the time ; when very light and foamy, pile into a hot 
serving dish, but do not smooth them over, as that 
will make them heavy. 

RICED POTATO. 

Press well-seasoned, lightly mashed potato through 
a potato ricer onto the serving dish. Serve broiled 
meats around a mound of riced potato. 



122 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

POTATO CAKES. 
Mix a well-beaten egg with seasoned mashed po- 

C2t_J -1- 

tato, mould in cakes, dip in melted butter and brown 
in the oven, on a buttered pan, or saute in butter or 
bacon fat; garnish with parsley. 

POTATO ROSES. 

Use well-seasoned, hot mashed potatoes, add to 
two cups of the potato the yolks of two eggs and the 
white of one well beaten, place in a pastry bag with 
a tube having a star-shaped opening; force out the 
potato from the tube with a gentle pressure, guide it 
around in a circle until it comes to a point, have them 
small, brush them over lightly with beaten egg, brown 
them in the oven by placing them onto a well-buttered 
pan, or garnish a planked fish with them. If 
browned on a pan remove them carefully with a 
broad-bladed knife. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Two cups of hot seasoned mashed potato, fold 
lightly into it the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
turn at once into well-buttered dishes, individual 
dishes, paper boxes or one large flat dish can be used ; 
brown in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve at 
once with fish, meat or entrees. The potato can also 
be baked in a well-buttered border mould, then turned 
into a hot dish and the center filled with creamed 
meats, mushrooms or fish. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes or thin slices, 
make a cream sauce in double boiler, season well with 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 123 

salt and pepper, lieat the potatoes in the sauce for 
fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a sprink- 
ling of chopped parsley or chives over them. 

SCOLLOPED POTATOES. 

Butter a baking dish, cover the bottom with a 
layer of cooked sliced cold potato, then with a layer 
of cream sauce, and so on until the dish is full ; 
sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top, brown in a hot 
oven. 

DELMONICO POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small cubes, butter 
a baking dish, or individual dishes or cases, cover the 
bottom with a layer of potato, then with a layer of 
cream sauce; sprinkle over with grated or thinly 
sliced cheese and a little paprica; fill up the dish 
with the layers, having the cheese on top, bake in a 
hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes, according to 
the amount baked. These potatoes are delicious 
served with broiled meats. 

POTATOES A LA BECHAMEL. 

Cut cold potatoes into cubes as for Delmonico 
potatoes, bake in buttered dishes, cover the layer of 
potato with Bechamel sauce, and sprinkle buttered 
crumbs over the top, brown in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

VIENNESE POTATOES. 

Add to two cups of hot, seasoned mashed potato 
the yolks of two eggs and the white of one well beaten, 
and one-half cup of grated cheese, mould into small 



124 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

balls and roll the balls into long shape, thick in the 
center, with pointed ends, roll on a slightly-floured 
board, brush over with slightly beaten egg, lay 
on well-buttered pan one inch apart, make two 
slanting cuts on the top of each, again brush over 
with egg, brown in a hot oven ; remove carefully on 
a broad-bladed knife. Garnish broiled meats or fish. 

MASHED POTATOES MILANESE. 

Peel the potatoes, boil in boiling salted water till 
tender, drain and shake over the stove until the 
steam has escaped, mash till smooth and creamy, 
moistening all the time with chicken stock, season 
with salt and pepper and add cream enough to ena- 
ble to beat with an egg beater, pile in a dish without 
smoothing, sprinkle grated cheese over the top, brown 
in a hot oven. 

POTATO BALLS. 

To make the balls, use a potato scoop, pare and 
wash the potato, press the scoop well into the pota- 
to and then turn it to form the ball (cook at once the 
scraps left from the potato and use for mashed or 
creamed potatoes). Cook till tender in boiling salted 
water. Serve with butter, pepper and salt or in 
cream sauce, or maitre d'hotel sauce. These make a 
pretty garnish to serve as a mound cannon-ball style, 
on top of boiled, broiled or baked fish. 

FRIED POTATO BALLS AND STRAWS. 

Cut the potatoes with the scoop for the balls, and 
in slices, then in thin strips for the straws, soak in 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 125 

cold water for one hour, dry between towels, fry a 
few at a time in smoking hot deep fat, drain on soft 
paper, season with salt. 

FRENCH-FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes in half-inch slices, then half- 
inch strips, soak in cold water for an hour, dry, and 
fry in smoking hot fat. Season with salt. 

POTATO NESTS. 

Prepare the potato as for straws, arrange them 
in nest shape in a wire utensil that comes for the pur- 
pose (it is a wire formed in the shape of a nest) ; fry 
in deep fat, remove from the form, drain, and fill 
with creamed fish, meats, or mushrooms ; garnish 
with parsley. 

WALDORF POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes round and round, the same as 
you would pare an apple, fry in a basket in deep fat, 
drain on a paper, season with salt, garnish a roast or 
fish with them. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Shave raw potatoes in thin slices. A potato slicer 
is much the better to use. Soak in cold water for one 
hour, dry between towels, fry in deep fat, drain on 
soft paper, sprinkle with salt. 

Cut raw potatoes in hearts, crescents and other 
fancy shapes by using cookie cutters and the French 
vegetable knife, first cutting the potatoes in slices ; 
fry in deep fat or cook in boiling salted water. Serve 
with cream sauce. 



126 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES. 

Cut cold cooked potatoes into small cubes. Put 
into a frying pan slices of salt pork cut thin, when 
they are well browned remove them and put in the 
potato, with a knife press it into a mound, when it 
has browned on one side with a wide-bladed knife, 
turn and brown on the other side. Serve on a hot 
dish. The pork gives a very delicious flavor to the 
potatoes. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices half an inch 
thick, fry till brown on both sides in a frying pan 
that is well greased with salt pork or bacon fat, sea- 
son with salt and a little pepper. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes, put them in the pan 
with the meat, and baste when the meat is basted. 
Serve on the platter with the meat. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes, season with 
salt and pepper. Saute one tablespoonful of finely 
chopped onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter until 
a light brown, then add the potatoes and stir with a 
fork until they have absorbed all the butter, add a 
half tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Serve 
on a hot dish. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut in slices one-quarter of an inch 
thick. Broil on both sides till tender, season with but- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 127 



ter, pepper and salt, or use cold boiled sweet or white 
potatoes, cut them in slices, dip in melted butter and 
broil till a delicate brown, season with salt and pep- 
per. 

BAKED SWEET AND WHITE POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size, wash and scrub 
them with a brush, place in a pan, and bake till soft. 
Break the skin to allow the steam to escape. Serve 
at once uncovered. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake four potatoes; when tender cut in halves 
lengthwise and scoop out the inside, mash and beat 
till very light, season with a tablespoonful of butter 
and cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, and fold 
into the mixture the white of two eggs which have 
been beaten stiff, fill the skins, heaping it lightly on 
top, replace in a hot oven and brown. 

STUFFED POTATOES (No. 2). 

Bake the potatoes, cut a piece off the top of each, 
remove the inside, season, mash and mix with any 
chopped meat or grated cheese (the cheese is very 
delicious), replace in the potato, letting it come a lit- 
tle over the top of the potato, brush the top over with 
melted butter and brown in the oven. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Cut cold, baked or boiled sweet potatoes in quar- 
ter-inch slices, cover the bottom of a baking dish with 
a layer of the potato spread quite thickly with pieces 



128 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of butter, and scatter over a little sugar and salt, sea- 
son each layer in this way, having the sugar on top. 
Bake in the oven until heated through and browned 
slightly. 

GREENS. 

Greens should be will picked over, wash in several 
cold waters, put on to cook without water, the water 
that clings to the leaves is sufficient to cook them ; 
sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt, and cook 
slowly, uncovered until tender, drain, chop fine, gar- 
nish with hard cooked eggs, cut in slices or eighths, or 
run the yolks through a potato ricer, and sprinkle 
over the top, cut the whites in rings and place around 
the outside. Season with butter and a little pepper 
and salt. 

SPINACH. 

Cook and prepare the same as greens, or after 
chopping mix with butter, a little cream, garnish 
with egg and points of toast, or form in a mound, 
cover with buttered cracker crumbs, brown in the 
oven and surround with broiled chops. Spinach is 
very nice served in jread boxes. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE. 

Take one cup of spinach (prepared as directed 
above with the cream and butter), add to it the stiffly 
beaten whites of two eggs, fill individual dishes or 
paper boxes with the mixture (about two-thirds full), 
place in a hot oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Serve 
at once with a roast or broiled meats. 



THE ROCK* MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 129 

CABBAGE. 

Take off the outside leaves, cut in quarters, wash 
and soak in cold water for one hour, drain and put 
on to cook in boiling salted water with a fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda. The soda helps to make it more di- 
gestible. When tender drain, cut or chop fine, season 
with butter, hot milk or cream, salt and pepper, or 
mix with a white sauce, and cover with buttered 
crumbs, brown in the oven. 

CABBAGE BAKED WITH CHEESE. 

Cold cabbage can be used, chop cooked cabbage 
fine, put in baking dish layers of cabbage, white sauce 
and cheese, well seasoned, having the cheese on top 
brown in a hot oven. 

ROUTH KROUTH. 

Cut red cabbage in halves, soak in cold water, 
then shave in thin slices, put on to cook in the follow- 
ing mixture: For every two cups of cabbage use 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, the same amount of vin- 
egar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, little pepper, cook 
slowly till tender. Serve hot or cold. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off the outside leaves, cut the stalk even 
with the flower, let it soak upside down in cold salted 
water for half an hour to draw out any insects, cook 
the same way as cabbag. Serve with white, Hollan- 
daise. Bechamel sauce or drawn butter ; or serve in 

/ / 

any of the ways as directed for cabbage. 



130 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Remove any wilted leaves, soak in cold salted 
water, to draw out any insects that may be in them, 
cook in boiling salted water (uncovered till tender, 
but not till they lose their shape), season with butter, 
pepper and salt, or cover with a cream or Hollandaise 
sauce. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off the white hard end of the stalks, untie the 
bundles, soak for half an hour in cold water, tie them 
up again, and cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der, remove onto slices of buttered toast, cut the string 
and season with butter, pepper and salt, or cover with 
a white or poulette sauce; or cut the asparagus in 
inch pieces, boil, and season as directed above, or 
serve plain without toast. 

ASPARAGUS LOAF. 

Butter quite thick a three-pint mould or bowl (a 
pail could be used), decorate the bottom and sides 
with stalks of cooked asparagus ; melt two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a double boiler, stir into it two of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth of pap- 
rica, stir into it gradually one cup of cream, one cup 
and a half of cooked asparagus tips, and four well- 
beaten eggs, turn into the mould, cook standing in a 
dish of hot water until the center is firm, either in the 
oven or on top of the stove, do noot let the water boil. 
(It is easier to cook in the oven on that account.) In- 
vert on a serving dish. Serve surrounded by a cream 
sauce with asparagus tips added, or serve without a 
sauce. 



THE ROCK* MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 131 

ARTICHOKES. 

Cut off the outside leaves, soak in cold water for a 
half hour, trim away the lower leaves and the ends 
of the others, cook in boiling salted water until the 
leaves can be drawn out, drain, remove the choke and 
serve with cream sauce, or drawn butter. 

EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant in slices one-half an inch thick 
without removing the skin. Steam till tender, dip 
each slice in powdered crumbs then in egg, and in 
crumbs again, saute on both sides, in lard, butter or 
drippings till tender. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Boil the egg plant till tender, cut in halves, re- 
move the insides and mash, season with butter, pep- 
per and salt, if you like add two tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese or one-half cup of almonds cut very 
fine, put back in the shells, cover with buttered 
crumbs, brown in the oven. 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape and at once throw into cold water, with a 
little vinegar or lemon juice to keep from discoloring, 
cook in boiling salted water till tender (about one 
hour), drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, or 
cut in half-inch pieces and serve in cream sauce, or 
dip in fritter batter and fry in hot fat, or when cold 
brown in butter. 



132 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



RAW TOMATOES. 

Scald by pouring boiling water over them a few 
hours before using, peel and put on the ice, slice or 
serve whole with mayonnaise or French dressing; 
garnish with lettuce. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour over them boiling water, remove the skins, 
and cut in small pieces, removing all the bad places, 
stew until tender, with a very little water. To one 
quart of tomato add one teaspoonful of salt and 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, and powdered 
cracker crumbs, and a little pepper, cook the cracker 
crumbs in the tomato five minutes before adding the 
seasonings. 

SCOLLOPED TOMATOES. 

Scald and peel the tomatoes, butter a baking dish 
and cover the bottom with a layer of tomatoes cut in 
half -inch slices, season with salt, pepper and a sprink- 
ling of sugar, cover with a thin layer of buttered 
crumbs, a little onion juice is an improvement; fill 
the dish with the layers, having the crumbs on top, 
bake in a hot oven for one hour, or less time if a 
small quantity is used. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select large firm tomatoes, cut a thin slice from 
the stem end and scoop out the inside, sprinkle the 
inside with salt and pepper, fill with the 
following mixtures: Mix with the pulp an 
equal amount of buttered cracker crumbs, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and onion juice, or use in 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 133 

place of the crumbs the same amount of cooked rice 
or macaroni, fill the tomatoes full, replace the slice 
of tomato, cover with a thin two-inch slice of salt, fat 
pork, hold the slices of tomato and pork in place by 
putting a wooden toothpick through them. The pork 
bastes them and adds very much to the flavor. Re- 
move the toothpick before serving. The top of the 
tomato can be covered with buttered crumbs instead 
of using the slices of tomato and pork. 

Bake in a granite pan, with a little stock or hot 
water. Serve on slices of toast or surrounded by a 
brown sauce. Any kind of finely chopped meat may 
be used for stuffing by mixing it with a few buttered 
crumbs, a little stock, or a little leftover sauce, well 
seasoned, and a grating of onion or cooked peppers 
finely chopped. Cooked mushrooms and sweetbreads 
can be used by chopping them and mixing with either 
of the following sauces : Cream, celery, allemande, 
poulette, or Bechamel, or stuff with seasoned rice. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHEESE. 

One-half pound fresh mushrooms, one-half cup of 
grated cheese. Peel and cut the mushrooms in small 
pieces, stew for five minutes in two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water, drain well, put in sauce pan, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, stir into it two of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful salt and one-eighth of paprica, and 
the water that was drained from the mushrooms 
with enough cream to make one cup in all. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring. Then add the mushrooms and 
grated cheese, fill the tomatoes with the mixture and 
cover the top with buttered crumbs. Bake with a 
few tablespoonfuls of stock or hot water in the pan. 
Serve on buttered toast. 



134 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut tomatoes in halves. Put them in a granite 
pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place a tea- 
spoonful of butter on each one. Let them cook till 
soft, but not to lose their shape. Remove on a hot 
dish surrounded with curry sauce. 

TOMATOES WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Prepare and cook the same as for curry tomatoes, 
surrounded with celery sauce. 

TO PREPARE PEPPERS FOR STUFFING. 

Cut a slice from the top, scoop out the inside and 
parboil in boiling salted water five minutes. Stuff 
with any of the mixtures you would use for tomatoes. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

Chop one pepper and a slice of onion very fine. 
Parboil one pint of oysters, drain, cut in small pieces. 
Soak one-half cup of fine bread crumbs in the oyster 
liquor, press out the liquor. Saute the pepper and 
onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter till a light 
brown, add them to the oysters and crumbs. Season 
with salt and pepper, fill up the peppers, and cover 
the top with buttered cracker crumbs. Bake until 
tender. Serve with tomato sauce. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH SWEETBREADS. 

Simmer sweetbreads in boiling salted water, 
with a tablespoonful of lemon juice five minutes, 
then cut in small cubes. Melt two tablespoonfuls of 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 135 

butter, add to it two of flour and one-half cup of 
chicken stock, the same amount of cream. Season 
with salt and pepper. Cook ten minutes, add the 
sweetbreads, and a half cup of mushrooms if you 
wish, fill the peppers, cover with buttered crumbs. 
Bake and serve on rounds of toast. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes in thick slices (without peeling), 
brush over with melted butter and broil, turning fre- 
quently. Lay them on a hot dish, season each slice 
with salt, pepper and a piece of butter. 

CHESTNUT PUREE. 

Remove the shells by cutting a cross on the flat 
side of each and putting them in a pan in a hot oven 
till the shell bursts open. The shell and skin will 
both come off together. Put them in boiling salted 
water and cook until very tender, then drain and 
mash through a potato ricer, or colander. Season 
with butter, pepper, salt and a little cream. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Remove the skins, put them on to cook in boiling 
salted water. After they have been cooking five min- 
utes change the water, and change again after ten 
minutes' cooking, then boil till tender, drain, remove 
carefully to a hot dish, put a piece of butter in the 
center of each and a little pepper and salt. A little 
thick cream may be poured over them, or a cream 
sauce. 



136 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ROASTED ONIONS. 

Boil the onions for ten minutes, drain them care- 
fully, and remove to a granite pan. Place a good 
sized piece of butter on each one, put in a hot oven 
and cook till tender, baste with melted butter if neces- 
sary to prevent burning. Place on a hot dish and 
season with salt and pepper. Or use as a garnish. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Cut in thin slices (it is best to use the young 
onions), and fry till brown and tender in butter, or 
fry until crisp six thin slices of salt fat pork, put in 
the onions and cook. The pork gives them a delicious 
flavor. Season with salt and pepper. 

SCOLLOPED ONIONS. 

If the onions are large cut in quarters, boil, put 
in a baking dish, cover with cream sauce and buttered 
crumbs. Bake till brown. 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. 

Peel and cut out a part of the inside, parboil them 
for five minutes, drain, fill with any kind of force 
meat, mixed with one-third part of moistened bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and melted butter, 
cover the top with buttered crumbs ; cook in the oven 
till tender. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots when young and tender make a very deli- 
cious vegetable. Wash and scrape them, cook in boil- 
ing salted water. Serve with butter, pepper and salt, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 137 



or a cream sauce. Cut in slices, cubes, strips or 
rounds, with a potato cutter if you like, before boil- 
ing. 

TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare, cut in slices, or fancy shapes. Cook 
and season the same as carrots, or mash and season 
with melted butter, pepper and salt, 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, cook in boiling salted water. Sea- 
son the same as carrots. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Cut cold cooked parsnips in halves lengthwise, or 
if very large in half-inch slices. Saute in hot butter, 
brown on both sides. Season with salt. 

BEETS. 

Wash and cook in boiling salted water. When 
tender, drain and plunge in cold water, the skin will 
then slip off easily. Season with butter, pepper and 
salt or vinegar. 

CORN ON THE EAR. 

Strip off the outside husks, leaving enough of the 
husks to completely cover the ear, tie a string around 
the end of each ear to hold the husk. Cook in boiling 
unsalted water for ten or fifteen minutes, according 
to the age of the corn. Salt would harden the hull. 
Before boiling remove all the silk from the ear, then 
replace the husk. 



138 . THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Use equal parts of shelled beans and corn, cut 
from the ear, first cooking each separately; mix to- 
gether. Season with cream, butter, salt and pepper. 
In the winter time tlie dried lima beans, and canned 
corn may be used. Soak the beans over night in cold 
water, cook in boiling water till tender, drain off the 
water, add the corn, reheat and season. 

GREEN PEAS. 

The time for cooking depends upon the freshness 
and age of the peas. Cook them uncovered in boiling 
water, salt them when nearly done. They are done 
when they mash easily with a fork. Let the water 
boil nearly away, and season with butter, cream and 
a little sugar of you wish, or serve in a cream sauce. 
Peas contain a great deal of nutrition. 

STRING BEANS. 

"Remove the strings. Lay a number of the beans 
together, with a sharp knife cut them in quarter-inch 
pieces, or cut them lengthwise in thin strips. Cook 
in boiling salted water for one hour or longer. When 
tender season with salt, pepper, butter, cream or a 
cream sauce. < 

SHELLED BEANS. 

Wash, and cook in boiling salted water for half 
an hour to an hour. Season the same as string beans. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIiM COOK BOOK. 139 



DRIED LIMA BEANS 

Are cooked the same as shelled beans, just soaking 
them over night. Beans, like peas, contain a great 
deal of nutrition. 

CELERY. 

Scrape clean, saving the coarse outside pieces for 
soups, sauce or creamed celery. Put in cold water 
for half an hour before using. Serve with the soup. 

CREAMED CELERY. 

Clean, cut in inch pieces, cook in boiling salted 
water. Serve in cream sauce. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

If the shell be hard split the squash, remove the 
seeds, and steam. If the shell is soft pare it before 
steaming. To one pint of squash season with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a little pepper, and a little heavy cream is a great im- 
provement; mash very lightly. , 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, remove the seeds, place in a pan 
and bake till soft. Mash and season. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Wash and cut in small pieces, cook with or with- 
out the skin and seeds. Cook in boiling salted water 
or steam. When tender, remove to a piece of cheese 
cloth, squeeze till the squash is dry. Mash and sea- 
son. 



140 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CORN MOCK OYSTERS. 

Cut down through the center of each row or ker- 
nels with a sharp knife, with the back of the knife 
press out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. To 
one cup of the pulp add two well-beaten eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of butter and a half of salt, little pepper 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour, or enough to hold it 
together. Fry as you would griddle cakes on a but- 
tered griddle, or add a little more flour and drop 
from a spoon into deep fat, making a corn fritter. 
Use canned corn the same way. 

SWEET CORN IN CREAM WITH CHEESE. 

Cut the corn from the ears, moisten with thick 
cream, season with salt and pepper ; fill a baking 
dish, cover the top with grated parmesan or cream 
cheese. Sprinkle with a little paprica, bake quite 
slowly for half an hour. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI AND VERMICELLI. 

Macaroni and spaghetti are used as a vegetable, 
vermicelli for soups and puddings. They are made 
from flour and water, and should be combined with 
sauces or cheese. Cheese is most palatable cooked or 
served with it, as it supplies the fat which the maca- 
roni does not contain. Combined with cheese and 
sauce it makes a most nutritious dish, and should 
enter into our diet more extensively. 

TO COOK MACARONI. 

If the macaroni or spaghetti is to be used for a 
garnish or timbales, do not break it, but place the 
long pieces carefully in boiling salted water. When 
to be used in other ways, break in inch pieces. Cook 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 141 

in boiling salted water till tender, drain in a colander 
and pour cold water over it. This prevents it from 
being sticky. Reheat in a white sauce and serve. Or 
put in a baking dish, cover with white sauce and a 
sprinkling of buttered crumbs on top. Brown in a 
hot oven. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of cooked macaroni 
then a layer of white sauce, and grated or thinly 
sliced cheese with a sprinkling of salt and paprica. 
Fill up the dish in this way, having the cheese on top. 
Brown in a hot oven. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO OR OTHER SAUCES. 

Cook the macaroni as directed. Mix with the 
sauces and servej or mix with the sauces with the ad- 
dition of cheese and buttered crumbs and bake in the 
oven. Individual baking dishes may be used, as well 
as a large dish. 

MACARONI AND EGGS. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer 
of cooked macaroni, then a layer of hard cooked eggs, 
cut in thin slices. Cover with a white sauce and but- 
tered crumbs, or grated cheese. Brown in a hot oven. 
This makes a very ^ood luncheon dish, it being also 
most nutritious. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Can be cooked the same as macaroni. It is most 
often served without being broken. It then becomes 
an art to wind it around a fork and eat it success- 
fully. 



142 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



SAUCES, 



It is very easy to make good sauces if the proper 
care is taken at the beginning by first melting the but- 
ter and stirring the flour into it, thus forming the 
roux or thickening. For white sauces the flour is 
not changed. For brown sauces the flour is cooked 
in the oven until brown. Sauces are a great im- 
provement to the dishes they accompany, especially 
so to made-over dishes. Save every scrap of meat 
and bone. It takes a very little to make the stock for 
a sauce. The flavor of vegetables can be obtained by 
sauteing them in butter before the flour is added. 
White sauces should be cooked in a double boiler to 
prevent the milk from burning. A sauce that is made 
by melting the butter, then stirring into it the flour, 
and gradually the liquid, cannot help being a smooth 
sauce, if quickly stirred. It is safer to strain all 
sauces before serving. If you do not have stock on 
hand beef extract can be used in place. In that case 
saute the vegetables first in the butter. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE (For Fish). 
2 cups boiling water or j 3 tablespoonfuls flour. 



white stock, 
cup butter. 



teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 



Melt the butter, and when bubbling stir in the 
flour, salt and pepper, gradually stir in the water, or 
stock. Cook ten minutes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 143 

CAPER SAUCE (To Serve with Boiled Mutton). 

Make the same as drawn butter sauce, using the 
liquid the mutton was boiled in instead of water. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of capers. 

WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE. 



2 cups of milk, cream or 

white stock. 
4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler. Melt the but- 
ter in a sauce pan, stir the flour into it, also season- 
ings, when smooth, stir it gradually into the hot milk. 
Cook ten minutes, stirring frequently. This sauce,, 
when made partly of cream, can be used for creamed 
toast. 

SHRIMP SAUCE (For Fish). 

Add one cup of shrimps that have been cut in 
small pieces, to a white sauce, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice and a little paprica, or red pepper. Cook 
ten minutes after the shrimps have been added. 

EGG SAUSE (For Boiled Fish). 

Cut two hard-boiled eggs in slices or cubes, add 
to a white sauce, and a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, if cared for. , 

LOBSTER SAUCE (For Fish). 

One cup of lobster cut in dice, added to a white 
sauce, one tablespoonful lemon juice, the dried and 
powdered coral. 



144 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

OYSTER SAUCE (Boiled Fish or Fowl). 

Cook the oysters in their own liquors till the 
edges curl. Make a white sauce, using half the liquor 
the oysters were cooked in, and half cream. Add the 
oysters and a little paprica. Serve as soon as the oys- 
ters are added. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut the celery in one-half inch pieces. Cook till 
tender in boiling salted water, let the water cook 
down to one-half cup, make a white sauce with the 
celery water and cream, add the celery, reheat, 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Peel and break in small pieces one-half pound 
fresh mushrooms. Cook in one-fourth cup of hot 
water for five minutes. Drain from the liquid. 
Make a white sauce by using the mushroom liquor 
and cream, half and half, add the mushrooms, reheat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE (Using Canned Mushrooms). 

Make a brown roux, using two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Stir 
into it one cup of brown stock, one-half cupful of the 
liquor from the mushrooms, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little pepper. Cook ten minutes, add the beaten yolk 
of an egg that has been diluted with one tablespoon- 
ful of cream, then the mushrooms. Cook ten min- 
utes longer. Serve with beefsteak or fowls. Canned 
mushrooms can be used with the white sauce made of 
milk, cream or white stock. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 145 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, the same 
amount of capers, chopped pickles and olives, and 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped chives, or in place 
of the chives one-half teaspoonful onion juice to two 
cups of drawn butter sauce. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, using one-half chicken or 
veal stock and one-half milk. When the sauce has 
cooked ten minutes, add to it the yolks of two beaten 
eggs mixed with one-half cup of cream. Stir till it 
thickens, but do not let boil. A dash of nutmeg can 
be used. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook two slices each of onion and carrot in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter till a light brown. Drain off 
the butter, reheat and stir into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, 
then gradually add one cup of chicken or veal stock 
and one-half cup of cream. 

POULETTE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, using well-seasoned chicken 
stock that has been seasoned with onion, carrot, cel- 
ery, salt and pepper. Just before serving add to it 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, yolk of one egg, diluted 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream and one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley. Do not add the lemon juice until 
just before sending to the table. The cream and egg 
can be cooked in the sauce about five minutes, cooking 
over hot water. 



146 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Brown two slices of onion in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. When brown remove the onion and stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with a teaspoon- 
ful of curry powder and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
then add two cups of milk or half cream, and make 
the same as white sauce. 

BREAD SAUCE (For Game). (Mrs. Lincoln). 



2 cups of milk. 

y 2 cup fine bread crumbs. 

3 slices of onion. 



y% teaspoonful of salt. 

Speck of pepper. 

!/2 cup coarse bread crumbs. 



2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Cook the fine crumbs and onion in the milk for 
one-half hour (over hot water). Remove the onion 
and the salt, pepper and butter creamed. Brown the 
coarse crumbs in butter, sprinkle the crumbs over the 
bird and serve the sauce with it, or around it. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE (For Baked, Broiled or Boiled~Fish). 



l / 2 cup of butter. 
Yolks of three 

'*_' 

Juice of half a lemon. 



14 teaspoonful salt. 

Speck of paprica or pepper. 

1/2 cup boiling water. 



Rub the butter to a cream in a double boiler, beat 
in the yolks one at a/ time, then add the lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. About ten minutes before using, 
add the boiling water, cook over hot water, stirring 
continuouslv until it thickens. Potato balls are 

*/ 

cooked and served in the sauce and poured around 
the fish. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE (For Fish and Veal). 

Cook in double boiler for twenty minutes one-half 
cup of freshly grated horseradish, and one-half cup 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 147 

of fine bread crumbs, then add one cup of cream and 
season with salt and pepper. If milk is used instead 
of cream, mix with it the beaten yolk of an egg and 
just before serving add a tables poonful of butter. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE (For Fish). 

Pare one good-sized cucumber, grate and drain. 
Season with salt, pepper and tarragon vinegar. Com- 
mon vinegar can be used in place of the other. 

MINT SAUCE (For Lamb). 



1 cup finely chopped mint. 
% cup sugar. 



cup vinegar. 



Mix all together. Serve cold or hot. If cold, let 
it stand an hour before serving. If hot heat only to 
the boiling point. 

MUSTARD SAUCE (Corn Beef or Fish). 

Make one cup of drawn butter sauce, add to it one 
tablespoonful of mustard mixed with a tablespoonful 
of vinegar and a little paprica or red pepper. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE (For Ham). 

Put in a sauce pan one cup of champagne, or 
white wine, one teaspoonful of sugar, one clove, four 
peppercorns. Let them heat very slowly for ten min- 
utes. Strain, add a cup of brown sauce, and if con- 
venient one-half cup of mushrooms. 



148 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 
(Broiled Fish and Steaks). (Mrs. Lincoln). 



34 cup butter. 

i/ 2 taspoonful of salt. 

Speck of pepper. 



1 tablespoonful each of 
chopped parsley and 
lemon juice. 



Rub the butter to a cream, add the salt, pepper 
and parsley and very slowly the lemon juice. 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, add to it two yolks of eggs, 
beaten slightly, diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Dissolve one tablespoonful of granulated gel- 
atine in one cup of highly seasoned hot chicken stock. 
Mix with the white sauce and when cool dip pieces of 
cooked chicken, veal or lamb in it. When cold, dip 
again to give it another coating. Serve very cold on 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with olives stuffed with 
peppers. 

BROWN SAUCE. 



2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 slices of onion. 



2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 

2 cups of stock. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Melt the butter in a sauce pan. When hot, add 
the onion and brown slightly, then add the flour and 
gradually the stock. Cook ten minutes, add the 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. Strain, reheat and 
serve. Stock for brown sauces can be made from 
any kind of meat and bones with the soup stock sea- 
sonings, first soaking the bones and meat in cold 
water for one hour. The different flavors and sea- 
sonings added to the brown sauce make a great variety 
of sauces. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 149 



BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one-half cup of 
mushrooms. 

SAUCE POINADE. 

To one cup of brown stock add one teaspoonful 
mixed herbs, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, one clove. 
Cook fifteen minutes, strain, reheat with one-half 
cup of claret. Make the sauce a little thicker than 
brown sauce to start witL, as the claret will dilute it. 

BROWN SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one teaspoonful 
each of chopped pickles, capers and olives, having the 
spoons rounding full. 

ROBERT SAUCE. 

To one cup of stock, one teaspoonful made mus- 
tard and two of tarragon vinegar. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE (For Mutton and Game). 

One cup of brown sauce, one-half cup of currant 
jelly. Heat both together and serve. 

OLIVE SAUCE (For Roast Duck). 

Soak one-half cup of olives in cold water for 
thirty minutes to extract the salt. Half of them chop 
fine and the remainder pare round and round, as you 
would an apple. Add to one cup of brown sauce. 
Simmer for ten minutes. 

FLEMISH SAUCE. 

One cup brown sauce, one-half cup of carrots that 
have been cut in dice and boiled, one tablespoonful 



150 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



green peas, chopped pickles and grated horseradish, 
a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives or a few drops 
of onion juice. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Cook in two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped peppers and a teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped onion. Cook in one cup of 
brown sauce, one-half cup of stewed tomatoes for ten 
minutes. Strain and add slowly to the butter and 
peppers, with a tablespoonful each of capers and 
mushrooms. 

TOMATO SAUCE (No. i). 

Cook one cup of tomato and a slice of onion ten 
minutes, mash through a strainer and add to one cup 
of brown sauce with a half teaspoonful of sugar. Salt 
and pepper to taste, making the brown sauce a little 
thicker. 

TOMATO SAUCE (No. 2 Good for Macaroni). 

One cup and a half of tomato, two slices of onion, 
five peppercorns, one-half teaspoonful salt, one clove 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Cook all together with 
one-fourth cup of water for twenty minutes. Mash 
through a strainer and add it to two tablespoonfuls 
of flour that has been stirred into two of melted but- 
ter. Cook ten minutes. 

CHESTNUT SAUCE (For Roast Turkey). 

Cut a cross in the shell of one pint of large chest- 
nuts. Cook in a hot oven until the shells break open, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 151 

then remove the shell and skin at once. Cook them 
in boiling salted water till very tender. Mash fine, 
either with a masher or potato ricer. Add to the 
tnrkey gravy mad from the drippings of the pan. 
The chestnuts may be added to a cream or poulette 
sauce and served with boiled fowl. 

PORT WINE SAUCE (For Venison). 

One cup of brown sauce, one-half cup port wine, 
one-half cup of currant or grape jelly, one teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice, salt and paprica. Cook all together 
for ten minutes. 

GIBLET SAUCE (Roast Poultry). 

Put the giblets on to cook in warm salted water. 
When tender, chop very fine. Put into a sauce pan 
three tablespoonfuls of the drippings from the poul- 
try, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour. When 
foamy add one cup of the liquid the giblets were 
cooked in. Simmer for ten minutes, then add the 
giblets, heat and serve. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Put three pints of washed cranberries in a granite 
sauce pan, on top of them put three cups of granu- 
lated sugar and one cup and a half of water. After 
they begin to boil cook fifteen moinutes, closely cov- 
ered, and do not stir. Remove the scum. Serve as 
a sauce or mash through a strainer and they will jelly. 

APPLE SAUCE (Roast Pork). 

Pare, quarter and core six large, tart apples. 
Put on to cook in a granite sauce pan with one cup of 



152 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sugar and one of water. Cook till soft or remove be- 
fore they lose their shape. Flavor with a little lemon 
juice or nutmeg, if liked. 

PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 
PLAIN HOT PUDDING SAUCE. 



2 cups boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
Flavoring. 



Mix the flour, sugar and salt well together ; slowly 
pour on the boiling water, let boil ten minutes, then 
add the creamed butter and flavoring. A great many 
different flavorings may be used with this sauce nut- 
meg, a teaspoonful of vanilla, tablespoonful of lemon 
and a little of the grated rind, this makes a lemon 
sauce, or two tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira, or 
one of brandy. A little nutmeg added with any of 
these flavorings is an improvement. 

BROWN SUGAR SAUCE. 

Make the same as plain sauce, using brown sugar 
in place of white. 

MOLASSES SAUCE (Good with Apple and Rice Puddings). 

Melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir into it the same amount of flour and one cup of 
molasses that is diluted with one-half cup of hot 
water. Cook slowly ten minutes, flavor with a little 
lemon juice, vinegar and nutmeg. Half brown sugar 
and half molasses makes a very nice sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 153 

CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put one-half cup of sugar in a sauce pan. Stir 
till melted and a light brown, then add one-half cup 
of boiling water. Simmer for fifteen minutes. 

HOT FRUIT SAUCE. 
Peach, Apricot, Strawberries, Raspberries, Etc. 



1 cup of the fruit or ber- 



ries. 



cup of sugar. 



1 teaspoonful corn starch or 
sugar. 



Mix the corn starch smooth in a little cold water. 
Stir it into the fruit. Boil from five to ten minutes. 
JVlash and strain. 



CREAMY SAUCE. 



cup butter. 



1 cup powdered sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls of cream 
and the same amount of 



wine. 



Cream the butter, add the sugar slowly, then beat 
in the wine ; just before serving add the cream. Or, 
add the cream and wine together and cook over hot 
water till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt 
the butter. A hot or cold sauce can be made from 
this receipt. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Beat one egg very light, five minutes, then beat in 
one-fourth cup of powdered sugar and fold in one- 
half cup of heavy cream, whipped. 



154 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FOAMY SAUCE. 



cup butter. 



3 tablespoonfuls of wine or 

fruit juice. 
White of one 



1 cup powdered sugar. 
}i cup boiling water. 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and cream, then 

7 O / 

the wine; just before serving add the boiling water, 
Mix it in well and the white of egg. Beat all together 
with a Dover beater till light and foamy. 

HARD SAUCE. 

l / 2 cup butter. | White of one egg. 

1 cup powdered sugar. Flavoring. 

Cream the butter and the sugar and cream, then 
fold in the white of egg beaten stiff. Flavor with a 
little nutmeg, lemon, vanilla or wine; pile lightly on 
a serving dish. 

SABAYON SAUCE. 

Put in a sauce pan one-half cup of sherry, one- 
half cup sugar and one beaten egg. Beat over the 
fire with a Dover beater till it begins to thicken. 

WINE SAUCE. 



cup butter, 
cup wine. 



1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup boiling water. 

1 tablespoonful flour. j A little grated nutmeg. 

1 egg. | 

Mix the flour and sugar with a few grains of salt 
all together. Pour over them the boiling water, let 
boil ten minutes. Cream the butter and beat the egg 
lightly. Add the wine to the hot sauce and pour over 
the egg butter and nutmeg. Beat vigorously till well 
mixed. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 155 



WINE SAUCE (No. 2). 



1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup butter. 

2 



2 tablespoonfuls of wine. 
1 teaspoonful brandy. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, the wine and brandy. Heat through over hot 
water. 



LEMON SAUCE. 



2 cups sugar. 
l / 2 cup butter. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 



The juice of 2 lemons and 
the grated rind of one. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the lemon juice 
and rind. Just before sending to the table add the 
whites of the eggs beaten lightly. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Grate one cup of pineapple fine, mix with it two 
tablespoonfuls of thick sugar syrup. Serve with 
puddings or fritters. 

RICHELIEU SAUCE (For Hot Puddings). 

Mix one-half tablespoonful of flour with three- 
fourths cup sugar and a few grains of salt. Pour 
slowly over it (stirring all the time) one cup boiling 
Avater. Cook ten minutes. Remove from the fire 
and flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla or one 
tablespoonful of wine and two of lemon juice. Add 
one-fourth cup each shredded almonds and candied 
cherries, or pineapple cut in small pieces. 



156 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

GOLDEN SAUCE (Rich and Delicious). 

Cream one-third cup of butter and one cup of 
powdered sugar together. Add the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, juice and grated rind of a lemon, then add 
the whites beaten stiff. Cook over hot water, stirring 
constantly until it thickens like a custard. 

i/ 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Mix together one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one teaspoonful grated orange peel. Pour 
over it all one cup of boiling water. Boil ten min- 
utes. Remove from the fire, add the juice of one 
orange and one-fourth cup of butter creamed. 

SYRUP SAUCES. 

Fruit juices make nice sauces for blanc mange, 
corn starch, rice or cottage puddings. Heat and 
sweeten the juices, thicken with a little flour and 
flavor with wine or nutmeg. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE (For Ice Cream or Puddings). 

Grate two ounces (two small squares) of Baker's 
chocolate and mix with it two cups of sugar and add 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half cup of water. 
Cook to the soft ball stage, flavor with one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Pour hot over ice cream. 

MAPLE SUGAR SAUCE (For Ice Cream). 

One cup of maple sugar, one-half cup hot water. 
Cook till it forms a soft ball in cold water. One-half 
cup of chopped walnuts may be added to it. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 157 

COFFEE SAUCE. 

1 cup of strong coffee. *4 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful flour. *4 cup thick cream. 

Mix the sugar and flour together. Stir them into 
the boiling coffee. Cook five minutes, add the cream 
and serve cold on vanilla ice cream. 



158 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CHEESE DISHES. 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 



Let fresh milk stand in a warm place for two or 
three days or until the curd separates from the whey. 
Turn the whey in a double piece of cheese cloth, hang 
it up in a cool place until the curd is free from the 
whey, add salt and a little cream. Shape in balls. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir into it two of flour. When smooth add half a 
cup of milk, half teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of 
cayenne, or paprica. Cook two or three minutes. 
Add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and one cup 
of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, bake 
thirty-five minutes. Or, turn in buttered individual 
dishes and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve 
at once. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Butter crackers lightly, spread over with grated 
cheese, a little salt and paprica. Brown in the oven. 

CHEESE WATER CRACKERS. 

Split Bent's water crackers in halves, moisten by 
dipping quickly in very hot water, spread over with 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 159 

melted butter and French mustard, and a thick layer 
of grated cheese. Season with salt and paprica. 
Place in a hot oven until the cheese is creamy. 

WELSH RAREBIT (No. i). 

One pound of American cream cheese. Herki- 
mer county is the best. One-half cup of ale or beer, 
one-half teaspoonful each of dry mustard and salt, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of paprica. Other seasonings 
can be used. Slices of hot toast or crackers. Cut 
the cheese into small pieces and put it in the chafing 
dish with one tablespoonful of the ale or beer. Stir 
and as it begins to melt add the rest of the ale grad- 
ually. As soon as it is all melted stir in the season- 
ings, then serve at once on toasted bread or crackers. 
Heat the plates. Everything must be very hot, as 
the cheese hardens quickly. 

WELSH RAREBIT (No. 2). 

Make the same as ~No. 1, using milk in place of 
the ale or beer, and one well-beaten egg, mixed with 
the milk. Cream can be used in place of milk. 

CHEESE TIMBALES. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in double boiler 
and two of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-fourth 
of paprica. Gradually add one-half cup of cream 
and one-half cup chicken stock. When thick and 
smooth, stir into it one cup grated cheese and four 
eggs, beaten well. Pour in buttered timbale moulds, 
bake standing in a pan of hot water until the centers 
are firm. Serve surrounded by a white sauce. 



160 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FROZEN CHEESE (To Serve with Salad). 

Cook the beaten yolks of three eggs with one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt and a little paprica in a 
cup of scalded milk. Cook until it coats the spoon 
like a custard, then add one-half cup of grated cheese 
and one teaspoonful of granulated gelatine that has 
been softened in cold water. Beat until it begins to 
set a little, then fold in one-half cup of cream that 
has been whipped stiff. Pack in a baking powder 
or cocoa can for two hours, in equal quantities of salt 
and ice. 

CHEESE BALLS (To Serve with Salad). 

Mix with one cup and a half of grated cheese, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful salt 
and a little paprica, then add the whites of two eggs, 
beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in finely 
sifted cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat and drain 
on soft paper. 

CHEESE PUDDING (A Good Luncheon Dish). 

Soak one cup of fine bread crumbs in two cups 
of milk. Add the yolks of three eggs, two tables poon- 
fuls of melted butter, one-half pound of American 
cream cheese, grated, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and Worcester- 
shire sauce, one-fourth teaspoonful paprica. Then 
add the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a pudding 
dish or in individual dishes, until it is puffed up and 
brown, in a hot oven. It will take about thirty min- 
utes for the large dish. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 161 



SALADS. 



Salads should form an important part in our 
menu. The oil which we use with them aids diges- 
tion and is one of the best forms of fat we can use. 
The green salads are the most easily prepared, and 
with a French dressing most appropriate for a dinner 
salad, often with the addition of some other fresh veg- 
etable. Almost all kinds of meat, fish, vegetables 
and eggs with the addition of some kind of greens 
make good salads. It only requires a little thought 
in making the combination to always have a palatable 
salad. 

TO PREPARE THE GREENS. 

All greens should be carefully washed in cold 
water and all poor leaves thrown aside, for the beauty 
of a salad is to have it perfectly fresh. Let the leaves 
remain in ice-cold water for twenty minutes or so, 
then swing them in a wire basket to free them from 
the water or dry each leaf with a napkin. 

TO PREPARE MEAT FOR SALAD. 

Meat for salads should be cut in dice, not smaller 
than a half inch, and should be marinated for one 
hour before serving. Meat salads are the only kind 
that are improved by marinating. 



162 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO MARINATE. 

Mix the meat with a French dressing one hour 
before serving. Before mixing the salad together, 
drain off any of marinate which has not been ab- 
sorbed in the meat. 

SOME THINGS THAT CAN BE SERVED WITH A SALAD. 

Nut, cheese, olive, pickle, nasturtium, lettuce, 
watercress, cucumber, ginger, mint and plain sand- 
wiches, made from all kinds of bread, rolls and 
crackers. Different kinds of cheese, either toasted 
or plain, served with crackers or bread and butter 
sandwiches, cheese souffle, frozen cheese, cheese cro- 
quettes, cheese balls and cheese in any palatable form 
is permissible with salads. Wine or orange jelly 
moulded with nuts or fruits, or plain, is very delic- 
ious served with a salad. 

To Cut Radishes for decorating a salad. 

Radish Roses.- -For these use the small, round 
ones. Cut the radish in scollops in two layers. Soak 
in ice water two hours before serving. 

Radish Tulips. Select small ones of oblong 
shape, cut them in quarters nearly down to the stem. 
Soak. 



FRENCH DRESSING. 



i 



l / 2 teaspoonful salt. 
% teaspoonful paprica. 
3 tablespoonfuls of oil. 



tablespoonful of vinegar 
or lemon juice. 



]\Iix in the order given, adding the oil slowly, 
stirring all the time. A little tarragon vinegar with 
the other is considered a great improvement by many. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of dry or made mustard can 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



163 



be added, and a little onion juice. The onion juice 
is a great improvement when the dressing is to be 
used for potato salad. 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 
*/2 teaspoonful salt. 
% .teaspoonful paprica or a 
little cayenne. 



Yolks of four raw eggs. 
2 clips olive oil. 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 



When used for fruit salad take four tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice, without the vinegar. Mix the 
dry seasonings and the egg yolks well together, add 
the oil a drop at a time until it begins to thicken, 
then it can be added a little more quickly. When it 
gets very thick, thin it with a little lemon juice or 
vinegar, then alternate the oil, vinegar and lemon 
juice until it is all used up. Just before serving add 
one-half cup of whipped cream. A wooden spoon, 
fork or Dover egg-beater are used to mix the dress- 
ing with, but the best of all to use is the mayonnaise 
mixer. With this mixer the dressing can be made 
much quicker, easier and lighter. Mayonnaise dress- 
ing can be colored any color you wish by using the 
vegetable colorings. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING (Miss Howard). 

Mix half a tablespoonful of mustard, one-half a 
tablespoonful of sugar and one teaspoonful of salt, 
with the yolks of two raw eggs. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and three-fourths of a cup 
of cream. Pour slowdy on the mixture (stirring) one- 
fourth of a cup of vinegar. Cook the dressing in a 
double boiler until it thickens (stirring constantly). 
Strain and cool. 



164 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 



1 egg. 

1/2. cup milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 



y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

!/4 teaspoonful mustard. 

Cayenne or paprica. 



Beat the egg until light, put all the ingredients in 
a double boiler except the vinegar. Cook until it- 
thickens. Remove from the stove and add the vine- 
gar. 

COOKED DRESSING (Mrs. Lincoln). 

^4 cup of butter, creamed. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
y 2 teaspoonful mustard. 
*4 teaspoonful paprica. 



Yolks of two es beaten 



slightly. 






2 tablespoonfuls hot water. 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



Mix the eggs and seasonings together. Add the 
hot water and vinegar. Beat (stirring constantly) 
in a double boiler. When thick and creamy, add the 
creamed butter, stirring. Whipped cream or egg 
whites can be added. If to be used on fruit salad, 
omit the mustard and use lemon juice in place of the 
vinegar. 



WINE SALAD DRESSING. 



y 2 cup sugar. 
y a cup sherry. 



2 tablespoonfuls Madeira or 
2 teaspoonfuls of brandy. 



Heat them all together until the sugar is melted. 



Cool and serve. 



SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 



1 cup sour cream. 

y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

^4 teaspoonful paprica. 



1 tablespoonful horseradish. 
A few drops onion juice if 
desired. 



Add the salt and paprica to the cream, whip until 
thick, then stir in the horseradish and onion juice. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 165 
TARTARE SAUCE. 

To one cupful of mayonnaise add four olives, two 
gherkins and two teaspoonfuls of capers, all chopped 
fine. The olives stuffed with peppers can be used in 
place of the plain olive. 



BEARNAISE SAUCE (To be used Hot or Cold with Meat or 



Fish). 



1 tablespoonful of hot water. 
1 tablespoonful of tarragon 



vinegar. 



4 tablespoonfuls of salad 

oil. 

Yolks of four eggs. 
y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 
Paprica or cayenne. 

Beat the yolks, add the oil and water, cook in 
double boiler until it thickens, remove, add salt, pep- 
per and vinegar. It should be thick like mayonnaise. 
Butter can be used in place of the oil. Cream three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and cook with the eggs. 
Omit the hot water. When thick, remove from the 
fire, add two tablespoonfuls more of butter creamed 
and the seasonings. 

LETTUCE AND WATERCRESS SALAD. 

Use only the tender leaves. Wash each leaf and 
let them stand in ice water a few minutes before 
using. Dry them, arrange in a bowl with the largest 
leaves on the outside, sprinkle over with chives 
chopped fine, or new onions sliced very thin. Sliced 
pickles or olives are sometimes used with the lettuce. 
Rub the bowl with garlic before putting in the lettuce, 
if liked. Mix with a French dressing. Garnish 
with radishes cut to represent roses or tulips. 



166 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Use only the tender stalks (the outside can be 
saved for soups and sauces). Scrape and wash each 
stalk, let stand in ice-cold water a half hour before 
using. Dry in a towel and cut in one-fourth inch 
pieces, or into straws one inch long. If cut into 
straws put in ice water for twenty minutes before 
serving to curl them. Mix with either French or 
mayonnaise dressing and garnish with lettuce leaves. 
Celery salad is often served with game. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cook a chicken or fowl until tender in boiling 
water enough to cover, with a tablespoonful of salt, 
six peppercorns, one clove, a small bay leaf, one onion, 
several stalks of celery, or two or three of the roots. 
Remove from liquid and when cold cut the meat in 
half-inch pieces. (Save the liquid and bones and 
add to your soup stock). Cut the celery in half-inch 
pieces, using half as much celery as meat. One-half 
cup of walnuts or olives cut in small pieces and added 
to two cups of the chicken and one of celery is an im- 
provement. 

Marinate the chicken and celery one hour before 
serving, drain off any marinate that is left in the 
dish, mix the nuts or olives or both, with the celery 
and chicken. Arrange in a salad dish, first mixing 
a part of the mayonnaise dressing with the salad. 
Cover the top with mayonnaise, garnish with celery 
leaves, olives, lettuce or hard-boiled eggs sliced. In 
the summer, when celery is out of season, cucumber 
cut in cubes can be used in place of it. Garnish with 
lettuce or watercress. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 167 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD. 

Put the chicken on to cook in warm water with 
all the seasonings and vegetables as for chicken salad. 
Cook until tender, then cook the stock down to two 
cups. Strain and when cold remove the fat. Clear 
the stock (see clearing soup stock), and add to it two 
tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine that has been 
softened in one-half cup of cold water. Reheat for a 
few minutes to dissolve the gelatine; prepare the 
chicken and celery as for chicken salad. Season with 
salt and pepper. When the stock begins to get cold 
and thicken, beat into it one cup of whipped cream 
and the chicken and celery. Pour into a mould that 
has been decorated with hard-boiled eggs, cut to rep- 
resent daisies, or slices of egg, truffles, or olives. The 
decorations can be held in place by a little of the 
stock. After the gelatine has been added mould in 
individual or one large mould. Remove on salad 
dish. Garnish with lettuce or celery leaves and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 2). 

Garnish individual moulds or one large one. 
After the garnish is set with a little of the jelly, then 
add a layer of jelly one inch thick. When that has 
hardened, place the salad in carefully and cover it 
with a thin layer of the jelly to hold it firm. When 
that has hardened fill up the mould with the jelly, 
making three layers, with the salad between. Gar- 
nish with greens, lettuce, watercress or celery leaves. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 



168 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 3). 

Mould in a double mould. If one is not at hand, 
use any two moulds or tins of the same shape, one of 
which is an inch or so smaller than the other. Place 
the larger one on ice, decorate it and hold in place 
with a little of the jelly, then pour enough of the jelly 
to make a layer the same thickness as the width of 
space between the two moulds. When it is set fill the 
smaller mould with ice and set inside of it and fill 
the space between the two with jelly. When that is 
set remove with a spoon the ice from the mould and 
pour into it a little warm water (not hot). The 
mould can then be easily removed. Fill up the space 
with the chicken salad. Hold it in place with more 
jelly. Remove from the mould when cold. Garnish 
and serve with mayonnaise. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 4). 
Mould in tomato jelly instead of the chicken 

jelly. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 5). 

Mould in wine jelly, placing the chicken salad in 
the center. Garnish and serve with mayonnaise. 

MOULDED CELERY AND WALNUT SALAD. 

Use half the quantity of walnuts as of celery. 
Clean and cut the celerv in half-inch pieces. Cook 

V 

the walnuts for ten minutes in boiling salted water 
with a slice of onion, a clove and three peppercorns. 
Cut in small pieces. Mix the celery and walnut? 
with just enough mayonnaise to hold them together. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 169 

Mould the same as chicken salad, either chicken, to- 
mato or wine jelly. 

MOULDED SWEETBREADS AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

(Boston Cooking School). 

Simmer one pair of sweetbreads twenty minutes 
in boiling, salted, acidulated water, with a bit of bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and a blade of mace. Cool and 
cut in dice. There should be three-fourths of a cup. 
Soak one-fourth a tablespoonful of gelatine in a table- 
spoonful of cold water and dissolve in two tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Add one tablespoonful and a 
half of lemon juice and a half cup of cream, beaten 
thick. Add the cubes of sweetbreads, one-fourth of a 
cup of cucumber cubes and season with salt and pap- 
rica. Turn into moulds, chill and serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

MOULDING SALADS. 

Any kind of salad can be moulded in the jellies, 
the same as chicken salad. Garnish with the greens 
and serve with mayonnaise, cooked, or sour cream 
dressings. 

TO GARNISH WITH CURLED CELERY. 

Cut the stalks of celery in one or two-inch lengths, 
then cut each piece in strips nearly to the center, be- 
ginning at each end, leaving enough whole to hold to- 
gether. Set in ice water one hour before using. 

TO UNMOULD JELLY. 

Place the mould quickly in warm water, remove 
put the serving dish over the top of the mould and 



170 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

invert them together. A very little heat will melt 
gelatine. 

TOMATO JELLY. 



1 cup of any kind of strong 

soup stock. 

2 cups tomatoes. 
1 slice of onion. 
1 clove. 

4 peppercorns. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful catsup. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 



Boil all together for one-half hour or until the 
tomatoes are soft. Soften the gelatine in one-half 
cup of cold water, then stir it into the tomato when 
dissolved and niould. A very pretty effect is ob- 
tained by moulding it in a ring mould. Have celery 
salad in the center mixed with mavonnaise or a 

t/ 

cooked dressing, and surround it with lettuce. Or 
mould, with a salad moulded inside, or in small 
moulds, and garnish a salad around with them. 

Another nice way to serve it is to mould in the 
shape of a cup and fill with a salad, resting on lettuce. 
This is done the same as (moulded chicken salad 
~No. 3) by placing one mould or cup inside of another. 

SOME SALADS TO SERVE IN WHOLE TOMATOES OR 

PEPPERS. 

Equal parts of celery, nuts and apples, or celery 
and nuts, celery alone. Chicken salad, celery and 
sweetbreads equal parts, celery mushrooms and Eng- 
lish walnuts, equal parts. Grape fruit and nuts, 
equal parts. Celery, cucumbers and sweetbreads, in 
fact, almost any salad with the exception of fish and 
fruit salad, are served in tomatoes or peppers. To 
prepare the peppers and tomatoes, scoop out the cen- 
ters and season. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 171 



CELERY JELLY. 



1 cup cold water. 

2 cups celery cut in 

pieces and the roots 
cut fine. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
3 peppercorns. 



Cook slowly until the celery is very tender, keep- 
ing about a cup of water in it all the time.- When 
tender, mash through a strainer. To two cups of 
celery, after it is strained, add one tablespoonful of 
granulated gelatine that has been softened in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Reheat until the gela- 
tine is dissolved, then pour in moulds. Mould as 
you would chicken or tomato jelly. 

TO PREPARE WHOLE TOMATOES FOR SALAD. 

Scald and skin them, select all as near the same 
size as possible. Place on ice until half hour before 
serving, then scoop out the center (saving the pieces 
for soup stock, or a sauce). Sprinkle with salt and 
a little pepper, turn over and drain, fill with may- 
onnaise, or any combination you care for. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (To Serve with Fish). 

Peel the cucumbers, place them in ice-cold water 
to become crisp. (Do not add salt, as that wilts 
them). Wipe them dry, place on a flat dish and slice 
very thin without destroying the shape of the cucum- 
ber. Garnish with cress or lettuce. Pour over it all 
a French dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and place in ice water, then cut the cucum- 
ber across in lengths of three inches, scoop out the in- 



172 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

side to form a cup to hold the following salad : Equal 
parts of sweetbreads, cucumbers and English walnuts 
mixed with mayonnaise. Fill up the cup with the 
salad, set on lettuce leaves, put a teaspoonful more 
mayonnaise on top of each salad and place on it a 
radish cut to represent a rose. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (No. 2). 

Pare and chill a cucumber, cut in half lengthwise, 
remove the seeds and dry. Fill with the following: 
Chop fine the solid part of a peeled tomato, a thin 
slice of new onion, or a few sprigs of chives and a 
couple of stalks of tender celery. Mix with Bear- 
naise sauce, French or mayonaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad dish, then 
a layer of sliced cucumber and one of tomatoes sliced. 
Use a French or mayonnaise dressing. A good din- 
ner salad. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD (No. 2). 

Peel the tomatoes by dipping in boiling water, 
take out the centers, turn them upside down to drain. 
Sprinkle with salt and fill with cucumber that has 
been cut in cubes and mixed with mayonnaise. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE SALAD. 

(Very Nice to Serve with Game or a Winter Dinner Salad). 

Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad bowl, peel 
and cut seedless oranges in one-half inch slices, 
spread them over the lettuce, mix with French dress- 
ing. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 173 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD (To Serve with Game). 

Arrange on lettuce the same as orange salad. Peel 
and remove the pulp from the sections, cut up in inch 
pieces. Serve with French or wine dressing. 



RUSSIAN SALAD (No. i). 

One cup each of cooked carrots, beets, peas and 
string beans, all cut in cubes. Arrange on a salad 
dish in four mounds on four nests of lettuce. Mix 
and cover the top of each with mayonnaise or cooked 
dressing. Garnish the top of the carrot and beet 
salad with capers and pickles cut in fancy shapes, the 
peas and beans, with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg or 
the coral from the lobster. Have a tuft of lettuce in 
the center and arrange around each mound shrimps 
or lobster. 



RUSSIAN SALAD (No. 2). 

Fill the outside of a mould with clear aspic jelly 
and the center with a number of different vegetables 
mixed with mayonnaise. Cover the top with jelly. 
Serve on a flat dish. Garnish with plain or shredded 
lettuce. (See moulding salads). 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Use the very small beans. After being cooked, 
cut in half -inch pieces. Serve on lettuce with French 
or mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with the yolk of 
hard-boiled egg that has passed through a potato ricer. 
String beans mixed with peas makes a delicious salad. 



174 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Use only the tips. Cook in salted water until 
tender. Chill, serve with French or mayonnaise 
dressing on lettuce, or in little cups made from the 
new turnips that have been cooked and scooped out. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Two cups of cooked potato halls, or sliced potato. 
Sprinkle over each layer a grating of onion, a little 
celery cut fine, pepper and salt and the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, passed throng a strainer. On the top 
sprinkle chopped parsley, mix with French or a 
cooked dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish 
around the mound with beets cut in slices or fancy 
shapes. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the meat from a fresh boiled lobster in one- 
inch pieces. Marinate (or mix with a French dress- 
ing) one hour before serving. Keep in a cold place, 
then drain it and mix with it a little mayonnaise. 
Place it on a flat dish surrounded by lettuce leaves. 
Smooth it off, leaving it high in the center. Cover 
quite thick with mayonnaise. Stick in the top the 
heart of the lettuce and sprinkle over it the powdered 
coral of the lobster. 

FISH SALADS. 

Salmon, shad roe or any firm white fish mixed 
with mayonnaise and garnished with lettuce can be 
served as a salad. Olives, pickles and capers are a 
pleasant addition to these salads, or tartar sauce may 
be used with them in place of mayonnaise. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 175 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cook the oysters in their own liquor until they 
are plump (about five minutes). Drain and chill. 
Mix with mayonnaise or tartar sauce. Serve on let- 
tuce, garnish with olives, capers or pickles. Celery 
or tender young cabbage cut fine can be served with 
the oysters. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Peel two raw tart apples, cut in dice, measure 
and take the same amount of celery cut in small 
pieces, mix with the apples. Mix with mayonnaise 
and serve on nests of lettuce or in red apples with the 
center removed to form cups. Set them on lettuce 
leaves. Have a layer of the dressing on top with a 
heart or small leaf of the lettuce stuck up in the 
center. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Use equal amount of pineapple cut in dice, cher- 
ries stoned and cut in halves, one-half the amount of 
strawberries cut in halves. Serve with a wine or 
mayonnaise dressing. If mayonnaise is used, mix it 
w r ith one-half whipped cream. Serve the salad in the 
whole pineapple surrounded by lettuce leaves and a 
few sweet peas. Cut off the top of the pineapple 
about one inch deep. Scoop out the inside and use 
for the salad. Drain, chill and fill with the salad 
just before serving. 

A FRUIT SALAD SERVED IN CANTELOUPE. 

Equal parts of the cantaloupe (cut in dice), or- 
anges cut in small pieces and apples, one-half the 



176 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

amount of English walnuts cut in small pieces. Mix 
with mayonnaise, which is one-half whipped cream. 
Select small cantaloupes of uniform size, cut off the 
top and save to use for a cover. (A bow of narrow 
ribbon may be drawn through the top to form a 
handle). Carefully remove the pulp for the salad, 
drain and fill just before serving. Surround each 
one by lettuce leaves. 

OTHER FRUIT SALADS (No. i). 

Equal parts of apple, celery and nuts, mixed with 
mayonnaise or cooked dressing, served on lettuce or 
in cups made from red apples, oranges or lemons. 

FRUIT SALAD (No. 2). 

Mix equal parts of bananas, oranges, white grapes 
and pecan nuts, cut in small pieces. Add a little 
lemon juice and mix with mayonnaise which has a 
part of whipped cream with it. Serve on lettuce 
with some of the dressing on top. Garnish with slices 
of orange and nuts. 

FRUIT SALAD (No. 3). 

Remove the stone from dates, halve them and 
press into the hole pieces of walnuts. Pour over a 
French or wine dressing. Serve on shredded lettuce. 

GRAPE SALAD. 

Remove the seeds from malaga grapes, stuff each 
one with a filbert nut which has been blanched (let 
them stand in boiling hot water five minutes, then 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 177 

remove the skin). Serve on a bed of lettuce, cover 
with mayonnaise, which is a part whipped cream. 
Garnish around it with sections of orange. 

MANDARIN SALAD (Good Dinner Salad). 

Equal parts of mandarins sliced very thin with 
the skin on, white grapes seeded and halved, bran- 
died peaches, one-half of marachino cherries and figs 
that are fresh and moist cut in inch pieces. Serve 
with wine dressing in punch glasses or in orange 
cups. 

NUT AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Two cups of cucumber, pared and cubed, one cup 
of Brazil nuts blanched and cut in small pieces. Serve 
with French or mayonnaise dressing on lettuce. 
Garnish with radishes cut to form roses. 

CUCUMBER AND RADISH SALAD. 

Use equal parts of cucumber and radishes sliced 
very thin. Serve in layers on lettuce leaves, with 
French dressing. 

CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM SALAD. 

Cut the chicken in dice shape, break fresh mush- 
rooms in small pieces, add a very little hot water, 
cook five minutes. When cold mix with the chicken, 
having equal quantities. Season with salt, mix with 
mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish by 
placing a few olives stuffed with peppers over the top. 



178 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SALMON AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

While the boiled salmon is hot, flake in small 
pieces, sprinkle over it a little lemon juice, onion 
juice, pepper and salt. Set on the ice ; several hours 
before using mix lightly together with thin slices of 
cucumbers cut in halves. Cover with tartar sauce. 
Serve on lettuce. 

TRUFFLE SALAD (A Good Dinner Salad). 

Cut tender stalks of celery in half-inch pieces, 
put sliced truffles to soak in sherry wine for a half 
hour. Have equal quantities of truffles and celery, 
drain the truffles and mix with the celery. Sprinkle 
with a little salt. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce hearts and scatter a few capers over 
the top. 

EGG SALAD. 

Cook six eggs in water just off the boil for twenty 
minutes, chill and shell them. Cut the whites in 
strings and put the yolks through a potato ricer. Ar- 
range on shredded lettuce, making little nests of the 
whites and filling them with the yolks. Pour lightly 
over them a French dressing. Serve with cheese 
balls and toasted sandwiches or toasted crackers. 
This salad can be made by using little nests of the 
whites and filling them with balls of the yolks that 
have been mashed and mixed with French dressing. 

EGG SALAD (No. 2). 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in halves, remove the yolks, 
mix them with olives, chopped fine and mayonnaise 
dressing. Fill the whites with the mixture and 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 179 

round them on the top to give the appearance of a 
whole yolk. Serve in nests of lettuce or watercress. 

EGG SALAD (No. 3). 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in slices. Serve on water- 
cress. Sprinkle over with finely chopped chives and 
French dressing. 

WATER LILLY SALAD. 

Cut cold hard-boiled eggs in quarters lengthwise ; 
if the eggs are very large cut in eighths. Place six of 
these pieces in a circle, one pointed end of each piece 
meeting in the center, to represent the lilly. Arrange 
them on lettuce leaves and cover with French dress- 
ing. 

CHEESE SALAD. 



-toto 



cooked hard. 



cups of cream cheese 
cut in small dice. 



1 cup chicken cut in dice. 



Rub the yolks through a ricer, mix with the chick- 
en and cheese. Serve with French or cooked dress- 
ing. Garnish with lettuce, the whites of eggs cut in 
shreds forming little nests around the mound of salad, 
each nest having two or three olives in it, stuffed with 
peppers. 

BIRDS' NEST SALAD. 

Use the soft cream cheeses. Roll into balls the 
size of a bird's egg, arrange in nests of lettuce, four 
or five balls to a nest. Cover with French dressing 
and sprinkle a few specks of paprica over each egg. 
Or a little green coloring paste can be rubbed in the 
cheese to make the little green eggs. 



180 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix with a soft cream cheese, one gherkin and 
three good-sized olives chopped fine and enough may- 
onnaise dressing to shape in its original shape. Chill 
thoroughly. Serve on a bed of lettuce surrounded 
by nasturtium blossoms. Cut in slices for serving. 

AMERICAN CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

One cup of the American cream cheese grated. 
Add to it one tablespoonful of chicken chopped fine, 
three olives, season with salt and pepper and mix 
together with enough mayonnaise to shape it in the 
form of a cream cheese. Chill thoroughly, serve on 
lettuce, surrounded by olives or nasturtium blossoms. 
Cut in slices for serving. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred a red or white cabbage very fine, mix it 
with a French dressing, using twice the amount of 
vinegar as is used for French dressing, or cover with 
the following dressing: Heat half a cup of vinegar 
with one teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and pap- 
rica. While hot stir into it a tablespoonful of but- 
ter creamed, then pour over the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Cook over hot water until it thickens a little. 
Mix the dressing with the cabbage while hot. Serve 
cold alone as a salad or with broiled fish or fried 
oysters. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 181 



EGGS. 



Eggs are a very valuable food, being highly nutri- 
tious and easily digested. Almost any of the fol- 
lowing receipts can be prepared in the chafing dish 
on the table. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. i). 

To cook the eggs soft, place in boiling water. Set 
on the back of the stove where it won't boil, for eight 
minutes, at a high altitude, one minute less for sea 
level. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. 2). 

Another way of cooking the egg soft is to place it 
in cold water on the stove, remove as soon as they 
reach the boiling point. Cooking eggs either by No. 
1 or No. 2, you will find the albumen is creamy and 
easily digested. Boiling eggs makes the albumen 
hard and horny, not easily digested. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. 3). 

To cook an egg hard, place in boiling water, set 
on the back of the stove from twenty minutes to a 
half hour. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Place in a frying pan as many muffin rings as 
you have eggs to poach, drop an egg in each ring, then 



182 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

turn in enough boiling water to cover them. Add a 
little salt, cook slowly on the side of the range. It 
should take from ten to fifteen minutes to cook them. 
Remove carefully, using a pancake turner, or a wide- 
bladed knife, onto a round piece of toast; remove the 
rings. Season with a little salt, pepper and apiece of 
butter. Serve on a platter. Garnish with water- 
cress or parsley. Before toasting the bread cut the 
slices into rounds with a large sized biscuit, cutter. 
To poach the eggs without rings break carefully in 
the boiling salted water. 

POACHED EGGS (No. 2). 

Add a little salt to the white of the egg, and beat 
it into a stiff froth, place it into a cup, and carefully 
drop the yolk (so as not to break it) into the center. 
Set the cup in a dish of boiling water, cover and boil 
four minutes. At the sea level three minutes would 
be long enough. Season with a little butter, salt and 
pepper. Serve in the cup. A good way to serve an 
egg to an invalid. 

POACHED EGGS (No. 3). 

Spread the toast with creamed chicken, minced 
ham, anchovy or sardine paste, and place a poached 
egg on top. Or, serve poached eggs with boiled ham 
or bacon. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Put a little butter in a frying pan, when it is hot 
break in the eggs ; cook slowly. If they are to be 
served hard, turn them and cook on the other side. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 183 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat the eggs lightly, just enough, to mix them. 
To each egg add two tablespoonfuls of milk, or half 
milk and half cream, a little salt and pepper. Put in 
a sauce pan a tablespoonful of butter, when it bub- 
bles add the eggs and stir constantly until they set. 
They should be just a little firm, but not hard. They 
can be mixed with chopped meats, chives, tomato that 
has been cooked, parsley, or anything that one has, to 
give a good flavor. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Individual baking dishes are generally used, al- 
though several can be cooked in one large dish. But- 
ter the dish, break into it an egg, sprinkle a little salt 
on the whites, cover with a tablespoonful of thick 
cream, or baste several times while baking with 
melted butter. Set the dish in a pan of hot water, 
cook until quite firm to the touch. 

EGGS COCOTTE. 

Butter individual baking dishes, and line with a 
paste of fine bread crumbs mixed with cream, or 
sprinkle the dish over with finely chopped ham, 
chicken or mushrooms mixed to a paste, with a little 
cream, or sauce, and seasoned. Lining with a thin 
layer, break in the egg and cook the same as shirred 
eggs. When done cover the top with a little cream, 
tcrdato, or bechamel sauce, and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 



184 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

OMELETS. 

It is better to make several small omelets than 
one large one. An omelet should be served at once, 
and let the family wait for the omelet rather than 
the omelet for the familv. With a little care 

tj 

one can soon become an expert at making them. They 
should cook slowly, be a delicate brown when done. 
Avoid burning. 

OMELET (No. i). 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until light and foamy, 
and one-fourth teaspoonf ul of salt, a little pepper and 
a tablespoonful of milk for every egg used. Beat the 
whites stiff, fold lightly into the yolks, melt a tea- 
spoonful of butter in an omelet pan (it is best to 
keep this pan for omelets alone). Let the butter 
cover the pan, when bubbling turn in the omelet, 
cook slowly and carefully until brown on the bottom, 
then set the pan on the upper grate in the oven for a 
minute to dry. When the center is dry as you cut 
into it, run a knife around the edge, then under the 
half nearest the handle, and fold over to the right, 
then invert the omelet on a hot platter; garnish with 
parsley. 

OMELET (No. 2). 

Beat two eggs slightly, add one tablespoonful of 
milk, one-fourth teaspoonf ul salt and a little pepper. 
Melt a teaspoonful of butter in the omelet pan, when 
bubbling pour in the egg. With a fork break the egg 
in several places, letting the uncooked egg run under 
and brown. When the egg is set, fold and serve on a 
hot platter the same as for omelet ~No. 1. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 185 

A VARIETY OF OMELETS. 
CHEESE OMELET. 

Make the same as ~No. 1 or 2. Add one-fourth 
cup of grated cheese to the yolks of two eggs, and a 
little paprica. 

RUM OMELET. 

]\Iake the same as omelet ~No. 1. Have the omelet 
slightly underdone ; just before sending to the table 
pour two tablespoonfuls of brandy around it, dip a 
bl^ck of sugar in the brandy, set it on top of the ome- 
let and touch a lighted match to it, or light on the 
table. 



Pour a cream-tomato or mushroom sauce around 
omelets. 



A good change is to mix chopped chives or parsley 
with the omelet before putting in the pan. 



HERB OMELET. 



Mix chopped parsley, chives, chervil and tarragon 
with the eggs before cooking. 

Mix chopped chives or parsley with the omelet be- 
fore putting in the pan. 



HAM OMELET. 



Stir into omelet No. 1 two tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped ham. The same amount of chicken can be 
used, or mushrooms. 



186 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PEA OMELET. 

Cover the omelet just before folding with a layer 
of creamed peas. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Broiled tomatoes may be used to cover the omelet 
before turning, or garnish the omelet with a row of 
them. 

JELLY OMELET. 

Make the same as ]STo. 1 ; omit the pepper ; allow 
a teaspoonful of powdered sugar to each egg; when 
ready to fold, cover over with a layer of jelly or mar- 
malade. 

ORANGE OMELET (Mrs. Lincoln). 

The thinly grated rind of one orange and three 
tablespoonfuls of the juice, three eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Beat the yolks 
and the sugar, rind and juice. Fold in the whites 
and cook as omelet "No. 1. Turn out, sprinkle thick- 
ly with powdered sugar and score in diagonal lines 
with a clean red-hot poker. The burnt sugar gives 
the omelet a delicious flavor. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET. 

Make the same as omelet "No. 1 ; omit the pepper 
and part of the salt; add to the yolks two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and one-half cup of grated 
pineapple. When done sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and score the same as for orange omelet. Gar- 
nish if you like with slices of pineapple. Orange and 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 187 

pineapple omelets make delicious and quickly pre- 
pared desserts. 

EGGS COOKED IN WHOLE TOMATOES. 

With a pointed knife take out the center of tne 
tomato, season with salt and pepper, drop into it a 
whole egg, cover the top of the egg with a little 
cream sauce, set in a buttered pan and bake in the 
oven until the egg is firm ; remove to a platter, gar- 
nish around them with a cream sauce. The sauce can 
be omitted entirely, covering the top of the egg with 
a piece of butter. 

EGGS IN GREEN PEPPERS. 

Parboil the peppers in boiling water for five min- 
utes ; when cool cut about an inch from the pointed 
end, take out the seeds, and cut off the stem ; sprinkle 
the inside with salt and pepper, and break an egg 
into each, put a little piece of butter on top and place 
in an agate plate, bake in the oven twenty minutes, 
or until the egg is firm. Serve on a slice of toast, 
surrounded with white or tomato sauce. 

EGGS EN COQUILLE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut slices of stale bread in large rounds; with a 
smaller cutter, cut half way through and scoop out 
the center, leaving a cavity large enough to hold an 
egg; dip the bread shells in egg beaten with a little 
milk, and saute or fry in deep fat a delicate brown. 
Place them on a platter, cover with hot cream sauce, 
or poultry gravy. Serve a poached egg in each shell. 
The shells may be covered with melted butter and 
browned in the oven. 



188 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

POACHED EGGS A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Split and toast some round muffins ; put on each 
a round thin slice of broiled ham, and on the ham a 
poached egg. Pour over the top of each some Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Place a poached egg on a round slice of toast and 
surround it with celery sauce. Take one cup of cel- 
ery cut in half inch pieces and cook in boiling salted 
water till tender. Make a white sauce by using two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and butter, one-half cup of 
cream and the same amount of the water the celery 
was cooked in (letting the water cook down to that 
amount), one-fourth teaspoonful salt, a little pepper. 
After the sauce has cooked over hot water ten min- 
utes, add the cooked celery, reheat and serve. 

EGG BALLS TO SERVE IN SOUP. 

Mash the cooked yolks of four hard-boiled eggs 
through a sieve, season with a little salt and pepper, 
one-half teaspoonful of melted butter and enough 
raw yolk of an egg to make the mixture the right 
consistency to mould in little balls. Then poach them 
in hot water, or dip in white of egg and flour. Saute 
in butter. It takes about three minutes to cook them. 

EGG TIMBALES (Miss Barrows). 

Beat four eggs slightly, add one cup of milk, 
chicken or veal stock, season with salt and pepper, 
and if desired onion juice and chopped parsley. 
Turn into buttered small moulds, and steam or bake 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 189 

in a pan of hot water till firm in the center. Turn 
out and serve hot with a cream or tomato sauce, or 
garnish with sliced cucumbers or olives. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Cook six eggs in hot water twenty minutes. Re- 
move the shells and with a sharp, thin knife cut in 
slices. Saute one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
onion to two tablespoonfuls of butter, till a delicate 
brown, add two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with 
one-half tablespoonful of curry powder, stir until 
smooth, then add slowly one cup of white stock, cream 
or milk. Season with salt and pepper, cook till the 
onion is soft, then add the eggs when they are heated 
through. Serve on toast, or cover hot toast with slices 
of hard-boiled egg, and cover with the sauce. 

CURRIED EGGS (No. 2). 

Boil rice so every kernel is separate (see boiling 
rice), make little nests of it and place in each nest 
one hard-boiled egg that has first been dipped in the 
sauce, then pour a tablespoonful more of the sauce 
over the egg. 

STUFFED EGGS (No. i). 

Cut hard cooked eggs in two lengthwise. Re- 
move the yolks and mash fine. Mix with them any 
finely chopped meat; ham or chicken are the best. 
If convenient a few mushrooms or truffles chopped 
fine, a little cream or any kind of sauce, a gherkin or 
a few capers if cared for. Season with salt and pep- 
per, fill the whites with the mixture, smooth them 



190 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

over the top and rub a little raw egg over them, press 
the two halves together. Make a mound of the re- 
maining yolks, place it in the center of the platter 
and the eggs around it, and pour around the eggs 
a cream sauce. 

STUFFED EGGS (No. 2). 

Prepare and stuff the eggs (as stuffed eggs No. 
1). Roll them in fine crumbs, then in egg, and in 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat a rich brown. Serve 
surrounded by a white or tomato sauce. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Cut cold, hard cooked eggs into slices. Butter a 
baking dish, cover the bottom with a layer of 
the egg, then a layer of grated cheese sprinkled over 
with paprica and a covering of cream sauce, and so 
on until the dish is full, having the cheese on top. 
Cook in a hot oven till the cheese is brown. This 
can be baked in individual dishes and makes a very 
good luncheon dish. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 191 



SANDWICHES. 



Sandwiches, like salads, can be made in great va- 
rieties, only care and thought must be taken in select- 
ing the combinations. 

Sandwiches can l>e made from white, brown, gra- 
ham bread, fresh rolls, crackers, etc., and may be cut 
in any shape, with or without the crust. To many 
the most appetizing part of the bread is sacrificed 
when the crust is removed. 

Some of tlie shapes may be cut in squares, rounds 
(with a biscuit cutter), triangles, hearts or rolled. 
To keep sandwiches moist cover with a damp napkin. 
The butter for sandwiches can be either salted or un- 
salted, and should be creamed before spreading, as it 
then will spread evenly without breaking the bread. 
Seasoning of chopped mint leaves or parsley, spinach 
juice, that has been crushed and pressed through a 
cloth, a little tarragon vinegar, onion juice, if cared 
for, capers, pickles, nasturtiums, or olives finely 
chopped. 

Cut the bread in very thin slices, trimming off 
the crust before slicing, the crust and the trimmings 
can be dried for crumbs. Have the slices fit evenly 
one upon the other. Bread for sandwiches should be 
fine grained and a day old. Rolls used for sand- 
wiches should be fresh and small. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Lay a crisp, dry leaf of lettuce between thin slices 
of buttered bread, sprinkle with salt. Mayonnaise 
can be used in place of the butter. 



192 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES. 

Wash and dry the watercress, crush the leaves a 
little and prepare the same as lettuce sandwiches. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered graham hread with mixed mus- 
tard, a layer of cottage cheese, then with a layer of 
chopped olives or pickles mixed with mayonnaise. 

MEAT SANDWICHES. 

Spread the bread with butter or mayonnaise, or 
mix the meat with mayonnaise. A crisp lettuce leaf 
or watercress can always be used with the meat ; 
chop chicken and celery together, mix with mayon- 
naise or fresh dressing. Thinly sliced meat of any 
kind, seasoned with salt and pepper, and mustard if 
ham is used ; spread over with mayonnaise or French 
dressing, if liked. Meals chopped or pounded to a 
paste mixed with hard-boiled eggs, mashed, a little 
cream, season with salt and pepper, and if you like, 
a little onion juice. 

Chopped ham mixed with mustard, a little cream 
or mayonnaise, and a little chopped pickles or olives. 

Chickens' livers cooked till tender with a thin 
slice of onion, a few peppercorns and salt, chopped 
very fine mixed with cream, or mayonnaise. 

Game can be prepared the same as meat. A few 
chopped olives or pickles mixed with it is an im- 
provement. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered bread with a little chopped pars- 
ley, watercress or olives, and cover with thin slices 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 193 

of hard-boiled egg. Chop the eggs fine, mix with 
mayonnaise, lay the egg between crisp lettuce leaves. 
Sliced boiled eggs can be covered with mayonnaise 
and laid between lettuce leaves. 

FISH SANDWICHES. 

Anchovies or sardines can be freed from the bone 
pounded to a paste and moisten with a little lemon 
juice, or mixed with finely chopped pickles, olives or 
capers, served between thin slices of toasted bread 
or crackers, or the plain buttered bread or crackers. 
These sandwiches are sometimes served for the first 
course at a dinner, surrounded by lettuce or water- 
cress, as an accompaniment to oysters or alone. 

Shad Roe, made very fine, seasoned with salt, 
pepper and a little lemon juice and spread between 
lettuce leaves if you like. With bread or crackers 
any fresh boiled fish can be used in the same way. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Peanuts, walnuts, pecan, almonds and almost any 
kind of nut can be used for sandwiches. Chop them 
fine, mix with cream, mayonnaise or French dressing, 
or with cream or Neufchatel cheese. Nut sandwiches 
are very nice made of graham or brown bread, as 
well as white bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut American or Swiss cheese in thin slices, cover 
with a thin coating of French mustard and put be- 
tween buttered graham or rye bread. Any kind of 
grated cheese can be mixed with salt, paprica, a little 
cream or butter and spread between slices of brown, 



194 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

graham or white bread or crackers. Neufchatel 
cheese rubbed to a paste and put between thin slices 
of brown bread. 

Grated cheese and anchovies mixed with salt, pap- 
rica and a little vinegar. 

PIOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut slices of bread two inches square. Cut from 
the square a small square of bread, leaving the box a 
half inch thick all around, fill the space with a piece 
of American cheese, sprinkle it over with a little salt 
and paprica, cover the top with a thin slice of the 
bread, thus forming a box, brush over with melted 
butter or beaten white of an egg, brown in a hot oven. 
These are delicious. Serve very hot on hot plates. 

CLUB HOUSE SANDWICHES. 

Use four pieces of toasted bread spread with may- 
onnaise dressing. Cover two of these with lettuce 
leaves, lay thin slices of cold chicken upon the lettuce, 
over this thin slices of cold bacon or minced ham, 
then more lettuce, cover with the other slices of toast 
that have been spread with mayonnaise. Garnish 
with lettuce leaves and mayonnaise. 

HOT HAM OR CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered bread with chopped ham or chick- 
en. If ham is used, mix it with a little mustard and 
moisten with a little cream if necessary. Mix chopped 
chicken with pepper, salt and a little cream or chicken 
gravy. Dip each sandwich into a slightly beaten egg 
that has been diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
milk. Saute in butter, browning both sides. This 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 195 

can be browned in the chafing dish or on the stove. 
Serve with pickles or olives. 

SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of buttered bread with any 
kind of jam, jelly, preserves, candied fruits; the 
bread can be cut in fancy shapes or the sandwiches 
rolled. For rolling very fresh bread should be used, 
and the sandwiches should be fastened together with 
wooden toothpicks for an hour before serving, keep- 
ing them moist by covering with a napkin wrung out 
in cold water. Spread thin slices of bread with 
orange marmalade or preserved ginger cut in thin 
slices. 

GINGERBREAD SANDWICHES. 

Bake gingerbread in thin sheets, when cold cut it 
open and into shapes for sandwiches. Spread with 
cream cheese and thin slices of preserved ginger, or 
the ginger can be chopped fine. These are nice to 
take on a picnic. 



196 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CANAPES. 



Canapes are served hot and are thin slices of 
bread. Saute in butter, or browned in the oven. 
They are cut in circles or strips. Sometimes they 
are used as the first course at a luncheon and some- 
times as a dessert. 

ANCHOVY OR SARDINE CANAPES. 

Spread strips or rounds of sauted bread with an- 
chovy or sardine paste that has been mixed with a 
little lemon juice. Arrange on top rosettes of hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, the white and yolks ar- 
ranged separately, or in alternate lines down the 
canapes cut in strips. 

HAM CANAPES. 

Cut thin slices of bread in rounds with a large 
biscuit cutter. Saute in butter or brown in the oven. 
Chop boiled ham very fine, mix with mustard and a 
little cream spread on the bread, cover the top with 
grated cheese with a sprinkling of paprica, put in a 
hot oven for a few minutes for the cheese to melt. 

CHEESE CANAPES. 

Cover pieces of sauted bread with grated parme- 
san cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprica, brown in 
the oven. Serve at once. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 197 

CHICKEN CANAPES. 

Chop chicken and celery very fine, half and half, 
season highly, mix with gravy, stock or cream spread 
on sauted bread and serve with thin slices of hard- 
boiled egg in rows down the center. 

PRUNE OR FIG CANAPES. 

Soak the fruit in cold water for ten minutes, cook 
in a little hot water till tender, cut the figs in quar- 
ters, remove the stones from the prunes. Stew the 
fruit with sugar and a little water, using one table- 
spoonful of sugar and half a cup of water to a cup 
of the fruit. When the sugar and water is mostly 
cooked in the fruit, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry 
wine, cook for two or three minutes arid place on 
sauted squares or rounds of bread, cover the top with 
whipped cream. These make a very nice dessert and 
can be cooked on the chafing dish. 

FRUIT CANAPES. 

All kinds of preserved fruit can be used, the fruit 
being heated and a little wine added if cared for, 
placed on the sauted bread, covered with whipped 
cream. Peaches and pineapple are particularly good 
served in this way. A little brandy can be added to 
the peaches. 

ALEXANDRA CANAPES. 

Butter small rounds of toasted bread, cover each 
piece with anchovies. Scatter over them hard-boiled 
eggs, olives and capers chopped together very finely. 

APRICOT CANAPES. 

Cut thin slices of bread into rounds. Saute a 
delicate brown in hot butter, cover with apricot mar- 
malade and dot with whipped cream. 



198 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PASTRY. 



The pie, although greatly abused, has more 
friends than any other dessert. In New England, 
not many years ago, it was the custom to make up 
enough mince pies a week before Thanksgiving to 
last a good part of the winter. In many homes the 
custom is still carried out. It was no unusual sight 
to see forty or fifty pies all ready for the brick oven. 
The beauty of a pie is to have the pastry light and 
flaky and well brownd. 

A well made plain pastry is good enough for most 
any pie. But the puff paste greatly improves a mince 
pie, especially for special occasions, like Thanksgiv- 
ing or Christmas. The puff paste is used mostly for 
pate shells, tarts, cheese straws, etc. 

PLAIN PASTRY (Enough for One good sized Pie). 

\^-/z cups of flour. % teaspoonful of salt. 

% cup of lard. Ice water. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Sift the flour and salt together, cut in the lard 
with a knife or rub in with the tip of the fingers, then 
cut in just ice water to hold it together. In putting 
in the water add only a few drops at a time, so as not 
to get too much. The pastry should be dry. Flour 
the board well, and roll out the pastry lightly, pat- 
ting it with the rolling pin to get in shape to roll. 
Cover it over with one tablespoonful of butter cut in 
little bits ; sprinkle a little flour over the butter. (The 
pastry should be rolled in an even square) . Fold over 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 199 



the two sides to nearly meet in the center, then fold 
the ends over to the center, and the ends over again 
one over the other, making a square piece of pastry; 
pat and roll out again, place in the other tablespoonful 
of butter and roll and fold in the same way ; roll and 
fold once more, making three times in all. The pas- 
try is then ready for use. All pastry is better to re- 
main on the ice some time before using. It can be 
kept a week or more in this way. 

PUFF PASTE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Four cups of flour (or one pound), two cups of 
butter (or one pound), one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
ice water. This amount makes about twelve pate 
shells. 

Put the butter in a bowl of ice water, work it 
with the hands or wooden spoon until it becomes 
smooth and waxy. This is to wash out the salt and 
make it lighter. Then knead it in a napkin to get 
out all the water, pat it in half a dozen flat thin strips, 
lay it flat on a napkin in a pan ; place this pan be- 
tween two pans that are filled with cracked ice. This 
is done to thoroughly chill the butter. Sift the flour 
and salt together, mix it to a stiff dough with ice 
water, using a knife and only a few drops of water 
at a time. Then knead it on the board until it is 
smooth, place on the ice for thirty minutes. Then 
flour the board well and toss the ball of dough in it, 
using a knife ; then roll out in a long sheet. Take 
one piece of the butter from the ice, roll it in a little 
flour, cut in thin strips and place on the pastry ; fold 
over the sides of the pastry, letting the edges just 
meet in the center. Then fold the ends over to the 
center and double it over again; pound gently in a 



200 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

flat cake and roll out again. Roll each piece of butter 
in the same way. After the butter is all in, roll and 
fold once more, or as many more times as you care to 
do it. Should the paste become soft and sticky, put 
it on the ice for a while, then flour the board well 
and roll out. The paste should be folded and rolled 
till no streaks of butter remain. Then place it on 
the ice to chill, or cut out in the shapes to be used, 
place in the pans and chill on the ice for thirty min- 
utes before baking. 

TO BAKE PUFF PASTE. 

The dough should be ice cold before putting in 
the oven. The oven should be hot, the greater heat 
at the bottom so the paste may rise before browning. 
It is well to place an asbestos mat or paper on the 
grate above them so they will not brown too soon. A 
brown crust over the top will hold them down and 
prevent them being as light. Pate cases should bake 
about twenty-five minutes, and tarts fifteen minutes. 

TO MAKE PATE SHELLS FROM PUFF PASTE. 

Roll the paste to a quarter of an inch thickness. 
Cut into rounds with a fluted or plain cutter. Use 
the circles or rounds for one pate shell ; cut a hole in 
the center of two with a small cutter. Moisten the 
edge of each circle with a very little water, as too 
much water will hold the edges down and make them 
heavy. Place the two rings with the holes cut in 
them on top of the whole round, pressing the edges 
lightly together. Glaze them on the top with an egg 
if you like ; the egg must not go over on the edges. 
Use the small pieces that are cut from the rounds for 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 201 

covers after the cases are filled. Bake them in a sep- 
arate pan as they do not require as long a baking. 
Tarts Are made with the two layers, cutting 
one in a circle and placing it on the round the same 
as for a pate. Fill with jelly, jam, preserves or 
lemon cream, the same as for lemon pie, first cooking 
the lemon cream in a double boiler. When cool fill 
the tart shells. Serve cold. 

VOL AIT VENT. 

Can be cut in any shape required, a large round being 
most often used. Roll out the puff paste one-half 
inch thick ; turn a pie plate upside down on the paste, 
press it down to make a marking, and cut out with a 
sharp knife. Put two or three rims around the edge 
as you would a pie, only thicker ; place in a large pan 
on a paper; bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes. 
Fill with any kind of cream, meats, mushrooms or 
oysters, or serve as a dessert, filled with stewed fruits 
covered with whipped cream. 

PUFF PASTE STRIPS. 

Roll out the paste one-fourth an inch thick, cut 
in strips with a pastry wheel one inch wide and four 
inches long; bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 
On a papered pan spread a strip with apricot or 
raspberry jam, cover with a strip, place a meringue 
over the top, brown in the oven and serve as a dessert. 
Cut puff paste in a three-inch square, bring the four 
corners to the center, moisten them a little to keep 
in place. Bake for twenty minutes and put a little 
jam or jelly in each corner, with a little whipped 
cream on the jelly. 



202 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO GLAZE PASTRY. 

Beat an egg slightly, then mix with it a table- 
spoonful of water. Brush over the pastry with a 
brush very lightly, and dust with a very little pow- 
dered sugar. This gives a brown and glossy look. 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

Roll puff paste thin, sprinkle with grated cheese 
and a little paprica. Fold and roll out, sprinkle and 
fold twice more; roll the last time one-half inch 
thick, cut into straws, place in the pans, put on the 
ice for half an hour; bake in a hot oven for ten or 
fifteen minutes. 



APPLE PIE. 

Cut sour apples in quarters, peel and core, and 
slice. Place them evenly in the plate, piling a little 
in the center. Cover with half a cup of sugar; sea- 
son with one-half teaspoonful cinnamon or grated 
nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of butter. In the spring 
of the year when the apples have lost their flavor, 
season with lemon juice and a little of the grated 
rind. Cut slits in the upper crust for the steam to 
escape, dampen the edges of both upper and under 
crust, press them together. Place around the edge a 
half inch strip of the pastry ; moisten it before put- 
ting on so it will cling to the crust. Bake about thir- 
ty minutes in a hot oven, try the apples to see if done, 
with a straw or fork. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 203 



SQUASH PIE. 



*4 taspoonful salt. 

^4 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

2 



1 cup dry sifted squash. 
l l / 2 cups scalded milk. 
y% cup sugar. 

Mix in the order given. Line a plate with pastry, 
put on a rim. Bake until the center is firm. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Make the same as squash, only season with one- 
fourth teaspoonful each of ginger and cinnamon. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat three eggs slightly, then beat in six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
nutmeg or cinnamon. Pour on to this mixture two 
cups of scalded milk. Line a deep plate with pastry, 
put a rim around and bake slowly. Watch carefully, 
when it puffs up take out at once. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

If the rhubard is very young and tender do not 
peel it. If the skin has become tough peel, cut in half 
inch pieces. Line a plate with the crust, fill with the 
rhubard, sprinkle with one cup of sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of butter; if liked flavor with cinnamon or 
nutmeg, cover with a crust and put a rim around 
it. Bake in a quick oven for about thirty minutes. 

BERRY PIES. 

Pick over and wash the berries, line a plate with 
pastry, fill with the berries, sprinkle with half cup of 



204 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sugar, or more if the berries are very acid ; cover with 
a crust; bake. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Stew the cranberries. Line a plate with pastry, 
and a rim of pastry around it. Fill with the cooked 
cranberries, having them cold, and cover the top with 
strips of pastry about half an inch wide, having them 
cross each other to form little squares. Bake. A 
Thanksgiving pie. 

APPLE TART PIE. 

Make the same as cranberry pie. Stew the ap- 
ples, sweeten and season with lemon juice and nut- 
meg. 

PRUNE, APRICOT OR PEACH PIE. 

Line a deep plate with pastry and bake, or invert 
the pie plate, and bake the pastry on the outside of 
it. When cold fill with the stewed fruit, cover the 
top with whipped cream. 

Peach Pie can be made the same as a sliced apple 
pie. 

DELICIOUS LEMON PIE (Boston Cooking School). 

Beat two eggs with the yolks of two more ; add one 
cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon ; mix all together, bake in a 
crust-lined plate till it puffs up, and when a knife 
will come out of it clean ; cover with the following 
meringue : Beat the whites of three eggs until stiff, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



205 



beat in four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar grad- 
ually, then fold in three more tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Bake about ten minutes in a slow oven. 

LEMON PIE (With Corn Starch). 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of corn starch with one 
cup of sugar ; add one cup of boiling water, boil ten 
minutes take from the stove; add a teaspoonful of 
butter, one whole egg and one yolk, the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon. Bake between crusts or with 
a meringue. 

CREAM PIE. 

Boil one cup and half of milk; stir into it one- 
fourth cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn starch 
or flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt; stir until 
smooth. Remove from the stove and add three egg 
yolks slightly beaten. Bake in a crust-lined plate. 



MINCE MEAT. 



4 cups chopped meat. 

1 cup chopped suet. 

8 oups chopped apple (sour). 

2 cups meat liquor. 
2 cups brown sugar. 
2 cups molasses. 

2 cups cider. 

Juice and grated rind of two 

lemons. 
Juice and grated rind of 

three oranges. 
1 Ib. of stoned and chopped 
raisins. 



1 Ib. washed currants. 
y 2 Ib. chopped citron. 
y 2 Ib. chopped figs. 

y 2 Ib. chopped English wal- 
nuts, if liked. 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
2 teaspoonfuls mace. 
2 teaspoonfuls powdered 

cloves. 
2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

1 cup of brandy. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose water. 



Mix in the order given. Use cold tea in place of 
cider and brandy if you wish. Cook slowly in a pre- 



206 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

serving kettle for one hour, stirring often. Add the 
brandy and rose water after removing from the stove. 
Meat from the lower part of the round is the hest to 
use. A little more brandy or wine can be poured 
over the pie just before the upper crust is put on. 
Mince meat is better to pack in an earthen jar, and 
to keep several days before using. 

PETIT PIES. 

Line small round patty or gem pans with plain 
or puff paste. Fill with lemon or cream filling, 
stewed fruits or berries. Cover with a crust, cut a 
dash in the ce'iter for the steam to escape. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

ENGLISH APPLE PIE. 

Fill a buttered pudding dish with tart apples cut 
in eighths, pared and cored ; sprinkle with sugar, a 
little salt and grated rind of a lemon. Pile the apples 
high in the center ; add one-fourth cup of cold water, 
a few pieces of butter. Invert the dish upon the pas- 
try; cut large enough to give place for the high cen- 
ter and shrinkage. Cover the pie with the paste, 
putting a rim of paste around the edge. Bake about 
forty-five minutes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 207 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



CREAM RICE PUDDING. 

1 quart of milk [ 1 teaspoonful salt. 

l /2 CU P well washed rice. f A little stick cinnamon or 

y 2 cup sugar. nutmeg. 

Soak half an hour in the milk. Bake slowlv about 

V 

an hour, or until the rice has thickened the milk, or 
a thick creamy substance. This is a delicious, inex- 
pensive and nutritious dessert. One-half cup of the 
whole raisins or a few pieces of preserved ginger can 
be cooked with it to give variety. Serve with butter 
alone, or butter and maple sugar, or cream. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Make the same as cream rice pudding, with the 
exception of using one-half cup of molasses in place 
of the sugar. Season with cinnamon ; add one-half 
cup of raisins and one cup of sour apples if liked, 
that have been pared, cored and quartered. Serve 
with cream. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

1 quart of milk. | y 2 C11 P sugar. 

y 2 cup tapioca. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Soak the tapi- 
oca in it for one hour, or until it is transparent. Re- 
move from the stove ; add the beaten yolks and sugar, 
bake in buttered pudding dish for half an hour. Serve 
with lemon sauce, or remove from the oven, cover the 
top with a layer of jam or jelly, and spread over it a 



208 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



meringue made from the whites of the eggs and four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown in the 
oven. 

APPLE AND PEACH TAPIOCA. 

Wash one-half cup of tapioca (the pearl is the 
best), pour over it one quart of boiling water, cook in 
double boiler till transparent (about an hour), stir 
often that it may not become lumpy ; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, core and pare eight tart apples, place 
them in a buttered pudding dish, and fill the cores 
with sugar, a little lemon juice and cinnamon ; pour 
the tapioca over them, and bake till the apples are 
soft. Serve hot or cold with foamy sauce or sugar 
and cream. Peel the peaches, cut in halves, cook in 
the same way. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler ; wash 
and add to it one-half cup of sago, and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt; let it cook till transparent, stirring 
often to prevent lumping. Beat two eggs with one- 
half cup of sugar. Remove the sago from the stove ; 
add the eggs and sugar. Bake in buttered pudding 
dish for one-half hour, or until it puffs up. Serve 
hot or cold, with cream. 

Make sago with apple or peaches the same as 
peach and apple tapioca. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mix one cup of yellow corn meal, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of salt; pour onto them one 
quart of scalded milk, one fourth cup of butter, and 
two beaten eggs ; let bake in a deep pudding dish 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



209 



slowly for one-half hour, then pour in three pints of 
cold milk. Bake very slowly for five or six hours. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING. 

Mix one cup and a half of whole wheat flour, one- 
half cup of white flour, one-half teaspoonful each of 
soda and salt; sift, add one cup of milk, half a cup 
of molasses, one-half cup each of shelled and chopped 
walnuts and raisins. Steam for two hours and a 
half. Serve with cream, foamy or lemon sauce, or a 

t/ 

hard sauce flavored with lemon juice, or sherry. This 
will serve eight people. 

FIG PUDDING. 



12 butter crackers, rolled 

fine. 

1/2 lb. figs, chopped fine. 
y2 cup of suet, chopped fine. 
2 eggs well beaten. 
1 cup sugar. 



1 cup of milk. 

y 2 teaspoonful soda dissolved 

in the milk. 

4 teaspoonfuls of brandy. 
y 2 nutmeg. 



Mix in the order given. Steam four hours. Serve 
with a wine or hard sauce. Will serve eight people 
generously, as it is a rich pudding. 



THANKSGIVING PUDDING. 



cups of soft bread 

crumbs. 

1 cup scalded milk. 
1/2 cup sugar. 
5 eggs. 
1 cup raisins. 
y 2 cup of currants. 
y 2 cup of finely chopped 

dates. 
y 2 cup finely chopped citron. 



y 2 Ib. finely chopped suet. 
The grated rind of a small 

lemon. 

l /2 cup chopped walnuts. 
y 2 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
iy 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls each of 

brandy and sherry. 



Pour the hot milk over the crumbs. Mix in the 
order given. Steam in a buttered mould six hours. 



210 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 



iy 2 Ibs. raisins, stoned. 
iy 2 Ibs. currants. 
iy 2 Ibs. suet chopped fine. 
iy 2 Ibs. bread crumbs. 
1 Ib. flour, or 4 cups. 
1 Ib. sugar. 

1 Ib. preserved lemon and 
orange peel mixed. 



Grated rind of one lemon. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1/2 nutmeg. 

i/4 ounce mixed spices. 

1 cup brandy. 

1 dozen eggs. 

1 cup scalded milk. 



Pour the milk over the crumbs. Mix in the order 
given. This quantity makes four puddings. Steam 
six hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 



y 2 cup chopped suet. 

% cup molasses. 

1 cup milk. 

1 cup stoned raisins. 

y 2 cup chopped citron. 

% teaspoonful soda. 



Grated rind of half a lemon. 
y 2 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
About two cups and a half of 



flour. 



Sift all the dry materials together, then stir in 
the others. One-half cup of butter can be used in- 
stead of the suet. Steam in a buttered pudding mould 
three hours. Serve with hard, foamy or wine sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 

Remove the crusts and butter thin slices of stale 
bread. Lay them in layers in a pudding dish, alter- 
nating with layers of stoned raisins. When the 
dish is full pour over it two well-beaten eggs mixed 
with half a cup of brow r n sugar, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt, one pint of milk. Bake slowly for one hour. 
Sprinkle cinnamon and nutmeg over each layer of 
bread. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



211 



STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 



1 cup soft bread crumbs. 

2 cups scalded milk. 
i/i cup sugar. 
Yolks of three eggs. 



cup currants or raisins, 
cup candied orange peel, 
teaspoonful salt, 
teaspoonful nutmeg. 



Mix in the order given. Steam three hours. 
Serve with wine or creamy sauce. 

BROWN BETTY. 

In a buttered pudding dish arrange alternate lay- 
ers of soft bread crumbs and sliced sour apples. Sea- 
son each layer with bits of butter, a little salt, and 
ground cinnamon. When the dish is full pour over 
it one-half cup of molasses, and a half cup of hot 
water. Bake for a half or three-quarters of an hour 
or until the apples are soft. Raisins, chopped al- 
monds or walnuts can be used with the apple. Serve 
with cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 



y cup melted butter. 

^4 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 

!/4 teaspoonful salt. 



1 cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 

1 rounding teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder. 



Sift the dry materials together ; beat the eggs and 
sugar, and add them with the milk and melted butter. 
Bake in a round pan with a hole in the center for 
one-half hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 



STEAMED BERRY PUDDING (Mrs. Lincoln). 



2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted 

butter. 



2 eggs. 

y 2 cup sugar. 

2 cups of berries, or fruit, 

raisins or currants may 

be used. 



212 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Sift the dry materials together ; add the f ruit, stir 
it well around in the flour, then add the rest of the 
materials. Steam two hours. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter a mould well. Ornament it with candied 
fruits. Arrange in it slices of sponge cake or lady 
fingers ; dip them lightly in sherry if you like. Ar- 
range alternate layers of cake and fruit, then pour 
over it all a custard made of a pint of milk, yolks of 
three eggs and three tablespoonfuls of sugar; pour 
it into the mould, bake setting in a pan of water for 
one hour. Serve with a wine sauce. 

BAKED PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and grate one pineapple ; to every cup of the 
pineapple add one-half cup of sugar and one-fourth 
cup of butter creamed together, one cup of thin 
cream and four eggs slightly beaten, a little salt. 
Bake in rather a slow oven until it puffs up and the 
center seems firm. Cover with a meringue made 
with the whites of three eggs beaten foamy, beat in 
four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar till stiff, then 
fold in two tablespoonfuls. Bake in a slow oven for 
ten minutes. 

STEAMED ORANGE OR PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Let one cup of soft bread crumbs soak in one cup 
of hot milk ten minutes; add one cup of sugar, one 
cup of orange juice or one cup of grated pineapple 
and one tablespoonful lemon juice. If orange is 
used one tablespoonful of grated orange peel with the 



THE ROCK? MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 213 

orange and lemon juice, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
melted butter, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder sifted with one-fourth cup 
of flour. Steam in a buttered mould two hours and 
a half. Serve with a creamy sauce. 

QUINCE PUDDING (Mrs. Hill). 

Pare and grate six ripe quinces ; mix the pulp 
as grated with the juice of a lemon to keep it from 
discoloring; add the grated yellow rind of a lemon, 
a cup of sugar, the beaten yolks of six and the whites 
of three eggs, and one cup of cream. Mix thoroughly 
and bake until firm in a buttered pudding dish, stand- 
ing in a pan of hot water. Serve cold ; sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Or serve with sugar and whipped 
cream. 

BOSTON APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and core sour apples enough to make three 
good cups before they are cooked. Stew with them 
one cup and a half of sugar, one-half cup of water, 
two inches cinnamon bark; cook until they are soft, 
then mash through a sieve ; add one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, one cup hot cream, and the yolks of 
four eggs and one white, and a tablespoonful melted 
butter. Line a pudding dish with rich pastry and 
pour in the mixture ; bake till firm, or butter a pud- 
ding dish and bake without the pastry till firm. Serve 
with cream, hot or cold. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Six ears of sweet corn, one quart of milk, or half 
milk and half cream, one-fourth cup of flour, four 



214 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

eggs, one-half cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful melted butter. Cut the corn 
down through the kernels and press out the pulp. 
Bake in a buttered mould till firm. Serve hot with 
lemon sauce. 

SNOWBALL PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs till light, then grad- 
ually beat in one cup of granulated sugar. When 
light add three tablespoonfuls of milk, one cup full 
of flour, with one teaspoonful of baking powder sift- 
ed with it. Beat the whites stiff, fold lightly into 
the mixture. Fill well-buttered cups or moulds two- 
thirds full; steam for one-half hour. Serve with 
lemon, foamy or wine sauce, or any fruit sauce. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cup of molasses, one-half cup 
chopped suet, one cup of sweet milk, two and one-half 
cups of flour, one cup seeded raisins, one cup chopped 
English walnuts, one-half cup chopped figs, one-half 
grated nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful each of cinna- 
mon and salt, mix well together, steam three hours. 
Serve with a hard or orange sauce. 

WEYMOUTH PUDDING. 

Two cups stale bread crumbs soaked in one cup 
hot milk, one cup finely chopped suet, one cup each 
chopped figs and raisins, one cup sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, three eggs, juice and grated yellow of 
the rind of a lemon. Beat all the ingredients well 
together; steam in a well-buttered mould for three 
hours. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



215 



COCOANUT PUDDIKG. 

Place in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish 
six fresh cocoanut cakes. Pour over them a custard 
made of one pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoon- 
f uls of sugar, a little salt ; bake till the custard is firm. 
Remove from the oven, cover the top with a layer of 
raspberry jam, or currant jelly; apricot jam is also 
very delicious with it. Spread over it a meringue 
made of the whites of two eggs and three tablespooon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, beaten stiff. 

Macaroon Pudding can be made in the same way, 
using macaroons in place of cocoanut cakes. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Butter eight butter crackers ; place them in a but- 
tered pudding dish, pour over them a custard made 
of three cups of milk and the yolks of four eggs and 
white of one, half cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspooii- 
ful of salt; bake till firm. Serve with lemon or 



orange sauce. 



CORN STARCH PUDDING. 



2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn starch. 

}4 teaspoonful salt. 



/4 cup sugar. 

Yokes of three eggs, white of 



one. 



Scald the milk in double boiler; sift the corn 
starch, salt and sugar together, stir into the milk. 
Cook fifteen minutes, stirring until smooth, then add 
the eggs slightly beaten ; cook ten minutes. Serve 
hot or cold with cream and sugar. 



216 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 



2 cups flour. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
*4 cup butter. 



1 

_>V_-I 

1 cup milk. 
4 sour apples. 
Sugar and cinnamon. 



Sift the dry materials together ; rub in the butter, 
then the milk and beaten egg; spread on a buttered 
shallow pan; pare, core and quarter the apples, lay 
them in rows on top of the dough and press the sharp 
edge a little in the dough; sprinkle them over with 
sugar and a little cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve hot with lemon or a hard 
sauce. Peaches can be used in place of the apples. 

APPLE SNOWBALL. 

Cook one cup of well-washed rice in a double boil- 
er with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one cup of milk 
and one and one-half cups of water. When the rice 
has taken in all the liquid, butter small moulds or 
cups well, line them with one-half inch of the hot 
rice, fill the center with a quarter of a sour apple; 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, or lemon juice. 
Cover it all over with rice, and steam in a steamer, 
or setting in a pan of hot water on top of the stove 
for one-half hour. It is better to have the apples 
slightly cooked first. Peaches or pineapple are 'de- 
licious used in the same way. Serve with creamy 
sauce. Be careful in taking them from the mould 
that they don't lose their shape. 

STEAMED CARROT PUDDING. 



1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 cup carrot. 
1 cup potato. 



1 cup currants. 

y 2 cup suet. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 217 



y% teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

y 2 teaspoonful nutmeg. 



1 cup flour. 
1 cup molasses. 
1 cup raisins. 

Grate the carrot and potato, add the bread 
crumbs, sift the spices and soda with the flour, also 
salt. Add the suet, molasses and fruit, dredged with 
a little extra flour. Steam in a well-buttered mould 
for four hours. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core six sour apples, and place them in 
a buttered pudding dish. Mix one-fourth cup of 
flour and one-fourth teaspoonful salt with a little 
milk to form a paste ; then add the yolks of four eggs, 
well beaten, a little more of milk, then fold in the 
whites the rest of the milk, making two cups in all. 
Pour over the apples ; bake in a moderately hot oven 
for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with any kind 
of a sauce. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough ; roll it 
out and cut in squares ; pare and core sour apples ; 
fill the center with sugar and a little cinnamon mixed 
witli it, a little piece of butter ; wrap each apple in a 
square of dough, having the points meet on top ; 
dampen them a little with milk and press together; 
bake for twenty-five minutes, or until the apples are 
tender, or steam for one hour. Serve with a molasses 
sauce. A hard or creamy sauce is also s;ood. 

*/ O 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Make a rich biscuit dough. Roll out about half 
an inch thick. Peel core and quarter sour apples ; 



218 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

place them in the dough, cover with a little sugar, 
cinnamon nutmeg and bits of butter; roll the dough 
over the apples, pressing the ends tight together. 
Steam for an hour and a quarter. Serve with mo- 
lasses, hard or creamy sauce. Peaches can be used 
in the same way. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a mould or dish half full of sour apples that 
have been pared, quartered and cored, cover with half 
a cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
little pieces of butter; cover the top with a rich bis- 
cuit dough, cut a slit in the center for the steam to 
escape. Steam for one hour and a half, or bake in 
the oven until the apples are tender. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Cut bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick, 
then in inch wide strips ; dip each piece in melted 
butter and line a baking dish with them, having the 
pieces meet closely together. Fill the center of the 
mould with apple sauce, that has been cooked in quar- 
ter pieces, sweetened and flavored with lemon juice. 
Cover the top with strips of bread dipped in the 
melted butter. Bake in a hot oven forty minutes. 
Turn carefully out on a flat dish. Serve with cream 
or a sauce. 

APPLES AND RICE. 

Steam one cup of well-washed rice in a double 
boiler with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one cup of 
milk and one cup of water till soft ; add a little more 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 219 



milk or water if necessary, also cook with it a little 
nutmeg, cinnamon or rose water, and a half cup of 
chopped almonds, if cared for. When the rice is 
soft and has absorbed the liquid press it in the shape 
of a bowl. Cook sour apples that have been cored 
and pared in a syrup made of half as much water as 
sugar, till they are tender; remove carefully with a 
big spoon, place around the rice and fill the inside 
with them, boil the syrup down and pour around 
them. Fill each apple up with whipped cream and 
put a piece of currant or raspberry jelly on top of 
each. Serve hot or cold. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Core and pare six or eight sour apples, cover the 
tops with sugar, a little grated orange or lemon peel 
and one-half cup of water ; cover and bake in a pud- 
ding dish till tender. Then cover with a meringue 
made of the whites of three eggs beaten until foamy, 
then beat in gradually four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar ; bake in a slow oven ten minutes. Serve 
cold. 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 



% cup sugar. 
y 2 cup flour. 
2 cups hot milk. 
^4 cup butter. 



Yolks of five eggs. 
White of fire eggs. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



Mix the sugar and flour together with a little 
cold milk, stir into the boiling milk, cook for ten 
minutes, stirring until smooth, then add the butter; 
mix and stir in the well-beaten yolks. Remove from 
the stove, add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a 
pudding dish or little moulds. Place the dish in a 



220 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

pan of hot water, bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 
If little moulds are used bake twenty minutes. Serve' 
at once. If the souffle is done before time to serve let 
it remain in the oven with the door open. Serve with 
whipped cream or any light sauce. 



CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 



Make the same as custard souffle ; melt two 
squares of chocolate, mix it with two tablespoonfuls 
of hot milk and stir into the double boiler before the 
yolks are added. 



PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE. 



Add one-half cup of grated pineapple to a cus- 
tard souffle. After it is removed from the stove, just 
before the whites are added, use one more egg, and 
if the pineapple is not sweetened, one-half cup of 
sugar, instead of a fourth. Serve with whipped 
cream, flavored with pineapple. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

Beat the whites of five eggs till foamy, add one- 
fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar, and beat till dry, 
then beat in gradually half a cup of powdered sugar 
and one-half cup of prunes that have been cooked, 
stoned and chopped ; turn into a buttered pudding 
dish, set in a pan of hot water and bake one-half hour. 
Serve at once in the same dish, with whipped cream 
or a cold boiled custard. 

CHERRY. SOUFFLE. 

Two cups of canned cherries. Butter a mould 
well and decorate it with the cherries. Mix three 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 221 

tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold cherry syrup 
and stir into one-half cup of the hot syrup. Stir 
until it thickens, beat the yolks of three eggs and stir 
into the mixture with one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Remove at once from the stove and when cool 
fold in the whites beaten stiffly. Turn into the 
mould, steam for one hour and a quarter, then take 
the souffle from the stove. Let it stand in the mould 
a few minutes before turning out. Serve with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream, or with hot 
cherry juice. 



PEACH SOUFFLE. 



Make the same as cherry souffle, decorating the 
mould with half peaches and using two tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice. 

LEMON SOUFFLE (Boston Cooking School). 

Beat the yolks of three eggs till light and foamy, 
beat the whites till dry, then beat the yolks into the 
whites; now beat in gradually a scant half cup of 
sugar and the juice and grated rind of a lemon, turn 
into a buttered pudding dish, dust with sugar and 
bake about twenty minutes. Serve at once with or 
without a sauce. 

RICE SOUFFLE. 

Cook one-half cup of well-washed rice in one cup 
of boiling water and one-fourth tea spoonful of salt- 
When tender drain from the water and put the rice 
in a double boiler with one cup of milk and one of 
cream. Cook twenty minutes. Add the yolks of 
five eggs that have been beaten lightly with five table- 



222 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Remove at once from 
the stove, set aside to cool, then add one tablespoonful 
of grated orange peel and a tablespoonful of the juice, 
fold in the stiffly-beaten whites. Bake in a well but- 
tered pudding dish forty minutes. Serve at once 
with a light delicate sauce. 

GINGER PUDDING. 



2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
y 2 teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted 

butter. 



2 eggs. 

i/i cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

3 tablespoonfuls of finely 

chopped preserved ginger. 



Sift the baking powder, salt and flour together, 
then mix the ginger thoroughly into the flour, then 
add the sugar, melted butter, lemon juice, beaten eggs 
and milk. Steam two hours in a large mould or one 
hour in individual moulds. Serve with lemon sauce. 



DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler, then 
stir into it one-half cup of corn starch that has been 
mixed to a paste with cold milk and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until perfectly smooth, then add the yolks of 
four eggs beaten with one-half cup of sugar. Cook 
for five minutes, then turn into a buttered pudding 
dish. Bake twenty minutes. Remove from the 
oven, cover the top with a layer of jelly or jam and 
over that a meringue. Return to the oven and brown 
slowly. Serve hot or cold, with or without whipped 
cream. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 223 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Fill a three-pint mould or pail two-thirds full 
with alternate layers of sliced sponge cake and mac- 
aroons. Add to a pint of the strawberry juice one 
cup of cream, one-half cup of sugar and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt, Pour it over the cake, cover the 
mould tightly, steam for two hours. Serve hot with 
whipped cream, flavored with a little sherry. 



224 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COLD DESSERTS, 



GARNISHING. 

For garnishing cold desserts use fancy cakes, 
icings, fresh or candied fruits, compotes, jellies, nuts, 
currants, raisins, angelica, spun sugar, which can 
be made in nests, balls or to encircle a dish. Fresh 
flowers and leaves also make a most attractive decora- 
tion. Angelica can be cut in strips, then in little 
diamond shapes, making very effective decoration, 
and especially so when combined with candied cher- 
ries, sugared rose leaves, or sugared violets or lilac 
blossoms. Angelica is not expensive, a ten-cent piece 
will last quite a while. 

FLAVORING. 

Essences of fruit, flowers and nuts make some of 
the best flavoring. They cost about twenty cents a 
bottle. Vanilla is most commonly used, but many 
other flavors should help to take its place. It is not 
considered wholesome. Oranges and lemons are al- 
ways a pleasant flavor, using the juice or grated yel- 
low of the peel (not the white). The preserved peel 
makes a delicious flavor as well as a pretty garnish. 

LIQUEURS AND WINES. 

Liqueurs and cordials are rich syrups of different 
flavors, with only enough alcohol to keep them. They 
give a very delicate and pleasant flavor and are inex- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 225 

pensive, as a bottle will last a long time. Maras- 
chino has the flavor of bitter cherry, noyan of peach, 
curacao of orange peel. Rum, brandy and wine, 
either madeira, sherry or port are used a great deal 
and impart a very agreeable flavor, if not too gener- 
ously used. 

COLORING. 

Use the vegetable coloring paste ; it comes twenty- 
five cents a bottle. A bottle will last a long time, as 
it requires a very little to give the delicate coloring 
that you wish to use. Dilute a little in milk or 
water before using. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 



2 cups milk. 
Yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



Speck of salt. 

Flavor with nutmeg, vanilla, 
or a little sherry wine. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler, beat the yolks, 
sugar and salt together. Pour the hot milk slowly 
into the egg (stirring all the time), pour back in the 
double boiler and cook until it is thick like cream, or 
till it coats the spoon. As soon as it thickens, re- 
move from the stove at once, as too long a cooking 
will cause it to curdle. Watch and stir it all the 
time it is cooking, then strain through a fine strainer 
and flavor. Using only the yolks gives a much 
smoother custard. Three yolks can be used, but four 
makes a much richer custard. 

Chocolate Custard.--~hielt one-half ounce of Bak- 
er's chocolate with a tablespoonful of milk, stir into 
boiled custard just before straining, flavor with va- 
nilla. 



226 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Caramel Custard.- -Melt four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar to a caramel with one tablespoonful of water. 
Stir into the hot milk before pouring on the egg yolks. 
Make the same as boiled custard. 

Nut Custard. One-half cup finely chopped wal- 
nut added to boiled custard after straining. 

Cocoanut Custard. One cup finely grated cocoa- 
nut added to boiled after straining. 

Maple Custard. Sweeten boiled custard with one- 
half cup of thick maple syrup, add it to the hot milk 
with the eggs. Candied fruits may be cut fine and 
added, making a fruit custard. 

BAKED OR STEAMED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk. I 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

6 eggs. }4 teaspoonful of salt. 

Scald the milk, beat the eggs, salt and sugar to- 
gether. Pour the milk over them, stirring all the 
time. Strain into a baking dish, flavor with grated 
nutmeg, bake standing in a pan of hot water until 
the custard puffs up, or try with a knife, if it comes 
out clean, free from the milk, it is done. Watch care- 
fully. Bake or steam in cups or moulds if desired. 

BAKED OR STEAMED CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Make the same as plain baked or steamed, with 
the exception of melting the sugar to a caramel with 
two tablespoonfuls of water, then adding it to the hot 
milk. Steam in a buttered mould and serve, if you 
like, serve cold, with caramel sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 227 

BAKED OR STEAMED CHOCOLATE OR COCOANUT 

CUSTARD. 

Melt one ounce of chocolate in the hot milk for 
chocolate custard. Bake in a buttered mould, set 
in a pan of hot water. Serve very cold with cus- 
tard sauce or surrounded with whipped cream that 
has a few maraschino or candied cherries strewn 
over it. Make the same as baked or steamed custard. 

Baked Cocoanut Custard. Add one cup of grated 
cocoanut to the hot milk. Bake or steam. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Beat the whites of three eggs stiff with one table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Scald two cups of milk 
for boiled custard, poach the whites in the milk until 
firm, two tablespoonfuls at a time. Remove care- 
fully on a sieve. Make the boiled custard. Serve 
the whites on the custard with a piece of bright col- 
ored jelly on top, or blanched almonds, stuck endwise 
into the white. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Quarter and core two cups of sour apples (do not 
pare), steam or stew the apples till tender, mash 
through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff 
w T ith half a cup of powdered sugar, add the apple and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice or a grating of nut- 
meg. Beat till like snow. Pile in a dish with bits 
of bright jelly on top. Serve with or without cream. 



228 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE (Mrs. Lincoln). 



% cup Irish moss. 

1 quart of milk. 

}4 teaspoonful of salt. 



1 teaspoonful vanilla, or two 
tablespoonfuls of wine. 



Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen minutes, 
pick it over, wash and tie in cheese cloth, boil it in the 
milk till it thickens, when dropped on a cold plate, 
add the salt, strain, flavor. Mould in small cups or 
egg shells. Serve with sugar and cream. 

Blanc Mange may be made by using one table- 
spoonful of sea moss farina. Stir it into the boiling 
milk. Cook twenty minutes. 

PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM (Chocolate and Coffee). 



2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 
2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 



i 



l / 2 cup sugar. 
2 cups cream. 
Flavor. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, whip the cream 
until you have about three pints (if it is the thin 
cream; if heavy cream, use one cup). Scald the re- 
mainder of the thin cream, if thick cream is used, 
scald one cup of milk, add the gelatine to the hot 
milk. Strain, flavor with vanilla, wine, melted choc- 
olate or one-half cup of strong coffee. Place the dish 
in one of cracked ice, stir until it begins to thicken, 
then fold in the whipped cream. Pour into a mould. 
When stiff enough to drop from a spoon, mould in in- 
dividual or a large mould. The mould can first be 
decorated with half preserved peaches, slices of or- 
ange or pineapple, candied fruits or angelica. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 229 



BAVARIAN CREAM WITH EGGS. 



2 cups heavy cream whipped. 

2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 
1/2 cup cold water. 



1/2 cup sugar. 
Yolks four eggs. 
Speck of salt. 
Flavoring. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, whip the cream, 
heat the milk in a double boiler, beat the egg yolks, 
sugar and salt together, stir into the hot niilk, cook 
for two minutes, stirring constantly. Add the soaked 
gelatine. Strain into a big bowl or granite dish, set 
in a pan of cracked ice. When cool add flavoring, 
vanilla, almond, a teaspoonful each, two tablespoon- 
fuls of wine, a half cup of candied orange peel, and 
two tablespoonfuls of the juice. Stir until it begins 
to harden, then fold in the cream. Mould. 



FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM. 



2 cups of any kind of fruit 
juice or pulp sweet- 
ened to taste. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



3 tablespoonfuls gelatine. 
y 2 cup cold water. 
y 2 cup boiling water. 
2 cups heavy cream. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water for one hour, dis- 
solve in the boiling water. Add it to the fruit juice 
or pulp. Set the dish in one of ice water or cracked 
ice. Stir until it begins to thicken, fold in the 
whipped cream. The mould may be garnished with 
the whole fruit, or surrounded by it when served. To 
garnish the mould place the fruit around the mould, 
hold it in place with a little of the Bavarian cream. 
When it is firm pour carefully in the remainder. It 
is better to mould fruits in an earthen or agate mould. 



230 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM (No. 2). 

If you wish to mould in layers, put half of the 
dissolved gelatine in the cream and the other half in 
the fruit. Pour one-half of the cream first in the 
mould. When that is firm pour in the fruit. Allow 
that to become firm, then add the rest of the cream, 
making three layers, with the fruit in the center. 
Garnish with whipped cream, flavored with the fruit 
juice. 

BAVARIAN IN THE SHELL. 

Line a mould with lady fingers or maccaroons, 
dipped lightly in wine, if liked. Fill up with Ba- 
varian cream, garnish with whipped cream sprinkled 
over with candied fruits or nuts. 

BAVARIAN EN SURPRISE. 

Use a double mould for this, or one small mould. 
Set in a larger one. Line the mould with chocolate 
or coffee Bavarian. Fill the center with the plain 
Bavarian or flavor the plain with chopped nuts that 
have been soaked a half hour in wine or orange juice. 
Or line a mould with the fruit Bavarian, fill the cen- 
ter with the plain, garnish with fruit or whipped 
cream. Or line the mould with Bavarian cream and 
fill the center with the fruit Bavarian. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN. 

Use two cups of grated pineapple in place of the 
milk in making plain Bavarian cream. Have it 
sweetened to taste. Line the mould with slices of 
pineapple that have been cooked in a syrup, garnish 
with whipped cream. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 231 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 

Mould in a double mould. Line a mould one 
inch thick with wine, orange or lemon jelly, fill up 
the center with Bavarian cream. First decorate the 
mould with candied fruits, making some design, hold 
the decoration in place with a little of the jelly the 
mould is to be lined with. When firm, line with the 
jelly, decorate with whipped cream, sprinkled over 
with the fruits. 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Soften one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls of gran- 
ulated gelatine in one-fourth cup of cold water, dis- 
solve with one-fourth cup of hot milk, add one-half 
cup of sugar, one-half cup each of cooked figs and 
prunes, cut in small pieces, and one-half cup of white 
grapes skinned, seeded and cut in pieces. Mix all to- 
gether with one cup of heavy cream, whipped, stir oc- 
casionally until it begins to set, then mould. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

Two cups grated pineapple sweetened to taste, 
add one tablespoon ful granulated gelatine that has 
first been softened in one-fourth cup cold water and 
dissolved in a little hot water. Set in a dish of cold 
water or cracked ice, stir until it begins to thicken, 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and fold in the 
whites of four eggs. Mould, serve with whipped 
cream flavored with the pineapple or custard sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Make a lemon or orange jelly. When it begins to 
thicken beat in the whites of three eggs that have 



232 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

been whipped stiff. Beat all together vigorously 
until it is stiff enough to drop from a spoon, mould, 
serve with custard sauce. 



LEMON JELLY. 



y 2 box gelatine. 
y 2 cup cold water. 



1 cup sugar. 

% cup lemon juice. 



2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve with the 
boiling water, then add the sugar and lemon juice. 
When all is dissolved, strain and mould. 

ORANGE JELLY. 



y 2 box gelatine. 
y 2 cup cold water. 
y 2 cup boiling water. 



2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 cups orange juice. 



Soften the gelatine in cold water, dissolve it with 
the hot water, add the sugar, lemon juice, orange. 
When all is dissolved, strain through a cheese cloth. 
Mould, garnish the mould, if you like, with slices of 
orange held in place with a little of the jelly, unmould 
and surround with whipped cream, sprinkled over 
with candied orange peel. Or serve the orange jelly 
in orange basket made from the skin, with a little 
whipped cream on top. Set the orange basket on a 
few green leaves. 



COFFEE JELLY. 



y 2 box gelatine. 
y 2 cup cold water. 



1 cup boiling water. 
iy 2 cups strong coffee. 



y 2 cup sugar. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water, add the boil- 
ing water, sugar, coffee. When well dissolved, strain 
through a cheese cloth, mould, serve with whipped 
cream flavored with a little orange. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 233 



WINE JELLY. 



yz box gelatine. 
y% cup cold water. 

1 cup boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon 

juice. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup sherry wine or one 

cup of madeira. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 



Soften the gelatine in the cold water, add the hot 
water and sugar and the rest of the materials, strain 
through a cheese cloth. The mould can first be deco- 
rated with maraschino cherries. 

CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 

Make the same as wine jelly, using one cup of 
champagne. Omit the brandy. 

SAUTERNE JELLY. 

Make the same as wine jelly, omit the brandy, use 
one cup and a half of sauterne. 

ROMAN JELLY. 

Into one quart of lemon jelly put two wine glasses 
kirsch and one of rum, divide this into three equal 
parts, color one green, the other red and leave the rest 
uncolored. Whip each part till they begin to thicken, 
then put in a mould in alternate layers. 

PEACH CHARLOTTE. 



1 tablespoonful granulated 

gelatine. 

^4 cup cold water. 
14 cup boiling water. 
y 2 cup sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 

juice. 

1 cup peach juice. 
Whites of three eggs, or one 
cup of heavy cream 



whipped. 

Soften the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot 
water, add the sugar, lemon and peach juice, strain. 



234 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

When it begins to thicken, fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites or the whipped cream. Line a mould with 
half peaches, hold them in place with a little of the 
jelly. When they are firm, gently pour in the char- 
lotte, garnish with whipped cream and peaches. 

ORANGE AND STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Make the same as peach charlotte. For orange 
use one cup of the orange juice and one cup of sugar. 
Line the mould with slices of orange. Garnish the 
dish with whipped cream, flavored with orange. 

For Strawberry Charlotte, line the mould with 
large strawberries, hold in place with the jelly. Make 
the same as peach charlotte, using one cup of straw- 
berry juice and one cup of sugar. Garnish the dish 
with whipped cream and strawberries. 

SPANISH CUSTARD. 

1 tablespoonful granulated | % teaspoonful salt, 
gelatine. | 2 cups thin cream. 



2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 
^ cup boiling water. 
Yolks of three eggs. 



Whites of three eggs. 
Flavoring. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, then dissolve in 
boiling water. Beat the yolks, sugar and salt to- 
gether. Scald the cream and pour over the egg and 
sugar. Return to the double boiler and cook till it 
thickens, then add the gelatine and whites of eggs, 
take from the fire and flavor with an essence, wine or 
orange or lemon peel preserved. Mould. 

ITALIAN JELLY. 

Make a lemon, orange or wine jelly. Decorate 
the mould with preserved fruits or nuts, hold in place 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 235 

with a little of the jelly, just a few drops on each 
piece. When it is set, pour in a layer of the gelatine 
an inch thick. When that is firm, cover with a layer 
of fruits or nuts, hold these in place with a little of 
the gelatine, and so on until the mould is full. Gar- 
nish with whipped cream and the fruits and nuts. 

RICE CREAM. 

Put one-half cup of well washed rice on to boil 
in one quart of boiling salted water, and the yellow of 
the rind of one-half orange, or lemon. When the 
rice is tender, drain, remove the peel, mix lightly 
with the rice one tablespoonful of gelatine that has 
been softened in a little cold water and dissolved with 
one-half cup of hot milk and one-half cup of sugar. 
When the mixture begins to be a little firm, flavor 
with three tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira (that 
can be omitted), and fold in one cup of heavy cream 
whipped stiff. Mould. This can be garnished with 
whipped cream and candied orange or lemon peel, or 
serve with plain cream or preserved fruits. 

RICE AND ALMOND CREAM (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Blanch and cut fine one-half cup of almonds. Put 
them in double boiler with three cups of milk, one- 
fourth cup of sugar and one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
When hot, add one cup of well-washed rice. Cook 
until the rice is tender. When ready to serve dip out 
in frappe glasses, having them about half full, put on 
a teaspoonful of jelly, then fill with thick whipped 
cream, with more jelly on top. 



236 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Pare and core three or four cooking apples. Cook 
with them the yellow rind of half a lemon or orange 
and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Cook until the 
apple is very tender. Press through a sieve. There 
should be one cup of the pulp. Cook half a cup of 
sugar with one-fourth cup of water to the thread 
stage, pour slowly onto the white of one egg beaten 
stiffly, stirring all the time. Beat frequently until 
cold, then add to the apple with three tablespoonfuls 
of sherry wine and one tablespoonful of granulated 
gelatine that has been softened in one-fourth cup of 
cold water, then dissolve over hot water. Set the 
mixture in a pan of ice or snow, stirring until it be- 
gins to thicken, then fold in one cup of heavy cream 
that has been whipped stiff with one-fourth cup of 
powdered sugar. Fill the mould decorated with lady 
fingers or macaroons. Garnish, when unmoulded, 
with whipped cream and cherries. Apricots can be 
used in place of the apples. 

CHARLOTTE SNOWBALLS. 

Bake sponge cake mixture in deep round gem 
pans. When cold ice the outside with a boiled icing. 
Fill up the center with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored. Place a candied cherry on top or fill with 
wine or orange jelly and whipped cream. The cakes 
may be surrounded with the jelly when served. 

CHOCOLATE BAV ARIOSE (Boston Cooking School). 

Melt two ounces of chocolate (in a double boiler) 
with one-fourth cup each of sugar and water. Cook 
until glossy, add to it one cup of milk. When hot 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 237 

add the yolks of three eggs that have been well beaten, 
with one-fourth cut of sugar. Cook in the hot milk 
and chocolate till the mixture coats the spoon, then 
add one tablespoonful of granulated gelatine that has 
been softened in one-fourth cup of cold water, strain. 
Set the dish in cold water or surround with cracked 
ice. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir 
until the mixture becomes thick, then fold in one cup 
of heavy cream that has been whipped stiff. Mould. 
When ready to serve, surround with whipped cream 
and garnish with a few candied cherries or other 
fruits. 

NEWPORT WHIPS. 

Mix two cups of sweet or sour cream with half a 
cup of fruit juice and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, and half a cup of powdered sugar. Beat till 
stiff. Serve in glasses with sponge cake or first line 
the glasses with lady fingers and fill up with the whip. 

STUFFED FIGS. 

Select fine, large figs, wash them, make an opening 
on the side of each fig and press in a teaspoonful of 
English walnut meats finely chopped, fasten together 
with a toothpick. Cover with boiling water, cook 
until tender. The time depends upon the toughness 
of the figs. Ten minutes before removing from the 
fire add one-third cup of sugar and the juice of half 
a lemon (this amount is for a pound of figs). Flavor 
with sherry wine. Serve with whipped cream. 

ORANGE SECTIONS MOULDED IN JELLY. 

Make an orange jelly, have ready individual 
moulds. Set in ice water, pour in a very little of the 



238 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

jelly. When hard arrange in each a section of orange 
that has been freed from the skin. Add a few drops 
of the jelly to hold it in place. When firm, fill up 
the mould with the jelly. To serve, remove from the 
mould, surround with whipped cream that has been 
sweetened. 

PINEAPPLE IN THE SHELL. 

Select a pineapple that has a nice green top. Cut 
off the top, remove the pineapple, cut in small pieces 
and use the same amount of orange and bananas, mix 
with the pineapple, sprinkle with sugar, chill. When 
ready to serve, replace in the shell with the top on, 
surround the base with green leaves and serve from 
the shell. 

CHESTNUT PUREE WITH CREAM. 

Use the large French chestnuts. With a sharp- 
pointed knife, cut a cross on the shell of the chestnut, 
put in a pan in the oven with a tea spoonful of butter. 
Let bake until the shell is well broken open, then the 
skin will come from the nut shell, boil in hot water 
with a little salt till tender, then mash through a 
puree sieve. Put in a double boiler, sweeten, flavor, 
add a little cream, stir over the hot water till almost 
dry, press through a colander or potato ricer, onto the 
serving dish, making a mound, surround with 
whipped cream that has been sweetened a little and 
flavored. 

CHESTNUTS WITH CREAM. 

Remove the shell and skin (as given in chestnut 
puree), boil till tender, then add sugar (a half cup 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 239 

of sugar to a pound of chestnuts), and boil until clear. 
Let them remain in the syrup until cold, then drain. 
Pile on a dish, boil the syrup down to a thick con- 
sistency, pour over the nuts. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

PARIS DE MARRONS (Chestnuts). , 

Make a puree of boiled chestnuts (see chestnut 
puree with cream), sweeten and flavor with lemon, 
vanilla or sherry to one pint of puree, add one table- 
spoonful of granulated gelatine that has been softened 
in a little cold water and dissolved over hot water, 
and one-half cup of heavy cream whipped. Mould, 
garnish with whipped cream and glace chestnuts. 

CHERRY CREAM. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of granulated gel- 
atine softened in one-fourth cup of cold water, then 
add one-half cup of boiling water, one-half cup of su- 
gar (the amouont of sugar depends upon the acidity 
of the fruit), one cup of cherry juice, juice of half a 
lemon. When this is cold enough to hold together, 
add one cup of whipped cream. This is very pretty, 
moulded in individual moulds and served on sponge 
drops. 



240 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



Frozen desserts are much more acceptable in 
warm weather than hot desserts. They can be pre- 
pared several hours before using, which is often 
greatly in their favor. Every household should be 
supplied with an ice cream freezer, and the art of 
making frozen desserts (which is very simple), should 
be acquired. 

Proportions of Salt and Ice. The ice should be 
cracked very fine. Use coarse rock salt. In freezing 
ice cream or sherbets, three measures of ice to one 
of salt is used. Place the can inside the freezer 
with the mixture in it, put on the cover and adjust 
the crank firmly, turn the crank to see that it is 
in proper working order, pack the three measures of 
ice and one of salt around the can and so on till the 
freezer is full. Turn slowly at first, this makes it 
fine grained, turn constantly until the mixture stiff- 
ens, this you can tell by the way the crank moves. 
Before removing the cover wipe off all the ice and 
salt, remove the paddle, pack down the mixture solid 
with a spoon, replace the cover, put a cork in the hole, 
drain off the water and if not to be used at once, pack 
the freezer full with ice and salt. Cover the top 
with an old piece of carpeting or thick cloth. 

Mousses, Par f aits, are whipped cream flavored 
with or without eggs, packed in ice and salt. To 
pack them use two measures of ice to one of salt, 

To Unmould Frozen Desserts.- -Dip the mould in 
cold water, wring out a cloth in warm water, wrap 
around it and invert 011 the serving dish. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 241 

PUNCHES AND SHERBETS. 

These are water ices and are usually served in 
glasses. Punches are simply ices or sherbets, with 
liquors added. 

LEMON SHERBET. 



1 quart of water. 
2y 2 cups of sugar. 

2 cups of lemon juice. 



Juice of one orange. 
White of one egg. 



Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, 
when cold add it to the lemon and orange juice, 
freeze. When nearly frozen, add the white of egg 
beaten to a foam. 



ORANGE SHERBET. 



Make the same way as lemon sherbet, using one 
pint of orange juice, juice of one lemon, two cups of 
sugar. 



PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 



1 quart of water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 can grated pineapple. 



Juice of two lemons and one 

orange. 
White of one egg. 



Make the same as lemon ice. The sherbet is 
made more delicate by just pressing the pineapple 
through a sieve or squeezing through cheese cloth. 

STRAWBERRY, RASPBERRY AND CURRANT SHERBETS. 

Squeeze the berries through cheese cloth ; to every 
pint of juice add the juice of one lemon. Boil two 
cups of water, one and one-half cups of sugar to- 
gether for ten minutes, add to the juices, freeze, add- 
ing the white of egg just before it is frozen. 



242 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHERRY, PEACH, APRICOT AND PLUM SHERBETS. 

These fruits should be cooked in a very little 
water. When tender, squeeze through cheese cloth. 
Make the same as strawberry sherbet. One cup of 
whipped cream may be added to sherbets after they 
are frozen, stirring the crank a few times to mix the 
cream with the sherbert. 

APPLE SHERBET. 

Select nice, bright-flavored apples ; cook with them 
a piece of cinnamon bark and a pinch of salt, and 
water enough to cover. When very soft and fine, 
mash through a puree sieve ; add a grating of nutmeg 
and the juice of a lemon; sweeten to taste. Freeze, 
adding the beaten white of egg, as in other sherbets. 
A little preserved ginger cut in small pieces may be 
added with the white of egg. 

BOSTON SHERBET. 

Four cups raspberry juice, from fresh or pre- 
served berries ; juice of one lemon ; sweeten to taste, 
then add one-half cup of maraschino ; freeze. When 
frozen, stir in one-half cup of maraschino cherries, 
cut in small pieces. Add the white of egg as in other 
sherbets. 



GRAPE SHERBET. 



3 cups water. 
2 cups sugar. 
*4 cup lemon juice. 
% cup orange juice. 



2 cups grape juic (purple 

grapes). 
White of one egg. 



Boil the sugar and water for fifteen minutes ; add 
the fruit juices, freeze, and add the white of egg be- 
fore it is quite stiff. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 243 

GRAPE BOMBE. 

Line a mould with the grape sherbet an inch 
thick. A melon mould makes a pretty bombe. Fill 
the center with sweetened whipped cream; cover the 
top over with the sherbet; pack, buried in ice and 
salt, for three hours, using two measures of ice to 
one of salt. 

Bombes. Any of the sherbets used the same as 
the grape, makes delicious bombes, strawberry or 
raspberry being particularly delicious. 

FRAPPE. 

Frappes are made the same as sherbets, only not 
frozen as hard. 

COFFEE FRAPPE. 



1 quart of clear black cof- 
fee. 
1 cup sugar dissolved in the 



Speck of salt. 

White of one egg added be- 
fore it is quite frozen . 



coffee. 

Serve in glasses with a little whipped cream on 
top. 

PUNCHES. 

Punches are used to serve between courses, or 
with a meat course. They should be frozen only to 
a mush. 

TOMATO PUNCH. 

Cook together one-half can of tomatoes, one cup 
of water, three apples cut in eighths (without peel- 
ing), one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of gin- 
ger. When the apples are tender, rub through a 



244 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

fine sieve and add the juice of one lemon, two table- 
spoonfuls of preserved ginger cut in fine pieces, four 
tablespoonf uls of maraschino ; freeze ; serve in 
glasses. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Make one quart of strong tea, made from Ceylon 
or Oolong; add the juice of one orange and of half a 
lemon, one cup of sugar, and before it is quite frozen 
add the beaten white of egg. After freezing, stir in 
one cup of whipped cream ; or, omit the cream in 
the freezing and put a spoonful 011 the top of the 
glasses when serving. 

GRAPE FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil one cup of sugar and two cups of water for 
fifteen minutes ; add one cup of grape fruit juice, and 
the juice of one large lemon, the beaten white of one 



MINT PUNCH. 



4 cups water. 

2 cups sugar. 

1 cup lemon juice. 

Juice of one orange. 



White of one egg. 
1 cup creme de menthe cor- 
dial. 



Just before the punch is frozen, add the beaten 
white of egg, finish freezing, and stir in the cup of 
creme de menthe ; pack for one hour ; serve in glasses. 



ROMAN PUNCH. 



Make the same as the mint punch, using the 
lemon ice for the foundation, and add, after freez- 
ing, a cup of rum. Orange ice may be used in 
place of the lemon ice for any of the punches. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 245 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

Make an orange sherbert. When frozen, add a 
cup of champagne. 

SAUTERNE PUNCH. 

Make the same as champagne punch, using one 
cup of sauteme in place of the champagne. 

CURACAO, MARASCHINO, NOYON PUNCH. 

Make a quart of pineapple, orange or lemon sher- 
bet; when frozen, stir in one cup either of cham- 
pagne, sauterne or rum, and a half cup of any of the 
above cordials. 

GINGER ALE IN PUNCHES. 

In making the sherbets for the punches, one 
quart of ginger ale can be used in place of the water. 
This gives a very bright, sparkling punch, and when 
sauterne is added to it, can hardly be recognized from 
champagne punch. 

Serving. These punches will serve twelve peo- 
ple. 

MILK SHERBET (Mrs. Durand). 



4 cups of milk. 

Juice of three lemons and 



3 cups sugar. 
White of one egg. 



the grated rind of one. 

Do not add the milk until ready to freeze. Serve 
ten people. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 



4 cups of cream. 
1 cup of sugar. 



1 tablespoonful of vanilla. 
1 egg. 



Beat the egg until foamy, then beat in the sugar, 
add flavoring and cream; freeze. 



246 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Make the same as vanilla, omitting the vanilla, 
and adding the juice of one lemon. Decorate the ice 
cream with preserved lemon peel. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 
1 cup orange juice. 
Juice of one lemon. 



1% cups of sugar. 
1 egg. 



Beat the sugar and egg together, add the orange 
and lemon juice, and just before freezing mix it with 
the cream. 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 

l l / 2 cup sugar. 

1 cup grated pineapple. 



Juice of one lemon. 
More sugar if necessary. 



Mix all together, beating the egg and sugar till 
light; add the pineapple and lemon and cream just 
before freezing. 

PEACH AND APRICOT ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 
1 egg. 



1 cup of the fruit pulp. 
Sweeten to taste. 



Beat the egg, mix all together, freeze. 



COFFEE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 
1 cup sugar. 



1 cup black coffee. 
1 egg. 



Beat the egg, add sugar, cream and coffee,, freeze. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 247 



WALNUT ICE CREAM. 



1 cup walnut meats chopped 
fine. 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 
1 egg. 

The walnut meats can be soaked in a little sherry 
wine one hour before freezing if liked. Beat egg, 
add sugar and cream, and freeze. When frozen, stir 
in the nuts. 



GINGER ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 

1 egg. 

y 2 cup sugar. 



1 cup preserved ginger cut 
in small pieces. 



Beat the egg, add sugar to cream, freeze. When 
nearly frozen add the ginger. 



ALMOND ICE CREAM, 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 



2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 
1 teaspoonful almond. 



1 egg. 
Color green with coloring paste, mix and freeze. 

RICE ICE CREAM. 

Cook one-half cup of rice till very tender, with 
the yellow rind of half a lemon. Make a vanilla or 
lemon ice cream. When frozen, stir in the rice. 
Make this cream fully an hour before serving. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

Make a vanilla ice cream; pack one-third of it 
in a mould. Mix one square of Baker's chocolate 
with another third; pack that in the mould; add a 



248 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonful of almond to the last third and color 
green with coloring paste; pack smoothly over the 
chocolate, cover the mould securely; pack in ice and 
salt for two hours. 

FROZEN PUDDING OR TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

Make a vanilla ice cream, using heavy cream. 
To one quart of the ice cream add, after it is frozen, 
one cup of candied plums, apricots and cherries (one 
cup all together) that have been cut in fine pieces 
and soaked in sherry or maraschino, with a table- 
spoonful of brandy if cared for, for one hour. Turn 
in a mould, pack in ice and salt two hours before 
serving, or serve from the freezer. 



PLUM PUDDING GLACE. 



Make one quart of chocolate ice cream, prepare 
and add one cup of the fruits, as given in frozen pud- 
ding. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Cook three-fourths of a cup of sugar to a caramel 
and dissolve with one-half cup of hot water ; add the 
water gradually and let remain on the back of the 
stove until the caramel dissolves. When cool, add 
it to one quart of cream, one-half cup of sugar and 
one beaten egg; freeze. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Make a vanilla ice cream, using four cups of 
cream. Roll half a dozen macaroons to a powder, 
soak in sherry for ten minutes, add to the cream af- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 249 

ter it is frozen. The sherry may be omitted if de- 
sired. 

FROZEN ELLIOTT PUDDING. 

Make a vanilla ice cream. Line a melon mould 
with macaroons that have first been dipped lightly 
in sherry; spread them over with apricot jam, fill up 
the mould with the vanilla ice cream, pack in ice and 
salt for two or three hours before serving. This 
pudding can be served with a brandy sauce. 



FROZEN BANANAS. 



1 dozen bananas. 

2 cups of sugar. 
2 cups of water. 



Juice of three oranges. 
2 cups heavy cream. 



Boil the water and sugar five minutes, cool, then 
add the bananas, which should be mashed to a pulp, 
and juice of oranges ; freeze. Just before it is 
frozen add the cream, which has been whipped stiff. 
Any fruit can be used in this way. This will serve 
fifteen people. 

ORANGE DELICIEUSE. 

Boil together for ten minutes three cups of sugar 
and one and one-half cups of water ; cool, add three 
cups of orange juice. Scald in double boiler one and 
one-half cups of ere am ; when scalded, add the beaten 
yolks of three eggs ; cook till it coats the spoon (about 
five minutes). When cold, mix with the syrup; 
beat one cup and a half of thick cream and add to 
the other ingredients, then freeze at once. When 
nearly frozen, stir into it one-half cup of finely 



250 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

shredded orange peel. This will serve eighteen peo- 
ple. This receipt can easily be divided, using one 
or two-thirds, as one likes. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Place on each side of a melon mould a nice slice 
of canned pineapple. Put one cup of the juice in a 
sauce pan with the yolks of four eggs (beaten 
slightly), stir until it begins to thicken; remove 
from the fire and beat with a Dover beater until cool, 
then add half a cup of grated pineapple and one cup 
of heavy cream beaten stiff. Fill up the mould with 
the mixture, pack in ice and salt for three hours. 
Oranges may be used in this way, filling the mould 
with orange ice cream and lining it with slices of 
orange. 

PEACHES, APRICOTS AND GRATED PINEAPPLE 
FROZEN IN THE CAN. 

Place a tin can of any of these fruits in a deep 
pail or tub, pack with ice and salt (two measures of 
ice to one of salt) for three hours. Open the can 
with the can opener, remove, without breaking, onto 
the serving dish, surround with whipped cream and 
serve. 

Serve Ice Creams or Sherbets in champagne 
glasses with whipped cream on top, coloring the 
cream an opposite color from the frozen cream, us- 
ing the juices of fruits or berries or jellies, 

FRESH FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Make a plain ice cream, the same as for vanilla 
ice cream, omitting the vanilla. Use two cups of the 



THE ROCKf MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 251 

fresh fruits and pulp; sweeten to taste. In using 
raspberries for raspberry ice cream, it is better to 
cook them for about five minutes, then they will mash 
through a sieve more easily. 

LALLA ROOKH OR FROZEN EGG-NOG. 



4 cups of cream. 

4 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. 



i. 



l / 2 nutmeg grated. 

Vz CU P of rum. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 



Beat the eggs to a stiff foam, add the sugar and 
beat again. Mix with the cream nutmeg and a 
speck of salt and freeze ; when frozen, stir in the rum 
and brandy. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Make a vanilla ice cream with a rich, thick 
cream. Boil one cup of blanched French chestnuts 
until tender ; mash through a puree sieve, one cup of 
mixed candied fruits cut in small pieces, moisten 
with two tablespoonfuls of maraschino, sherry or or- 
ange juice. Stir the fruit into the cream after it is 
frozen ; let stand fully an hour before serving. 



SULTANA ROLL AND CLARET SAUCE. 

Line one-pound baking powder cans with pis- 
tachio ice cream, sprinkle with sultana raisins that 
have first been boiled for five minutes, then soaked 
several hours in brandy (drain from the brandy be- 
fore using). Fill the center with whipped cream 
that has been sweetened and flavored; cover the top 
with pistachio ice cream ; pack in ice and salt for two 
hours before serving. Serve with claret sauce. 



252 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Boil one cup of sugar and one-half cup of water 
to a thick syrup; when cool (not cold), add one-third 
cup of claret. Serve very cold over the sultana roll. 

MARASCHINO, SHERRY, PORT AND BRANDY SAUCES. 

Make the same as claret sauce, using whatever 
liquor you like. 

SAUCES FOR ICE CREAM. 

Can be made from sweetened whipped cream, 
chilled and flavored. 

GINGER SAUCE. (Boston Cooking School). 

Dilute two teaspoonfuls of corn starch with water 
and stir in one-fourth of a cup each of brandy and 
ginger syrup, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice ; 
cook five minutes, then add one-fourth cup of finely- 
chopped ginger, a few gratings from the rind of a 
lemon and one teaspoonful of butter. Serve hot or 
cold. 

MAPLE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil two cups of maple syrup until quite thick, 
then add one-half cup of cream and a speck of salt; 
cook until it will form a soft ball when tried in cold 
water, then pour over the ice cream. Keep it hot by 
standing the dish in hot water until ready to use. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Mix one ounce of grated chocolate with one cup 
of sugar, add one-fourth cup of water, one-fourth 
cup of cream, speck of salt; cook till it will form a 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 253 

soft ball when tried in eold water. Serve at once, 
or keep hot by setting in hot water. This sauce may 
be used cold if preferred. 

HOT COFFEE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of cream for 
five minutes, with a speck of salt, then add one cup 
of strong black coffee; boil for ten minutes, or until 
it becomes a thick syrup. 

HOT RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of sugar, two cups of fruit juice and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice to a thick syrup. 
Serve hot or cold. 

HOT ORANGE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Mix with one cup of orange juice and the juice 
of one lemon one teaspoonful of corn starch that has 
been dissolved in a little cold water, one cup of sugar ; 
cook to a thick syrup, strain, and serve hot or cold. 

MOUSSES. 

Mousses are whipped cream fruit pulps and fla- 
vorings mixed together and packed in ice and salt to 
freeze. 

FRUIT MOUSSES. 

Whip two cups of cream stiff. If the thin cream 
is used, drain it through a sieve before adding to the 
pulp. Mix enough sugar to the pulp to sweeten the 
amount depends upon the acidity of the fruit then 
mix with the cream, pour in a mould, pack in ice and 



254 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

salt for three hours, using two measures of ice to one 
of salt. Raspberries and peaches make very delicious 
mousses, the flavor of the preserved being almost as 
good as the fresh fruit. 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, CURACAO OR NOYON MOUSSES. 

Whip two cups of cream stiff, add to it three- 
fourths cup of black coffee that has been cooked to 
a thick syrup with three-fourths cup of sugar, then 
cooled. Pack in ice and salt, 

Chocolate M ousse.- -Melt two ounces of choco- 
late, add to it one-half cup of cream; add three- 
fourths cup of sugar ; melt all together, cool, and add 
to two cups of whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt 
for three hours. 

CURACAO AND NOYON MOUSSE. 

B 

Add one-half cup of curacao or noyon to two cups 
of whipped cream, sweeten with a little powdered 
sugar if necessary. Pack for three hours in ice and 
salt, 

PARFAITS. 

Parfaits are flavorings, whipped cream and eggs. 
They are frozen by being packed in ice and salt. 

ANGEL PARFAIT. 

Boil one cup of sugar and one-half cup of water 
till it threads, then pour in a fine stream on the 
whites of two eggs beaten till foamy. Set in a dish 
of ice water and beat until cold. Add two tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla, fold into it two cups of heavy 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 255 

cream beaten stiff. Turn into a mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours, two measures of ice to 
one of salt. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT. 

Make the same as angel parfait, omitting the va- 
nilla and stirring into the syrup and eggs when cold 
one cup of grated pineapple. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

To one cup of rich maple syrup add the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, cook in a sauce pan, stirring con- 
tinually till it boils. Boil for five minutes, strain, 
set aside to cool. Beat two cups of heavy cream un- 
til stiff, then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Whip the syrup with a Dover beater until very light, 
and stir all the ingredients together ; mould and pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. This amount will 
serve twelve people. 

GINGER PARFAIT. 

Heat one cup of ginger syrup, pour slowly over 
the whites of two eggs ; beat two cups of heavy cream 
stiff, add to the other ingredients when cold, with 
half a cup of the preserved ginger that has been put 
through a meat grinder, or chopped very fine. Pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. 

CAFE 7 PARFAIT. 

Boil one cup of clear black coffee and three- 
fourths of a cup of sugar to a thick syrup, then slowly 
pour over the whites of two eggs that have been beaten 



256 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

to a foam ; beat till cold, mix with two cups of heavy 
cream that has been whipped stiff, mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours. 

PARFAITS OF CHESTNUTS OR CANDIED FRUITS. 

Make an angel parfait; when ready to put in the 
mould, add a cup of boiled chestnuts or candied 
fruits that have been soaking in brandy for half an 
hour; drain well from the brandy, roll in powdered 
sugar and mix with, the parfait; mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours. 

PARFAITS OF TEA AND ORANGE PEEL. 



1 cup of strong black tea. 
1 cup of sugar. 
4 e^ers. 



2 cups heavy cream. 
% cup candied orange peel. 
eggs. 



Mix the tea, sugar and beaten yolks of eggs to- 
gether, cook in double boiler until thick and creamy. 
When cold, mix with it the cream beaten stiff, and 
the whites of the eggs, also. Cut the candied peel in 
small pieces, soak until very soft in maraschino or 
orange syrup or juice, fold into the mixture ; pack in 
ice and salt for three or four hours. Serve, garnished 
with candied peel. 

BANANA PARFAIT. 

Peel and mash to a pulp half a dozen bananas; 
add to them a wine glass of rum and one of maras- 
chino, a tablespoonful of lemon juice (a few drops of 
yellow vegetable coloring mixed with a little cream 
will improve the color), one-half cup of sugar, three 
eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one cup 
of heavy cream whipped stiffly ; mix all together, fold- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 257 

ing the whites in last; put in a mould, pack in ice 
and salt for four hours, using equal parts of ice and 
salt. The liquor can be omitted; then three hours 
would be long enough to freeze. Apricots or peaches 
can be used in the same way. 

BISCUIT GLACE OR TORTONI. 

Make a thick syrup of one cup of sugar and one- 
fourth cup of water. Beat the yolks of four eggs. 
When the syrup is cool, add to the eggs with half a 
cup of cream. Cook all in a double boiler until the 
mixture coats the spoon like a custard, then place in 
a dish of ice water and whip till cold; then fold in 
two cups of heavy cream whipped stiff, flavor with 
vanilla or maraschino. Put the mixture in paper 
boxes, sprinkle over the top almonds browned and 
chopped fine, or macaroons rolled to a fine powder. 
Put the boxes in a tin pail, place paper between each 
layer. Pack in ice and salt for four hours. 

MACEDOINE FRAPPE. (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Make a syrup by boiling four cups of water and 
two cups of sugar ten minutes; add the shaved rind 
of one lemon, cool, strain out the lemon; add the 
juice of three lemons and one-half cup of orange 
juice, one-half cup of strong tea, one grated pineap- 
ple, one pint of apollinaris; add more sugar if 
needed. Freeze to a granular consistency, using as 
much salt as ice. 

COLLEGE ICES. 

Put into a frappe glass two tablespoonfuls of 
any kind of fruit or berries that have been sugared 



258 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and flavored with, a little brandy or wine ; fill the 
glass with vanilla ice cream ; pour over the top a 
little fruit syrup or chocolate sauce. 

GOOSEBERRY SORBET. 

Cook together one quart of gooseberries, two 
cups of water and one cup of sugar till soft, then add 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice and a little green 
vegetabl coloring. When cold freeze. When quite 
stiff, add a wine glass of maraschino and two table- 
spoonfuls of rum. Before adding the lemon juice 
and coloring, mash through a fine sieve. 

CHOCOLATE SURPRISE. 

Line a melon mould with a rich chocolate ice 
cream about one inch thick, fill up with orange sher- 
bet, cover the top with the ice cream. Pack the 
mould in ice and salt for two hours. When ready to 
serve, surround with crystallized orange peel. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 259 



CAKES. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CAKE. 

The baking of cakes is more affected by the high 
altitude than anything else we cook. Our sea level 
receipts can be used in high altitudes by adding one 
more egg, not changing the receipt in any other way, 
in this way making a rich, moist cake. 

Baking Cake. -The oven should be slow, and 
enough fire to last until the cake is done. Grease 
the pans with lard, as butter burns very quickly, 
making the cake black. 

Preparing the Materials for the Cake.- -The but- 
ter and sugar should be creamed together very 
lightly, making a creamy, soft mixture. A great deal 
depends upon creaming the butter and sugar prop- 
erly. The eggs should be beaten light and foamy. 
When the whites are to be beaten alone, put them in 
a flat dish a plate or platter and beat with the 
Daisy beater; they beat up much quicker beaten in 
this way, although if one cares to, they can beat the 
whites in a bowl with the Dover beater before beat- 
ing the yolks, thus having the beater to wash but once. 
Sift salt and baking powder with the flour. When 
fruit is used, roll it in flour and add it last. When 
a cake cracks open in baking, too much flour has 
been used. It is hard to give the exact amount of 
flour a cake will take, as some flour will take more 
moisture than other. Layer cakes require a hotter 
oven than thick cakes. AVhen a cake browns before it 
has raised, the oven is too hot. Any loaf cake can 



260 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

be baked as a layer cake. All cakes should be baked 
as soon as they are made. Mix cake in an earthen 
bowl and beat with a wooden spoon. Do not use a 
cheap quality of butter or stale eggs. For cake 
making use a very fine granulated sugar; the coarse 
sugar makes the cake heavy and coarse-grained. 
Have everything ready before beginning to make the 
cake. Cakes are divided into two classes cakes 
with butter, and cakes without butter. 



SPONGE CAKE. 



4 eggs. 

94 cup of sugar. 

1 cup of flour. 



~y% teaspoonful of salt. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



(In making this cake at a low altitude, use one 
whole cup of sugar). Separate the whites from the 
yolks, putting the yolks in the mixing bowl; beat 
them until creamy and gradually beat in the sugar; 
add lemon juice. Beat the whites till stiff ; sift the 
salt with the flour, add one-fourth of the whites to 
yolks ; sift over it one-half of the flour, then add an- 
other fourth of the whites, fold in, sift in the rest 
of the flour, then fold in the remainder of the whites. 
Bake in a slow oven about thirty minutes, or until 
the cake leaves the side of the pan. If you care for 
a sugary top, sprinkle a little sugar over it before 
putting in the oven. This cake can be baked in loaf, 
layers or drop cakes. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Make the same as above; spread very thin on 
shallow pans ; bake in a moderate oven ; spread with 
jelly while warm; roll up. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 261 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE (No. 2). 

Beat the yolks of five eggs till light ; beat in grad- 
ually one cup of sugar and alternately half a cup of 
heavy cream and two cups of flour ; sift with the flour 
one teaspoonful of baking powder and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt ; add the grated rind of half a lemon, 
and lastly fold in the stifly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Bake about forty-five minutes. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat seven eggs two minutes (at a low altitude 
use six eggs) ; add three cups of sugar, beat five min- 
utes, two cups of flour sifted with one teaspoonful 
of baking powder ; beat two minutes ; one cup of cold 
water, beat one minute; one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt sifted in two cups of flour, beat three minutes; 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, beat one minute. 
Observe the time exactly. This quantity makes 
three loaves. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Four eggs, half a cup of powdered sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon 
or vanilla flavoring. Make the same as sponge 
cake. Drop in buttered lady finger pans, sprinkle 
the top with powdered sugar. Bake from ten to fif- 
teen minutes. Drop by the spoonful on a buttered 
pan for sponge drops. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One cup of flour, sifted ; mix with one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar and sift four times. Beat 



262 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

the whites of twelve eggs until stiff. (Eleven eggs 
can be used in a low altitude). Add one cup and a 
half of fine granulated sugar and beat again. Add 
one teaspoonful of vanilla or almond, then mix in 
the flour quickly and lightly. Bake in a funnel cake 
pan ; line the bottom with paper, not greased, pour 
in the mixture and bake fifty minutes 

MARSHMALLOW ANGEL CAKE. 

Bake a thin angel cake. When cold, cut through 
the center. Spread over it a layer of flavored and 
sweetened whipped cream that has one-half cup of 
marshmallows cut in small pieces and whipped with 
the cream. Cover with the cake and spread a little 
of the cream on top, with the whole marshmallows 



for garnish. 



CAKES WITH BUTTER. 



By changing the receipts a little, various cakes 
can be made from one receipt, simply by adding 
spices, fruits, chocolate and different flavorings. 
When the fruits are used, roll in flour first. Where 
chocolate is used, vanilla combines with it to give 
the best flavoring. 

SPICE CAKE. 
(Made from the Yolks of Angel Cake. Mrs. Durand). 

10 yolks. | 1 scant cup of granulated 

cups of flour. sugar. 



Put the yolks in a granite sauce pan, beat the 
sugar gradually into the eggs with a flat beater ; beat 
till light and thick; set the sauce pan in a pan of 
boiling water on the stove. Cook till thick. When 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



263 



cool, add two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of cloves and one cup of nut meats, cut 
fine, and the flour that has been sifted four times. 

WHITE CAKE. (Mrs. Gaylord). 



Vz cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 
1 cup of milk. 



Whites of five eggs. 
3 cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla or 
rose water. 



Cream, butter and sugar, sift the baking powder 
and flour together, add half of the flour and half of 
the milk until used up, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites and flavoring. 



GOLD CAKE. 



y 2 cup of butter. 
li/4 cups powdered sugar. 
^ cup of milk. 
Yolks of five eggs. 
1/2 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



}i teaspoonful of salt. 
2 cups of flour. 
Flavor with mace, 
or vanilla. 



nutmeg 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the flavoring, 
beaten yolks, part of the flour that has the salt and 
baking powder sifted in it, the milk, then the rest of 
the flour. Bake from thirty to forty minutes. 



SILVER CAKE. 



Make the same as the gold cake, using the whites ; 
add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar, then 
add part of the flour, part of the whites, the rest of 
the flour, and fold in the remaining whites ; flavor 
with almond or lemon juice. 



264 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BRIDE'S CAKE. 



1 cup butter. 

1^4 cups powdered sugar. 
Whites of eight eggs. 

2 cups flour. 

1/2 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 



x /4 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful of lemon or 
rose extract or ^ tea- 
spoonful of almond. 



Cream the bntter and sugar, add the flavoring, 
the sifted flour that has the salt and baking powder 
sifted in it, half of the beaten egg; beat thoroughly; 
Fold in the rest of the whites. Bake in a round pan 
with a tube. Cover with boiled icing. 



POUND CAKE. 



% lb. of butter. 

1 lb. of sugar ( or 2 cups ) . 

8 or 9 eggs (if small, nine). 



1 lb. of flour (4 cups). 

2 tablespoonfuls of wine and 

2 of brandy. 

In a low altitude one pound of butter could be 
used. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually 
and cream, then the brandy and wine. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs very light, add those alternately 
with flour; fold in the whites last. One cup of cur- 
rants, raisins or citron may be added, or spices. 



WEDDING CAKE. (Mrs. Sheppard). 



2 Ibs. currants. 

2 Ibs. raisins. 

1 lb. citron. 

1 teaspoonful each cinna- 
mon, mace, allspice, 
cloves and 2 grated 
nutmegs. 

1/2 cup brandy. 



1 lb. butter. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 

9 eggs. 

4 cups flour. 

y 2 teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoon- 
ful of water. 



Cream, butter and sugar, add yolks well beaten, 
part of flour, spices, part of brandy, rest of flour, then 
the whites of eggs ; lastly the fruit that has been rolled 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 265 

lightly in flour. Bake in a wooden box, lined with 
three layers of paper. This cake requires from five 
to six hours' baking in a moderate oven. 



FRUIT CAKE. 



cup of butter, 
cup of sugar, 
cup dark molasses, 
teaspoonful soda sifted 
in the flour. 



4 es. 



. 
1 tablespoonful mixed 



spces. 



2 tablespoonfuls brandy. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

}i cup of candied orange 
peel. 

1/2 cup walnut meats 
chopped fine. 

Vz CU P each of raisins, cur- 
rants and citron. 
2 cups flour. 

Slice the citron and orange peel. Cream the 
butter and sugar, ad3 spices and molasses, the beaten 
yolks of eggs, part of the flour, brandy, lemon juice, 
rest of the flour, wiiites of eggs beaten stiff, lastly the 
fruit floured, and nuts. Bake in a slow oven for 
about an hour and a quarter. 

LIGHT FRUIT CAKE. 

Make a pound cake ; add one cup of currants and 
raisins (one cup in all), and one-half cup of sliced 
citron, one tablespoonful of mixed spices, the juice 
and grated rind of half a lemon. Flour the fruit 
and add it last. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE. 



1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

5 eggs (4 eggs can be used 
at low altitude). 



2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
*4 teaspoonful of baking, 

powder and salt. 
About iy 2 cups of flour. 



This cake should have a good long beating after 
all the ingredients are mixed. Cream the butter and 



266 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sfigar, add the eggs well beaten, part of the flour that 
has the baking powder and salt sifted with it, then 
the milk and the rest of the flour. Bake in little 
cakes, or one loaf. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Cream one cup of butter and two cups of pow- 
dered sugar (at a low altitude granulated sugar can 
be used), beat the yolks of six eggs till thick and 
light, add alternately one cup of milk and four cups 
of flour sifted with one-half teaspoonful of soda ; 
beat thoroughly, then add the beaten whites of the 
eggs, lastly the grated yellow rind of a good-sized 
lemon with the juice. Cover with an icing flavored 
with lemon juice. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Make the same as spice cake, omitting the spices, 
adding one-half cup of chopped almonds, one-half 
teaspoonful of almond extract; flour the nuts, cover 
with a boiled icing and sprinkle over with almonds 
cut in strips. 

PISTACHIO CAKE. 

Bake a silver or bride's cake in a large, shallow 
pan. When cold, cover with a boiled icing, colored 
green with vegetable coloring and flavored with al- 
mond. Sprinkle with blanched and finely chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

NUT CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of chopped nuts (floured) to 
"Kocky Mountain" cake. Sprinkle a layer of chop- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 267 

ped nuts and a little powdered sugar over the top just 
before putting in the oven, or frost with a white or 
chocolate frosting, and decorate with the whole nut 
meats. A maple icing is delicious on this cake. 

FIG CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of finely chopped figs (floured) 
to spice cake after it is mixed. 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN CAKE (Loaf or Layer Cake.) 

cup of milk. 



3 eggs. 



cups of flour. 



Flavoring. 



1 scant cup of sugar. 

y 2 cup of butter. 

y 2 teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add flavoring of any 
kind, the well-beaten eggs, part of the flour (with the 
salt and baking powder sifted in it), the milk and 
the rest of the flour ; beat thoroughly for ten minutes. 
Bake in gem pans if you like. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Make the same as "Rocky Mountain" cake, add- 
ing the grated yellow of the rind of one orange. Bake 
in layers and spread with orange filling. Cover with 
orange icing. 

Orange Filling. Beat one whole egg and the 
yolks of two more ; add three-fourths cup of sugar. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Make a "Rocky Mountain" cake; mix melted 
chocolate with one^third of it ; put in the pan a layer 
of the plain cake, then the chocolate mixture, after 



268 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



that the remainder of the mixture. A very nice way 
to make marble cake is to take one-third of the mix- 
ture of "Kocky Mountain" cake and mix with it 
spices, currants and citron, or a little preserved or- 
ange or lemon peel. 

SPICE CAKE. 



y 2 cup of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

% cup of milk. 

iy 2 cups of flour. 

y 2 teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
14 teaspoonful of salt. 



Juice and grated rind of a 

lemon. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Several gratings of nutmeg. 
% teaspoonful allspice. 
3 whole eggs and the yolk 
of one. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add spices, the 
beaten yolks of eggs, lemon juice and rind, part of 
the flour which has sifted in it the baking powder 
and salt, then the milk, the rest of the flour and the 
stiffly beaten whites. Bake until the cake leaves the 
side of the pan. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Make the spice cake, omitting the spices and add- 
ing one-half cup of currants that have been floured. 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of grated cocoanut that has 
been floured to "Rocky Mountain" cake just before 
putting in the oven. Cover with boiled icing that 
has two tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut mixed 
with it, or ice with the icing and sprinkle the cocoa- 
nut over the top. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 269 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Add one square of Baker's chocolate (melted) to 
'Rocky Mountain" cake; after the cake is mixed, 
flavor with a teaspoon ful of vanilla ; ice with a boiled 
or chocolate icing. 

LOAF CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Boil to a thick cream one-half cup each of sugar 
and milk and three squares of chocolate ; let cool ; 
then cream together one-half cup of butter and one 
cup of sugar, then add three well-beaten eggs, one- 
half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder 
sifted with two cups of flour, a little salt, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and the chocolate mixture added 
last. 

TWELFTH NIGHT CAKE. 

Beat to a cream one cupful of butter and two of 
granulated sugar. Beat the whites and yolks of six 
eggs separately; beat in the yolks to the creamed 
butter and sugar, a little at a time, then add one-half 
cup of milk alternately with three cups of flour that 
has one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted with it, 
then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs, lastly add 
the grated rind and juice of half a lemon, a cup of 
seeded raisins soaked in brandy and rolled in flour, 
and a teaspoonful of caraway seed. Bake in a round 
pan with a tube in the center, line it with buttered 
paper. Roll the silver pieces in thin white paper, 
then in flour, place in opposite sides of the cake. 
Bake slowly. When cold, ice with a thick white 
frosting, decorate with candied cherries and angelica, 
surround with holly and stick a piece in the center. 



270 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FIG CAKE (No. 2). 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 
6 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 

2 cups raisins. 

2 cups chopped figs. 



1 cup blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful honey. 
3y 2 cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
y teaspoonful salt. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, and the honey. Soak the fruit in brandy for 
a half hour, sift in the flour, baking powder and salt, 
add fruit, mix with the flour, then the milk. Mix 
well and bake in two loaves. 

ANGEL OR SPONGE CAKE WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Make an angel or sponge cake; bake in a sheet. 
\Vhen cold, cut in halfs and cover with a layer of 
chestnuts and whipped cream ; or, bake in a round 
pan; when cold, cut out the center, fill with the 
chestnuts and cover the top with whipped cream 
flavored with maraschino. Shell and blanch the 
chestnuts, boil in sweetened water. When soft mash 
through a sieve, then use in the cake. 

ROOSEVELT CAKES. 

Cut rich white cake in squares ; cut the squares 
in halves and spread with apricot jam ; cover with the 
other half. Press whipped cream through a pastry 
bag in fanciful shapes on top, or if the bag is not 
used, dot with the cream and sprinkle w T ith finely-cut 



angelica. 



POUND CAKE WAFERS. 



y 2 lb. butter (1 cup). 
94 lb. sugar (iy 2 cups). 
4 eggs. 

y 2 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



1 tablespoonful caraway 

seeds. 
Xutniesr. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 271 

Flour enough to roll thin, cut out in rounds, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in a quick oven. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, nut- 
meg, flour and baking powder sifted together, then 
caraway seeds. 

VENETIAN CAKES. 



t/2 cup of butter. 

/ 2 cup of powdered sugar. 

.y 2 cups of flour or a little 



1 cupful of chopped almonds 

or walnuts. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 



less. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Cream the butter and sugar till verv light, add 

C2 / CD f 

the well beaten volks, the almonds, flour and vanilla. 

L/ 7 7 

Take a small piece, roll it in powdered sugar, then 
make a ball of it in the hands ; put a piece of the nut 
on the top of each. Place them an inch apart, bake 
in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 

ORANGE QUARTERS. 

Make an orange or sponge cake ; drop in tins 
made for these cakes. Bake in a moderate oven; 
cover with orange icing. 

ALMOND WAFERS. 

Cream half a cup of butter and one cup of pow- 
dered sugar together, then beat in, very slowly, half 
a cup of milk, and lastly two cups of flour and half 
a teaspoonful of vanilla. Spread very thin on the 
inverted bottom of a dripping pan, buttered. Mark 
in squares, sprinkle with blanched almonds chopped 
fine. Bake in a moderate oven five to eight min- 
utes. Lift from the pan with a knife, roll on the hot 
pan, putting one corner over the other, or one side 
over the opposite side. 



272 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PEANUT COOKIES. 



4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 egg. 



GO' 



y 2 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of flour. 



1 teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
Speck of salt. 
1 cup shelled and chopped 

peanuts. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten egg, 
then the flour, salt and baking powder sifted together, 
the nuts last. Roll into little balls. Place an inch 
apart. Bake ten to fifteen minutes. 

HONEY CAKES. 

Four pounds of strained honey, one and one-half 
pounds brown sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, cloves 
and cinnamon to taste, one-half pound citron, cut in 
strips, one quart hickory nut meats, one pound shelled 
almonds, flour enough to roll out and cut in little 
squares. Warm the honey, then add sugar, add soda 
dissolved in warm water, add the citron, nuts, chopped 
fine. Warm the flour before adding. Bake slowly in 
pans, not to touch. 

Warm the honey, then add sugar; add soda dis- 
solved in warm water; acid the citron, nuts chopped 
fine. Warm the flour before adding. Bake slowly 
in pans, not to touch. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR COOKIES. 



1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 
4 cups of flour. 



4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of caraway 
seeds or spices to taste. 



Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, 
then flour and spices. If you like, cover the tops 
over with finely chopped preserved ginger, or pre- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 273 

served orange peel and a sprinkling of sugar. Add 
ginger to the mixture and bake as a sugar ginger- 
bread in one sheet. 

JUMBLES. 

Roll one-two-three-four cookies a little thicker, 
cut with a doughnut cutter and sprinkle over with 
sugar. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 



lb. brown sugar. 
lb. walnut meats. 



6 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

2 esrsrs. 



Beat the yolks till light, beat in the sugar, add the 
flour and nuts and beaten whites of eggs. Drop by 
spoonfuls on larded tins that have been sprinkled 
with flour. Bake quickly. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 



cup of butter. 



1 cup of powdered sugar. 

2 eggs. 



1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



Flavor with lemon juice, vanilla or nutmeg. Use 
flour enough to roll out; speck of salt. 

HERMITS. 

Add half a cup of stoned and chopped raisins to 
sugar cookies ; a little cinnamon and nutmeg. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Add a half cup of grated cocoanut to sugar cook- 
ies. 



274 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MARGARET DELAND CAKES. 

Beat two eggs and the yolk of another until 
foamy; add one-half cup of brown sugar, three- 
fourths cup of sifted flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt sifted to- 
gether, then stir in one cup of pecan nuts cut in small 
pieces. Put the mixture in small gem or muffin 
pans with a pecan nut meat in the center of each. 
Sift a little powdered sugar over the top. Bake 
about fifteen minutes. 



PEPPER NUTS. 



2 cups of powdered sugar. 

4 eggs. 

y teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
2 Ib. citron. 



1 cup of hickory nuts cut 

fine. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 
As much flour as you can 
knead in. 



Beat the eggs well, then add sugar and beat again. 
Cut the citron in bits, add it with the nuts and spices, 
sift flour, soda and salt together. After the flour is 
added, roll in little balls, place an inch apart and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



SNOW BALL CAKES. 



Bake angel or bride's cake in small round gem 
pans. Cover with a boiled icing flavored with lemon 
and put a piece of candied ginger in the center of 
each. Cut in diamond shape. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 275 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKE. 
CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

iy 2 cups granulated sugar. | Speck of salt. 

y 2 cup cream. Square of Baker's chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Cut the chocolate in small pieces ; put all on to- 
gether to cook. Try it in cold water ; when it 
reaches the soft ball stage remove from the fire. 
When cool, beat until a thick cream ; spread on the 
cake. Do not stir the filling after it begins to boil. 

FIG FILLING. 

y 2 lb. of figs. I Juice of half a lemon. 

y 2 cup sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry. 

Chop the figs fine, boil till tender, then add the 
sugar and lemon juice. Cook till smooth. Remove 
from the fire and add the sherry. 

CREAM FILLING. 

For Cream Cakes and Layer Calces. Scald one 
cup of milk, or part milk and cream. When scalded, 
add one egg beaten with one-fourth cup of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and a speck of salt. Beat all 
together with a Dover beater; stir into the milk. 
Cook ten minutes and flavor. 

FIG CARAMEL ICING. 

1 cup of brown sugar. | 1 tablespoonful butter. 

y 2 cup of cream. Speck of salt. 

Boil all together until it will form a soft ball when 
tried in cold water. Remove from the stove. When 
cool, add one-half cup of figs chopped fine; beat till 



276 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

cool enough to spread. Dates or cooked prunes can 
be used in the same way. 

PRUNE WHIP FILLING. 

Bake sponge cake in layers. Whip a cup of 
cream, sweeten with powdered sugar. Cut up cooked 
prunes to make one-half cup ; add to the cream. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING AND FILLING. 

Make a boiled icing, using the white of two eggs 
instead of one ; cut one-half pound of marshmallows 
in small pieces and melt in a double boiler with two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water, When melted, stir 
into the boiled icing; flavor with vanilla and spread. 
Use for a filling or icing. 



LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING. 

Mix the juice and grated rind of one lemon with 
one cup of sugar and the beaten yolks of two eggs 
and two tablespoonfuls of milk, a speck of salt. Cook 
in a double boiler, stirring constantly until it thick- 
ens. Spread when cold. To make orange filling, 
use the grated rind and juice of one orange and two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Make the same as 
lemon filling. 



BANANA FILLING. 



Make a boiled icing. When it is thick enough to 
spread, stir into it one-half cup of bananas cut in 
thin, small pieces. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 277 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

Add one-half cup of grated pineapple to boiled 
icing when it is ready to spread. 

NUT FILLING. 

Add one-half cup of any kind of nuts (chopped 
fine) to boiled icing when thick enough to spread, 
or nuts may be added to a lemon or orange filling. 

ICINGS FOR CAKES. 

PLAIN ICING. 

About one cup of powdered 



sugar. 



White of one egg. 
1 teaspoonful of lemon 
juice. 

Stir the sugar in the white of egg without first 
beating the white ; flavor with the lemon or any fla- 
voring you prefer. 

ORANGE ICING. 

Juice of half an orange, one-half teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, powdered sugar; stir enough powdered 
sugar into the juice to spread a thin icing. 

CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING. 

To two tablespoonfuls of boiling water or boiling 
fruit juice and one teaspoonful of lemon juice, add 
enough confectioners' sugar to spread. 

BOILED ICING. 



1 cup granulated sugar, 
cup of boiling water. 



teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. 



White of one egg. 

Boil the sugar and water without stirring until 
the syrup threads ; beat the egg stiff, add the cream 



278 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of tartar and pour the boiling syrup over the egg 
in a fine stream, beating all the while. When it is 
thick enough to spread, put it on the cake. It hard- 
ens quickly and should be put on the cake before it is 
too thick. 

ROYAL ICING. 

This icing is thickened largely by the beating. 
Beat the white of one egg and a tablespoonful of con- 
fectioners' sugar vigorously for two minutes ; add 
the sugar by the tablespoonful, beating after each 
one for some time. Keep on adding the sugar and 
beating till the mixture begins to sugar on the spoon, 
and a knife will make a clean cut through it. Add 
a few drops of lemon juice at a time until a table- 
spoonful has been used. 

YELLOW FROSTING. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs till light colored, then 
stir in powdered sugar till stiff enough to spread. 
Flavor with lemon, vanilla or wine. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Stir into boiled icing a square of melted choco- 
late ; add it to the icing before it is thick enough to 
spread. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. (No. 2). 



1 cup granulated sugar. 
^4 cup of cream. 
1 square of scraped choco- 
late. 



^4 teaspoonful of salt. 
Speck of cinnamon bark 
Cook with it if cared for. 



Cook all together without stirring till it will fly 
a fine thread when tried. Remove from the fire. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 279 

When cold, beat to a thick cream ; flavor with va- 
nilla (if the cinnamon is not used). Remove the 
cinnamon before starting to beat it. 

NUT ICING. 

Stir into a boiled or plain icing one-half cup of 
any kind of nuts you prefer. Chop the nuts fine. 

BANANA ICING OR FILLING. 

Add to a boiled icing one-half cup of bananas 
cut in fine pieces; flavor with one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

PINK ICING. 

Color the plain or boiled icing with a little of 
the pink vegetable coloring. 

CARAMEL ICING. 



1 cup of brown sugar. 
% cup of cream or milk. 



If milk is used, add one 
tablespoonful of butter 
with it. 

*4 teaspoonful of salt. 



Boil without stirring till the mixture threads. 
Remove from the fire and when cool beat to a cream 
and spread over the cake. 



MAPLE ICING. 



Boil the maple until a thick syrup, then add one- 
fourth cup of cream and a little salt. Make the same 
as caramel icing. 



280 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



GINGERBREAD AND COOKIES. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 



y 2 CU P molasses. 

y 2 cup milk. 

1 egg. 

y cup melted butter. 



i 



y 2 teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon and ginger. 
y teaspoonful salt. 
y 2 teaspoonful of soda. 
iy 2 cups flour. 



Sift the dry materials all together; mix with the 
others. Bake about one-half hour. If sour milk is 
used, take one teaspoonful of soda; if heavy sour 
cream, omit the butter. 



SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 



y 2 cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 

1 egg. 

14 cup of milk: 



2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 
}4 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



Mix stiff enough with flour to roll out. Bake 
in a sheet; mark off the top in diamond shapes. 



SOFT GINGER COOKIES. 

Put one teaspoonful of ginger and soda in a mix- 
ing bowl. Heat one cup of molasses and put in the 
bowl. Scald half a cup of buttermilk, add to the 
molasses ; stir in sifted flour enough to form a soft 
dough, then half a cup of softened butter. Chill 
thoroughly ; roll out, cut into cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Do not change the order of mixing. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 281 



HARD MOLASSES COOKIES. 



1 cup molasses. 
1 cup of butter. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 



1 tablespoonful of ginger. 
i/4 teaspoonful of salt. 



Heat the molasses and butter together until the 
butter is melted. When cool, add one teaspoonful of 
soda and the flour and salt. Use enough flour to roll 
out, but not more than is necessary. 

GINGER SNAPS. 



1 cup molasses. 
y 3 cup sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 



1 teaspoonful of soda. 
% cup softened butter. 
Flour enough to roll very 
thin. 



Heat the molasses, pour it over the sugar, then 
add to it the rest of the materials. Bake quickly. 



DOUGHNUTS. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der. 



Flavor with cinnamon, nutmeg or vanilla. Use 
only as much flour as is necessary to roll out. Cook 
in hot, deep fat four to six at a time. Roll out only 
a part of the dough at a time. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 



2 cups raised bread dough, 
cup sugar. 



2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



Spice to taste. Flour enough to roll. Mix the 
ingredients well into the dough. Cut out and fry at 
once. 



282 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PUFFS AND ECLAIRS. 



y 2 cup of butter. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 cup flour. 



3 eggs. 
Speck salt. 



Put the butter and water in a sauce pan. When 
the butter is melted and the water boiling, stir in the 
flour and salt all at once. Stir quickly until the 
mixture is quite firm (a minute or two), remove 
from the fire. When cool, beat in the eggs one at a 
time, until the mixture is light and smooth. Drop 
in tablespoonfuls a little distance apart on buttered 
tins. Bake in quite a hot oven, for thirty minutes. 
Split ; when cool, fill with a whipped or made cream. 

Eclairs. Make the same as for cream puffs. 
Bake in strips four inches long and one wide. When 
cool, fill with cream. Cover with chocolate or any 
frosting you care to use. 



CREAM FOR CREAM PUFFS AND ECLAIRS. 



2 cups milk scalded in 

double boiler. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 eggs. 



y 2 cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

Speck of salt. 



Mix the salt, sugar and flour together, wet with 
a little cold milk; stir into the hot milk; cook ten 
minutes, then add the beaten egg; cook five minutes. 
Remove from the fire; flavor to taste. When cool, 
use for the filling. 



MERINGUES OR KISSES. 



Beat the whites of four eggs till stiff and flaky. 
Beat into them gradually one cup of powdered sugar. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 283 

Y\lieii it has become thick drop in tablespoonfuls on 
buttered paper placed on a board. Bake slowly in 
a warm oven for half an hour, or until they feel 
hard and hollow to the touch. When cool, remove 
the soft part, fill with ice cream, sherbet or whipped 
and flavored cream; put two together. Place on 
the paper in oblong shape for meringues ; for kisses, 
drop from a teaspoon in any shape. 



284 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, JELLIES 
AND PICKLES. 



COMPOTES OF APPLES, PEARS, PEACHES AND 

APRICOTS. 

Pare, core or stone the fruit, cut in quarters or 
halves according to the size of the fruit. Make a 
syrup of one-half as much water as sugar. When 
the syrup is quite thick, put in the fruit and cook un- 
til tender. Do not use over-ripe fruits rather a lit- 
tle under-ripe. Then remove from the syrup with 
a skimmer, lay carefully on a serving dish in a cir- 
cle, or letting each piece overlap the other. Boil the 
syrup down till thick ; pour over the fruit. Serve 
cold. Compotes are very delicious when used to sur- 
round moulds of rice or cornstarch, decorated with 
whipped cream. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Core and pare sour apples ; put in a shallow agate 
or earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar or chopped 
nuts, chopped dates or figs in place of the sugar. 
Maple syrup can be used. When nuts or fruit are 
used to fill them, use sugar or syrup, too. Add water 
to cover the bottom of the dish. Cook in a quick 
oven till tender. Remove carefully on the serving 
dish. Let the syrup cook down until quite thick. 
Pour over the fruit. A little mound of whipped 
cream can be served on each apple. Pears and 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 285 

quinces can be baked in the same way. A little 
lemon juice or some of the grated rind can be used for 
flavoring. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 

Wash, and if the rhubarb is a little tough, peel, 
cut in inch pieces. Cook till tender in a granite 
sauce pan. Use one cup of sugar to two of the fruit, 
and enough water to well cover the bottom of the dish. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash very carefully, soak in cold water for two 
hours. If they seem soft and fresh, do not soak them. 
Put in porcelain kettle with boiling water to cover. 
Boil until tender, then add a tablespoonful of sugar to 
every cup of prunes. Boil ten minutes longer. Lem- 
on juice may be added. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE AND JELLY, (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Put three pints of washed cranberries in a gran- 
ite sauce pan. On top of them put three cups of 
sugar and three gills of water. After they begin to 
boil, cook them ten minutes, closely covered and do 
not stir them. Remove the scum; mash through a 
fine strainer into a mould for jelly, or serve them as 
a sauce with the skins. 

PRESERVING. 

Select the best of fruits. Have them ripe and 
fresh. The cans should be carefully washed and 
filled up with hot water. Wash the covers and put in 
hot water. Use new rubbers every year to prevent 
any air reaching the fruit. 



286 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PEACHES AND APRICOTS. 

Peel the peaches by placing in a wire basket and 
plunging into boiling water, then the skins will slip 
easily. Halve them or leave them whole. Use a 
few of the pits they improve the flavor. Weigh 
the fruit and use three-fourths or one-half (just as 
you prefer) as much sugar as you have fruit. Make 
syrup by adding half as much water as you have 
sugar. Cook down until quite thick (about as thick 
as molasses), then add the fruit. Cook until trans- 
parent; remove the scum as it forms. Skim the 
fruit from the syrup and fill the jars. If the syrup 
seems a little thin, cook down; pour into the jars, 
filling full to overflowing. Tightly screw on the cov- 
ers ; turn bottom side up, and as they cool the covers 
can be tightened. 

BRANDIED PEACHES OR APRICOTS. 

Prepare and cook the peaches as above, leaving 
them whole. Fill jars with the fruit, to every pint 
jar of the peaches, add to it one-fourth cup of brandy. 
Cook the syrup down very thick, fill up the jars with 
it and seal. 

PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Prick the fruit with a fork in several places ; this 
prevents the skin from breaking somewhat, or they 
may be skinned the same as the peaches. Cook in 
the same way. 

BRANDIED PLUMS. 

Make the same as brandied peaches. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 287 

PRESERVED QUINCES AND PEARS. 

Pare and quarter, removing the core; preserve 
the same as peaches. Pears are improved by cooking 
in the syrup a little of the yellow rind of oranges or 
lemons. 



PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 

Pare and remove the eyes ; use a silver fork to 
shred it, or cut in slices, or inch pieces, not using the 
core. Preserve the same as peaches. 

GRAPES. 

Wash and press the pulp from each grape; boil 
the pulp till tender; press through a sieve to remove 
the seeds, add the pulp to the skins, measure, add 
two cups of sugar to every three cups of the fruit. 
Boil all together until quite thick and seal while hot 
like the other preserves. 

CITRON. 

Pare and core the citron, cut in cubes or in fancy 
shapes, or scollop the edges. Cook the same as 
peaches, tie a little ginger root in a piece of cheese 
cloth and cook in the syrup to flavor, or a little of 
the yellow rind of lemon. 

CHERRIES. 

Wash, remove the stones and preserve the same as 
peaches. 



288 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS. 

Wash, remove from the stems and preserve the 
same as peaches. 



SUNSHINE STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS. 

Select and hull three pounds of perfect fruit. 
Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar and two 
cups of boiling water until a light thread is formed. 
Do not stir the sugar after it begins to boil. Cook 
the fruit in the syrup ten minutes. After it begins 
to boil, then pour out in platters and let stand in the 
sun for two days. Cover with cheese cloth. Put in 
the jars cold, have them fresh scalded. Berries are 
delicious done in this way; they absorb the syrup, 
making them plump and full. 

CANNING. 

Prepare the fruit the same as for preserving. 
Canning differs from preserving only in the amount 
of sugar used, and often no sugar at all is used. The 
proportion of sugar used is one-fourth as much 
as fruit, and a pint of water to a pound of sugar in 
making the syrup. Another way of canning is to 
pack the fruit tightly in the jars, fill the jars with 
the syrup, place the j ars in a kettle of hot water, rest- 
ing the bottles on slats of wood or folded paper. Do 
not let them touch. Cover the boiler, let them cook 
till the fruit is tender. The fruit will shrink a little, 
so the jars will have to be filled up. It is well to re- 
serve a little syrup for this purpose. Place on the 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 289 

tops and seal at once. Another way is to cook them 
in their own juices. Fill the jars with the fruit, put 
on in the kettle with cold water to reach half way up 
the jars. Raise to the boiling point and cook until 
the fruit is tender. Let stand in the water till cold 
again. If the fruit has shrunken, fill up the jars, 
using the contents of one to do it. 

The fruit may be cooked without sugar and will 
keep as well by thoroughly cooking in a little 
water and sealing immediately. 

CANNING TOMATOES. 

Kemove the skins by first dipping the tomatoes 
in boiling water. Cut in small pieces, reject the 
pith or any bad specks. Cook them until soft, with- 
out adding water, then put in the jars at once; have 
the jars hot and freshly scalded. 

JAMS OR MARMALADES. 

Use equal quantities of fruit and sugar. Pare, 
core and cut in small pieces the large fruits ; the small 
ones wash and hull, place in the preserving kettle the 
fruit and sugar in layers. Let stand half an hour to 
extract the juice. Cook it slowly. When it becomes 
clear, put a little on a cold plate, if it hardens it is 
done; put in glasses or jars and cover. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

For making marmalade buy Messina or Saville 
oranges if you can. 

1 dozen oranges. 3 lemons. 

4 grape fruit. 

Slice the fruit very thin. Kemove the seeds, 
weigh it, to every pound allow three pints of water; 



290 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

put in a crock and let stand twenty-four hours, then 
put on the fire and boil one-half hour. Return it to 
the crock and let remain another twenty-four hours, 
then measure. To every pint add two and one-fourth 
cups of sugar, then boil until it jellies slightly. This 
amount will make about twelve quarts. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. 

Cut rind of orange in thin strips. Soak two days 
in cold water. Cover well with water and change 
fully ten times a day. Drain, put on the stove cov- 
ered with cold water. Let come to a boil, then drain. 
Make a thick syrup, cook the straws in the syrup till 
it hairs, then remove from the syrup and roll in gran- 
ulated sugar. 

JELLIES. 

To make clear jelly, select perfect fruit, wash it 
and put in a porcelain-lined kettle with one quart of 
water to twenty-four boxes of fruit. Apples and 
quinces require twice that amount of water. Cook 
slowly till the fruit is tender, strain through a flan- 
nel bag, measure the juice, allow one cup less of sugar 
than you have of juice. Warm the sugar in the oven, 
but do not allow it to burn. Boil the juice twenty 
minutes, then add the hot sugar, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, skim thoroughly and cook about ten min- 
utes, or until it jellies when a little is dropped on a 
cold plate. Turn at once in glasses, let remain to 
settle twenty-four hours, then cover the tops with 
melted paraffine. Over-ripe fruit will not jelly. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 291 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash the currants, pick off any that are not per- 
fect, but do not stem them. A few boxes of raspber- 
ries cooked with the currants gives a delicious flavor. 
Four boxes of raspberries to twenty-four boxes of cur- 
rants give a delicate flavor of the raspberries. Pro- 
ceed with making the jelly as directed above. 

CRAB APPLE AND APPLE JELLY. 

Wash, cut in quite small pieces, but do not pare. 
Barely cover with cold water, cook till soft, then 
strain. A little of the yellow of lemon or orange peel 
improve the flavor, cooked with the apples, or a little 
of the root ginger. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Make the same as apple jelly. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Select under-ripe grapes ; the wild grapes give the 
best flavor. Wash them, add a quart of cold water 
to twelve boxes of grapes, cook until they are tender 
and well broken apart and proceed the same as di- 
rected. 

PLUM JELLY. 

Make the same as grape jelly, using the wild 
plums if convenient. 

TO SWEET-PICKLE FRUIT AND BERRIES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds of best brown 
sugar, one quart of best vinegar, one cup of mixed 



292 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

whole spices, stick cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice 
and cloves, less of the latter than of the former. Tie 
the spices in a bag and boil with the vinegar and su- 
gar. Skim well, then add the fruit. Cook till the 
fruit is clear. Remove carefully from the syrup and 
put in a jar or a crock. Boil the syrup down nice 
and thick and pour over the fruit. Seal. 

PEACHES. 

Scald to remove the skins, leave them whole, cook 
without breaking. Do not stick with cloves. 

PEARS. 

Pare them, leave them whole with the stem on. 

CUCUMBER, WATERMELON AND CANTALOUPE. 

Pare them, remove the soft part from inside, cut 
<n pieces to serve. Cook in boiling water for ten 
minutes, drain and cook in the hot syrup till clear 
and tender. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Pare, remove the eyes, cut in serving pieces, or 
slices and cook in the syrup till clear. 

CURRANTS, GRAPES AND ALL BERRIES. 

Remove from the stems, wash and cook in the 
syrup until they form the consistency of jam. Pre- 
pare the grapes for the syrup, as given for preserving. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 293 

PICKLED WALNUTS (Boston Cooking School). 

Take the walnuts when they are well filled out 
and tender, pierce each one with a strong needle three 
or four times and lay them in a brine which com- 
pletely dissolves its salts, changing for fresh every 
day for nine days, then spread the nuts in the air un- 
til they become black. Put them in crocks and pour 
over them this mixture, boiling hot : A gallon of vin- 
egar, an ounce each of ginger root, allspice, mace and 
whole cloves, and two ounces of peppercorns, boiled 
all together for ten minutes. Cover, pressing the 
nuts under the vinegar with a plate. Let them stand 
six weeks before using. 

APPLE CHUTNEY (Boston Cooking School). 

Pare and core a dozen sour apples, peel a mild 
onion and seed one cup of raisins, chop the apples, 
onions, raisins and three green peppers very fine, add 
one pint of cider vinegar, half a cup of currant jelly 
and let simmer an hour. Then add two cups of su- 
gar, the juice of four lemons, one tablespoonful of 
ground ginger and a tablespoonful of salt, and cook 
another hour, stirring almost constantly. Store as 
canned fruit. 

GINGER APPLE. 

Five pounds of sour apples chopped fine, three 
pounds brown sugar, one ounce ground white ginger 
root, one cup of water. Cook slowly three or four 
hours or till transparent. 

PICKELED CUCUMBERS. 

Make a brine of one pint of coarse salt and six 
quarts of boiling water, boiled and skimmed clear, 



294 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

wash one hundred and fifty small cucumbers, put in 
the brine and let remain forty-eight hours, covered, 
then drain. Soak in cold water for two hours, drain 
and put them in a crock. Stick one large onion full 
of cloves, an ounce of horseradish root and several 
little red peppers, and put with the cucumbers and a 
piece of alum the size of a pea. Fill a muslin bag 
with one cup of mixed spices, celery seed, white mus- 
tard seed, whole cloves, allspice, peppercorns, stick 
cinnamon, boil this in vinegar enough to cover the 
cucumbers for ten minutes. Put the bag in the 
crock with the vinegar, pour off the vinegar the third 
day, reheat it and return to the pickles. Do not use 
for three weeks. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Anything that you wish to use can be added to the 
cucumbers in the brine pieces of cauliflower, small 
onions, nasturtium seeds, watermelon, beans. All 
make good pickles. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Equal quantities of small cucumbers, button 
onions, cauliflower, picked apart, sliced green toma- 
toes and two or three sliced green peppers. Soak in 
the brine and drain, as given in Pickled Cucumbers. 
Prepare enough of the following mixture to cover: 
To one quart of vinegar, use one cup of brown sugar, 
half a cup of flour and one-half a cup of ground mus- 
tard. Boil the sugar and vinegar for five minutes, 
skim, mix the mustard and flour together, pour the 
hot vinegar slowly onto it, stirring until smooth. 
Pour hot over the pickles. They will be ready to use 
in three weeks. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 295 



PICCALLILI OR CHOW-CHOW. 



1 peck of green tomatoes. 

1 cup of salt. 

2 cups brown sugar. 
8 small onions. 

2 heads of celery. 
1 teaspoonful of white 
pepper. 



1 tablespoonful whole cin- 
namon, broken up. 

1 tablespoonful of whole al- 
spice. 

1 tablespoonful mustard 

seed. 

2 quarts best vinegar. 



Chop or slice the tomatoes, sprinkle the salt over 
them and let stand over night, in the morning drain 
off the water and chop the onion and celery, place all 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, sprinkle with sugar, tie 
the spices in a bag, add those and the vinegar, cook 
slowly all day. Put in jars or earthen crock. 

i 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Make the same as the chow-chow, only using ripe 
tomatoes and chop them quite fine. To every peck 
of the tomatoes use one pound of onions chopped fine. 
Salt over night and proceed the same as the above 
receipt. 

TOMATO CATSUP. (Mrs. Campbell). 

Boil one bushel of ripe tomatoes, skins and all. 
When soft, mash through a colander to remove the 
skins and seeds. Mix one cup of salt, two pounds 
of brown sugar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, 
three ounces each of ground allspice, mace and celery 
seed, two ounces of ground cinnamon, tie in a mus- 
lin bag, add to the tomato two quarts of best vinegar. 
Cook slowly till reduced to one-half. It is an im- 
provement to add a cup of brandy a few minutes be- 
fore it is done. Put in small bottles, seal, keep in a 
cool place. 



296 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CANDIES. 



FONDANT. 

Fondant is the basis of all French cream candies 
and can be kept any length of time, if air tight and in 
a cool place. A great variety of bonbons and choco- 
lates can be made from it by using different flavor- 
ings, nuts and fruits, and also makes a delicious icing 
for small and large cakes. White grapes and straw- 
berries with the hulls on dipped in the fondant makes 
a delicious bonbon. 

To Make Mints.- -When the fondant is rather a 
thin cream, flavor with mint, drop on buttered slab 
or rice paper from a teaspoon. 

VEGETABLE COLORING. 

The vegetable colorings are perfectly harmless; 
use only a small quantity, as a little will color a large 
amount of fondant. 

TO MAKE FONDANT. 

2 cups of sugar. I % teaspoonful of cream of 

% cup of water. tartar. 

Do not stir after it begins to boil ; let it cook until 
it reaches the soft ball stage ; the thermometer reg- 
isters at that stage 236 238, or try a little in cold 

water, and if it forms a soft ball in the finders, it is 
' 

done, and must be removed at once. Let it cool until 
it forms a crust; if stirred while too warm it will 
grain. Stir until it becomes thick and creamy. If 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 297 

it becomes grainy, cook again with a little cold water, 
various candies can now be made by using the differ- 
ent flavorings, nuts and fruits. Fondant is used for 
creaming nuts, figs and dates. 

COATING FOR CHOCOLATE. 

Place equal quantities of fondant and chocolate 
with a few drops of vanilla, over hot water, stirring 
constantly until melted. Dip, place on rice paper, 
allow to harden. If the chocolate gets thick, add a 
few drops of hot water, also place the dish that holds 
the chocolate in warm water while dipping to keep 
from hardening. 

GLACE ORANGES, GRAPES, NUTS, ETC. 
2 cups sugar. | y 2 cup water. 

Boil together without stirring, until the thermom- 
eter registers 340 or until the syrup crackles and 
breaks when a little is put in cold water. Remove 
from the fire, drop the pieces into the syrup one at a 
time with a candy wire, or two forks, place on an 
oiled slab or rice paper to dry. 

To glace oranges, divide the sections carefully, 
allow them to dry several hours before dipping. To 
glace grapes, wipe the grapes dry and leave the little 
stem on to prevent them from getting moist. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 



2 cups fine granulated su- 
gar. 
% cup cream. 



2 squares of Baker's choco- 
late or 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cocoa. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Speck of salt. 

Stir until the ingredients are melted, but not after 
it begins to boil. Cook until it forms the soft-ball 



298 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

stage, when tried in cold water. Remove from the 
fire. When cool, stir until thick and creamy, pour 
into a pan and when cold cut in squares. One-half 
cup of chopped nuts can be added just before taking 
from the fire. 

MAPLE FUDGE. 

2 cups thick maple syrup. I 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
% cup of cream. Speck of salt. 

Make the same as chocolate fudge. If the syrup 
is not very thick, cook down before putting in the 
other ingredients. 



PANOCHA. 



2 cups brown sugar. 

y% cup cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Speck salt. 

y 2 cup chopped walnuts. 



Make the same as fudge, add the nuts just before 
removing from the fire. 

OPERA CARAMELS. 



3 cups fine white sugar. 
1 cup of cream. 



teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar (scant). 



Boil together until it reaches the soft-ball stage. 
When cool, flavor, add one-half cup of any chopped 
nuts, or fruits, or a mixture of both. Stir to a thick 
cream, then turn into a buttered dish to the depth of 
half an inch. When cold cut in little squares. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 



cup white sugar, 
cup brown sugar. 



2 squares Baker's chocolate. 
% cup of cream or milk. 



y 2 cup molasses. 

If milk is used, add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir the mixture constantly while cooking. When it. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 299 

snaps and cracks tried in cold water, remove from 
the fire, pour in buttered pans, add chopped iruts be- 
fore removing from the fire if desired. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

2 cups sugar. | ^4 cup butter. 

%. cup cream. 

Cook all together until it snaps when tried in cold 
water. Stir while cooking, pour in buttered pans, 
cut in little squares before quite cold. 

PEANUT CANDY. 

Fill a tin one-half inch deep with the nuts. Cook 
sugar with a little water until it crackles when tried 
in cold water, pour over the nuts. 



VINEGAR CANDY. 



2 cups sugar. 
y 2 cup water. 



3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Cook all together until it hardens when tried in 
cold water. Pour in a buttered pan. When cool 
enough to handle pull until it is white and creamy 
looking, cut in squares or sticks. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 



2 cups molasses. 
1 cup of white or brown 
sugar. 



cup of butter. 



Cook until it hardens when tried in cold water. 
Pour in buttered pans. When cool enough to handle 
pull till light colored. Cut in sticks. One cup of 
chopped nuts may be added just as you take it from 
the stove. 



300 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BEVERAGES. 



To make good, bright-tasting tea and coffee, the 
water should be freshly boiled. Water that has been 
boiled for some time looses its life and gives a dull 
taste to your drinks. Before making tea or coffee, 
scald the pot. 

TEA. 

Put the tea in a strainer and let the cold water 
wash it off, then put in the scalded pot and pour on 
the freshly boiled water, let remain on the back of the 
stove for five minutes, then pour the tea from the 
leaves into a hot pot and serve, often the tea is left 
to remain on the leaves, it then soon becomes bitter. 
The proportion used depends upon the strength re- 
quired, and the kind of tea used. Tea is considered 
by some to be better if made very strong and diluted 
with boiling water. When a quantity of tea is to be 
made, as for a reception, tie the tea in muslin bags, 
put the bag in the boiling water, let remain for five 
minutes, then remove. 

Tea Ball. The boiling water is poured from the 
samovar into the cup, the ball is placed in the cup, 
removed when the right color is attained. 

Russian Tea.- -Is made by adding sugar and a 
thin slice of lemon to each cup. 

Tea Punch.- -Is made by first soaking the sugar 
in rum or brandy and adding the lemon. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 301 

Iced Tea.- -Make the tea several hours before 
using. When cool, put on ice. If not cold enough 
when wishing to serve, put cracked ice in each glass, 
one tablespoonful lemon juice, sugar to taste, added 
when hot. 

COFFEE. 
TO MAKE COFFEE. 

Oftentimes the coffee leaves its flavor in the 
kitchen by being cooked too long. There are now 
many reliable coffee cookers that can be used on the 
table. Coffee made in this way is preferable, as it 
is served as soon as made. The coffee pot should be 
kept scrupulously clean and aired. Great care 
should be taken to have the spout free from grains. 
Coffee will go much farther if finely ground, and 
should always be freshly made. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

The white of one egg is sufficient to clear one cup 
of ground coffee. Use one level tablespoonful of 
coffee for every cup. Mix the coffee in a bowl with 
the white of egg and a very little cold water (one- 
fourth cup to a cup of ground coffee), put into the 
scalded pot and pour on the boiling water, let boil 
three minutes. Remove to the back of the stove, add 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water, let settle for ten 
minutes, pour the coffee from the grounds and send 
to the table. If stronger coffee is required, increase 
the proportion of coffee. 

DRIP COFFEE. 

Use one rounding tablespoonful of coffee to a 
cup, put the coffee in a flannel bag, lay on the strainer 



302 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and pour the boiling water over it. Have the pot 
hot to begin with and stand in a pan of hot water 
while dripping. 

BREAKFAST COFFEE (Mrs. T. L. Watson). 

This is to be mixed the night before. Mix six 
tablespoonfuls of coffee with the white of an egg (or 
smaller quantity if you like). Put into a small cov- 
ered earthen dish, pour over it two cups of cold water, 
cover tightly, a preserve jar would do, and the next 
morning put into the coffee pot, pour the boiling 
water over it, using a cup to every tablespoonful, let 
it boil up just once, pour into it half a cup of cold 
water, let settle a few minutes before serving. This 
can be made for after-dinner coffee by preparing in 
the morning. 

TURKISH COFFEE. 

Have the coffee very finely ground, using a table- 
spoonful to a cup, put in a pot, add cold water. When 
it touches the boiling point it is ready to serve. The 
Turk does not use cream or sugar. 

BLACK COFFEE. 

Is made by any of the above receipts, using about 
double the proportion of coffee. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Iced coffee is served in glasses. Add cream and 
sugar to the coffee and chill on the ice several hours 
before serving. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 303 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scald two cups of inilk in double boiler, then add 
to it one square of Baker's chocolate that has been 
broken up in pieces, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
a pinch of salt. When the chocolate has dissolved, 
add a few drops of vanilla if you like. Beat with a 
Dover egg beater for a few minutes and serve at once. 
Put a teaspoonful of whipped cream in the cup be- 
fore pouring in the chocolate. 

MAILLARD'S CHOCOLATE. 

For each cup of chocolate use one cupful of milk 
and one bar of chocolate. Put the milk in a sauce 
pan, porcelain-lined, break the chocolate in small 
pieces, add to the milk, stir constantly with a wooden 
spoon until the chocolate is dissolved, and the milk 
has boiled up once. Add more hot milk if too rich. 
Beat vigorously. Serve at once. 

COCOA. 

Dissolve one tablespoonful of cocoa in two of 
water. Add to two cups of boiling milk, let boil up 
once. Sweeten to taste, beat well and serve. 

SHELLS. 

Steep one cup of shells in one quart of boiling 
water three hours, adding more water as it boils 
away. Strain, serve with cream and sugar. 

LEMONADE. 

Allow the juice of two lemons to three glasses of 
lemonade. Sweeten with sugar, or better still, sugar 



304 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

syrup. Add the water and cracked ice, put a thin 
slice of lemon in each glass. 



ORANGEADE. 



To the juice of two oranges add the juice of a 
half of a lemon. Sweeten, add water and ice, half 
a thin slice of orange for each glass. 



EGG LEMONADE. 



Beat an egg thoroughly, heat in four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the juice of two lemons, three cups 
of water, two tahlespoonfuls of maraschino, if liked, 
ice and serve. 



SUMMER DRINK. 



4 quarts of lemonade. 
1 pint of pineapple juice. 
1 pint of strawberry or 
raspberry juice. 



A few thin slices of lemon 
and a few of the berries. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil a grated pineapple, four cups of sugar and 
four cups of water twenty minutes, add one cup of 
strong tea, then strain. When cold, add the juice of 
five lemons, six oranges, one pint of strawberry, rasp- 
berry or grape juice, half a pint of maraschino cher- 
ries, six quarts of water and a big piece of ice. When 
ready to serve a bottle of apollinaris water, or ginger 
ale, mint leaves, pieces of pineapple or berries can 
also be used, with or without the cherries. 

COBBLERS. 

Cobblers are made by filling a glass with cracked 
ice, adding any kind of wine, and a little water if de- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 305 

sired. Sweeten with sugar syrup, add a strawberry, 
raspberry, bit of pineapple, slice of orange, maras- 
chino cherry, or any fruit you happen to have. 



CLARET CUP. 



1 pint of claret. 

1 pint of soda water. 

Piece of 1 lemon and 

orange. 
1 glass of curacao. 



Slice of cucumber. 
Sweeten with sugar syrup. 
Bunch of mint. 
Have it well iced. 



CHAMPAGNE CUP. 



1 quart of champagne. 
1 glass of sherry. 
1 glass white curacao. 
Juice of one orange and 



lemon. 

GINGER ALE PUNCH. 



1 pint of apollinaris. 
Slice of cucumber. 
Bunch of mint. 
Large piece of ice. 



Juice of six lemons and six oranges, two quart 
bottles of ginger ale, one pint of champagne, sweeten 
with sugar syrup, a large piece of ice and thin slices 
of lemon and orange. 



SAUTERNE PUNCH. 



The juice of six oranges and lemons, two quarts 
of sauterne, one pint of sherry, one cup of curacao, 
one pint of soda water, sweeten with sugar syrup, 
add a few pieces of any kind of fruits and a large 
piece of ice. 



EGG-NOG. 



Beat the yolk of one egg and one teaspoonful of 
sugar until very light and thick, beat the white to a 



306 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

stiff foam, mix together, turn into a glass, add a tea- 
spoonful of rum or brandy, or both may be used, stir 
or shake all together, add a little grated nutmeg. 
Whipped cream may be used instead of the milk. 
Add more sugar and rum if desired. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Add to a glass of milk a tablespoonful of sherry, 
rum or brandy, sweeten to taste, shake, or mix well, 
put a little nutmeg on top. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Add one quart of water to four quarts of grapes 
that have been washed and removed from the stems. 
Let them come slowly to the boiling point and set on 
the stove for fifteen minutes, then strain through a 
thick cloth, return the liquid to the fire, let it come to 
the boiling point, turn into glass jars and seal. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Turn over four quarts of ripe raspberries one 
quart of vinegar. Let remain for twenty-four hours, 
then strain through a cheese cloth, turn the liquor 
over four quarts more of fresh raspberries ; let stand 
for twenty-four hours; again strain out the juice, 
and to each two cups of juice add two cups of sugar. 
Boil for twenty minutes, turn into bottles, cork 
when cold. When used, dilute, using three parts of 
water. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 307 



INVALID COOKERY. 



Nothing but the best of cooking should be served 
to the sick. 

First.- -The greatest care should be taken in se- 
lecting the best materials. 

Second- -The greatest care should be taken in 
cooking them. 

Third.- -The food should be served on the dainti- 
est of china and glass, and the freshest of linen. 

Fourth.- -Those whose profession it is to care for 
the sick are not competent to cook for them until 
they have had thorough instruction in the art by a 
professional teacher. Cooking should be an import- 
ant adjunct of nurse training. A very great deal de- 
pends upon the patient being properly nourished dur- 
ing convalescence, and if the food is not well cooked 
it cannot easily be digested, the materials are spoiled, 
and the result of nourishing the patient is not ob- 
tained. Cooking eggs in various ways, broiling (see 
broiled steak), bread making, soups, fancy dishes and 
ices are found in the book. 

TO MAKE TOAST. 

Select bread that is fully twelve hours old (if 
newer bread has to be used, cut in thin slices and set 
in the oven to dry out the moisture before toasting. 
If moist bread is used to toast, the inside will be soft 
and indigestible), cut in thin slices, cut off the crust 
unless preferred on, toast slowly a delicate brown on 



308 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

both sides, butter while warm, and serve only while 
it is fresh. 

CREAM FOR CREAM TOAST. 

Scald one cup of milk in the double boiler; melt 
in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted stir into it two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour 
(level), pour onto it a little of the hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then the rest of the milk ; turn all back 
in the double boiler and cook ten minutes. This way 
the flour is thoroughly cooked, and if well stirred can 
not be lumpy. 

TO MAKE TEA. 

Use only freshly boiled water. Scald the teapot. 
Put the dry tea into a strainer and let the cold water 
run through to wash out the dust. Put the tea in 
the teapot, pour the boiling water over it; set on the 
back of the stove to steep five minutes. Pour the tea 
from the grounds into a hot pot and serve at once. 
The amount of tea to be used depends upon the 
strength required. 

COCOA. 

Heat two cups of milk in the double boiler; 
when scalded add two tablespoonfuls of cocoa, one of 
sugar, and a few grains of salt. Dissolve the cocoa, 
sugar and salt in a little boiling water, stir into the 
hot milk, cook for fifteen minutes, beat with the Do- 
ver beater for a minute and serve at once. 

TO COOK AN EGG IN THE SHELL. 

If the egg is to be served soft in the shell (the 
white cooked and the yolk soft), place the egg in a 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 309 

sauce pan, cover with water that has come to the 
boil, set on the back of the stove for ten minutes 
(where it won't boil), or cover the egg with cold 
water, place on the front of the stove and allow it to 
just reach the boiling point; remove from the water 
at once. Eggs cooked in this way are easily di- 
gested; the white is of a jelly-like consistency, not 
hard and horny as when boiled. To cook the egg 
hard, let remain in the water longer. 

TO COOK CEREALS. 

Cereals should be thoroughly cooked. It is best 
to use a double boiler, as cereals being starchy will 
easily stick on. Put the cereal in the double boiler, 
with a little salt, a half teaspoonful to a cup of the 
dry cereal, cover with boiling water and cook fast on 
the top of the stove for five minutes, stirring a little 
to prevent sticking; then place in the boiler and 
cook for a half hour, anyway. Some cereals require 
longer cooking. Now many of them go through a 
steaming process before being put on the market, 
so that the five minutes of hard boiling and the half 
hour cooking in the double boiler is all that is re- 
quired. The cooking of rice and all kinds of cereals 
are minutely given in the book. 

TO COOK CORN STARCH OR TAPIOCA. 

Heat the milk in double boiler ; when scalded add 
the corn starch that has been mixed smooth the thick- 
ness of cream with a little cold milk and a little salt- 
Stir into the hot milk and cook for twenty minutes 
before sugar or eggs are added. Various ways for 



310 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

cooking corn starch and tapioca are given in the 
book. Wash the tapioca and add to the hot milk, 
stirring frequently. 

CORN STARCH GRUEL. 

Scald two cups of milk in a double boiler ; mix a 
tablespoonful of corn starch with a little cold milk 
and an eighth of a teaspoonful of salt; stir into the 
hot milk and cook for twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. If too thick, add a little hot milk; flavor 
with a little sugar and nutmeg, or lemon or orange 
juice. 

Make arrowroot gruel the same as corn starch. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 



1 cup of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 



1 dozen raisins, quartered. 
y 8 teaspoonful of salt. 



Scald the milk in double boiler, rub the flour to 
a thin paste with a little cold milk, add to the hot 
milk with the salt, stir till smooth ; cook twenty min- 
utes. The raisins should be washed in cold water, 
quartered and boiled for ten minutes, letting the 
water boil out, then add to the milk after the flour 
has been put in. Flavor with a little sugar and nut- 
meg. 

CRACKER GRUEL. 

Brown fresh crackers in the oven until a light 
brown is reached. Koll very fine; use two table- 
spoonfuls of the powdered cracker, one-half cup boil- 
ing water and one-half cup hot milk, speck of salt; 
stir the cracker crumbs in the milk and water, add 
salt, let boil for one minute. A little sugar and fla- 
voring may be added. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 311 



CORN MEAL GRUEL. 



2 tablespoonfuls of corn 

meal. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 



y 2 teaspoonful of salt. 
2 cups of milk or water. 



If milk is used, heat in double boiler to prevent 
burning. Mix the meal, flour and salt to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, pour onto it the milk 
or boiling water, a little at a time, stirring rapidly. 
When smooth the liquid can be added more rapidly. 
Let cook for thirty minutes. It can be thinned with 
hot milk and flavored with a little sugar, nutmeg or 
lemon. 

OATMEAL GRUEL, 

2 cups boiling water. ^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal. 

Boil all together for one hour; add more boiling 
water if necessary, strain. Serve with hot milk or 
cream. 

RICE WATER. 



1 tablespoonful of rice. 



teaspoonful of salt. 



1 quart of cold water. 

Put the well-washed rice and salt in the cold 
water ; let cook for one hour or until it is soft. A lit- 
tle cream, sugar and flavoring may be added. 

BARLEY WATER (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1 tablespoonful pearl bar- 
ley. 
3 blocks of sugar. 



1/2, lemon. 

1 quart boiling water. 



Wash the barley in cold water ; put barley, sugar 
and lemon into the boiling water; let it stand cov- 



312 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ered on the back of the stove for three hours, then 
strain it and serve. Currant jelly or orange juice 
may be used instead of the lemon. This is a valua- 
ble demulcent for colds and affections of the chest, 

TOAST OR CRACKER WATER. 

Toast in the oven bread crumbs or crackers very 
brown, but do not burn. To a cup of crumbs or 
crackers, add one cup of cold water ; let stand for one 
hour, then strain, add cream and sugar to taste. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA. 

Pour one cup of boiling water over one teaspoon- 
ful of the powdered slippery elm, or a little of the 
bark. When cool, strain, flavor with lemon juice 
and sugar. Serve cold. 

BEEF TEA. 

Remove the fat from one pound of round steak, 
cut in small pieces, put in a glass jar, add one cup of 
cold water; set the jar in cold water, after being 
closely covered ; heat very slowly, taking fully an 
hour or more, or till the meat is white ; strain, press- 
ing the meat to obtain all the juice; season with salt. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Remove the fat from a slice of the round of 
beef, wipe with a cloth that has been dipped in warm 
water. Broil for a few seconds to start the juice. 
Cut the meat in small pieces, press through a meat 
press. Pour boiling water through the press just 
before using it. Season with salt. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 313 

LAMB BROTH. 

Cut lean, juicy meat in inch pieces, cover with 
cold water; let stand for half an hour, then put on 
the stove and heat gradually. Cook slowly after it 
begins for a half hour. Salt, peppercorns and a 
small onion may be added when it is put on the 
stove. Strain, season if more is needed, add a little 
well-cooked rice. The fat should be all skimmed 
off before serving. Do not skim until the broth is 
strained. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

The best flavor and most nourishment is obtained 
from an old chicken. Cut apart the joints, remove 
all the fat that is possible. Cover the chicken 
with cold water, let stand for a half hour, then put 
on the stove where it will heat slowly. Simmer till 
the meat is cooked from the bones ; add salt, pepper- 
corns and a small onion when put on the stove. 
Strain before serving. Remove the fat and add a 
little well-cooked rice. 

ACID DRINKS. 

Pour boiling water onto any kind of acid berries ; 
when cold, serve, or dissolve acid jelly in cold water. 
Barberry and currant are especially good. 

TAMARINDS WATER. 

Boil one-half cup of tamarinds in three pints of 
boiling water for one hour ; cool ; sweeten a little if 
cared for. 



314 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of a small lemon, cutting off a thin slice to 
put in the glass; one glass of ice water, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, or, much better, a little sugar 
syrup. 

ORANGEADE. 

Make the same as lemonade, using the juice of 
half a lemon and half an orange. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Pour one quart of boiling water over four table- 
spoonfuls of whole flaxseed and steep three hours ; 
strain, add the juice of two lemons, sweeten to taste ; 
add a little more water if the liquid seems thick. 
This is soothing to colds. 

ALBUMENIZED WATER. 

Beat the white of one egg slightly; mix with a 
glass of cold water; flavor with brandy, wine, lemon 
or orange juice, as directed. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK. 

Shake the white of an egg and a glass of milk in 
a jar or shaker until they are mixed thoroughly, 
sweeten, and flavor to taste. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 

Use one-fourth as much cornmeal as mustard; 
mix to a consistency to spread with warm water. 

FLAXSEED POULTICE. 
Mix the ground flaxseed with hot water. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



315 



GENERAL INDEX, 



BREADS. 



Milk Bread 

Milk Bread (with sponge) 

Water Bread 

Whole Wheat Bread . . 

Graham Bread 

Rye Bread 

Rolled Oats Bread . . . 
Parker House Rolls 



Page 
. 5 
. 5 
. 6 
. 6 
. 6 
. 6 
. 6 
7 



Page 

Bread Sticks 7 

Cinnamon Rolls 7 

To make Crescents .... 8 

Bunns 8 

Squash Bread 9 

Corn Meal Bread 9 

French Rolls 9 

Beaten Biscuit 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 



Baking Powder Biscuits 
Entire Wheat Biscuits 
Cream Scones .... 
German Coffee Cake 
Short Cake 



. 11 

. 11 

. 11 

. 12 

. 12 

Cream Muffins 13 

Rice Muffins 13 



Boston Brown Bread . . 
Brown Bread (sour milk) 

Muffins 

Muffins, Rye ...... 

Muffins, entire Wheat 



13 
13 
14 
14 
14 



Muffins, Graham 14 



! Pop-Overs 14 

[ Rusks 15 

1 Zwieback 15 

Sally Lunns 15 

Corn Cake 16 

Corn Cake (Mrs. Lincoln) . 16 
Corn Cake, Spider (Miss 

Parloa 16 

Corn Meal Mush 17 

Corn Meal Jems (Parker 

House) 17 

Spoon Bread 17 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Griddle Cakes 18 

Griddle Cakes (corn meal) . 18 
Griddle Cakes (entire 

wheat) 18 

Flannel Cakes . . 18 



Griddle Cakes (rice) ... 18 

Pancakes 19 

Waffles 19 

Lemon Syrup 19 



To Boil Rice 



CEREALS. 
. 19 | Rice (steamed) 



20 



SOUPS. 



General Rules for Soup 
Stock 21 

Caramel, for coloring Soups 
and Sauces 22 

To Clear Soup Stock ... 22 



Garnishes for Soups . 



22 



Croutons 22 

Egg Balls 22 

Marrow Balls 23 

Noodles 23 

Royal Custard to serve with 

Consomme 1 24 



316 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Force Meat Balls 24 

Brown Soup Stock .... 24 

White Stock 25 

White Soup 25 

Consommg 25 

Julienne 25 

Macaroni or Vermicelli Soup 26 

Bouillon 26 

Tomato Soup 26 



Vegetable Soup . . 

Mock Turtle Soup . 

Ox Tail Soup . . . 
Mullagatawny Soup 

Black Bean Soup . 

Clam Bouillon . . 

Scotch Broth . . . 

Mutton Broth . . 
Chicken Broth 



Page 
. 26 

. 27 
. 27 
. 28 
. 28 
. 29 
. 29 
. 29 
30 



CREAM SOUPS. 



Oyster Soup . . 
Potato Soup . , 
Mock Bisque Soup 
Split Pea Soup . 
Green Pea Soup 
Green Corn Soup 



30 
30 
31 
31 
31 
32 



Clam Chowder 32 

Cream of Clam Soup ... 33 
Asparagus Soup 33 



Peanut Soup 

Almond Soup 

Mushroom Soup .... 
Mushroom Stock Soup . . 

Bermuda Soup 

Spinach Soup 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup 
Cream of Stock Soup . . 



34 
34 
34 
35 
35 
35 
36 
36 



SUMMER SOUPS. 



Strawberry Soup 37 

Raspberry, Currant and 
Gooseberry Soup .... 37 



Plum, Cherry, Pineapple 
and Peach Soup 37 



Orange Soup 



37 



FISH. 



To Skin and Bone a Fish 

To Boil Fish 

To Broil Fish 

To Bake Fish 

Stuffing for Fish 

To Bake a Whole Fish . . 

To Cook Smelts 

Fillets Baked with Toma- 
toes 

Stuffed Fillets or Sliced 
Fish 



38 
38 
39 
39 
40 
40 
40 

41 
41 



Boiled Salmon 41 

Salmon Cutlets 41 

Fish Timbale 42 

Planked Shad and Potato 

Roses 42 

Casserole of Fish 43 

Creamed Fish Served in 

Mashed Potato Case . . 43 

Cream Salt Fish 43 

Salt Fish Balls 43 

Salmon Fish Balls 44 



SHELL FISH. 



Oysters, Raw 45 

Oysters, Cooked in the 

Shell 45 

Oysters, Served in Ice ... 46 

Fried Oysters 46 

Broiled Oysters 46 

Oyster Cocktail 47 

Panned Oysters 47 

Creamed Oysters 47 

Oysters in Shells or Ram- 

quin Dishes 48 

To Butter Crumbs .... 48 

Scolloped Oysters 48 



Pigs in Blanket 48 

Oysters in Batter 48 

Little Neck Clams .... 49 

Roasted Clams 49 

Steamed Clams 49 

Clams in Batter 49 

Scollops 49* 

Crabs 49 

Soft Shell Crabs 50 

Boiled Crabs 50 

Deviled Crabs 50 

Fried Frogs' Legs .... 50 

Deviled Shrimp 51 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



317 



Lobsters 

To Boil a Lobster . . 
To Open a Lobster . . 
To Broil a Live Lobster 
Plain Lobster .... 



Page 
. 51 
. 51 
. 51 
. 52 
52 



Saut6 Lobster . . . 
Creamed Lobster . . 
Deviled Lobster . . 
Lobster a la Newburg 



Page 

. 52 

. 52 

. 53 

53 



MEATS. 



To Roast Beef 

Rolled Roast 

Searing 

Gravy for Roast Beef . . 
Yorkshire Pudding . . . 

Fillet of Beef 

Braised Beef or Pot Roast 

Beef a la Mode 

Beef Stew with Dumplings 

Dumplings 

Meat Pie 

Warmed-Over Beef . . . 
Rolled Stuffed Flank . . 



54 
54 
54 
55 
55 
55 
56 
56 
57 
58 
58 
58 
58 



Boiled Dinner . . 
Pressed Corn Beef 
Corn Beef Hash 
Vegetable Hash 
Spiced Beef . . . 
Broiled Beef Steak 
Broiled Fillet of Beef 



Beef Tongue 
Smoked Tongue 
Fresh Tongue 
Tongue in Jelly 



59 
60 
60 
60 
60 
61 
61 



Hamburg Steak 61 



62 
62 
62 
62 



PORK. 



Roast Pig 63 

Roast Pork 63 

Pork Chops 63 

Bacon 64 

Fried Apples 64 

Broiled Ham and Eggs 

Fried Ham 64 



Boiled Ham .... 
Baked Ham .... 

Sausages 

To Try Out Lard . . 
Boston Baked Pork 
Beans 



and 



64 
65 
65 
65 

66 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



Roast Leg of Mutton ... 67 

Roast Loin of Mutton ... 67 

Crown Roast 67 

Roast Saddle of Mutton . . 68 
Roast Leg of Mutton, 

stuffed 68 

Boiled Leg of Mutton ... 68 



Ragout of Mutton . . 
Curry of Mutton . . . 
Mutton and Lamb Chops 
French Chops .... 
Chops in Paper Cases . 
Roast Spring Lamb . . 
Boiled Lambs' Tongues 



69 
69 
69 
70 
70 
70 
70 



VEAL. 



Roast Veal 71 

Stuffed Shoulder of Veal . . 71 

Stuffing 71 

Veal Cutlets 72 

Veal Cutlets, with cream . 72 

Veal Stew 72 

Veal Pot Pie 73 

Veal Loaf 73 

Scolloped Veal 73 

Braised Calf's Liver .... 74 

Broiled Liver 74 

Calf's Heart Roasted ... 74 

Sweetbreads 75 



with Brain 



Calf's Head 

Sauce 75 

To Prepare Sweetbreads . . 75 

Fried Sweetbreads .... 76 

Larded Sweetbreads ... 76 

Creamed Sweetbreads ... 76 
Sweetbreads served in 

Ramkin Dishes or Shells . 76 

Tripe 76 

Broiled Tripe 77 

Tripe in Batter 77 

Batter 77 



318 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



POULTRY. 



Page 

Poultry and Game .... 78 

To Clean and Truss Poultry 78 
To Stuff and Truss a Fowl 

for Roasting _79 

Giblet Sauce "80 

To Dress Fowls or Birds 

for Broiling 80 

To Bone a Bird, Fowl or 

Turkey 80 

Forcemeat for Stuffing 

Boned Fowls 81 

To Boil Fowl 82 

Braised Chicken 82 

Broiled Spring Chicken . . 82 

To Broil a Turkey .... 83 

Panned Chicken 83 

Fricassee Chicken 84 

Chicken Stew with Dump- 
lings 84 



Page 

Chicken Curry 84 

Spanish Chicken 85 

Chicken Fritters 85 

Stuffed Chicken or Turkey 

Legs 85 

Chicken a la Maryland . . 86 

Chicken Soufflg 86 

Planquette of Chicken . . 87 

Chicken a la Bechamel . . 87 

Chicken Pie 88 

Veal Pie 88 

Chopped Puff Paste for 

Chicken Pie 89 

Roast Goose 89 

Potato Stuffing 89 

Roast Tame Duck .... 90 

Oyster Stuffing 90 

Chestnut Stuffing 90 



GAME. 



Canvasback and Redhead 

Ducks 91 

Salmi of Duck or Game . . 91 

Larded Grouse 92 

Potted Pigeons 92 

Roast Pigeons or Squabs . 92 

Quails Broiled 93 

Quails Roasted 93 



Woodcock Roasted 
Venison Roasted 
Venison Steak . . 
Roasted Partridge 
Stewed Pigeons 
Pigeons in Cassarole 
Hot Pigeon Pie . . 



93 
94 
94 
94 
94 
95 
95 



ENTREES. 



Croquettes 96 

Chicken Croquettes .... 96 
Sauce for Croquette Mix- 
ture 97 

To Prepare the Egg and 

Crumbs for Croquettes . . 97 
To mould Croquettes ... 98 
To Fry Croquettes .... 98 
Sweetbread Croquettes . . 98 
Mushroom Croquettes ... 99 

Nut Croquettes 99 

Egg Croquettes 99 

Cheese Croquettes .... 99 
Hominy or Rice Croquettes 100 
Corn Meal Mush to Serve 

with Game 100 

Macaroni and Spaghetti 

Croquettes 100 

Oyster Croquettes .... 100 
Shad Roe Croquettes ... 101 

Lobster Cutlets 101 

Salmon Cutlets 101 

Clam Croquettes 102 



Sweet and "White Potato 

Croquettes 102 

Potatoes in Surprise ... 102 

Celery Croquettes .... 102 

To Prepare. Mushrooms . . 103 

Saut6 Mushrooms .... 103 

Creamed Mushrooms ... 103 

Mushrooms a la Poulette . 104 

Broiled Mushrooms . . . 104 

To Prepare Calf's Brains . 104 

Chicken a la Duxelle ... 104 

Pressed Chicken 105 

Scolloped Chicken or Tur- 
key 105 

Chicken Timbale 105 

Individual Moulds .... 106 
Macaroni Timbale .... 106 
Honeycomb Timbale ... 106 
Macaroni and Cheese Tim- 
bale 107 

Ham Timbales 107 

Boudans 107 

Aspic Jelly 108 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



319 



Page 

To Mould in Aspic Jelly . 108 

To Unmould Jelly .... 109 

Chicken Chartreuse ... 109 

Chicken Terrapin .... 109 

Mock Terrapin 110 

Chickens, Pigeons or Game 

of any kind in Casserole 110 

Chicken Livers Ill 

Salmi of Duck or Game . Ill 

Meat Pie 112 

Meat Pie (No. 2) 112 

Beef Loaf 112 



Page 

Spanish Rice 112 

Ragout of Mutton or Lamb 113 

Liver Loaf 113 

To Broil Venison Steak . . 114 

Sweetbreads a la Touraine 114 

Ham Puffs 114 

Terrapin 115 

To Prepare Terrapin . . 115 

Stewed Terrapin 116 

Terrapin a la Newburg . . 116 
Cocktail of Little Neck 

Clams and Oysters ... 116 



FRITTERS. 

Fritter Batter 116 | Vegetable Fritters 

Oyster Fritters 117 

Clam Fritters 117 

Banana Fritters .... 117 

Orange Fritters 117 

Peach Fritters 117 

Apple Fritters 117 



... 118 

Queen Fritters 118 

Sauce for Fritters .... 118 
Batter for Timbale Cases or 

Fontage Cups 118 

Bread Boxes , 119 



VEGETABLES. 



To Boil Potatoes 120 

Old Potatoes 121 

New Potatoes 121 

Mashed Potatoes 121 

Riced Potatoes 121 

Potato Cakes 122 

Potato Roses 122 

Potato Souffle 122 

Creamed Potatoes .... 122 

Scolloped Potatoes .... 123 

Delmonico Potatoes ... 123 

Potatoes a la Bechamel . 123 

Viennese Potatoes .... 123 

Mashed Potatoes Milanese 124 

Potato Balls 124 

Fried Potato Balls and 

Straws 124 

French-fried Potatoes . . 125 

Potato Nests 125 

Waldorf Potatoes .... 125 

Potato Chips 125 

Hashed Browned Potatoes 126 

Fried Potatoes 126 

Franconia Potatoes ... 126 

Lyonnaise Potatoes ... 126 

Broiled Potatoes .... 126 
Baked Sweet and White 

Potatoes 127 

Stuffed Potatoes 127 

Stuffed Potatoes (No. 2) . 127 
Sweet Potatoes, Southern 

style 127 

Greens 128 



Spinach 128 

Sinach Souffle 1 128 

Cabbage 129 

Cabbage Baked with 

Cheese 129 

Routh Krouth 129 

Cauliflower 129 

Brussels Sprouts 130 

Asparagus 130 

Asparagus Loaf 130 

Artichokes 131 

Egg Plant 131 

Stuffed Egg Plant .... 131 

Salsify or Oyster Plant . . 131 

Raw Tomatoes 132 

Stewed Tomatoes .... 132 

Scolloped Tomatoes ... 132 

Stuffed Tomatoes .... 132 
Tomatoes Stuffed with 

Cheese 

Curried Tomatoes .... 134 
Tomatoes with Celery 

Sauce 134 

To Prepare Peppers for 

Stuffing 134 

Peppers Stuffed with Oys- 
ters 134 

Peppers Stuffed with 

Sweetbreads 134 

Broiled Tomatoes .... 135 

Chestnut PureS 135 

Boiled Onions 135 

Roasted Onions ... 136 



320 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Fried Onions 136 

Scolloped Onions 136 

Stuffed Spanish Onions . . 136 

Carrots 136 

Turnips 137 



Parsnips 
Fried Parsnips 

Beets 

Corn on the Ear . 
Succotash .... 
Green Peas . . . 
String Beans . . 
Shelled Beans . . 
Dried Lima Beans 

Celery 

Creamed Celery 



137 
137 
137 
137 
138 
138 
138 
138 
139 
139 
139 



Page 

Winter Squash 13& 

Baked Squash 139 

Summer Squash 139 

Corn Mock Oysters .... 140 
Sweet Corn in Cream with 

Cheese 140 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and 

Vermicelli 140 

To Cook Macaroni .... 140 
Baked Macaroni with 

Cheese 141 

Macaroni with Tomato or 

other Sauces 141 

Macaroni and Eggs . . . 141 

Spaghetti 141 



SAUCES. 



Drawn Butter Sauce (for 

Fish) 142 

Caper Sauce 143 

White or Cream Sauce . . 143 

Shrimp Sauce 143 

Egg Sauce 143 

Lobster Sauce 143 

Oyster Sauce 144 

Celery Sauce 144 

Mushroom Sauce 144 

Mushroom Sauce (canned 

Mushrooms) 144 

Sauce Piquante ..... 145 

Allemande Sauce 145 

Bechamel Sauce 145 

Poulette Sauce- 145 

Curry Sauce 146 

Bread Sauce 146 

Hollandaise 146 

Horseradish 146 

Cucumber Sauce 147 

Mint Sauce 147 

Mustard Sauce 147 

Mustard Sauce 147 

Champagne Sauce .... 147 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce ... 148 

Espagnole Sauce 148 

Brown Sauce 148 

Brown Mushroom Sauce . 149 

Sauce Poinade 149 

Brown Sauce Piquante . . 149 

Robert Sauce 149 



Currant Jelly Sauce ... 149 

Olive Sauce 149 

Flemish Sauce 149 

Spanish Sauce 150 

Tomato Sauce (No. 1) . . 150 

Tomato Sauce (No. 2) ... 150 

Chestnut Sauce 150 

Port Wine Sauce 150 

Giblet Sauce 150 

Cranberry Sauce 150 

Apple Sauce 150 

Plain Hot Pudding Sauce . 152 

Brown Sugar Sauce . . . 152 

Molasses Sauce 152 

Caramel Sauce 153 

Hot Fruit Sauce 153 

Creamy Sauce 153 

Egg Sauce 153 

Foamy Sauce 154 

Hard Sauce 154 

Sabayon Sauce 154 

Wine Sauce 154 

Wine Sauce (No. 2) .... 155 

Lemon Sauce 155 

Pineapple Sauce 155 

Richelieii Sauce 155 

Golden Sauce 156 

Orange Sauce 156 

Syrup Sauces 156 

Chocolate Sauce 156 

Maple Sugar Sauce ... 156 

Coffee Sauce , .... 157 



CHEESE DISHES. 



Cottage Cheese 158 

Cheese Souffle 158 

Cheese Crackers 158 

Cheese Water Crackers . . 158 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 1) . . 159 



Welsh Rarebit (No. 2) . . 159 

Cheese Timbales 159 

Frozen Cheese 160 

Cheese Balls 160 



Cheese Pudding 



160 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



321 



SALADS. 



Page 

To Prepare the Greens . . 161 
To Prepare Meat for Salad 161 

To Marinate 162 

Some Things that can be 

Served with a Salad . . 162 

Radish Roses 162 

Radish Tulips 162 

French Dressing .... 1'32 
Mayonnaise Dressing . . . 163 
Cooked Salad Dressing . . 163 
Cooked Salad Dressing 

(No. 2) 164 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

(No. 3) 164 

Wine Salad Dressing ... 184 
Sour Cream Dressing . . 164 

Tartare Sauce 165 

Bearnaise Sauce 165 

Lettuce and Watercress 

Salad 165 

Celery Salad 166 

Chicken Salad 166 

Moulded Chicken Salad . . 166 
Moulded Chicken Salad 

(No. 2) 
Moulded 

(No. 3) 
Moulded 

(No. 4) 

Chicken Salad 



Chicken Salad 
Chicken Salad 



167 
168 
168 



Moulded 

(No. 5) 168 

Moulded Celery and Wal- 
nut Salad 168 

Moulded Sweetbread and 
Cucumber Salad .... 169 

Moulding Salads 169 

To Garnish with Curled 

Celery 169 

To Unrnould Jelly .... 169 

Tomato Jelly 170 

Salads to Serve in Whole 
Tomatoes or Peppers . . 170 

Celery Jelly 171 

To Prepare Whole Toma- 
toes for Salad 171 

Cucumber Salad (to Serve 
with Fish) 171 



Page 

Cucumber Salad 171 

Cucumber Salad (No. 2) . . 172 
Cucumber and Tomato 

Salad 172 

Cucumber and Tomato 

Salad (No. 2) 172 

Orange Salad 172 

Grape Fruit Salad (to 

Serve with Game) ... 173 

Russian Salad (No. 1) . . 173 

Russian Salad (No. 2) . . 173 

String Bean Salad ... 173 

Asparagus Salad 174 

Potato Salad 174 

Lobster Salad 174 

Fish Salads 174 

Oyster Salad 173 

Waldorf Salad 175 

Pineapple Salad 175 

A Fruit Salad Served in 

Cantaloupe 175 

Other Fruit Salads (No. 1) 176 

Fruit Salad (No. 2) .... 176 

Fruit Salad (No. 3) .... 176 

Grape Salad 176 

Mandarin Salad (Dinner 

Salad) 177 

Nut and Cucumber Salad . 177 
Cucumber and Radish 

Salad 

Chicken and Mushroom 

Salad 

Salmon and Cucumber 

Salad 

Truffle Salad (Dinner 

Salad) 178 

Egg Salad 178 

Egg Salad (No 2) .... 178 

Egg Salad (No. 3) .... 179 

Water Lily Salad .... 179 

Cheese Salad 179 

Bird's Nest Salad .... 179 

Cream Cheese Salad ... ISO 
American Cream Cheese 

Salad 180 

Cold Slaw 180 



177 
177 

178 



EGGS. 



Eggs Cooked in the Shell 
(No 1) 181 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 
(No. 2) 181 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 
(No. 3) 181 

Poached Eggs 181 



Poached Eggs (No. 2) 
Poached Eggs (No. 3) 
Fried Eggs .... 
Scrambled Eggs . . 
Shirred Eggs . . . 
Eggs Cocotte 



. 182 

. 182 

. 182 

. 183 

. 183 
183 

Omelets 184 



322 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Omelets (No. 1) 184 

Omelets (No. 2) 184 

Cheese Omelet 185 

Rum Omelet 185 



Herb Omelet 
Ham Omelet . . . 
Pea Omelet . . . 
Tomato Omelet 
Jelly Omelet . . . 
Orange Omelet . . 
Pineapple Omelet . 
Eggs Cooked in 
Tomatoes 



Whole 



185 
185 
186 
186 
186 
186 
186 

187 



Page 

Eggs in Green Peppers . . 187 
Eggs en Coquille .... 187 
Poached Eggs a la Hol- 

landaise 188 

Poached Eggs with Celery 

Sauce 188 

Egg Balls to Serve in Soup 188 

Timbales 188 

. . 189 
. . 189 
. . 189 
. . 190 
190 



Curried Eggs . . . 
Curried Eggs (No. 2) 
Stuffed Eggs (No. 1) 
Stuffed Eggs (No. 2) 
Eggs with Cheese . 



SANDWICHES. 



Lettuce Sandwiches ... 191 

Watercress Sandwiches . . 192 

Spanish Sandwiches . . . 192 

Meat Sandwiches .... 192 

Chopped Ham Sandwiches . 192 

Chicken Liver Sandwiches 192 

Game Sandwiches .... 192 

Egg Sandwiches 192 

Fish Sandwiches 192 

Anchovy Sandwiches ... 193 



Shad Roe Sandwiches . . 193 

Nut Sandwiches 193 

Cheese Sandwiches .... 193 
Hot Cheese Sandwiches . . 194 
Club House Sandwiches . 194 
Hot Ham or Chicken Sand- 
wiches 194 

Sweet Sandwiches .... 195 

Gingerbread Sandwiches . 195 



CANAPES. 



Anchovy or Sardine Can- 
apes 196 

Ham Canapes 196 

Cheese Canapes 196 

Chicken Canapes .... 197 



Prune or Fig Canapes . . 197 

Fruit Canapes 197 

Alexandra Canapes . . . 197 

Apricot Canapes 197 



PASTRY. 



Plain Pastry 198 

Puff Paste 199 

To Bake Puff Paste ... 200 
To Make Pate Shells from 

Puff Paste Tarts .... 201 

Vol au Vent 201 

Puff Paste Strips .... 201 

To Glaze Pastry 202 

Cheese Straws 202 

Apple Pie 202 

Squash Pie ........ 203 

Pumpkin Pie 203 

Custard Pie 203 

Rhubard Pie .... 203 



Galley 4 Cook Book Index 

Berry Pie 203 

Cranberry Pie 204 

Apple Tart Pie 204 

Prune, Apricot or Peach 

Pie 204 

Delicious Lemon Pie . . . 204 
Lemon Pie (with corn 

starch) 205 

Cream Pie 205 

Mince Meat 205 

Petit Pies 206 

English Apple Pie .... 206 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



Cream Rice Pudding ... 207 
Baked Rice Pudding ... 207 
Cream Tapioca Pudding . 207 



Apple and Peach Tapioca . 208 

Sago Pudding 208 

Baked Indian Pudding . . 208 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



323 



Page 

Whole Wheat Pudding . . 209 

Fig Pudding 209 

Thanksgiving Pudding . . 209 

English Plum Pudding . . 210 

Suet Pudding 210 

Bread and Butter Pudding 210 

Steamed Pudding .... 211 

Brown Betty 211 

Cottage Pudding 211 

Steamed Berry Pudding . . 211 

Cabinet Pudding 212 

Baked Pineapple Pudding . 212 
Steamed Orange or Pine- 
apple Pudding 212 

Quince Pudding 213 

Boston Apple Pudding . . 213 

Corn Pudding 213 

Snowball Pudding .... 214 

Nut Pudding 214 

Weymouth Pudding ... 214 

Cocoanut Pudding .... 215 

Cracker Pudding .... 215 



Page 

Corn Starch Pudding . . . 215 

Dutch Apple Cake .... 216 

Apple Snowball 216 

Steamed Carrot Pudding . 216 

Bird's Nest Pudding ... 217 

Baked Apple Dumpling . . 217 

Rolled Apple Dumpling . . 217 

Steamed Apple Pudding . . 218 

Apple Charlotte 218 

Apple and Rice 218 

Apple Meringue 219 

Custard Souffle 219 

Chocolate Souffle 220 

Pineapple Soufflg 220 

Prune Souffle 220 

Cherry Soufflg 220 

Peach Souffle 221 

Lemon Souffle 221 

Rice Souffle 221 

Ginger Pudding 222 

Delmonico Pudding .... 222 

Strawberry Pudding ... 223 



COLD DESSERTS. 



Garnishing 224 

Flavoring 224 

Liqueurs 224 

Coloring 225 

Boiled Custard 225 

Chocolate Custard .... 225 

Caramel Custard 226 

Nut Custard 226 

Cocoanut Custard .... 226 

Maple Custard 226 

Baked or Steamed Custard 226 
Baked or Steamed Caramel 

Custard 226 

Baked or Steamed Choco- 
late or Cocoanut Custard 227 

Floating Island 227 

Apple Snow 227 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange . 228 

Plain Bavarian Cream . . 228 

Bavarian Cream with Eggs 229 

Fruit Bavarian Cream . . 229 
Fruit Bavarian Cream (No. 

2) 230 

Bavarian in the Shell ... 230 

Bavarian en Surprise ... 230 

Pineapple Bavarian .... 230 

Diplomatic Pudding ... 231 

Fruit Cream 231 



Pineapple Sponge .... 231 

Snow Pudding 231 

Lemon Jelly 232 

Orange Jelly 232 

Coffee Jelly 232 

Wine Jelly 233 

Champagne Jelly 233 

Sauterne Jelly 233 

Roman Jelly 233 

Peach Charlotte 233 

Orange and Strawberry 

Charlotte 234 

Spanish Custard 234 

Italian Jelly 234 

Rice Cream 235 

Apple Charlotte Russe . . 236 

Charlotte Snowball .... 236 

Chocolate Bavariose . . . 236 

Newport Whips 237 

Stuffed Figs 237 

Orange Sections Moulded in 

Jelly 237 

Pineapple in the Shell . . 238 

Chestnut Puree with Cream 238 

Chestnuts with Cream . . 238 

Paris de Marrons .... 239 

Cherry Cream 239 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



Proportions of Ice and Salt 240 
Mousses, Parfaits .... 240 
To Unmould Frozen Des- 
serts 240 



Punches and Sherbets 
Lemon Sherbet . . 
Orange Sherbet . . 
Pineapple Sherbet 



241 
241 
241 
241 



324 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 
Strawberry, Raspberry and 

Currant Sherbets .... 241 
Cherry, Peach, Apricot and 

Plum Sherbets 242 

Apple Sherbet 242 

Boston Sherbet 242 

Grape Sherbet 242 

Grape Bombe 243 

Frappe 243 

Coffee Frappe 243 

Punches 243 

Tomato Punch 243 

Tea Punch 244 

Grape Fruit Punch .... 244 

Mint Punch 244 

Roman Punch 244 

Champagne Punch .... 245 

Sauterne Punch 245 

Curacao, Maraschino, No- 
yon Punch 245 

Ginger Ale in Punches . . 245 

Milk Sherbet 245 

Vanilla Ice Cream .... 245 

Lemon Ice Cream .... 246 

Orange Ice Cream .... 246 

Pineapple Ice Cream . . . 246 
Peach and Apricot Ice 

Cream 246 

Coffee Ice Cream 246 

Walnut Ice Cream .... 247 

Ginger Ice Cream .... 247 

Almond Ice Cream .... 247 

Rice Ice Cream 247 

Neapolitan Ice Cream . . . 247 
Frozen Pudding or Tutti- 

Frutti 248 

Plum Pudding Glace ... 248 

Caramel Ice Cream .... 248 

Macaroon Ice Cream ... 248 

Frozen Elliott Pudding . . 249 

Frozen Bananas .... 249 



Page 

Orange Delicieuse . '. . . 249 

Frozen Pineapple Pudding . 250 
Peaches, Apricots and 
Grated Pineapple Frozen 

in the can 250 

Fresh Fruit Ice Cream . . 250 
Lalla Rookh or Frozen 

Egg-Nog 251 

Nesselrode Pudding .... 251 

Sultana Roll Claret Sauce . 251 
Maraschino, Sherry, Port 

and Brandy Sauce . . . 252 

Ginger Sauce 252 

Maple Sauce 252 

Hot Chocolate Sauce ... 252 
Hot Coffee Sauce .... 253 
Hot Raspberry and Straw- 
berry Sauce 253 

Hot Orange Sauce .... 253 

Mousses 253 

Fruit Mousses 253 

Coffee, Chocolate, Curacao 

or Noyon Mousses ... 254 

Chocolate Mousse .... 254 

Curacao and Novon Mousse 254 

Parfaits ........ 254 

Angel Parfait 254 

Pineapple Parfait .... 255 

Maple Parfait 255 

Ginger Parfait 255 

Cafe Parfait 255 

Parfaits of Chestnuts or 

Candied Fruits 256 

Parfaits of Tea and Orange 

Peel 256 

Banana Parfait 256 

Biscuit Glace or Tortoni . 257 

Macedoine FrappS .... 257 

College Ices 257 

Gooseberry Sorbet .... 258 

Chocolate Surprise .... 258 



CAKES. 



Directions for Making Cake 259 

Baking Cake 259 

Preparing the Materials . . 259 

Sponge Cake 260 

Roll Jelly Cake 260 

Cream Sponge Cake (No. 2) 261 

Berwick Sponge Cake . . 261 

Lady Fingers " 261 

Angel Cake 261 

Marshmallow Angel Cake . 262 

Cakes with Butter .... 262 | 

Spice Cake 262 j 

White Cake 263 

Gold Cake 263 

Silver Cake 263., 



Bride's Cake . 
Pound Cake . 
Wedding Cake 
Fruit Cake 
Light Fruit Cake 



264 
264 
264 
265 
265 



One-two-three-four Cake . 265 

Lemon Cake 266 

Almond Cake 266 

Pistachio Cake 266 

Nut Cake 266 

Fig Cake 267 

Rocky Mountain Cake a 

Loaf or Layer Cake . . 267 

Orange Cake 267 

Marble Cake 267 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



325 



Spice Cake 

Currant Cake . . . 
Cocoanut Cake . . . 
Chocolate Cake . . 
Loaf Chocolate Cake 
Twelfth Night Cake 
Fig Cake (No. 2) 



Page 

. 268 
. 268 
. 268 
. 269 
. 269 
. 269 
270 



Angel or Sponge Cake with 

Chestnuts 270 

Roosevelt Cakes 270 

Round Cake Wafers ... 270 

Venetian Cakes 271 

Orange Quarters 271 



Page 

Almond Wafers 271 

Peanut Cookies 272 

Honey Cakes 272 

One-two-three-four Cookies 272 

Jumbles 273 

Walnut Wafers 273 

Sugar Cookies 273 

Hermits 273 

Cocoanut Cookies .... 273 

Margaret Deland Cakes . 274 

Pepper Nuts 274 

Snow Ball Cakes . 274 



FILLINGS FOR LATER CAKE. 



Chocolate Filling 275 

Fig Filling 275 

Cream Filling 275 

Fig Caramel Filling ... 275 

Prune Whip Filling .... 276 

Lemon or Orange Filling . 276 



Marshmallow Icing and 

Filling 276 

Banana Filling 276 

Pineapple Filling 277 

Nut Filling 277 



ICING FOR CAKE. 



Plain Icing 277 

. 277 

. 277 

. 277 

. 277 

. 278 
278 



Orange Icing 
Confectioners' Frosting 

Boiled Icing 

Royal Icing 

Yellow Frosting . . . 
Chocolate Frosting . . 



Chocolate Frosting (No. 2) 278 
Nut Icing 279 



Banana Icing or Filling . 

Pink Icing 

Caramel Icing 

Maple Icing 



279 

279 
279 
279 



GINGERBREAD COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 



Soft Gingerbread . . . 
Sugar Gingerbread . . 
Soft Ginger Cookies . 
Hard Molasses Cookies 
Ginger Snaps .... 
Doughnuts 



280 
280 
280 
281 
281 
281 



Raised Doughnuts .... 281 

Cream Puffs and Eclairs . 282 
Cream for Cream Puffs and 

Eclairs 282 

Meringues or Kisses ... 282 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, JELLIES AND PICKLES. 



Compotes of Apples, Pears, 

Peaches and Apricots . . 284 
Baked Apples 284 



Stewed Rhubarb 285 

Stewed Prunes 285 

Cranberry Sauce and Jelly 285 



PRESERVING. 



Peaches and Apricots ... 286 
Brandied Peaches or Apri- 
cots 286 

Preserved Plums 286 

Brandied Plums . ... 286 



Cherries 287 

Preserved Strawberries, 
Raspberries, Blackberries, 
Gooseberries and Cur- 
rants 288 



326 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Preserved Quinces 

Pears 

Preserved Pineapple 

Grapes 

Citron 



Page 
and 

. . . 287 
. . . 287 

. . . 287 
287 



Page 

S u n s h in e Strawberries, 
Raspberries, Blackberries, 
Gooseberries and Cur- 
rants 288 



Canned Tomatoes 
Jams or Marmalades 



CANNING. 



289 
289 



Orange Marmalade . 
Candied Orange Peel 



289 
290 



JELLIES. 



Currant Jelly 291 

Crab Apple and Apple Jelly 291 

Quince Jelly 291 

Grape Jelly 291 

Plum Jelly 291 

To Sweet-Pickle Fruit and 

Berries 291 

Peaches 292 

Pears 292 

Cucumber, Waterm e 1 o n, 

Cantaloupe 292 

Pineapple 292 



Currants, Grapes and all 

Berries 292 

Pickled Walnuts 293 

Apple Chutney 293 

Ginger Apple 293 

Pickled Cucumbers ... 293 

Mixed Pickles 294 

Mustard Pickles 294 

Piccallili or Chow-Chow . . 295 

Chile Sauce 295 

Tomato Catsup 295 



CANDIES. 



Fondant 296 

To Make Mints 296 

Vegetable Coloring .... 296 

To Make Fondant .... 296 

Coating for Chocolates . . 297 
Glace 1 Oranges, Grapes and 

Nuts 297 

Chocolate Fudge 297 



Maple Fudge 298 

Panocha 298 

Opera Caramels 298 

Chocolate Caramels . . . 298 

Butter Scotch 299 

Peanut Candy 299 

Vinegar Candy 299 

Molasses Candy 299 



Tea .... 
Tea Ball 
Russian Tea 



BEVERAGES. 



300 
300 
300 



Tea Punch 
Iced Tea 



300 
301 



COFFEE. 



To Make Coffee . . 
Boiled Coffee . . . 
Drip Coffee . . . . 
Breakfast Coffee . . 
Turkish Coffee . . . 
Black Coffee . . . 
Iced Coffee . . . . 

Chocolate 

Maillard's Chocolate 
Cocoa 



. . 301 

. . 301 

. . 301 

. . 302 

. . 302 

. . 302 

. . 302 

. . 303 

. . 303 

. . 303 

Shells 303 

Lemonade 303 

Orangeade 304 



Egg Lemonade . . 

Summer Drink . . 

Fruit Punch . . . 

Cobblers . . . . 

Claret Cup . . . 

Champagne Cup . 
Ginger Ale Punch 

Sauterne Punch . 

Egg-Nog . . . . 

Milk Punch . . . 

Grape Juice . . . 



... 304 

... 304 

... 304 

... 304 

... 305 

... 305 

... 305 

... 305 

... 305 

... 306 

... 306 

Raspberry Vinegar .... 306 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



327 



INVALID COOKERY. 



Page 

307 
. 308 
308 
308 



To Make Toast 

Cream for Cream Toast . . 

To Make Tea ...... 

Cocoa .......... 

To Cook an Egg in the 

Shell ......... 308 

To Cook Cereals ..... 309 

To Cook Corn Starch or 

Tapioca ........ 309 

Corn Starch Gruel .... 310 

Milk Porridge ...... 310 

Cracker Gruel ...... 310 

Corn Meal Gruel ..... 311 

Oatmeal Gruel ...... 311 

Rice Water ....... 311 

Barley Water ...... 311 



Toast or Cracker Water 
Slippery Elm Tea . . 

Beef Tea 

Beef Juice 

Lamb Broth 

Chicken Broth . 



Page 

. 312 

. 312 

. 312 

. 312 

. 313 

. 313 

Acid Drinks 313 

Tamarind Water 313 

Lemonade 314 

Orangeade 314 

Flaxseed Lemonade . ... 314 

Albumenized Water ... 314 

Albumenized Milk .... 314 

Mustard Poultice 314 

Flaxseed Poultice .... 314 




JAN 1 9 1934 




Class 

Book JiBS__ 

Copyright N^ 

COPYRIGHT DEPOSIT. 



THE 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN 
COOK BOOK 



BY 
CAROLINE TRASK NORTON 

Graduate from the Boston 
School of Domestic Science. 

Formerly Teacher of Cooking at the School of 
Domestic Science, Denver, Colo. 



This Book is adapted to cooking in both high and low altitudes. 

All the receipts given have been thoroughly 

tried by the author. 



DENVER, COLO. : 
The W. F. Robinson Printing Co. 

1903. 



THE LtBf^A;:Y OF 
CONGRE33, 

Cn0vTit/Hrr pntwv 

onrr p 



<f> 






Copyright, 1903, 
By Caroline Trask Norton. 



• • • • • 






This book is dedicated to my Denver friends, whose words 
of encouragement and appreciation have so greatly aided me 
during my two years of work with them. 



PREFACE* 



Knowing the difficulty of most people in this high altitude 
to find their cooking always satisfactory, the author has en- 
deavored to give them in this book the benefit obtained from 
teaching and housekeeping in Denver, making high altitude 
cooking a special study. The greatest difference between sea 
level cooking and here is in the cakes. Most of the sea level 
receipts can be used here by adding another egg to them, that 
gives a delicious moist, rich cake. 

Water boils at sea level at 212°. In Denver, where the 
air is much lighter, it boils at 202°; therefore, it does not 
get as hot here, so vegetables or anything boiled requires a 
little longer cooking. 

The luscious Boston baked beans can be cooked equally as 
good here if soaked eighteen hours before parboiling. The 
author has endeavored to make her receipts practical, whole- 
some, and easily followed by the most inexperienced cooks. 
She has not attempted giving much information on chemistry 
and food values, leaving that for the cooking schools that are 
becoming such a necessity all over the country. No girl's 
education is complete without such a course. Girls should not 
take upon themselves the most important position in life 
without a thorough knowledge of its requirements. Such a 
knowledge will enable them to feed their families intelligently, 
inexpensively, and to give them the variety that the system 
requires. 

Food for invalids should be selected and cooked with the 
greatest care. At the end of the book are given a few 
receipts that can be used for invalids. Scientific cooking 
should fill an important part in the training of a nurse. 

The desire of the author will be obtained if the book 
proves helpful to all who use it and inspires them with the 
wish for more knowledge in the art of cooking. 



GENERAL RULES. 



Be correct in measurements for perfect results. 

Use a standard measuring cup. 

Scald milk over hot water. 

Cook vegetables in freshly boiled salted water. 

To butter crumbs — one tablespoonful of melted butter 
mixed with two tablespooufuls of crumbs. 

To get the juice from onions, cut across the grain, cutting 
in halves and grate. 

Caramel. — Caramel is used for sauce and to color soups and 
sauces. The flavor depends upon the degree to which the sugar 
is cooked. Put one cupful of granulated sugar in a sauce pan, 
stir until the sugar has melted and turned brown, then add 
three-fourths cup of hot water; let it cook slowly until the 
sugar has dissolved and cooked to a thin syrup. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page 

Breads g 

Breads with Baking Powder XI 

Griddle Cakes jg 

Cereals ^g 

Soups 21 

Cream Soups 30 

Summer Soups 3g 

Fish 3g 

Shell Fish 45 

Meats 54 

Pork g3 

Mutton and Lamb 67 

Veal 72 

Poultry and Game 73 

Entrees 96 

Fritters hq 

Vegetables 120 

Sauces 142 

Puddings and Ice Cream Sauces 152 

Cheese Dishes 158 

Salads I61 

Eggs 181 

Sandwiches 191 

Canapes 196 

Pastry 198 

Hot Puddings 207 

Cold Desserts 224 

Frozen Desserts 240 

Cakes 259 

Fillings for Layer Cake 275 

Icings for Cakes 277 

Gingerbread Cookies and Doughnuts 280 

Compotes, Preserving Jellies and Pickles 284 

Candies 296 

Beverages 360 

Invalid Cookery 307 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BREADS. 



Sift flour before measuring. 

All measurements level, excepting baking powder. 

Baking powder measured rounding with the side of the can. 

One-half the amount of yeast can be used in the 
following receipts if preferred and time will allow. 
In all of the receipts given for bread or rolls with the 
amount of yeast used the bread or rolls can be started 
in the morning and finished by noon. 



MILK BREAD. 



cups of milk (scalded). 

cake of compressed 
yeast, dissolved in half 
a cup of lukewarm 
water. 



2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Flour enough to make a stiff 
dough — 6 or 7 cups. 



Pour the hot milk over the sugar and salt. When 
cool add the dissolved yeast cake, then with a knife 
cut in the flour and knead for twenty minutes. Put 
in a warm place to rise. When risen twice the bulk, 
cut down and let rise again. Make out in two loaves 
and a pan of biscuits, rise double the bulk in the pan. 
Bake forty-five minutes. 



MILK BREAD (With Sponge.). 

Pour two cups of scalded milk on to one table- 
spoonful of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of salt. When 
cool add one yeast cake dissolved in one-half cup of 
lukewarm water. Stir in three cups of flour, beat 
well. Let rise until light and bubbly, about an hour, 



6 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



then add enough flour to knead, and knead twenty 
minutes. Let rise and bake the same as milk bread. 



WATER BREAD. 



2 cups boiling water. 
1 yeast cake. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

Put butter, sugar and salt in mixing bowl, add the 
boiling water, when cool dissolve the yeast cake, then 
cut in enough flour to knead. Knead and let rise the 
same as directed for milk bread. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. 



2 cups of milk scalded. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1 yeast cake. 



1 cup white flour. 
5 or 6 cups of whole wheat 
flour or enough to knead. 



Make the same as milk bread with sponge. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



Make the same as wliole wheat bread, using one 
cup of flour and the rest graham. "* 

Graham is not nearly as nutritious as whole 
wheat. 



RYE BREAD. 



Rye bread may be made the same as whole wheat, 
using two tablespoonfuls of molasses in place of the 
sugar, if preferred. 



ROLLED OATS BREAD. 



Pour two cups of scalded milk over two cups of 
rolled oats, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tea- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



spoonful of salt, and one teaspoonfiil of butter. Dis- 
solve one yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm water. 
When cool add the yeast and flour, enough so the 
dough will drop from the spoon. Let rise double the 
size, cut down and let rise again the same, then put in 
small pans, let rise slowly twice the size, and bake for 
forty-five minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 



2 cups scalded milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 



2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 yeast cake. 



Pour the hot milk over the sugar, salt and butter. 
When cool, add yeast cake that has been dissolved in 
one-half cup of lukewarm water, then beat in thor- 
oughly three cups of flour. Let rise until light and 
bubbly, then add flour enough to knead. Knead 
about ten minutes. Let rise twice the bulk. Shape 
the rolls. Let rise in the pan twice the size. Bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

BREAD STICKS. 

Make the same as Parker House rolls. Mould in 
small balls, then roll under the hand, on the board, 
in thin sticks about six inches long. Let rise slowly, 
placing them in the pan one inch apart. Bake in a 
slow oven that they may dry before browning. Serve 
with soups or salads. 

CINNAMON ROLLS. 

Make the same as Parker House rolls. Poll the 
dough one-half inch thick, spread with a thin layer 
of melted butter, cinnamon and currants. Roll up 
like jelly roll. Cut in slices an inch thick, place 



8 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

tliem on a well-greased pan one inch apart, sprinkle 
the top with a little powdered sugar. Let rise in the 
pans twice the size. Bake in a quick oven fifteen 
minutes. 

Parker House dough can be made in braids, cres- 
cents or rolled and cut the same as for cinnamon rolls, 
without the spice, sugar and currants. 

To Make Crescents. — Holl the dough until only 
an eighth of an inch thick. Cut in pieces about four 
inches square, and then into triangles. Hold the 
apex of the triangle in the right hand, roll the edge 
next to the left hand over and over towards the right, 
stretch the point and bring it over and under the roll. 
Bend the ends of the roll around like a horseshoe. 
Let rise twice the size. Bake in a quick oven. 



BUNNS. 



1 cup scalded milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



1 eorr 

1 yeast cake. 

2 cups of Hour. 



Pour the hot milk over the salt, sugar and butter. 
^Vhen cool add the yeast that has been dissolved in 
one-half cup of lukewarm water, and the egg well 
beaten. Beat in the flour, let rise about two hours, 
then cut in flour enough to make a stiff dough with 
one-half cup of well w^ashed currants and one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon. Let rise again twice the size. 
Shape in small balls, place on buttered pan. When 
well risen bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 
Brush over with milk just before taking from the 
oven. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



SQUASH BREAD. 



1 cup squash, stewed and 

sifted. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
114 cups scalded milk. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

1 yeast cake. 

Flour enough to knead. 



Mix the sugar and salt and squash, add butter and 
hot milk. When cool add yeast cake that has been 
dissolved in one-half cup of warm water. Add flour. 
Knead twenty minutes. Let rise until light, shape 
in loaves, let rise and bake. 



CORN MEAL BREAD. 

Make the same as for any of the white bread re- 
ceipts, using one cup of corn meal with the white flour. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Soften one yeast cake in half a cup of lukewarm 
water. Stir in flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Knead and shape into a ball, score on the top in two 
parallel cuts. Put the dough in a bowl of lukewarm 
water, the cuts upward, and set aside in a warm place. 
In a few minutes the ball will swell and float, then 
remove to a pint of lukewarm water in which one- 
fourth cup of butter has been melted. Add two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt and flour to make a stiff doiigh, 
knead fifteen minutes. Set aside until it has risen 
twice the bulk, then shape in rolls. Take a small 
ball of the dough, roll under the hand to give an ob- 
long shape with pointed ends. Set some distance 
apart on the baking pan and let rise to double the 
bulk. Score the tops diagonally with a sharp knife. 
When nearly baked brush over the tops with milk. 
Eetum to the oven to finish baking. 



10 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BEATEN BISCUIT. 



4 cups flour. 
1/4 cup lard. 



y^ teaspoonful salt. 
1 cup cold water. 



Rub lard and salt in the flour and mix with the 
water to a stiff dough. Knead ten minutes, then beat 
hard with a rolling pin or beater, turning it over and 
over until it begins to blister and is light and puffy. 
Then cut with a small biscuit cutter, place some dis- 
tance apart on the pan, prick with a fork. Bake in a 
hot oven twenty minutes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 11 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUITS. 



2 cups wliite flour. 
l^ teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Lard can be used if wished. 
Milk to make a soft dough. 



Sift flour, salt, baking powder together, rub in the 
butter, add the milk gradually, cutting it in with a 
knife. Turn it onto a well-floured board, knead it 
quickly to get in shape. Roll out half an inch thick. 
Cut in biscuits and bake in a hot oven at once. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUITS. 

Make the same as baking powder biscuits, using 
the entire wheat flour wdth one-third white flour. 

CREAM SCONES. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 eggs. 

1/3 cup cream. 



Sift dry materials together, work in the butter 
with the fingers, beat eggs well and add to the cream. 
Stir this into the dry materials and butter. Eoll out 
three-fourths inch thick. Cut in diamond shape, 
brush over with w^hite of egg, slightly beaten, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar. Bake ten minutt^s in hot oven. 



12 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

GERMAN COFFEE CAKE. 

Dissolve one jeast cake in one-half cup warm 
water, add it to one cup of scalded and cooled milk, 
with flour enough to make a stiff batter. Let rise. 
When light and bubbly add one-third cup melted but- 
ter, one-fourth cup sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
one egg, well beaten, grating of lemon rind and flour 
to make a stiff batter. Beat well. Let rise twice the 
bulk, then spread in a dripping pan, cover and let 
rise again. When risen, brush over with beaten egg 
and dust with sugar and cinnamon mixed. Bake in 
a hot oven twenty minutes. 



SHORT CAKE. 



4 cups flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



1/2 tablespoonful salt. 
8 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Milk enough to roll out. 



Sift dry materials together, mix in the butter 
with the fingers, then add milk gradually. Do not 
use more flour than necessary to roll. Divide the 
dough in halves. Roll out one-half inch thick, place 
one-half in buttered pan, spread in over with melted 
butter, place the other half on top of it and bake 
twenty minutes in hot oven. Bemove from pan. 
Take top layer off. Butter the inside well of both 
layers. Cover the bottom layer thickly with crushed 
sweetened fruit and a layer of whipped cream. Place 
the other layer on top. Cover the top with whipped 
cream, colored with the fruit juice if liked, or fruit 
sprinkled over the top. Serve while warm. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



13 



CREAM MUFFINS. 



2 cups flour. 
1/^ teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 



% cup cream. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 



Mix in order given, sifting dry materials together. 
Add cream and yolks well beaten, then fold in the 
whites stiffly beaten. Bake in gem pans to serve at 
once. 

RICE MUFFINS. 



% cup well-cooked rice. 
1% cups white flour. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
% teaspoonful salt. 



i tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 

1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 



Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together, 
then add rice, well beaten eggs, milk and butter. 
Bake in muffin pans for twenty minutes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 
Very Fine. 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup rye meal. 
1 cup entire wheat or 
white flour. 



14 cup molasses. 

y^ teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 



Mix in order given, dissolve soda in molasses. 
Steam three hours. 



SOUR MILK BROWN BREAD (Mrs. Lincoln.). 



1 cup corn meal. 
1 cup rye meal. 
1 cup graham flour. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 cups sour milk. 



Mix in order given, dissolve the soda in the milk, 
add more milk or water if not thin enough to pour. 



14 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Steam three hours. One-half cup raisins can be 
added to, or any receipt for brown bread. Then it is 
called a plum loaf. 



MUFFINS. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow 

der. 
1/4 teaspoonful salt. 



1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful melted 

butter. 

2 eggs. 



Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together. 
Stir in the beaten eggs, milk and melted butter. Bake 
in hot gem pans ten or fifteen minutes. 

Rye Muffins. — Can be made the same, using one 
cup and a half of rye and one-half cup of white flour. 

Entire Wheat Muffins. — Made the same as muf- 
fins, using one cup and a half of entire wheat and 
one-half cup of white flour. 

Graham Muffins. — Make the same as muflins, us- 
ing one and one-half cups graham to one-half cup of 
white flour. 



POP-OVERS (For Colorado Altitude). 



1 cup milk 
1 cup flour 



3 eggs. 



1/^ teaspoonful salt. 
These can be made with one egg in the East. 

]\Iix the salt with the flour. Beat the yolks well 
and add to the milk, then add slowly to the flour to 
make the batter smooth, then fold in the whites that 
have been beaten stiff. Fill the hot greased gem pans 
half full. Bake at once in a hot oven for thirty min- 
utes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 15 



RUSKS. 



1 cup scalded milk. I 1 yeast cake. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. Vz teaspoonful salt. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Flour. 

2 eggs. I 

Make a sponge of the milk, salt and yeast that 
has been dissolved in half a cup of warm water. Add 
flour enough to make a pour batter. When it is 
light and full of bubbles, add the butter, sugar and 
well beaten eggs. Stir in enough flour to make a 
stiff dough. Knead it twenty minutes. Let it rise 
to double the bulk. Then mould with the hands into 
oblong biscuits the shape of an egg. Place them in 
the baking pan near together, let rise double the bulk. 
When ready for the oven brush over the top with milk 
and sprinkle sugar over them, if liked sweet. Bake 
in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

ZWIEBACK. 

Make the receipt for rusks in one large loaf the 
same shape as the rusks, or two loaves can be made 
from it, if liked small. Else and bake well. When 
cold, cut in half-inch slices and dry them in a very 
slow oven, until dried through and of a deep yellow. 

SALLY LUNNS. 



2 eggs, beaten separately. 

% cup milk. 

1/2 cup melted butter. 



2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
1/4 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix flour, baking powder and salt. Add the 
beaten yolks and melted butter, then add the stiffly 
beaten whites. Fill the muffin rings half full and 
bake ten minutes in hot oven. If liked sweet, add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar to the flour. 



16 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CORN CAKE. 



lYz cups flour. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup j^ellow corn meal. 

^ tablespoonfuls sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
2 eggs, beaten separately. 



Cream, butter and sugar together. Sift meal, 
flour, salt and baking jx)wder together, add to them 
tlie creamed sugar and butter, beaten yolks. Mix 
well. Add milk slowly, and lastly whites beaten 
stiff. Bake in muffin rings or in a pan in hot oven. 



CORN CAKE (Mrs. Lincoln.) 



1 cup corn meal. 
% cup flour. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der. 
1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
Yolks of two eggs, white of 

one, 
1*4 cups milk. 



Bake in a brick loaf bread pan half an hour. 



SPIDER CORN CAKE (Miss Parloa). 



% cup corn meal. 
Flour to fill the cup. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
1/4 teaspoonful soda. 

Mix together the meal, 



1 ^m- 

1 cup sweet milk. 
Vo cup sour milk, 
1 tablespoonful butter. 



flour, salt and soda. Add 
the beaten ec:^. Add half the sweet milk and all the 
sour milk. Melt the butter in a hot spider or 
shallow round pan and pour the mixture into it. 
Pour the other half the mixture over the top, but do 
not stir it. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 17 



CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Put one quart of water on to boil with one tea- 
spoonful salt. Sift together one cup of com meal 
and one tablespoonful flour. Stir this gradually in 
the boiling water. Let it cook hard for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Then place in the double boiler 
and cook for two hours. Eat hot or pour in a pan. 
\\Tien cold cut in half-inch slices, dip in flour and 
brown each side in hot butter. 

PARKER HOUSE CORN MEAL GEMS. 

Sift together one cup of flour, one cup of yellow 
com meal, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt. Cream one-fourth cup of butter. 
Add gradually half a cup of sugar, then three well 
beaten eggs and one cup of milk. Bake in buttered 
gem pans in a quick oven. 



SPOON BREAD. 

Sift togetlier one cup of yellow or white corn 
meal, half a teaspoonful of salt and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. Beat two eggs very light and stir 
into the dry ingredients with one quart of sweet milk. 
Turn the mixture into a well buttered baking-dish 
holding three pints, add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Cut in small pieces. Bake in a hot oven about one- 
half hour. Stir often until the bread begins to 
thicken. Serve with a spoon from the dish in which 
it is baked. Eat with butter. A good breakfast or 
luncheon dish. 



18 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



1*4 cups flour. 

1% teaspoonfuls baking 

powder. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 



1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 well-beaten egg. 
1 cup milk. 



Sift all tlie dry materials together. Add milk 



and egg. 



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Made the same as griddle cakes, using one-half 
cup of com meal and the rest white flour. Pour the 
milk hot over the corn meal. When cool add the 
other things. 

ENTIRE WHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Make the same as griddle cakes using one cup of 
the entire wheat flour to one-quarter cup of white 
flour. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 
^4: teaspoonful salt. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 



li/j cups milk, 
i ten spoonful baking pow- 
der. 



Sift dry materials. Cream, butter and sugar. 
Add milk and yolks well beaten, lastly the stifiiy 
beaten whites. 



RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. 



1 cup milk. 

l^ cup well -cooked rice. 
14 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 



1 ^gg- 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 

Flour enough to make a thin 

batter or thick enough to 

fry well. 



Flour enough to make a thin batter, or thick 
enough to fry well. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 19 



PANCAKES. 



Fry several large griddle cakes as large as a good 
sized platter. Pile one on top of the other, well but- 
tered. Cut down like a pie. 

WAFFLES (Mrs. Lincoln). 



2 cups flour. 

1 teaspoon ful baking pow- 
der. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

3 essa. 



1^ cups milk. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful melted 
butter. 



Sift dry materials together, add the beaten yolks 
with the milk, then melted butter and the stiffly beaten 
whites. 

LEMON SYRUP (Serve with Waffles). 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



1 cup sugar. 
1/2 cup water. 



Boil the sugar and water until it is a thin syrup, 
then add butter and lemon juice. 

CEREALS. 

Cereals contain a large per cent of starch, so 
should have a rapid cooking in boiling water for a few 
minutes when first started. Then they may be put 
inside the double boiler to continue to cook more 
slowly. Care should be taken that the cereal does 
not stick to the dish when it is having its first hard 
boiling. 

TO BOIL RICE. 

Wash thoroughly one-half cup of rice. Have two 
quarts of water boiling hard in the kettle, with one 



20 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonful of salt. Throw in the rice and allow to 
boil rapidly without a cover until the rice is tender, 
then drain through a colander. Put on the stove to 
dry, lifting the rice apart to allow the steam to escape. 
Rice that is cooked in this way will have every kernel 
separate. 

STEAMED RICE. 

Put in your double boiler two and one-half cups 
of milk or water or a part of each. Add to it one- 
quarter teaspoonful salt. Set the inside of the boiler 
on top of the stove. When it comes to a boil add one- 
half cup well washed rice. Let it boil hard for five 
minutes. Then replace it in the double boiler, and 
let cook until soft. The time of cooking depends on 
the age of the rice. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 21 



SOUPS. 



GENERAL RULES FOR SOUP STOCK. 

Meat and bones for soup stock should be allowed 
to soak in the cold water fully one hour before putting 
on the stove, to extract the juices. Soup stock should 
simmer on the back of the stove and not boil hard. 
The meat should be cut in small pieces and washed 
clean. Soup meat, when cooked has no nutrition 
left in it. If properly made, the goodness of the meat 
is in the stock. 

Use one quart of cold water to every pound of 
meat and bones. Add seasoning in the following pro- 
portions. 

For every quart of water, one even teaspoonful 
of salt, three peppercorns, or a little ground pepper, 
two cloves, a celery root, or the outside stalk, a sprig 
of parsley, a tablespoonful each of onion, carrot and 
turnip, a part of a bay leaf, a pinch of sage, summer 
savory, thyme and marjoram. It is not necessary to 
have all the herbs. A very nice flavored soup can be 
made with the vegetables alone. 

If you wish to have a dark-brown stock, reserve 
part of the lean meat and part of the vegetables, and 
brown them in a little fat taken from the meat. A 
tablespoonful of bro^vned sugar or caramel will also 
give a brown color to the stock. Do not remove the 
scum from the Soup while it is cooking, as that is the 
albumen of the meat. As soon as the soup is done 



22 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

strain at once and set aside until cold and the fat has 
formed a cake on top. Remove the fat and reheat. 

Soup stock should cook from six to eight hours. 

Whole rice is sometimes served in a white soup. 
Boil the rice until tender then add to the soup. 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. 

Melt one cup of sugar with two tablespoonfuls 
of water in a sauce pan. Stir until it is a dark-brown 
color. Add one cup of boiling water, let simmer 
for fifteen minutes. Bottle for use when cool. 

TO CLEAR SOUP STOCK. 

Remove the fat. Allow the white of an egg to 
every quart of stock. Mix the beaten white with the 
cold stock. Set on the fire, stirring all the time until 
it reaches the boiling point, then let it boil without 
stirring for ten minutes, then draw it on the back of 
the stove and add one-half cup cold water. Let it 
stand for ten minutes, then strain through a cheese 
cloth and colander. 

GARNISHES FOR SOUPS. 

Croutons. — Cut stale bread into cubes and brown 
in butter in an omelet pan, or butter first, cut in 
cubes and brown in the oven. Serve with thick soups. 

Egg Balls. — Rub to a paste with a wooden spoon 
the yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt, pep- 
per or paprica and melted butter, add enough raw 
yolk or white to mould them. Roll them in white of 
egg, slightly beaten, and dip in flour. Have them 
about one-half the size of a yolk. Fry them in butter. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 23 



Sei'\^e one to each jDerson. Put the halls in the tureen 
and add the soup. 

Marroiv Balls. — Melt a tahlespoonful of the mar- 
row, heat it until creamy, then add to it a well-heaten 
egg and a little salt and pepper and as much soft 
bread crumbs as it will take. Mould in little balls 
and cook them in boiling water for ten minutes. 
Place them in the tureen first before serving. 

Noodles. — Two eggs slightly beaten, mix with 
them two tablespoonfuls of water, one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of salt and enough flour to make a stiff 
dough. Knead it well for fifteen minutes, then cut 
off small pieces at a time and roll them as thin as 
wafers. When very thin sprinkle with flour and roll 
into a tight roll, cut from the end into thin slices 
or threads for the soup. Let them dry in a slightly 
warm oven for an hour. These can be cut before 
rolling into fancy shapes with the vegetable cutter. 
Before serving put them in boiling salted water and 
let them boil for fifteen minutes. Serve in thin 
soups. 

Lemon cut in thin slices is served, a slice to each 
person. 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and Vermicelli is broken in 
three or four-inch lengths and put on to cook in boil- 
ing salted water until tender, then remove from the 
water in a colander let the cold water run through. 
Place on a board and cut in one-inch pieces. If the 
large-size macaroni is used, cut into one-fourth inch 
pieces, thus forming rings. Put in the tureen just 
before serving. 



24 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ROYALE CUSTARD TO SERVE WITH CONSOMME. 



2 yolks. 

% teaspoonful salt. 



Little pepper. 

l^ cup beef stock. 



Beat the eggs slightly or until well mixed, add 
the seasonings and the clear stock. Pour into a dish 
so it will be about one inch thick. Set it in a pan of 
hot water and place in a moderate oven until it is 
firm. Do not let it browm on top. When cold cut 
it into cubes or into fancy shapes with the cutter. 
Place carefully in the tureen after the soup is in it. 
Allow four or ^ve pieces to each person. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Chop any cooked meat very fine, season highly 
with onion, lemon juice, salt and pepper, add enough 
yolk to hold them together. Mould in little balls, 
roll them in egg and flour, fry them in butter. 
Serve in the soup. 

Grated cheese may be passed with the soup. 

Butter crackers and brown them in the oven. Pass 
with soup. 

Serve pop corn with any kind of soup. 
BROWN SOUP STOCK. 



3 lbs. shin of beef. 

3 quarts cold water. 

9 peppercorns. 

5 cloves. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 good- sized onion. 



1 good- sized carrot, or 2 

small ones. 
1 turnip. 

3 sprigs of parsley". 
Celery root or stalks and 
herbs, if you like. 



Put half the meat and bones in the water, brown 
the rest of the meat and vegetables and add them. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



25 



WHITE STOCK. 



3 lbs. knuckle of veal, or 

one fowl. 
Herbs. 

3 teaspoonfuls salt. 
Peppercorns. 



1 onion. 

2 celery roots or 4 stalks. 
1 turnip. 

1 good-sized carrot. 

3 quarts water. 



WHITE SOUP. 

Three tablespoonfuls of butter and flour. Melt 
the butter and stir into it the flour. Add slowly one 
quart of the white stock and one pint of cream. Sea- 
son to taste. 

CONSOMME. 



2 lbs. shin of beef. 

2 lbs. knuckle of veal or a 

small fowl or hen. 

3 quarts of water. 
A slice of lean ham. 
6 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 



1 tablespoonful salt. 

2 onions. 
2 carrots. 

1 turnip. 

2 roots of celery. 

3 sprigs parsley. 



Brown half the meat and the vegetables, simmer 
for eight hours. Strain. When cold remove the fat 
and clear. Add lemon juice and thinly shaven rind 
when ready to serve. 



JULIENNE SOUP. 

Julienne soup is made by adding to the plain 
consomme stock, vegetables cut in thin strings or 
fancy shapes. Add salt and hot water to the vege- 
tables. Cook until tender, then add to the stock and 
serve. 



26 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MACARONI OR VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Cook the macaroni or vermicelli in boiling salted 
water imtil tender, drain, pour cold water over it, 
tlien lay the sticks close together. Cut in inch pieces 
and add to a plain soup stock. 

BOUILLON. 



4 lbs. beef from the round. 

2 lbs. bone. 

3 quarts water. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 
6 peppercorns. 



3 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 

1 celery root. 

1 teaspoonfiil mixed herbs. 



Boil down to two quarts then remove the fat and 



clear. Add more seasoning if desired. 



TOMATO SOUP. 



1 quart of stock. 

1 can tomatoes. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 



Add the tomato, sugar, salt and pepper to the 
stock, let it cook one hour. With cold water make a 
thickening of the flour and add that, cook ten minutes. 
Strain through a fine sieve. Just before serving add 
one-half cup of cream if liked. This is a great im- 
provement. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 



1 quart of stock. 

1 pint of boiling water. 

% cup each of chopped 

onion, carrot, turnip 

and cabbage. 



y.> cup cooked and strained 
tomato. 

1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley. 

1 teaspoonful salt and a 
little pepper. 



Cook the vegetables in the stock until tender, or 
the vegetables can first be cooked in boiling salted 
water and then added. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 27 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Clean a calf's head thoroiTghly, cut in several 
pieces, then soak an hour in cold water. Drain off 
the water, add four quarts of cold water and a table- 
spoonful salt and cook slowly until the meat slips 
from the bones. Remove the meat but let the bones 
remain, then add 



5 cloves. 

8 peppercorns. 

5 allspice. 

2 onions, sliced. 

2 carrots, sliced. 



1 turnip, sliced. 

3 celery roots. 

1 tablespoonful herbs. 

Inch of stick cinnamon. 



Let simmer for two hours, strain and set away 
until cold. Before serving, remove the fat and for 
every quart of stock, brown one tablespoonful of 
butter, when bro^vn add one tablespoonful of flour, 
and gradually the stock. Season with salt and pep- 
per if required. Cut in small dice one-half cup of 
the cooked meat to every quart and add to the stock 
with slices of hard-boiled egg or the yolk of egg made 
in little balls, the juice of half a lemon and thin slices 
of the rind, two tablespoonfuls of sherry. This can 
be omitted if desired. 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 



2 ox tails. 
1 onion. 

1 tablespoonful beef or 
salt pork drippings. 
4 quarts of water. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 



6 peppercorns. 

4 cloves. 

2 roots celery. 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped 

parsley. 
1 tablespoonful mixed herbs. 



Wash and cut the ox tail in the joints. Heat the 
fat and saute the onion and half the tail in the fat. 
Put all in the soup kettle with the water. Wlien it 
comes to a boil add the seasoning and vegetables. 



28 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Cook for six hours slowly. Strain, saving out some 
of the pieces of meat. When ready to serve remove 
the fat, reheat and season more if necessary. Add 
small pieces of meat and serve one or two to each 
serving. 



MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 



3 lbs. chicken or fowl. 


1 tablespoonful curry pow 


Knuckle of veal. 


der. 


3 cloves. 


1 tablespoonful sugar. 


8 peppercorns. 


4 quarts of water. 


3 sour apples, medium size. 


1 tablespoonful of well- 


Juice of a lemon. 


cooked rice. 


1 tablespoonful salt. 





Make the same as for soup stock. When tender, 
strain leaving small pieces of the meat in the soup. 
Reheat, add more seasoning, if desired, the rice and 
pieces of meat. 



BLACK BEAN SOUP. 



2 cupfuls black beans. 

1 quart soup stock. 

1 tablespoonful butter and 

flour. 
1 sprig parsley. 



1 celery root. 
y, bay leaf. 
3 peppercorns. 
1 clove. 
i/o onion 



Soak the heans over night, drain off the water, 
add the seasonings, tied together in a cheese cloth, 
cover with cold water and boil slowly until tender, 
adding water when needed. When the beans are 
soft, remove the seasonings and pass the beans through 
a sieve, mashing them through with a spoon. Then 
add the stock to them. Melt the butter, stir into it 
the flour and gradually stir into that stock. Season 
with salt and pepper. Put in the tureen just before 
the soup is added two tablespoonfuls sherry wine, thin 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 29 



slice of lemon, egg balls and the white of egg cut in 
dice. 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

Wash clean two quarts of clams (in the shell) 
cover with boiling water, let boil for twenty minutes, 
strain, let the bouillon settle, strain again, reheat, 
season with pepper and butter. Serve in bouillon 
cups with whipped cream on top. A few of the 
clams can be chopped fine and added to the bouillon. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 



2 lbs. mutton (neck). 
2 quarts water. 
1/4 cup carrot, turnip and 
a small onion. 



2 celery stalks, cut fine. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 
1/4 teaspoonful white pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Soak the barley over night. Remove the fat and 
skin from the mutton. Cut the meat from the bones 
and into small pieces. Put the bones on to boil in 
one pint of cold water and the meat on in three pints 
of cold water. When it boils up add the barley. 
Cut the vegetables in dice and fry for five minutes in 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and add to the meat. 
Cook slowly for four hours. Strain the bones from 
the water and add it to the meat with the salt and 
pepper. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Get a piece from the neck or shoulder. For every 
pound of meat and bones add a quart of water. Sim- 
mer for five hours very slowly. (A small onion may 
be added). Strain when cold, remove the fat, season 
with salt and pepper and add some well cooked rice 
and sen^e. 



30 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Remove the skin and fat from the chicken. Cut 
at the joints and make the same as mutton broth. 

CREAM SOUPS. 

Part cream may be used instead of all milk, mak- 
ing a much richer soup or a little whipped cream 
may be added when served. 



OYSTER SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 
1 pint of oysters. 
4 teaspoonfuls flour. 



4 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



Put on the milk in the double boiler to scald. 
Melt the butter and stir the flour into it. When the 
milk has scalded, stir the butter and flour into it, 
stirring until it is smooth. Cook for ten minutes. 
Wash and pick over the oysters, put them on to cook 
in their own liquor. Cook until they begin to grow 
plump and the edges curl. Put them at once in the 
thickened milk and season. Serve. It should not 
be seasoned until the oysters are added, as some 
oysters are more salty than others. 



POTATO SOUP. 



1 pint milk. 

1 cup mashed potato. 

Vs teaspoonful salt. 



Pepper to taste. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 slice of onion. 



'Put the milk on to scald in the double boiler. 
When scalded add the potato, cook it ten min- 
utes. Melt the butter, brown the onion in it. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 31 



then remove the onion and add the butter to the soup. 
Add seasoning and strain through a strainer. Reheat 
and serve. Sprinkle on the soup or pass with it 
croutons. 

MOCK BISQUE SOUP. 



1 quart milk. 

1 can tomatoes. 

14 cup butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

Pepper. 

14 teaspoonful soda. 



Scald the milk in the double boiler. Melt the 
butter in a sauce pan. Stir into it the flour, salt and 
pepper. When smooth stir it into the hot milk. 
Allow it to cook ten minutes, stirring until smooth; 
cook the tomatoes until soft. Mash through a strainer 
and add the soda. When ready to serve put the to- 
mato and milk together. Serve at once, or it may 
curdle. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP. 



1 cup dried split peas. 
3 pints cold water. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Pepper. 



Wash the peas well and soak in the cold water a 
day and night (in high altitude, in lower altitude 
one night will be sufficient) . Put on to boil in fresh 
water, let cook until soft, supplying water as it cooks 
out. When soft mash through a strainer. Melt the 
butter, stir into it the flour and seasonings and grad- 
ually one cup of milk or enough when added to peas 
to make a thick creamy consistency. Cook the 
strained peas and creamed milk together for ten min- 
utes. Serve with fried dice of bread. This soup 
cannot be satisfactorily made in a high altitude as the 
long cooking necessary for the peas spoils the flavor. 



32 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



GREEN PEA SOUP. 



1 quart of milk, 
1 can of peas. 
1/4 Clip butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Little pepper. 



Scald the milk in double boiler. Melt the butter, 
stir into it the flour and seasoning. When smooth 
stir into the milk, cooking for ten minutes, stirring 
until smooth. Heat up the peas in their own liquor. 
Mash through a strainer and add the pulp to the milk. 
This is a delicious and nutritious soup. 

GREEN CORN SOUP. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 



4 good sized ears of corn. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 
Little pepper. 



Cut the kernels from the ear with a sharp knife. 
Put the cobs on to boil in enough cold water to cover. 
Boil half an hour and strain, then cook the pulp in 
tlie corn water for twenty minutes, then add the sea- 
sonings. Melt the butter, stir into it the flour and 
when smooth stir into the hot milk. After cooking 
ten minutes add the corn with the liquid and season- 
ings. Half a can of corn can be used instead of the 
green corn. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP (Made from Can Corn). 

Make the same as the pea soup made from the 
can peas. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 



y^ peck clams in the shell. 
1 quart potatoes, sliced 

thin. 
^4 pound salt pork. 
1 onion. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 

y^ cup butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 quart hot milk. 

Crackers. 



Wash the clams until clean. Put them in a kettle 
with one quart of cold water. Set them on the stove 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK, 33 

to cook until the top ones are broken open, then re- 
move from the stove. Skim out the clams. Pour 
the liquid in a dish to settle. "When the clams are 
cool, cut off the heads with scissors. Fry the onion 
in the pork in the kettle that you are going to make it 
in. When brown remove the pieces of onion and 
pork, then add the potatoes and the clam liquor, 
which should be carefully poured in, not to disturb 
the settlings. When the potatoes are soft, add the 
clams, seasonings and hot milk, more water if desired. 
Melt the butter, stir into it the flour and add to the 
chowder, or, better still, to the hot milk, before it is 
added. Put the crackers in the tureen and turn the 
chowder on them. 

CREAM OF CLAM SOUP. 

Melt in a double boiler two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and a little pepper, or paprica, then 
add gradually two cups of milk. When hot and 
smooth, stir in one small can of minced clams. Cook 
for twenty minutes, then strain and reheat, add one- 
half cup of cream and serve at once. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 

1 good- sized bunch of as- 

paragus. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Pepper. 



Put the asparagus on to cook in cold water enough 
to cover. Cook until very tender. Cut off a few of 
the tips to serve in the soup. Mash the rest, with the 
water they are cooked in, through a strainer. Scald 
the milk. Melt butter, stir into it flour and season- 



34 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ings, then stir it into the milk. Add the asparagus 
pulp and tips. Serve. This is prettj* for a green 
luncheon. 

PEANUT SOUP. 

Cook two cups of shelled and blanched peanuts 
with a slice of onion and a stalk of celery until ten- 
der. Mash through a sieve. Stir into it a pint of 
white stock and one pint of hot milk or thin cream, 
which has been added to it. Two tablespoonfuls of 
butter melted with one tablespoonful of flour and one- 
half teaspoonful of snlt and a little pepper stirred 
into it. 



ALMOND SOUP. 



1 quart of white stock. 
1 pint of cream. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Salt and pepper to taste. 

'^ cup of blanched almonds 

that have been chopped 

and pounded fine. 



Melt the butter, stir into it the flour. When 
smooth, stir it into hot cream. Cook for ten min- 
utes. Add the hot stock and season, then add the 
nuts and serve. 



MUSHROOM SOUP. 



1 pint of milk. 
14 cup of cream. 

V2 pound fresh mush- 
rooms. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 
Yolks of 2 eggs. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler. Melt the but- 
ter, stir into it the flour, salt and pepper. Stir this 
into the hot milk, let cook for ten minutes, then add 
to it the beaten yolks and cream, stirring and cooking 
five minutes. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stems 
and break them in small pieces. Put them in a sauce 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 35 



pan with just enough hot water to keep them from 
sticking. Let them cook five minutes. Add them 
to the cream soup and serve. The eggs may be 
omitted. 

MUSHROOM STOCK SOUP. 

Two cups of chicken or turkey stock, one-half 
pound of fresh mushrooms that have been cooked and 
added to the stock. Melt two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, add to it two of flour and the hot stock. Cook 
ten minutes, strain out the mushrooms, add one cup 
of cream and season. This is a most delicious rich 
soup. 

BERMUDA SOUPS. 

Peel and slice three Bermuda onions, brown a 
delicate brown in pork fat or a little butter, then cook 
in boiling salted water till tender. Melt in a double 
boiler two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, then gradually two cups of 
milk. When smooth put in the onion and cook for a 
half hour. Mash all through a sieve, reheat, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Add 
half a cup of cream and serve at once. 

SPINACH SOUP. 

Wash half a peck of spinach, put it on to cook 
without adding water — there is enough that clings to 
the leaves to cook it — one teaspoonful salt, a small 
onion sliced. Wlien tender, mash through a strainer 
or puree sieve. Scald two cups of milk in double 
boiler, melt in sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, stir into it one of flour. When blended, stir it 
into the hot milk. Cook ten minutes, then add one 
cup of the spinach pulp and the yolk of one egg di- 



36 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

luted with a half cup of cream. Cook ten more min- 
utes. Season with salt and pepper. 

CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP. 

Let a cauliflower stand in cold water, head down, 
for one hour — in cold salted water — this is to draw 
out any insects that may be in it. Put on to boil in 
chicken or veal stock or hot water and one onion, a 
sprig eacli of parsley and celery. When tender, masli 
through a sieve or potato ricer. For every cup of 
the pulp make a white sauce of two cups of milk 
stirred into two tablespoon fuls of butter that has had 
two tables]X)onfuls of flour stirred into it, one-half 
teaspoonful salt and a little pepper. Cook ten min- 
utes, then stir in the pulp. Cook for five minutes. 
Add one-half cup of cream. Serve. 

CREAM OF STOCK SOUP. 

Use any stock made from veal, poultry or game. 

Stock made from turkey bones is very delicious for 

this soup. Melt in a sauce pan four tablespoon fuls 

of butter. Stir into it three tablespooiifiils of flour 

and half a teasix)onful of salt, gradually stir into the 

butter three cups of the well-seasoned stock. Boil 

ten minutes. Add one cup of thick cream, heat for 

five minutes. Serve a few fresh mushrooms that 

have been cooked for five minutes, then added to the 

stock just before serving gives a delicious flavor. 

Serve for luncheon in bouillon cups or for a dinner 

soup. 

SUMMER SOUPS. 

Make a rich chicken broth or b(^uillon, chill sur- 
rounded by ice or freeze to a frappo. Serve in bouil- 
lon cups with or without whipped cream. 

Cla7n Bouillon can be served in the same way. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 37 



FRUIT SOUPS. 

Fruit soups originated with the Germans. They 
are made from the fruit juices seasoned and thick- 
ened. These soups to be palatable must be served 
very cold. 

STRAWBERRY SOUP. 

One pint of strawberries and one pint of water, 
cook together until the strawberries are soft, then add 
one-half glass currant jelly. When the jelly is dis- 
solved, strain, thicken with a scant teaspoonful of 
corn starch. Cook for ten minutes and, if necessary, 
strain again. Serve very cold in bouillon cups with 
chipped ice. 

RASPBERRY, CURRANT AND GOOSEBERRY SOUP. 

One pint of the fruit and one pint of water. Cook 
together until the fruit is tender. Strain, add one 
tablespoonful of sugar, a few grains of salt and a lit- 
tle cornstarch to thicken slightly. Cook for ten min- 
utes. If necessary strain again. Sen^e very cold 
in cups with chipped ice. 

PLUM, CHERRY, PINEAPPLE AND PEACH SOUP. 

Cook one pint of fruit with a pint of water till 
very soft, mash and sift. Sweeten slightly and thick- 
en a very little with corn starch, a little lemon or 
orange juice will improve these soups. Serve very 
cold with chipped ice. 

ORANGE SOUP. 

The juice of six oranges and one lemon, sweeten 
slightly, add a little sherry wine if desired. Chill. 
Sen'^e with chipped ice. 



38 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FISH. 



Fish, to be palatable and nutritious, should be 
fresh, well cleaned and thoroughly cooked. When 
fresh, the eyes are bright, the flesh firm and elastic 
to the touch. Fish should be cleaned, washed in cold 
water and dried (not soaked) as soon as it reaches 
us and put directly on the ice or in a cold place. It 
should not be put in the compartment with milk or 
butter, as they absorb the odors very quickly. Fro- 
zen fish should be laid in cold water until they be- 
come limber. 

TO SKIN AND BONE A FISH. 

Cut through the skin, down the back bone, taking 
off the fins. Beginning at the head, loosen the skin 
and strip it down. Use a knife to help loosen the 
skin and a little salt on the fingers enables one to get 
a firmer hold. Then slip the knife under the flesh, 
keeping it close to the bone, to remove the flesh or fil- 
lets. They can be served whole or divided in uni- 
form pieces if the fish is large. 

TO BOIL FISH. 

Put the fish into a kettle of boiling water, enough 
to cover with a teaspoon ful of salt and a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar or half the juice of a lemon. This 
hardens the fish. Do not let the water boil rapidly 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 39 

after the fish is put in, as that breaks it ; let it simmer 
on top of the stove. A little celery, onion, bay leaf 
and peppercorns put in the water improves the flavor 
of white fish. Allow fifteen minutes to a pound. If 
a fish kettle is not used, place the fish in a plate and 
tie the plate in a cloth before putting in the kettle. 
Prepared in this way it s much easier to remove from 
the kettle. 

TO BROIL FISH. 

Clean the fish, wash and wipe dry. Cover the 
fish with a little softened butter, season with salt and 
pepper. Rub the broiler with salt pork or butter. 
Broil first the flesh side until browm before turning. 
A thick fish should cook about twenty minutes, a thin 
one less time. Try with a fork. When done, place 
on a liot platter, season with butter, salt and pepper, 
a little chopped parsley. Garnish Avith lemon or 
water cress or serve with a sauce. 

TO BAKE FISH. 

Place in the bottom of the pan two or three thin 
slices of salt pork to prevent the fish from sticking, 
or on the rack, if rack is used. If part of a fish is to 
be baked, wash it and wipe dry, cover the fish with 
buttered cracker crumbs that have been well seasoned 
with salt, pepper, lemon juice, chopped parsley and a 
little onion juice, or sprinkle with flour ; or, salt and 
pepper, little pieces of butter, and ^ve minutes before 
removing from the oven cover the top with grated 
cheese, seasoned with a little salt and paprica. 



40 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



STUFFING FOR FISH. 



1 cup of powdered cracker 
crumbs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Half as much pepper. 

1 teaspoonful chopped pars- 
ley. 



1 teaspoonful onion juice. 
1/4 cup melted butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls of pickles, 

chopped or one of capers 
and one of pickles. 



If not moist enough, use a little hot water, and 
egg may be used, but it is not necessary. This should 
be a dry stuffing. 

TO BAKE A WHOLE FISH. 

Stuff and sew up the fish. Place the fish upright 
in the pan. If broad and short they may be kept in 
place by propping up. If not the right shape to 
prop, skewer in the shape of the letter S. If pre- 
pared in this way will keep their shape after cooking. 
Place when done on a hot platter. Pour a sauce 
around it, place a slice of lemon in the mouth. Be- 
fore baking cut gashes (three or four) across the back 
and place in each a slice of salt pork. The head and 
tail should be left on. 

TO COOK SMELTS. 

Clean, wash and dry them, season with salt and 
pepper, dip in fine granulated corn meal or flour. 
Fasten together with a toothpick forming a ring (or 
fry without). Place in as many as will cover the 
bottom of a frying basket, dip in smoking hot fat and 
cook for one minute. Or, fry out in frying pan half 
a dozen slices of salt pork. Oook the smelts in this, 
first on one side and then the other, until they are 
brown. Serve with tartare sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 41 



FILLETS BAKED WITH TOMATOES. 

Any kind of fillets or sliced fish can be cooked in 
this way. Place on the bottom of the pan four slices 
of salt pork, one onion cut in slices, wash and wipe 
the fish dry, cover the top with butter-seasoned 
crumbs. Place in the pan on top of the pork and 
onions. Wipe clean half a dozen tomatoes (or enough 
to serve one to each person), place them around the 
fish. Cook in a hot oven until the fish is done, bast- 
ing several times, both the tomatoes and fish with the 
fat in the pan. When done place the fish carefully 
on a hot platter and arrange the tomatoes around it. 
Serve with Hollandaise, white or Bearnaise sauce. 

STUFFED FILLETS OR SLICED FISH. 

Wash and wipe the fish dry, season with salt and 
pepper, spread a layer of ''stuffing for fish" over the 
pieces, about an inch thick. Poll up and tie se- 
curely with a string. Place in a buttered pan or on 
slices of salt pork. Cover the top and sides with but- 
tered crumbs. Cook in a hot oven three-quarters of 
an hour. Serve with maitre d'hotel butter or a white 
sauce made from the fat in the pan. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Prepare and cook as for boiled fish. Serve on a 
hot platter with Hollandaise sauce and the little ball 
potatoes, placing some of the potatoes on top of the 
fish to form a bunch of grapes. 

SALMON CUTLETS. 

One cup of cold fish minced fine, season with 
one teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, one tea- 



42 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonful chopped parsley, two teaspoonfuls lemon 
juice. Mix with one-half cup of thick white sauce. 
(See sauces.) When cold shape in cutlet form. 
Roll in crumbs and egg and crumbs again. Fry in 
deep hot fat until brown. Serve with the paper 
ruffles stuck in the small end of each, placing the large 
end to the center of the platter. Pour around them a 
HoUandaise or white sauce. Any left-over white fish 
is delicious prepared in this way. 

FISH TIMBALE. 

Cut one pound of raw fresh white fish in small 
pieces, chop or pound to a pulp, press through a 
coarse sieve. To every cup of the fish pulp add one 
tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs that have soaked 
in a third of a cup of milk or cream until soft. One 
teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoon ful of pepper, 
one-half teaspoonful of onion juice, the yolk of one 
egg well beaten. Beat all well together for five min- 
utes, then fold in lightly the stiffly beaten white. But- 
ter a mould or bowl, fill it not over two-thirds full 
set it in a pan of hot water. Cover the mould with a 
greased paper and set in a moderate oven. Cook un- 
til the center is firm from twenty minutes to one hour, 
according to size of the timbale. Turn from the 
mould and surround with a lobster, shrimp or tomato 
sauce. 

PLANKED SHAD AND POTATO ROSES. 

Place the shad that has been fixed as for broiling 
on a thick hard wood board, hold it down with a few 
tacks. Season it with salt and pepper and cover with 
buttered crumbs. Shape hot mashed potato through 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 43 



a pastry bag and tube, in the form of roses around the 
fish, brush over with the yolk of egg that has been 
slightly beaten. Cook in a hot oven for twenty-five 
minutes. 

CASSEROLE OF FISH. 

Line a mould or baking dish with seasoned 
mashed potato, first buttering it well. Fill up the 
mould with any kind of highly seasoned creamed fish, 
or fish that has been mixed with tomato sauce. Cover 
the top over with an inch layer of mashed potato, 
brush over with a beaten yolk of egg. Bake in a hot 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

CREAMED FISH SERVED IN MASHED POTATO CASE. 

Line a baking dish with mashed potato. Cover 
with the beaten yolk of egg. Set in a hot oven to 
brown, then serve in it any kind of creamed fish. A 
good luncheon dish. Creamed meats are nice served 
in this way. 

CREAM SALT FISH. 

Cook the salt fish in boiling water until tender, 
changing the water once. Pick in small pieces and 
mix with a white sauce. Serve on toast or on a plat- 
ter garnished with broiled sweet or white potatoes. 



SALT FISH BALLS. 



1 cup raw salt fish. 

2 cups potatoes. 



1 egg. 
Little pepper. 



Pick the fish in small pieces, free from bones. 
Pare the potatoes cut in quarters. Cook the potatoes 



44 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and fish t/)gether in boiling water until tender. Drain 
off the water and mash until very light, add the pep- 
per and when a little cool, the egg, well beaten. Drop 
from a tables jK)on into smoking hot fat. Fry until 
brown. Cook only three or four at a time, as too 
many cool the fat. Drain on soft paper. Serve 
with a white sauce. It is better not to form the mix- 
ture into shapes, fis it makes them heavy. 

SALMON FISH BALLS. 

Mix one-half ciip of salmon with one cup of 
mashed potato. Season and add one egf^. Shape in 
little fiat cakes. Cover with melted butter and broil, 
or fry in salt pork fat. Brown on one side and then 
the other. The salt pork gives a very nice flavor. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 45 



SHELL nSH. 



OYSTERS RAW. 

Oysters to be seiTcd raw should be very fresh, 
and should not be served at all from the 1st of May 
to September, as their flavor is not as good and they 
are not so liealthful. For serving raw, the small 
oysters should be used. Look them over carefully to 
see that there are no pieces of shells. Leave them on 
the deep half of the shell and arrange regularly 
around the plate, giving six to each person. Have a 
little ice in the center of the plate, chipped fine. 
Place on the ice a little parsley or watercress and a 
quarter of a lemon on that. Serve with them paprica 
or tobasco sauce, horseradish, thin slices of brown 
bread buttered or crackers. 

OYSTERS COOKED IN THE SHELL. 

These arc very delicious and should be ser\^ed as 
soon as ready. They make a very palatable dish for 
Sunday night supper. 

Wash the shells clean, put them in a pan with 
the round side down to hold the juice, and cook in a 
hot oven until the shells break open. Eemove the up- 
per shell. Season to taste when served. 

Clams are delicious cooked in this way, in their 
own juices. 



46 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



OYSTERS SERVED IN ICE. 

Have fresh small oysters that have been well 
picked over. Make a cavity in a smooth block of ice 
with a hot brick, or pail or can of hot water. Place 
the ice on a platter with colored tissue paper under 
it if you want the color effect. Surround it with 
parsley or Avatercress and quarters of lemon, then 
place in the oysters. 

Oyster CoMail is very nice served in this way. 

Individual cakes of ice can be made in the same 
way. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select large oysters for frying. Pick them over 
carefully to see that none of the shell adheres. Put 
them in a strainer and let the cold water run through 
them just to rinse them. Drain well, season finely 
rolled cracker crumbs w^ith salt and pepper, dip the 
oysters in the crumbs, then into Qgg^ which has just 
been beaten slightly, to mix it, and has two tablespoon- 
fuls of water added to it, then into the crumbs again. 
Put five or six at a time in the frying basket and 
plunge in the smoking hot fat. Cook until a golden 
brown. These should not be fried until time to 
serve. Pickles, horseradish, chow-chow, tartar sauce 
or celery salad can be served with them, either as a 
garnish or separately. Fried oysters may be pre- 
pared some time before cooking. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Prepare the oysters as for fried. Dry them well. 
Dip them in melted butter, rub a fine wire broiler 
with butter or salt pork, place them on the broiler 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



47 



over hot coals and cook until the juice flows. Place 
them on rounds or squares of toast, three or four on 
each piece. Pour a little melted butter over them, 
season with pepper. Serve any kind of pickles with 
them. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 



1 pint of small oysters. 
Cleaned and thoroughly 

chilled. 
1 tablespoon ful horseradish. 
5 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 
1 tablespoonful vinegar. 



li tablespoonfuls Worcester- 
shire sauce. 

'.i tablespoonfuls catsup. 

1 teaspoonful tabasco sauce. 

1 teaspoonful salt, or more 
if needed. 



Serve in cocktail glasses or in lemon cups, or to- 
mato cups, on a bed of green, or cups shaped from 
tomato or celery jelly. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a hot sauce pan, 
then add the oysters that have been well picked over 
and cleaned. Let them cook until the edges curl, 
then place them on pieces of toast or hot crackers 
that have been moistened with the liquor. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper. 



CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Cook one pint of oysters in their own liquor un- 
til plump and their edges curl. Drain off the liquor. 
Make a sauce by melting two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and stirring into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt (or more if needed), a little 
pepper or paprica. Stir slowly into this one-half cup 
of the oyster liquor to one-half cup of cream or milk. 
Cook ten minutes and add the oysters. Let them 



48 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

reheat in tlie sauce for five minutes. Sen^e on toast 
or in patty shells, timbale cases or bread boxes. 

OYSTERS IN SHELLS OR RAMQUIN DISHES. 

Cook the oysters and make tlie sauce the same as 
for Creamed Oysters. Remove the sauce from the 
fire, add the oysters and the beaten yolks of two eggs, 
butter the shells or dishes and fill about two-thirds 
full. Cover the top with buttered bread crumbs and 
bake in a hot oven for five minutes, or until the 
crumbs are brown. 

To Butter Crumbs. — Melt one tablespoonful of 
butter, add to it two tablespoonfuls of crumbs, stir 
them into the butter. 

SCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 

Wash and pick over the oysters. Butter a baking 
dish and place in a layer of oysters. Sprinkle them 
with salt, pepper and bits of butter and a layer of 
cracker crumbs. Before putting on the top layer of 
crumbs add three tablespoonfuls of sherry, if liked. 
Cover the top with buttered crumbs. (Buttered 
crumbs given in the preceding receipt.) Bake for 
twenty minutes in a hot oven or try the oysters in 
the center and see if the edges are curled. 

PIGS IN BLANKET. 

Season large oysters Avith salt and pepper an hour 
before using, then wrap each oyster in a thin slice of 
bacon and fasten with a wooden toothpick. Cook on 
a hot spider or frying pan or in the chafing dish until 
the bacon is brown. Serve on small pieces of but- 
tered toast. 

Oysters in Batter. — (See fritter batter). 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 49 



CLAMS. 

Little Nech Clams are the best for serving raw. 
Serve the same as raw oysters. 

ROASTED CLAMS. 
Roast the same as oysters. 

STEAMED CLAMS. 

Wash the shells until clean and free from grit. 
Put them in a kettle without water, cover closely and 
cook until the shells open. Serve hot in the shells, 
with melted butter. Serve a small glass of the clam 
water to each person. 

CLAMS IN BATTER. 

Cook the same as for steamed clams. Cut off 
the head (the black tip) and dip in batter, fry in 
smoking hot fat until brown. (See fritter batter). 
The clams may be chopped before adding to the batter 
if desired. 

SCOLLOPS. 

Wash quickly, dry between cloths, dip in cracker 
crumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, 
then in slightly beaten egg that has two tablespoon- 
fuls of water added to it, and in the crumbs again. 
Place them in a frying basket, immerse it smoking 
hot fat for one minute. Drain on brown paper. 
Serve with tartare sauce. 

CRABS. 

Crabs are at their best during the months of May, 
June, July and August. Crabs, like lobsters, shed 



50 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

their shell once a year. When the shell is forming 
they are soft shell crabs. 

SOFT SHELL CRABS. 

Soft Shell Crabs should be used only when fresh. 
Remove the sand bag, gills and intestines. Wash and 
wipe dry. Roll in cracker crumbs, egg and crumbs 
again, immerse in smoking hot lard for two minutes 
or roll in flour and saute in hot butter on both sides. 
Serve with tartare sauce. 

BOILED CRABS. 

Plunge them head first in hot water (not boiling), 
then add one tablespoonful of salt, boil for twenty 
minutes. When cold remove the outside shell and 
take out the meat carefully. 

DEVILED CRABS. 

Mince the meat line and mix with half the amount 
of white sauce, season with salt, paprica, or a little 
cayenne, teaspoonful chopped parsley, teaspoonful 
lemon juice, yolk of hard boiled egg. Replace in the 
shell, cover with buttered crumbs and brown in a hot 
oven. 

FRIED FROG LEGS. 

After being skinned, dip in cracker crumbs, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, then in egg and the 
crumbs again. Put in a frying basket, immerse in 
smoking hot fat for one minute. Drain. Serve with 
a cream or mushroom sauce or a drawn butter sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 51 



DEVILED SHRIMP. 



1 pint of shrimp. 

1 cup white stock or milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



1 teaspoonful mustard. 
14 teaspoonful cayenne. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Make a sauce by melting the butter, stirring in 
the flour and seasonings and the milk or stock. When 
smooth add the minced shrimps. Sprinkle shells or 
ramkin dishes with buttered crumbs, cut in the 
shrimp mixture. Cover over with buttered crumbs. 
Cook from ten to twelve minutes in a hot oven. 

LOBSTERS. 

Lobsters are difficult to digest and should only be 
eaten when fresh. Select a heavy lobster for the size. 
These will be found to be the most meat. 

TO BOIL A LOBSTER. 

Have enough water in a kettle to cover the lobster 
before the water gets very hot put in the lobsters. 
This seems the most merciful way, as it smothers them 
at once. Add two tablespoonfuls of salt, cover and 
boil for thirty minutes. 

TO OPEN A LOBSTER. 

\Mien the lobster is cold, break off the large claws, 
separate the tail from the body. Remove the small 
claws. Save the coral and the green liver. Break 
the tail by pressing the sides together, then open and 
take out the meat and remove the intestinal canal 
which runs the full length. Break off the gills. The 
gills, stomach and intestines are the only part not 
used. Break the body in the middle and pick the 



52 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

meat from the joints. Hammer the claws near the 
edges, so as not to break the meat. Remove the meat. 
If the body of the shell is to be used for serving, cut 
down the underside with a sharp knife. 

TO BROIL A LIVE LOBSTER. 

With a sliarp knife cut quickly down the back, 
remove the intestines and stomach. Broil over a 
moderate fire for thirty minutes, shell side down. 
Spread a little butter over it when broiling to keep 
it moist. When done break the claws, season with 
salt, pepper and molted butter. 

PLAIN LOBSTER. 

Remove the meat from the shell, place on a plat- 
ter, garnish with the little claws and parsley. Sea- 
son individually with salt, pepper, vinegar and oil or 
melted butter. 

SAUTE LOBSTER. 

Break the lobster meat in small pieces, heat in 
hot butter in sauce pan or chafing dish, season with 
salt, pepper and a little vinegar. Cook for about five 
minutes. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

Cut the meat quite fine, reheat in a white sauce, 
seasoned with salt, pepper or paprica, lemon juice. 
Serve on toast or in patty cases, timbale cases, bread 
boxes, or in shells or ramquin dishes, baked for five 
minutes in the oven with the buttered crumbs on top. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 53 

DEVILED LOBSTER. 

Chop the lobster very fine, season highly with 
lemon juice, paprica, a little chopped celery, two small 
pickles chopped fine, salt. Mix with a white sauce, 
using half as much sauce as meat. Fill the tail of 
the lobster shells with the mixture, setting them in the 
pan with the meat side up. Cover the top with but- 
tered crumbs. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. Place two tails together lengthwise, 
the crumb side up and garnish with the claws and 
parsley or watercress. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Cut the meat from a two-pound lobster in inch 
pieces. Melt in the chafing dish or sauce pan two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add the lobster and one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, a speck of cayenne, or pap- 
rica. (A truffle chopped fine may be added.) Cover 
and let cook for five minutes, then add one-fourth cup 
of sherry or madeira, or half sherry and half brandy, 
and cook for five minutes. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs and mix them well with a cup of cream, add this 
and stir until it thickens. Serve at once or the eggs 
may cause it to curdle. 



54 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



MEATS. 



The cheaper cuts of meat should have a long, slow 
cooking to break up the fiber. A cheap cut of meat 
often contains more nourishment than an expensive 
cut. For exam])le, there is more nourishment in a 
well-cooked piece of round than in a well-cooked fillet. 
Tough meats are better boiled, as a lower degree of 
heat can be used and slower cooking. 

TO ROAST BEEF. 

Beef should be well streaked with fat, of a bright 
red color, elastic to the touch, and have a thick out- 
side layer of fat. Put the meat in the pan which 
has been heated hot on top of the stove, then sear the 
meat in the hot pan on all sides, turning it with a 
fork. Then ])lace it in the pan on a rack, sprinkle 
first with flour, then with salt and pej^per. Put two 
tablespoonfuls of drippings in the pan if you have 
them, but no water, as water steams the meat. Cook 
in a very hot pan for ton minutes, then reduce the 
heat, basting often with the fat in the pan. Roast 
ten minutes to a pound, if liked rare, and fifteen min- 
utes if liked well done. 

Rolled Boast. — Should be cooked a little longer. 

Searing and first putting the meat in a hot oven 
hardens the outside and keeps the juices in. Place 
on the platter with the fat side up. Carve in thin 
slices across the grain. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 58 



GRAVY FOR ROAST BEEF. 

Pour the fat from the pan in a bowl, then pour 
about a pint of hot water or stock in the pan, to get all 
of the settlings. Put four tablespoonfuls of hot fat 
in a sauce pan, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
well mixed, stir in the hot water or stock from the 
pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper, Worcester- 
shire sauce, ketchup or mushrooms. Cook for ten 
minutes. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Beat two eggs very light, add one-half teaspoonful 
of salt and one cup of milk. Stir this gradually on 
three-fourths cup of flour, beat until smooth. Pour 
in hot gem pans that have in them drippings from the 
roast beef. Bake in a hot oven thirty minutes, bast- 
ing twice with beef drippings, but not until they have 
been baking for fifteen minutes. Serve around the 
roast beef. This is a much better way than baking it 
in a pan. 

FILLET OF BEEF. 

Have your butcher remove the fat veins and trim 
into shai^e. The best way of cooking it is to lard it. 
If you do not care to do that, first place it in the pan 
on several slices of pork and cover the top with thin, 
narrow strips, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, or 
cover the top of the fillet with buttered, seasoned 
crumbs. Place around the fillet one carrot, turnip 
and onion, cut in thin slices, and a couple of stalks of 
celery. Cook in a hot oven for thirty minutes. After 
ten minutes' cooking pour into the pan one cup of 
stock. Baste frequently. The fillet should be served 
rare. Put in a sauce pan a couple of tablespoonfuls 



II rtlll IKUUY MOIIIN I AIIN ( (lOK MOOK 

ttl' InilhM' iiM»l Hiio nl llnin W In II iiirlh>»|, rtlll iiltiw'ly 
til ilio ^j'liN V Irnin llii^ |iiiii, \vlii«<li iiiiM Immmi mIi'mmhmI 
Irnm Mm vr^^hiMpn, mnl \\\v I'lil, nKnmiHMl nil'. rmii 
iiilit il, ii linll' (Mill III' iiinnlit'nniiiti llint Imvo Immmi 

iIi'IIMKmI llnlll llio ll<|llMr ( 'muK liMI linilllltMi Pniir 

MrMliliil llin lilli'l I I lliin ilnivt lint liiiiKn ^.i'M V V (Minti^ll 

mill II III I In linl \N iilni In it 

iiwAiMih im M< OK I'or i.'oam 

I'niir In 'UN |)n||||«iri nl IumI limii Mm in\\iM |muI nl 
MiO I'tMMIll nl' nnilp. PliUM^ nil Mm linllolll nl Mm |MIII 

wis lliiM nliiM^H nl' mmIi pnrK inul nn Mm pmK liiv nin' 

Imir IMI|» OlM'll nl' iMIITtit. Ilinilp. nliinli illlil nOnl'V. (Mil 
in MUImI) mKim^^, <h\ Mm vi^p.t^liiMrM |iliii'n tim iimiit 
Ih'lMJ^'v wnll Willi llnin . |>n|i|>nr Mild rtiill riiirr in ii 

hnt< uVPii Inr litlmii iiiiiiiilnM Tlmii m«I«I I \vn nipl iiIm 
of pIooK nr lint wnlnr I'Iium* mIhti nl' \ n^'vliiMnM nil 
ln|> nl Mm limiil, »'n\nr olnnnlv Willi ii |»iiii ( 'nnK 
wln\\l\ tni I. -Ill liniiii \\ Imii (Inim, ^nnii'ili Mm pliil 
Inr Willi Mm V f'^'vluMnM. iittni* ImMUJI; rtl rMnintl liMin llu^ 
UraVV. Mnll Iwn liil»ln>ipnnnrii|M nf l»|lthM', m| U' ililn 
It otio \^( llnin mill mIkwIn Mio fvnvv ('nnK loti mm 
Uto«, SiM'Vo iiM u jj.nn V w illi Mm iimiit Tliirt wnv nl 
tMMiKill^; luM^f \\\\\\ l>n ilnim in m |>n|. Mmn it \n t'lMlril ii 

IIIF A I \ iNUiDii;, 

Urto llvr» t>r >*U poninln nl l»«*nl' I'rniii Mm Inwor pnrt 
(if Mi(^ rniiml, nut MiioK I nnl it wnll wiMi ii liir<iiiif]( 
lion»lln. nr niuKn iiminmnM mln tIm nmdl Willi m Mliurn 
pninlnl Kinlr I'lniM mln llmiii MllM Mtri|»« wf niMI 
I'niK rill I in tMllloil «lMul>itif:i\ Il nun Im .Imm l>v {\\o 
Imlolior, Till '>^^\n^||l linn nliot^i nl |»niK .'t Iwn tnMo 



THU: l/OCKV MOUNTAIN tH)(H( m)()IC. »T 



fiprMmfulH of (lripi»in|rH in llu^ jm.i. WIm.h Imi, |.iii m 
Mm iiMiMl. ihmI Im-mwii il nii nil nidcn li.y liiniiiiK H. lli«^ii 
(Imd^n wilh H«Mir, hull iii.-l |..|.|..r. Imlf rnv^r llir iim-iiI 

Willi iM.ilillK WMl«M'. A.M In it OlIt^llMli' (Ml|» IMH'll ol 

(Uirrol, hinii|.. niii«.M, ml in rtliron, iiiwl ii H(HM^nf piirrt 
jny. ( 'nvrr llin )mi|, li^lil. Mini Himiiinr hl«.wl,V \'nv f.Mir 
or livn lininn; itiM iimrn wiihT wImmi iinriiHHMry, liiivili|^ 

„|„,„, „ ,.,,,, ,,| iIh-, li.|lln| wIhH Mm m.-Ml. irt .I'.lir 
I'lurn Mm iiiri.l, mi i. Iml |.l,.ll. r, llii.lrn Mm Krnv,y l» 
JlMJr uilli Mm V«g<^lnlil<'H, |"""' hi'MiimI iI 'I'IhH Irt 
VOry f.',<in(| rnhl, 

iiM I Mitw wn H DIIIVirMNOi. 

'II,,, rliri.jMf rillri of IIHMll. (Mill l»n llrtl^l Inf l\ HhuV. 

Tim nilrh l.nim, or Uvn ..r Min-n |mmiii<Ih I'rnm Mm* hIhii, 

(•r IliHil'., i^v iipl"''' l»'"'' "'" ••'""''^ '■'''■ '^•''^ *'"" '."' 
iiiHilt^ rrnm r.M.Kn.l iiKwtl, Mm Ilt(iil( rrmii m rmiHt or lufr 
ovfir |»iw(^H of fn^Hli iiKMil, IN^mosm llw^ iimmiI- from 
Mm iH.imrt, rill III IwMiii.li pincdM, m\mt\\ Willi (i«»ill', 
HiMl, mimI |.<|.|Mr. I.n.wii iMI nV<M' Willi fiH fl'<'lM 

III,, „|, nr .in|.|.iUK;i. 1'<'I '" '•»<^ "'♦\^^' l"'"» ''l''' 

,„,„ ,„,i,,i, ml. m Miih nlirnM, mir. ^(.od hi/imI liiniip, 
lAVo rurrolf^,. A.M I.Milin// wnlnr ^iioii^^Ii to (uivur. 
(V)ol( hlowly f(.r Iwo lioiirn, Mim luld nix poluUidH llii.i 
liHvo Ih.i. pi.iT(|, hII(uh(I Mm. iiihI rtonkod in c-oM wulor 
|\,, i.i.ii „,i Imiir ('o..lv Inr livo iiiiiiuhiH, Uion ndd 
Ml,., diinipliiigri, liiiviiiK llio liquor conio up ovon wilJi 
Mm poli.loi'H Mild llic diiinpliiiKH roHtiiiK <•»» •'•P- < '"^^'' 
(doHoly Mild ri„,l. Inr I. 11 iiiiiiiili^rt. I'nl ll"' ""'•' m 
||„, ,.,;„(,„. of Mir pliillrr. Mir vog<dMldo« Mild diiiiipliiiK^ 

rtrniiiid M ii.-iidr. 'I'liirknii llio Ki'Hvy H Hulo Hlld 

,,n,,r niniind Mir, voK«'l»l»i^f^' ^^^»«"" •'''^ ^"'"^''^ """''' 
1 1" d«nii I'd 



58 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

DUMPLINGS. 

1 cup flour. I 1 teaspoonful baking 

1/4 teaspoonful salt. | powder. 

Mix with one-half cup of milk into a (l(Migh soft 
enough to handle. Pat out in small cakes or roll and 
cut with a small biscuit cutter. Cook for ten minutes 
in the boiling stew, being careful that the water does 
not boil on them, as that would make them soggy. 

MEAT PIE. 

Lay in a baking dish a few thin slices of cold 
meat, a grating of onion, salt and ]x^])|X'r, a layer of 
thin-sliced potatoes. (Cold cooked potatoes can be 
used, cut in thicker slices.) Fill up the dish with 
these layers. Pour over it any cold gravy, tomato 
sauce, or soup stock. Cover the top with pastry, 
rolled a half inch thick. Hake in a hot oven for 
about one-half hour. Any kind <>f meat can be used 
in this way, and other vegetables used if desired. 

WARMED-OVER BEEF. 

Cut the l)eef in small thin slices. Make a gravy 
of two tablespoonfuls of butter and one of flour, when 
browned a little a<ld a cu]) of stock or gravy and one 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and one table- 
spoonful of catsu]). Season with salt and pepper. 
Add the meat. Simmer for fifteen minutes. Place 
on a hot platter, garnish with three-cornered pieces of 
toast or little ball potatoes. 

ROLLED STUFFED FLANK. 

Take the inside flank, wipe it clean and dry, re- 
move the fat, spread it evenly with a bread stuffing. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 59 

highly seasoned, about an inch thick. Roll it up and 
tie securely with a white twine. Cut into slices an 
onion, carrot and turnip. Place them in the pan, lay 
the meat on them and dredge with flour, salt and pep- 
per. Add a bay leaf, sprig of parsley and the root 
or stalk of celery, one cup of water or stock. Cook 
for fifteen minutes in a very hot oven, then cover with 
another pan and cook slowly for four hours, basting 
frequently. It must have a long, slow cooking to be 
tender. When done, strain out the vegetables, make 
a gravy of the liquor and serve with the meat. 

BOILED DINNER. 

Select a piece of corn beef that is well streaked 
with fat. Wash it in cold water, put on to boil in 
cold water enough to cover. When it begins to boil, 
skim. Allow it to simmer slowly, until tender, about 
forty minutes to a pound. Scrape, wash and quarter 
the carrots, peel and quarter parsnips, peel and slice 
in inch slices the turnips, quarter the cabbage, peel 
the potatoes and cook whole. About one hour before 
the meat is done add the turnips, carrots and parsnips 
and a half hour before done add the potatoes. Tie 
the cabbage in a piece of cheese cloth and cook it in 
a separate kettle in some of the liquor from the corn 
beef. Cook one hour or until tender. 

Cook the beets separately in boiling water. When 
done plunge them into cold water and rub off the skin. 
Serve hot or cold. Place the com beef in the center 
of the platter and the carrots, turnips, parsnips and 
potatoes around. Serve cabbage and beets in separate 
dish. 



60 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PRESSED CORN BEEF. 

ReniovG the beef from the bones, pick in rather 
small pieces, put layers of lean and fat in a round 
baking dish. Cover the top with a plate and press 
down with a brick or flat iron for several hours. Then 
slice thin. Serve with baked potatoes and pickles. 

CORN BEEF HASH. 

Half corn beef and half mixed vegetables. Chop 
all together until fine. Season with a very little salt 
and pepper. Put one tablespoonful of drippiiigs in 
the frying pan. When hot add the hash. When 
brown, cover the top with a plate; quickly turn the 
hash into it by turning the frying pan upside down. 
Put another tablespoonful of drippings in the pan 
and brown the hash on the other side. Remove to a 
hot platter, garnish with ]>ickles, cut lengthwise in 
half, or parsley. 

VEGETABLE HASH. 

Equal parts of all the left-over vegetables. Put 
into the frying pan a tablespoonful of drippings, add 
the vegetables and cook until heated through, stirring 
often. This is very nice served with the cold corn 
beef. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Select a piece from the middle cut of shin or the 
round. Wash the meat quickly and cut in four 
pieces. Cover with boiling water. After it has boiled 
for one-half hour, add the following seasonings, tied 
in cheese cloth: Six cloves, twelve peppercorns, one 
bay leaf, half teaspoonful sage, half teaspoonful 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 61 

thyme, three or four celery roots or stalks. Simmer 
slowly now until the meat falls apart, pack and press. 
(See com beef.) When cold, serve in thin slices. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut off the flank end to use in other ways, as that 
is toughened by broiling. Grease the broiler with a 
little fat from the meat. Broil over red-hot coals, 
turning at first every ten seconds (to sear the outside 
and keep the juices in). If liked rare, broil eight 
minutes ; well done, twelve minutes. Select a steak 
one inch and a half or two inches thick. Serve on a 
hot platter, season with butter and salt, maitre d'hotel 
sauce or mushroom sauce. 

BROILED FILLET OF BEEF. 

Cut the fillet in slices three-fourths an inch thick. 
Grease the broiler well. Broil over clear coals for 
six minutes, turning every ten seconds, at first. Place 
on rounds of toast the size of the slices. Season with 
salt, pepper and butter and garnish with peas or with 
mushroom sauce. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Use one pound from the round or the ends of 
steak. Put through a meat grinder or chop very fine. 
To it add 



1 tablespoonful of onion 

juice. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 



^ teaspoonful of pepper. 
1 beaten egg. 



Form into flat cakes, dredge with flour and saute 
in a little hot butter or drippings. Brown well 



62 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



on both sides. Remove to a hot platter, stir into 
the hot fat left in the frying pan one tablespoonful 
of butter. When brown, stir slowly into it one cup 
of stock or hot water. Season to taste with pepper 
and salt and add a few mushrooms or peas, or cubes 
of carrot that have first been cooked. Heat through 
and pour around the steaks. 

BEEF TONGUE. 

Smoked Tongue. — Soak for one hour in cold 
water, pour off the water and put on to cook in cold 
water. Let it come to a boil, pour off the water 
again, Put on in fresh cold water and boil until ten- 
der. Remove the skin, roots and fat. Serve hot or 
cold. 

Fresh Tongue. — Wash and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Remove the skin and fat. 

TONGUE IN JELLY. 

Cut the tongue in slices and hold in shape. Place 
in a mould or dish the right size to hold it in place. 
Pour around it half inch thick of aspic jelly. When 
that is nearly firm, cover with the jelly. Serve when 
cold and firm. (See aspic jelly). 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 63 



PORK. 



ROAST PIG. 

Select a pig from three to five weeks old. Wash 
well and stuff with a potato stuffing. 

Stuffing. — Two cups mashed potato, season with 
one-fourth cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
chopped onion, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful sage, stuff and 
sew. 

Skewer the fore legs forward and the hind ones 
backward. Eub over with softened butter, sprinkle 
^yith flour, salt and pepper. Put in a hot oven with a 
little water in the pan. Baste often Avith melted but- 
ter at first to soften the skin. Bake about three hours 
or until tender when tried with a fork. Arrange on 
the platter in a bed of parsley, with a slice of lemon 
in the mouth. Serve with apple sauce or fried ap- 
ples. 

ROAST PORK. 

The loin, spare-rib and shoulder are best for roast- 
ing. Sprinkle well with flour, salt, pepper and sage. 
Cook in a hot oven, allowing twenty-five minutes to a 
pound. Pork should be well cooked. It requires 
five hours for digestion, and is more easily digested 
when cold. 

PORK CHOPS. 

^ To fry or saute them, have them cut one-half inch 
thick, dredge with a little flour, sage, salt and pepper, 



64 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and cook until brown on both sides. It will take 
about tAventy minutes. Serve on a hot platter, gar- 
nished with fried apples. 

BACON. 

Slice very thin, remove the rind, place in a hot 
frying pan. Cook until crisp. Drain on soft paper. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Cut slices of sour apples, one-half inch thick. Do 
not remove the skin. Saute in beef drippings, pork 
fat or butter until tender. 

BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Have the ham cut in very thin slices. Place it in 
hot water for three or four mimites to take out a little 
of the salt, wipe dry, broil over hot coals for about 
five minutes. Fry out several slices of salt pork, add 
the eggs and cook until the wdiite is firm, basting them 
with the fat from the pan. 

FRIED HAM. 

Put the slices on a hot frying pan, brown on both 
sides. Remove and cook the eggs in the fat left in 
the pan. Place the eggs around or on top of the ham. 



BOILED HAM. 



If salt, soak for several hours. Wash thoroughly, 
trim off any of the black part. Cover with cold water 
and let it cook slowly, allowing one-half hour to a 
pound. Remove from the fire, let it remain in the 
water until nearly cold, then cut off the skin. Press 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 65 

into the fat a number of whole cloves, sprinkle the top 
with cracker crumbs and brown sugar. Bake in 
quite a hot oven for fifteen minutes. A half glass of 
sherry wine may be added to the boiling ham just be- 
fore it is done. 

BAKED HAM. 

Prepare the ham the same as for boiling. Let it 
simmer slowly for two hours, then remove it and cut 
off the skin. Press cloves into the fat. Bake in a 
moderate oven for two hours, basting at first with one- 
half cup of sherry wine, and then with the fat in the 
pan. Fifteen minutes before it is done cover with 
cracker crumbs and one-fourth cup of brown sugar. 
Serve hot or cold. If serving hot, make a gravy of 
two tablespoonfuls of the fat in the pan. Stir into it 
one tablespoonful of flour and one cup of brown stock. 

SAUSAGES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Use sweet fresh pork. Take oue-third fat and 
two-thirds lean. Chop or grind very fine ; season for 
every pound of meat and fat two teaspoon fuls of salt, 
two teaspoonfuls of sage, one-half teaspoonful of pep- 
per. Make cotton bags, one-half yard long and four 
inches wide. Dip them in strong salt and water and 
dry. Crowd the meat into them, tie the bag tightly 
and keep in a cool place. When wanted for use turn 
the end of the bag back, cut off the meat in half-inch 
slices, fry in hot frying pan until brown on both sides. 

TO TRY OUT LARD. 

Cut the leaves in small pieces, remove all flesh. 
Put a few pieces in the kettle first. When they are 



66 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



tried out put in the remainder. Cook slowly until 
the scraps are crisp, strain through cheese cloth into 
pails. 

Many like to add one pound of suet to every five 
of the leaves. This makes a firmer lard. 

BOSTON BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak two cups of pea beans in cold Avater over 
night. (For Colorado and high altitudes soak them 
oue day and night.) In the morning drain off the 
water, put on fresh cold water and parboil them on the 
stove until the skin breaks, or you can pierce them 
with a pin. Then drain tliem through a colander, 
and pour cold water over them. Place in the pot. 
Clean one-fourth pound of salt pork, cut the top in 
gashes, place on top of the beans, pressing it down 
in them until the rind just shows. Mix one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, 
one tablespoonful of molasses in one cup of liot water 
and pour over the beans. Keep water enough in 
them to come to the top of the beans. Bake in a slow 
oven for eight hours. One small onion can be baked 
in the beans if the flavor is liked. The bean pot 
should be earthen, with bulging sides and have a close 
cover. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 67 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



Good mutton should have thick, white, hard, fat, 
fine-grained red meat. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 

Have the bone cut short, wipe it all over with cold 
water, dredge with flour. Salt and pepper. Place 
in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, then add to the pan 
one cup of hot water, baste frequently, allowing ten 
minutes to a pound if liked rare, and fifteen minutes 
if liked well done. Garnish the end of the bone with 
a paper frill or a bunch of water cress or parsley. 

ROAST LOIN OF MUTTON. 

Kemove the fat and kidney. Have the joints 
cracked, so as to be easily carved. Koast the same as 
the leo'. Serve with mint sauce. 

CROWN ROAST. 

This can be prepared by your butcher and makes 
a very handsome and delicious roast. Cut a full loin, 
trim the rib bones as for French chops and chop them 
to a uniform length, then roll the loin backwards into 
a circle and tie securely. Tie aroimd each bone a 
slice of salt pork so they will not burn. Baste fre- 
quently wdth the fat in the pan. Allow fifteen min- 
utes to a pound. Cover each bone wdth a paper ruffle, 
fill up the center with potato chips and garnish 



68 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



around the roast with them, or, garnish with timbale 
cases filled with creamed peas, or pea timbales. 

ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

The saddle is the back ; if split it is the loin. Ke- 
move the pink skin, as that contains the strong flavor, 
and the fat and kidneys from underneath. Roll the 
flank under and tie it into a good round shape. Dredge 
with flour, salt and pepper. Cook in a hot oven, baste 
frequently, allowing ten minutes to a pound if liked 
rare, and fifteen minutes if liked well done. Carve 
slices parallel to the back bone, -then slip the knife 
under and separate them from the ribs. After the 
top is carved, turn the saddle and carve the tender- 
loin, which lies underneath. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON STUFFED. 

Remove the bone, sprinkle the inside with salt 
and pepper, stuff and sew. Cook the same as roast 
leg of mutton. 

Stuffing. — One cup of stale bread crumbs, one- 
fourth cup melted butter, one-fourth teaspoonful each 
salt, pepper, marjoram and sage, a teaspoonful of 
onion juice if desired and hot water if not moist 
enough. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Put the mutton into boiling water to cover, boil 
for fifteen minutes, then set aside and simmer, allow- 
ing twenty minutes to a pound. One-half hour be- 
fore removing the meat add turnip cut in half-inch 
slices. Remove the meat to a hot platter, garnish 
with the turnip, cover the top with chopped parsley or 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 69 

capers. Serve with caper sauce. Save the water to 
use with the bone and left-over pieces for soups. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 



2 lbs. from the neck or 

flank. 
'I tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 onion. 
1 carrot. 



yg can peas. 

2 cups of water or stock. 

1 clove. 

Sprig of parsley. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Put the butter into the frying pan. When melted 
add the flour and brown. Then add the carrot and 
onion cut in small dice and the seasonings and mut- 
ton. Cook, stirring frequently until all are brown, 
then add the stock or water. Cover closely, let sim- 
mer for two hours, add the peas just before serving. 

CURRY OF MUTTON. 

Fry one large onion cut in thin slices in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Mix with two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of curry powder, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper. Stir 
into the butter and onion. Add gradually two cups 
of stock. Cut two pounds of lean mutton in two- 
inch pieces, add them to the sauce and simmer until 
tender. Place the meat on a hot platter with a border 
of rice around it. 

MUTTON AND LAMB CHOPS. 

Broil the chops over hot coals, turning every ten 
seconds, the same as steak, thus searing over the chops 
and keeping the juice inside. When the meat looks 
puffy it is done. It requires ten minutes to broil 



70 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

chops one inch thick, if liked rare eight minutes. 
Place on a hot plater, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, garnish with points of toast and a little parsley 
or watercress, or with peas, French-fried potatoes, 
potato balls or straws. 

French Chops. — Have the meat and fat scraped 
from tlie bone. When served the bone is usually cov- 
ered with a ruffle. 

CHOPS IN PAPER CASES. 

Place the chop on well-greased heavy writing 
paper, season with salt and pepper, fold the paper 
over the chop and turn the edges over twice to hold 
them securely. Broil over a moderate fire, turning 
frequently. These may be served in the 23aper. 
These are very delicate to serve to invalids. 

ROAST SPRING LAMB. 

Spring lamb is divided into fore and hind quar- 
ters. The whole of either not beeing too much to roast 
at one time. The fore quarter is less en pensive than 
the hind. It should be fresh and thoroughly cooked. 
Poast in a hot oven, season with flour, salt and pepper. 
After fifteen minutes cooking add one cup of hot 
water, baste frequently, allowing about twenty min- 
utes to a pound. Serve with mint sauce and green 
peas or asparagus and new potatoes. 

BOILED LAMB'S TONGUES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Boil six tongues in salted water with the juice of 
half a lemon until tender. Serve cold with tartar 
sauce, or pickle them by covering with hot-spiced vin- 
egar. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 71 



VEAL. 



The flesh of veal should be pink and firm, if it 
has a white or bine tinge it is nnwholesome. It con- 
tains less nourishment than any other meat and less 
flavor, so should be highly seasoned, and, like lamb, 
should be thoroughly cooked. 

ROAST VEAL. 

The loin, breast and fillet (a thick piece from the 
upper part of the leg) are best for roasting. Remove 
the bone from the fillet and stuff with a highly- 
seasoned bread stuffing, skewer into shape. To pre- 
pare the veal for roasting, cover the top with thin 
strips of salt pork, or lard with a larding needle, sea- 
son with flour, salt, and ]>epper. Allow twenty-five 
minutes to a pound. Make a gravy from the drip- 
pings in the pan. Horseradish is very acceptable to 
serve with veal. 

STUFFED SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Have the blade removed and fill the space with a 
highly-seasoned stufling, sew up the opening and truss 
with strips of salt pork. Allow thirty minutes to a 
pound. 

STUFFING. 

To one cup of stale bread crumbs add v^ne-half 
tablespoonful of salt, sage, thyme, one teaspoonful 
lemon juice, of cliopped salt pork, one-quarter tea- 



72 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

spoonful pepper, one-quarter cup melted butter, one 
egg beaten until light, and if too dry add a little hot 
water. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Dredge the cutlets Avith salt and pepper, dip in 
fine cracker crumbs, then in egg, then again in the 
crumbs. Saute in hot fat, either salt pork or beef 
drippings. Brown well on both sides, place on a hot 
platter and surround with a tomato or Bernaise sauce 
or make a gravy by adding one tablespoonful of flour 
to the fat, adding one cup of stock and season with 
salt, pepper and a teaspoonful of lemon juice or 
season with butter, salt and pepper and pass with 
tliem tartar sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS WITH CREAM. 

Divide the cutlets into sections. Dip them in 
cream, then sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. 
Saute in hot butter until well browned on both sides. 
Remove to a hot platter and surround with a sauce 
made by adding one tablespoonful of flour to the fat 
and cream left in the frying pan and one cup of 
cream. Cook for five minutes, season to taste and 
add to the sauce a handful of fresh mushrooms if you 
have them and allow them to cook five minutes in the 
sauce. 

VEAL STEW. 

The ends of the ribs, the neck and knuckle may be 
used for the stew. Cut about two pounds of the meat 
in two-inch pieces. Cover the meat with boiling 
water. Let simmer until tender. Add one onion 
sliced thin, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one-fourth tea- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 73 



spoonful of pepper, two carrots sliced, one turnip 
sliced one-half inch thick when the meat is put on to 
cook, twenty minutes before the meat is done add four 
good-sized potatoes that have been sliced and soaked in 
cold water for an hour. Kemove the meat and vege- 
tables on a platter, thicken the gravy with one table- 
spoonful of flour and season with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one-half cup of milk or cream. 

For Veal Pot Pie add dumplings with the pota- 
toes, the same as for beef stew. 



VEAL LOAF. 



5 pounds of veal. 

1 cup finely powdered 

cracKer crumbs. 
1/2 cup of stock. 
3 eggs. 
1 tablespoonful finely 

chopped onion. 
1 teaspoonful thyme. 



1 teaspoonful summer sa- 
vory. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

% cup of salt pork chopped 
fine, or 

2 tablespoonfuls of melted 

butter. 



Chop the veal fine, add cracker crumbs and sea- 
sonings, stock and eggs slightly beaten. Form with 
the hands into a loaf, cover the top with slightly- 
beaten egg, and a layer of cracker crumbs. Place in 
a baking pan on four thin strips of salt pork. Bake 
for three hours, basting frequently with butter and 
hot water. This is better served cold. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 

Cut cooked veal in thin slices or cubes. Put in a 
baking dish alternate layers of veal and buttered 
crumbs, seasoning each layer of meat with salt and 
pepper. Over the top pour a tomato sauce and 
sprinkle over with a layer of buttered crumbs. Bake 
for half an hour. 



74 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BRAISED CALF'S LIVER. 

Lard it in tliree rows, or place several strips of 
salt pork over the top. Cut into slices one carrot, one 
turnip, one onion and two slices of salt pork; put 
them in the baking pan. Place the liver on them. 
Add one cup of stock or hot water, one teaspoonful 
of salt and four peppercorns, a sprig of parsley. 
Cover with another pan, and cook in a moderate oven 
two hours and a half, basting often. Add more stock 
or w^ater if necessary. Make a gravy by melting in a 
sauce pan two tal)les}X)onfuls of butter stirring into 
it one of flour. When brown gradually stir in one 
cup of the stock left in the pan that has been strained 
from the vegetables. Season with more salt and pep- 
per if necessary. Pour nround the liver. 

BROILED LIVER. 

Slice in three-fourth iiicli slices. Soak in cold 
water for five minutes to draw out the blood. Wipe 
dry. Dip in melted butter. Eroil from five to eight 
minutes, turning at first every ten seconds. Season 
with butter, pepper and salt. Broiled bacon is often 
served with it. 

CALF'S HEART ROASTED. 

Wash the heart clean and wipe. Fill with a 
cracker or bread stuffing seasoned with melted butter, 
salt, pepper, onion and sage. Bake for two hours. 
Season the outside with salt and pepper, and sprinkle 
with flour. Baste with hot water and butter. Make 
a gravy from the liquid in the pan. Garnish around 
with boiled onions or stuffed tomatoes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 75 



CALF'S HEAD WITH BRAIN SAUCE. 

Soak the head in cold water for two hours. Take 
out the brains. Scrape the head very clean, then pin 
in a floured cloth. Put on to boil in salted, boiling 
water enough to cover. xVfter boiling two hours, add 
the brains, which have first been pinned in a floured 
cloth, liver and lights, and boil two hours longer. Re- 
move the cloth from the head and the large bones will 
slip out. Lay on the platter with the skin side up. 

To Make the Brain Sauce. — Take one quart of 
liquor that the head has been boiled in, one-third of 
the liver chopped fine, also the brains chopped fine. 
Melt one-half cup of butter, stir into it five tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. When smooth add the hot liquor, a lit- 
tle at a time. Stir in the chopped brains and liver, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a half cup of 
white and red wine. Salt and pepper to taste. A 
little grated nutmeg, if cared for. Cook ten minutes. 
Skin the tongue and slice the remainder of the liver, 
and surround the head with them. Pour over a part 
of the gravy. Garnish with slices of lemon ^ and 
radishes cut to represent roses. Send the remainder 
of the gravy to the table in a dish. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads are two large glands lying along 
the back of the throat and in the breast. Sweetbreads 
found in veal are considered the best. Sweetbreads 
spoil very quickly and should be put in cold water at 
once and parboiled before using in any form. 

To Prepare Sweetbreads. — Put them in cold 
water. Remove the pipes and membranes. Cook in 
boiling salted water with one tablespoonful of lemon 



76 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



juice or one-half tablespoonful of vinegar, for twenty 
minutes, then plunge in cold water for ten minutes 
to harden. 



FRIED SWEETBREADS. 

Cut the parboiled sweetbreads in slices. Dip in 
egg, crumb and egg again. Fry in deep fat for one 
minute, or season the slices with salt and pepper. 
Saute in hot butter. Garnish with parsley and olives 
or pickles and slices of lemon. 

LARDED SWEETBREADS. 

Lard the parboiled sweetbreads in even rows, and 
bake in the oven until brown, first sprinkling with 
flour, salt and pepper. 

Creamed. — Cut in cubes and serve in white sauce, 
on toast, patty cases, bread boxes or timbale cases. 
They may be served in the same way with poulette 
sauce. 

SWEETBREADS SERVED IN RAMKIN DISHES OR 

SHELLS. 

Mix the parboiled sweetbreads with a cream or 
poulette sauce. Butter well the dishes, fill two-thirds 
full, cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a hot 
oven for eight minutes. Serve at once. Mushrooms 
or oysters can be added to them. 

TRIPE. 

Soak tripe for one-half hour in cold water, chang- 
ing the water twice, then cook in boiling water for 
twenty minutes before cooMng in any form. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 77 

BROILED TRIPE. 

Dry it after boiling. Dip into melted butter, then 
season with salt and pepper, and broil for ten min- 
utes. Season again and serve. 

TRIPE IN BATTER. 

Cut the boiled tripe in two-inch pieces, dip in 
batter and fry one minute in deep fat. Or fry out sev- 
eral pieces of salt pork and brown in the fat. 

Batter. — One Qgg, one-fourth cup of cold water, 
one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt, and flour to make a drop batter (a batter that 
will drop from the spoon, not pour). 



78 THE KDCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



POULTRY. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

Poultry should be drawn as soon as killed, to be 
perfectly wholesome. That custom is not used in our 
markets, but it should be made compulsory for the 
good of the meat. To tell the age of poultry, press 
the end of the breast bone. If it is soft and bends 
easily the bird is young. Tf the end is hardened 
it is over a year old. Pin feathers indicate a 
young bird, and long hair an old one. The skin 
should be firm, smooth and white. Geese and ducks 
should not be over a year old, have soft yellow feet, 
tender wings and thick, hard breast. Wild ducks 
have reddish feet. 

TO CLEAN AND TRUSS POULTRY. 

Singe the hair and down by holding the fowl over 
the gas, or over a roll of lighted paper held over the 
fire. Cut off the necks close to the body, leaving skin 
enough to fold over on the back (if to be roasted). 
Remove the windjiipe and crop, then remove every- 
thing from the inside that can come out. Be sure that 
the lungs are taken out. They lie close to the back- 
bone, and are a bright-red spongy mass, ^ext take 
the leg, bend it back slightly and carefully cut the 
skin on the joint just enough to ex}X)se the sinews 
without cutting them. Pun a fork or skewer under 
them, pulling them out. The drum stick is much im- 
proved by removing the sinews or tendons. Cut out 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 79 



the oil bag in the tail. Wash out the inside very 
quickly with cold water, and with a bowl of water 
and cloth wash the outside. Do not allow them to 
soak in water, as that will extract the flavor and 
nourishment. 

Cut the gall carefully from the liver. Cut the 
outer coat of the gizzard and draw it carefully away 
from the the inner sack. Open the heart and wash 
away the clot of blood. The heart, gizzard and liver 
are the giblets. All poultry and game are cleaned in 
this way. Wild ducks, coot and geese should be 
washed thoroughly with soap and water, as the skin 
is very oily and can not be cleaned without. 

TO STUFF AND TRUSS A FOWL FOR ROASTING. 

After the fowl has been prepared as given above, 
place it in a bowl or platter, put a little of the stuffing 
in the opening at the neck, the rest in the body, filling 
out the breast until plump, then draw the neck skin 
over on the back and sew it, and if the opening of 
the body is full, sew that up with a coarse thread; 
if it is not, it is not necessary. Press the legs close to 
the body and cross over the tail, and tie firmly with 
twine. Put a long skewer through the thigh into the 
body and out through the opjwsite thigh, and another 
through the wings, drawing them close to the body. 
Wind a string from the tail to the skewer in the 
tie around the tail. If you have no skewers, the legs 
and wings can be kept in place by tying firmly to the 
body with string. Put the fowl on a rack in a pan, 
rub well with softened butter, dredge with flour, salt 
and pepper. Put in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, 
thigh, then up to the one in the wing, across the back 
to the other wing, then dovm to the other thigh, and 



80 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



then reduce the heat, add a little hot water to the pan 
to prevent burning. Baste with butter and hot water 
until brown, then baste frequently with the fat in the 
pan. Cook until the legs will separate from the body. 
Draw out the skewers and cut the strings. Allow 
about three hours for an eight-pound turkey. Serve 
cranberry sauce or jelly with roast turkey, currant 
jelly with roast chicken and game, apple sauce with 
roast goose. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Boil the giblets in salted water until tender, chop 
them quite fine, put a tablespoonful of flour in the pan 
in which the fowl was roasted. Let it brown, then 
add, stirring constantly, one cupful of the water the 
giblets were cooked in. Season with salt and pepper, 
strain and add the chopped giblets, and serve in a 
gravy boat. 

TO DRESS FOWLS OR BIRDS FOR BROILING. 

Singe, wipe off with a cloth and cold water, split 
down the middle of the back, lay open, and remove the 
contents from the inside. 

TO BONE A BIRD, FOWL OR TURKEY. 

The skin should be firm and unbroken, and the 
bird should not be drawn. Remove the head, wash 
and singe. Remove the tendons from the legs as di- 
rected, loosen the skin around the end of the drum 
sticks. The work of boning is not difficult but re- 
quires time and patience. Use a small pointed knife. 
A regular boning knife is the best. Cut the skin 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 81 



down the full length of the back, scrape the meat 
away from the bone, beginning at the neck, until you 
feel the shoulder blade, loosen the flesh from this, and 
then follow the bone to the wing joint, and to the 
middle joint in the wing. Care must be taken to 
avoid cutting through the skin at these places as the 
skin is very near the bone. Leave the first bone in 
the wing, then remove the flesh from the breast. Be 
careful' and do not cut through the skin at the ridge, 
or to cut through the membrane into the inside. 
Eemove the flesh around the second joint, then the 
drumstick, turning the flesh wrong side out Turn 
the bird and do the same on the other side. When 
the meat is free from the carcass lay the bird on a 
board, skin side down. Place the flesh in place, 
sprinkle it with salt and pepper, stuff out the legs and 
wings with the force meat and fill the bird with it. 
Draw the skin up and sew it together, turn it over 
and skewer and tie the legs and wings in position 
of a trussed fowl, press and tie the body into natural 
shape, dredge with flour, salt and pepper, cover with 
several slices of salt pork. Eoast, allowing twenty- 
five minutes to a pound. Baste frequently. Make a 
gravy by using six tablespoonfuls of the drippings 
in the pan, one of flour, and a cup of cream or 
white stock. Season. 

FORCEMEAT FOR STUFFING BONED FOWLS. 

^ Use the cooked or uncooked meat of another fowl 
or veal, or a part of both, chop fine. To every cup of 
meat add one-fourth cup of bread or cracker crumbs, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter, one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of onions, chopped 
fine, one-fourth teaspoonful each of sage, thyme, pep- 



82 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



per, one-half teaspoonful salt, one stalk of celery, 
chopped fine. ]\Ioisten with stock the meat was 
cooked in, or leftover gravy. 

TO BOIL FOWL. 

Boiled fowl are sometimes cooked with oysters, 
bread or chestnut stuffing, but as the stuffing is apt 
to get wet and soggy they are better cooked without 
it. Clean, sprinkle the inside with salt and pepper, 
put on to cook in boiling water enough to cover, with 
one teaspoonful of salt and one whole small onion. 
Simmer until tender. (The time depends upon the 
age and size of the fowl). Serve with oyster, celery 
or caper sauce, using some of the liquor the fowl was 
boiled in for the sauce. Pour the sauce around the 
fowl, or garnish with a border of rice. 

BRAISED CHICKEN. 

Take an old chicken, prepare it for roasting. 
Dredge with flour, salt and pepper. Brown all over in 
hot butter or chicken fat, then place in the roasting 
pan on a bed of sliced onion, carrot, turnip and cel- 
ery. Cover the top with four slices of salt pork, add 
two cups of w^ater, cover closely with another pan, 
roast for three hours, basting often and replenishing 
the water so as to keep about two cups in the pan. 
Bemove the fowl on a platter, garnish with the vege- 
tables, and make a gravy of the liquid in the pan. 
Season to taste. Cook in a pot on top of the stov^, 
if liked. 

BROILED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Split down the back, remove the entrails and 
breast bone and the oil bag from the tail. Wipe them 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 83 

clean with a cloth and cold water. Rub with soft but- 
ter, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on a broiler 
the inside down, broil over a slow fire for twenty-five 
minutes. When nearly done turn and let the skin side 
brown. Place on a hot dish, spread with butter, or 
w^ith maitre d'hotel butter. Garnish with watercress 
or parsley and slices of lemon. 

TO BROIL A TURKEY. 

Select a very small, fat, young one, weighing 
not over five pounds. Have it split as you would a 
chicken for broiling. Place it in the roasting pan 
seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, with a half cup 
of water in the pan. Cook until the meat is tender, 
then broil over a rather slow fire. When brown put 
on a hot platter, spread with butter and season with 
salt. Save any liquid left in the pan for chestnut 
sauce to pour around it. If the turkey is unusually 
young and tender it can be broiled without cooking 
in the oven. 

PANNED CHICKEN. 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling. Place them 
in a pan, skin side up, rub with softened butter, 
dredge with flour, salt and pepper, put in a hot oven. 
After ten minutes baste with butter and a little hot 
water. Cook for thirty minutes, bast^ three times, 
using not over a half cup of water, the rest butter. 
Remove to a hot dish and make a gravy from the 
fat in the pan. Add to it one tablespoonful of flour. 
When brown, add a cup of thin cream or white stocks. 
Cook until smooth, stirring all the time, pour around 
the chicken. 



84 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in small pieces for serving, put 
in the pot with warm water enough to Cover, one tea- 
spoonful of salt and tw^o stalks or roots of celery. 
Cook slowly until tender, remove the chicken and 
strain the celery from the liquor. Fry out half a 
dozen slices of salt pork, and one onion sliced thin in 
the frying pan. Butter or chicken fat can be used 
in ])lace of the ])()rk. When the fat is hot put in the 
chicken and brown on all sides. Arrange on the plat- 
ter. Remove the onion from the fat, add two table- 
spoonsful of flour to it, and two cups of the liquor 
gradually. When smooth, add one-half can of peas 
or the same amount c)f mushrooms drained from the 
liquor, cook for five minutes, pour around the 
chicken and garnish with points of toasted bread or 
toasted crackers. 

CHICKEN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

An old chicken is the best. Have it cut in four 
pieces, and make the same as beef stew. 

CHICKEN CURRY (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut the chicken at the points, and remove the 
breast bone, wipe, season with salt and pepper, dredge 
with flour, and brown in hot butter. Put in a stew 
pan. Fry one large onion, cut in thin slices, in the 
butter left in the pan, till colored, not browmed. Mix 
one large tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
sugar and one teaspoonful of curry powder, and 
brown them in the butter. Add slowly one cup of 
water or stock and one cup of strained tomatoes, or 
one sour apple chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 85 

Pour this sauce over the chicken and simmer one 
hour or until tender. Add one cup of hot milk or 
cream. Boil one minute longer and serve with a 
border of boiled rice. Rabbit, veal and lamb may be 
curried in the same way. 

SPANISH CHICKEN. 

Split tender broilers in halves, rub with salt, 
sprinkle over with finely-chopped cloves and Spanish 
peppers. Over all put thin strips of bacon or salt 
pork. Bake in a hot oven till the chicken is tender. 
Watch carefully that it does not burn. If necessary, 
add a little water. When tender remove from the 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat left 
in the pan and one cup of thin cream, one-fourth cup 
of water, cook on top of the stove for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Season to taste if salt or pep- 
per is required. Pour around the chickens. 

CHICKEN FRITTERS. 

Cut cold chicken or turkey off the bones in as 
large pieces as possible. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dip in fritter batter and fry in deep fat until a 
good brown, drain on brown paper. Serve with pou- 
lette, Bemaise or tartare sauce. 

STUFFED CHICKEN OR TURKEY LEGS. 

Remove the tendons from the drum sticks, remove 
the bone, stuff the leg with a force meat. ( See force- 
meat for boned chicken or turkey.) Draw the skin 
over the ends and sew securely, keeping the shape. 
Lay them in a baking pan, cover with boiling water 



86 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and simmer in the oven until tender — about an hour 
and a quarter. Remove from the water, let cool, take 
out the stitches, roll in beaten egg and seasoned fine 
bread crumbs, then in egg again, and fry in deep fat 
for one minute. Serve with olive, tartare, celery or 
currant jelly sauce. 

CHICKEN A LA MARYLAND. 

Clean the chicken, remove the head and legs. Put 
it on to cook in a pot of warm water, enough to 
cover. Cook with it one sliced onion, carrot, turnip, 
one bay leaf, two cloves, six peppercorns, two celery 
roots or two or three stalks of celery. Cook slowly 
until the chicken is tender, then remove the meat 
from the bones. Cut in two-inch pieces. Cook the 
stock down to one cup, heat and strain one cup of to- 
matoes, melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, add one tablespoonful of flour. When smooth 
stir in slowly the cup of stock, then the tomato, and 
the chicken. Cook for ten minutes. Surround with 
points of toast or serve in fried bread baskets or 
timbale cases. This can be made in the chafing dish 
by having the chicken prepared before. 

CHICKEN SOUFFLE. 
Chicken, veal or lamb may be cooked in this way : 



2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
y^ teaspoonful salt. 
A little pepper. 
1 teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. 



1 cup of milk, or chicken 
stock. 

1 cup of finely chopped 

chicken. 
10 drops onion juice. 

2 egj?s. 



Make a sauce by melting the butter, then adding 
flour, salt and pepper. Cook for ten minutes, stirring 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. . 87 

until smooth. Add the rest of the seasonings to the 
chicken, mix the sauce and chicken together, then stir 
in the well-beaten yolks. Stir over the fire for five 
minutes. Set aside to cool, ^^^len cool beat very 
stiff the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly into 
the chicken. Put in a buttered pudding dish, bake in 
a hot oven for twenty minutes. Serve at once in the 
same dishes. This can be baked in individual ram- 
quin dishes or shells 

PLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN. 

An old chicken will do as well as a young one. 
Cook until tender in boiling water, with a teaspoonful 
of salt, a small onion, and two stalks of celery. 
Strain the stock and cook down to one cup. Melt two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it one of flour. 
WTien smooth, stir gradually into the stock and one- 
half cup of cream. Cook ten minutes, then add two 
well-beaten yolks of eggs, cook five minutes, but do 
not boil, as it might curdle. Remove from the fire, 
add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice ; cut the chicken 
in small pieces, add to the sauce. Serve on toast, 
surrounded by a border of rice. 

CHICKEN A LA BECHAMEL. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter. Stir into it 
one of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, then add one-half cup each of chicken stock 
and cream. Stir until smooth, cook for five minutes, 
then remove from the fire, and beat into it three well- 
beaten eggs and two cups of chopped chicken. Turn 
into buttered ramquin dishes or in a baking dish, and 



88 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

bake standing in a pan of hot water about twenty 
minutes. The water should not boil. Salmon or any 
kind of white fish can be used in this way. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

One good-sized, old chicken. Put it in the pot 
and cover with warm water (use warm water so that 
part of the nourishment may be in the gravy), add to 
it two teaspoonf uls of salt, six peppercorns, one onion, 
sliced, three stalks of celery or the celery root, one car- 
rot and one turnip sliced. Cook slowly for two hours, 
or until the meat will leave the bones. Boil the liquor 
down to two cups. Melt in a sauce pan one-fourth 
cup of butter, stir into it one tablespoonful of flour, 
and gradually the two cups of liquor. When that is 
smooth, stir in one-half cup of thick cream, season 
with salt and pepper. Pick the chicken mostly from 
the bones, leaving a few of the small bones to hold up 
the pie. Put a layer of the chicken in the bottom of 
the baking dish, then cover with a layer of the gravy. 
In the center of the dish place the breast bone to hold 
up the crust, fill up with the layers, and put a crust 
on top three-fourths an inch thick, cutting a slit in the 
center to let out the steam. Layers of thin-sliced po- 
tatoes may be added to the pie, a few truffles or mush- 
rooms, or alternate layers of chicken, oysters, and the 
gravy. The baking dish is often lined with a thin 
layer of pastry, but it is very apt to be soggy. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. To cover the pie use plain 
pastry, chopped puff pastry, or a rich baking powder 
biscuit dough. 

Veal Pie. — Can be made in the same way. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK, 89 



CHOPPED PUFF PASTE FOR CHICKEN PIE. 



2 cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
y2 teaspoonful salt. 
1 cup butter. 



1 egg. 

1/4 cup ice water. 

1/^ tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Beat the egg until light, add to it lemon juice and 
water. Sift all the dry materials together and chop 
the butter with them. Add the liquid, roll and fold 
four times. Bake in a hot oven. 



ROAST GOOSE. 

A young goose four or five months old is the best. 
Singe, remove the pin feathers, then wash in warm 
soap suds to cleanse it, and open the pores, then draw 
it as you would a turkey or chicken. Wash in cold 
water and wipe dry inside and out. Stuff with a 
potato stuffing, sew and truss. Put on a rack in the 
pan, cover the breast with slices of fat salt pork. 
(The pork fat aids in drawing out the oil). Place in 
the oven for an hour, then take the pan from the oven 
and pour off all the fat, dredge with flour. When the 
flour is brown, add a little hot water, baste often. 
Cook until brown and tender. Make a gravy from 
some of the fat in the pan, flour and hot water, season 
to taste. Serve with apple sauce. 

POTATO STUFFING. 



1 cup mashed potatoes. 
1 tablespoonful of onion 

chopped fine. 
1 tablespoonful of sour 

apples chopped fine. 



1/^ teaspoonful sage. 
% teaspoonful salt. 
l^ teaspoonful pepper. 



90 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ROAST TAME DUCK. 

Singe, clean, remove the crop, oil bag, legs, en- 
trails. Stuff, truss and dredge with flour, salt and 
pepper. After they have been in a hot oven for ten 
minutes, add a little hot water to the pan, and baste 
often. Roast thirty minutes, if liked rare, and forty- 
five minutes, well done. Stuff with a potato or bread 
stuffing, or with celery and apples. Serve with an 
olive or bread sauce. 



OYSTER STUFFING. 



2 cups of oysters. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



14 teaspoonful pepper, 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



Pick over and wash the oysters. Mix with the 
crumbs and seasonings, and stuff any kind of poultry. 
Turkeys are the best stuffed with oysters. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING. 

Cut across in the shells of one quart of the large 
chestnuts. Place them in a pan with a teaspoonful 
of butter and bake in a hot oven until the shells break 
open. The skin will come off with the shell. Re- 
move from the shell and cook in boiling water with 
one-half teaspoonful salt until tender. While hot, 
mash a few at a time through a colander or potato 
press. Season with two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, salt and pepper, and moisten with one-half cup 
of stock. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 91 



GAME. 



CANVASBACK AND REDHEAD DUCKS. 

Pick, singe, draAV them, leaving on the head. Cut 
an opening to remove the crop, and through it draw 
the head and neck, letting the head come out at the 
back between the drumsticks. Tie firmly in place. 
With a bowl of cold water wipe out the inside and out- 
side. Cut off the wing at the second joint. Sprinkle 
the inside with salt and pepper, dredge the outside 
with flour, salt and pepper, and cover with thin strips 
of salt pork. Put inside of the duck a teaspoonful 
of currant jelly, a sour apple, quartered and cored, or 
a couple sticks of celery cut in pieces. Place in 
the baking pan with a little hot water, and bake in a 
very hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Wild 
ducks should be served rare and very hot. Serve fried 
hominy and currant jelly with the ducks. 

The canvasbacks have a purple head and silver 
breast and are in season from September to May. 
The redhead is often taken for it. 

SALMI OF DUCK OR GAME. 

Cut the game in small pieces, put them in a hot 
oven for five minutes to start the juices. Put in a 
sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-fourth 
pound of salt pork, cut in dice, one tablespoonful 
of onion and carrot chopped fine, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful each of salt, sage and one bay leaf, ten pepper- 
corns. Cook for ten minutes, stirring often, then add 



92 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

one tablespoonful of flour, let it brown, then add two 
cupfuls of brown stock. Cook very slowly for thirty 
minutes, strain, add one-fourth cup of madeira and 
the pieces of game, cover and cook slowly for forty 
minutes, garnish with croutons and truffles. The 
truffles should be added five minutes before the salmi 
is done. Cooked game can be used. Simmer only for 
ten minutes after it is added to the sauce. 

LARDED GROUSE. 

Draw, wipe clean, inside and out, lard the breast, 
and truss. Rub with softened butter, dredge with 
flour, salt and pepper. Roast for twenty-five minutes. 
Serve with bread or olive sauce. 

POTTED PIGEONS. 

Clean and truss them, dredge with flour, salt and 
pepper. Place them in a stew pan on slices of bacon, 
the breasts up. Add a carrc^t and onion cut in dice. 
Cover with stock or hot water. Let them simmer un- 
til they are tender. Serve each pigeon on a thin slice 
of buttered toast. Make a gravy and pour around 
them. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, stir into it 
one of flour, gradually stir in the liquor and vegeta- 
bles left in the boiler, season to taste with salt and 
pepper. 

ROAST PIGEONS OR SQUABS. 

To roast they should be young. Draw, clean and 
truss them, tie thin slices of bacon or salt pork over 
the breasts, dredge with flour, put a small piece of 
butter inside. Roast from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
baste with butter, and a very little hot water. Or 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 93 

they can be split down the back, and covered with 
slices of pork or pieces of butter, dredged with flour 
and roasted in the oven. Serve on slices of toast, 
garnish with parsley, shoe string, French-fried or 
Saratoga potatoes. 

QUAILS BROILED. 

Split down the back. Rub with melted butter, 
broil over hot coals for eight minutes. Serve on slices 
of buttered toast, season with butter, salt and pepper. 

QUAILS ROASTED. 

Draw them and wipe inside and out with a cloth 
and cold water. Truss, letting the legs stand up. 
Tie around each one a thin slice of salt pork or bacon. 
Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste fre- 
quently with butter and a little hot water. Serve 
on slices of toast. Season with a little salt, pepper 
and the melted butter in the pan. A very nice luay 
is to lard them. 

WOODCOCK ROASTED. 

Dress, wipe clean inside and out, cut off the feet, 
tie the legs close to the body. Skin the head and neck 
and tie the peak under the wings. Tie thin slices of 
pork or bacon around them. Bake in a hot oven for 
ten or fifteen minutes. Baste with butter. Clean and 
cook in boiling salted water the hearts and livers, 
then pound to a paste, season with salt and pepper. 
Butter thin slices of toast, large enough for one bird, 
cover with the paste, place the birds on the toast, 
moistening them with the butter in the pan. Garnish 
with watercress or pieces of parsley. 



94 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

VENISON ROASTED. 

It should be wiped clean with a cloth and cold 
water, and roasted the same as beef or mutton, allow- 
ing twelve to fifteen minutes to a pound. Serve with 
currant jelly sauce and a simple salad. 

VENISON STEAK. 

Venison steak is cooked the same as beefsteak, 
serving currant jelly with it or around it on the plat- 
ter, forming a sauce. The roasting pieces are the sad- 
dle and haunch or leg. Steak is cut from both. 

ROASTED PARTRIDGE. 

Partridges have a white meat and should be well 
done. Dress and truss, cover with thin slices of salt 
pork, dredge with flour. Bake about forty-five min- 
utes, basting often with hot water and butter. Place 
on a hot platter, and surround with coarse crumbs of 
bread fried in butter, and serve with it a bread sauce. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Clean and wipe the pigeons dry. Make a stuffing 
of half a cup of pitted olives with the livers chopped 
fine, a tablespoonful each of finely-chopped onion 
and parsley. Moisten two cups of stale bread crumbs 
with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a little 
hot water. Season with a tablespoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of paprica and a tablespoonful of 
currant jelly. Stuff the pigeons, and truss well with 
twine. Place in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter. When hot brown the pigeons in it, then stir into 
it two tablespoonfuls of flour, and gradually three 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 95 

cups of boiling water. When smooth, add a small 
onion, two carrots and two stalks of celery, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, six peppercorns. Cook very slowly, 
tightly covered, for one hour and a quarter, or till 
they seem tender. Serve the pigeons on slices of toast. 
Strain and thicken the gravy and serve separately. 

PIGEONS IN CASSAROLE. 

Clean and truss the pigeons. Brown in hot but- 
ter. Place them in the cassarole, pour what butter is 
left from the sauce pan around them with a table- 
spoonful each of chopped onion, celery and carrot, 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Pour in a half cup of dry 
white wine. Cover and cook in the oven for one hour. 
Serve on slice of toast that has been moistened with 
the sauce from the cassarole. Garnish with parsley. 
Served with orange and lettuce salad. 

HOT PIGEON PIE. 

Bone the pigeons. Brown in butter. Put on to 
stew with sliced onions, carrots and two stalks of 
celery cut in half-inch pieces, salt and pepper. Stir 
into the butter after the pigeons are removed two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, mix till smooth, add two cups 
of hot water gradually, replace the pigeons and cook 
slowly till tender, then pour into a baking dish, cover 
with puff paste, with slits cut in the center for the 
steam to escape. Bake in a hot oven twenty-five 
minutes. 



96 THE HOCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ENTREES. 



Entrees are served between courses, and for reg- 
ular course. 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes are made of nearly all kinds of meat, 
fish, vegetables, cheese, eggs and nuts. When shaped 
flat like a chop they are called cutlets. To prepare 
them the materials should be cooked tender, well 
seasoned and finely chopped, (a meat chopper is 
best to use for meat croquettes), mixed together with 
a creamy sauce, moulded, rolled in bread or cracker 
crumbs, dipped in slightly-beaten eggy rolled in 
crumbs again (this prevents the fat from getting in- 
side), and fried a rich brown in clear smoking hot fat. 
They are usually surrounded with a sauce or peas. 
If not, should be garnished with celery tips, parsley, 
watercress or small leaves of lettuce. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

An old chicken can be used. They are cheaper 
than young one, and the fiavor is better. Clean the 
chicken well, and plunge in a kettle of boiling salted 
water. Place the kettle on the stove where it will 
have a slow cooking. Add to it one good-sized onion, 
cut in slices, eight peppercorns, two or three roots of 
celery, or a few of the outside stalks (celery seed 
may be used in place of celery). A small amount of 
thyme and bay leaf can be used if desired. Let cook 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 97 

until tender. Kemove from the liquid and when cold 
chop fine and mix with a cream sauce. The liquid 
should be strained and when cold remove the fat and 
use for the sauces. Yeal or lamb can be cooked in 
this way for croquettes. 

SAUCE FOR CROQUETTE MIXTURE. 

All Croquettes Are Mixed With a Sauce. 

1 cup milk, cream or stock. | ^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. | % teaspoonful pepper, 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. j 

A dash of nutmeg can be used. When stock is 
used, take one-half cup of milk or cream. Scald the 
cream, milk or stock in a double boiler, melt the butter 
in a sauce pan, stir into it the flour and seasonings. 
When smooth, add it to the scalded milk. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring frequently. Add it to the chopped 
mixture, and when cool mould in shape, and dip first 
in crumbs, then in egg, then in cru.mbs again. When 
meat is used, allow about one-half as much sauce as 
meat. It is well to add the sauce to the meat grad- 
ually, so as not to get the mixture too thin. It should 
be as thin as possible to mould. The beauty of a 
croquette is to have it creamy inside. 

TO PREPARE THE EGG AND CRUMBS FOR CROQUETTES. 

Beat the egg slightly until it is thoroughly mixed. 
Add to it two tablespoonfuls of cold water or milk. 
Put the bread or crackers through a meat grinder, 
or roll them. Always sift them. Bread should be 
thoroughly dry before rolling. 



98 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO MOULD CROQUETTES. 

Take a tablespoonful of the mixture, roll lightly 
between the hands in a ball, roll the ball lightly in 
bread crumbs and mould with the hands in any shape 
you like. Dip in the egg, and see that all parts are 
covered (this prevents the fat from getting inside), 
lift out on the blade of a knife and again roll in the 
crumbs. Set aside if possible fully one hour before 
frying. Croquettes can be made up the day before 
frying if kept in a cool place and covered. 

TO FRY CROQUETTES. 

Have a good clean fat. Let it become smoking hot. 
It can be tested by a piece of bread. If it colors while 
counting twenty it is right. Place four or five at a 
time in the frying basket, plunge in the hot fat and 
cook until brown. Remove them to a soft paper to 
drain. Have the fat smoking hot each time before 
immersing the basket. Croquettes can be fried with- 
out the basket, it being much more convenient to 
use it. 

SWEETBREAD CROQUETTES. 

Clean the sweetbreads. Cook in boiling salted 
water with two tablesponfuls of lemon juice (or one 
tablespoonful to each pair) until tender. When cold 
cut in small cubes and mix with sauce. Add one 
beaten egg to the sauce five minutes before removing 
from the stove. A couple of tablespoonfuls of finely- 
chopped chicken can be used with the sweetbreads. 
Chicken or veal stock can be used with the milk to 
make the sauce or the milk used alone. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 99 

MUSHROOM CROQUETTES. 

Peel the mushrooms, break in small pieces. Cook 
in sauce pan with two tablespoonfuls of water and a 
little salt. Let boil for five minutes, drain from the 
liquid and use it with cream to make the sauce. Add 
one egg to the sauce. Mushrooms and sweetbreads 
are often used together. Chicken may be added to 
either the sweetbreads and mushrooms. 

NUT CROQUETTES. 

Brazil, English walnuts or pecans can be used. 
One cup of chopped chicken or veal, one-half cup of 
nuts chopped fine. Mix with sauce. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Cook eggs in water, just off the boil, for thirty 
minutes. When cold remove from the shell. Chop 
the whites fine, lift the yolks, mix together with one 
egg slightly beaten. Season with salt and pepper 
and finely-chopped parsley or chives. A few cooked 
mushrooms can be added. Mix with heavy white 
sauce. Set aside until cold, then mould, dip in the 
crumbs and egg. Fry. Serve with a white sauce 
alone or add a few peas, small beans, mushrooms or 
asparagus tips. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES. 

One-half cup grated Parmasan cheese, one cup 
American cheese, grated or cut in small pieces, mix 
together with a slightly-beaten egg. Season with one- 
fourth teaspoonful of paprica, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, mix with heavy white sauce. When cold, shape, 

LcfC. 



100 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs again. Fry. These 
are very nice to accompany a salad. 

HOMINY OR RICE CROQUETTES. 

Add to one cup cooked hominy or rice while warm 
one teaspoonful of sugar, the beaten yolk of an egg, a 
little hot milk or cream to moisten, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt, or moisten with a little tomato sauce. 
After shaping, press a cavity in the center of each and 
put in half a teaspoonful of jelly or marmalade. 
Close the rice over it, mould, dip in crumbs and egg, 
the same as other croquettes. These croquettes are 
nice to serve with game. 

Corn Meal Mush. — Sliced in plain or fancy 
shapes, dipped in crumbs, egg and crumbs again and 
fried in deep fat, is sensed with game. Before the 
mush is quite cool it can be moulded in croquette 
shapes, crumbed and egged. 

MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI CROQUETTES. 

Break in small pieces, plunge in boiling salted 
water, cook until tender, drain, cool, then cut in small 
rings. Add to each cupful one tablespoon ful of 
grated cheese, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprica and 
mix together with a very little heavy white sauce, just 
enough to hold the mixture together. When cool 
mould and dip in crumbs, egg and crumbs. Serve 
with tomato, poulette, or mushroom sauce. 

OYSTER CROQUETTES. 

Pick over carefully, so as to remove all pieces of 
shell. Mince through a strainer. Allow them to 
cook five minutes in their own liquor. Drain. When 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 101 

cool cut in small pieces. Mix with a sauce made of 
one-half cream, and the rest of liquid the oysters were 
strained from. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a sauce pan, add to it three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one-fourth teaspoonful salt, a speck of pepper. When 
smooth stir into it gradually the oyster liquor, then 
the cream. Cook for ten minutes, stirring often, then 
add a slightly-beaten egg. Cook five minutes, mix 
with the oysters ; when cold, egg and crumb. Serve 
with cream or shrimp sauce. 

SHAD ROE CROQUETTES. 

Cook the roe in boiling salted water, with one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, for twenty minutes. 
Drain, cut in fine pieces, mix with the heavy white 
sauce that has had one egg added to and cooked in it 
for five minutes. Season with salt and pepper. 
Wlien cold mould egg and crumb. Serve with Hol- 
landaise or cucumber sauce. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

These can be formed in the shape of a croquette or 
cutlet. Buy a cooked lobster, remove the meat, cut 
in fine pieces, mix with the heavy white sauce that 
has an egg cooked in it for five minutes, mould and 
crumb. Fry. Stick into the small end of the cutlet 
a claw. Serve surrounded with peas, a white or Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

Salmon Cutlets. — Are made in the same way, with 
the addition of lemon juice and a little chopped pars- 
ley. White fish can be used the same. 



102 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CLAM CROQUETTES. 

One cup of minced clams drained from the liquid. 
Mix with heavy white sauce made of half cream and 
half the liquor from the clams. Season with salt and 
pepper. When cool mould, egg and crumb. Serve 
with Bernaise or tartar sauce. 

SWEET AND WHITE POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Two cups hot, well-mashed potato, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a little pepper, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little celery salt, a few drops of onion juice, one tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, the beaten yolk of an 
egg, add a little cream or milk if not moist enough to 
mould. Roll in crumbs and egg and crumbs. Fry 
in smoking-hot fat. 

POTATOES IN SURPRISE. 

Use for these sweet or white potato croquette mix- 
ture. Take one tablespoonful and mould it flat in the 
hand, about hajf an inch thick. Drop into the center 
of it one teaspoonful of creamed chicken, mushrooms 
or sweetbreads that have been highly seasoned, fold 
the potato over it and mould egg and crumb, like other 
croquettes. Serve with poulette sauce. 

CELERY CROQUETTES. 

Cut well-cleaned celery in very small pieces, cook 
until soft in boiling salted water. Drain, mix with 
a heavy sauce made by melting two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and stirring into it four tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one-half cup of the water drained from the celery 
and one-half cup of cream, one-fourth teaspoonful 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 103 

salt. Cook for ten minutes, stirring, then add a 
slightlj-beaten egg. Cook five minntes, mix with the 
celery, mould, egg and crumb. These are delicious 
served with the roast or game course. 

TO PREPARE MUSHROOMS. 

Mushrooms contain almost as much nutrition 
as meat. The simplest way of cooking mushrooms is 
the best. Sherry and madeira are sometimes used 
with them for flavoring, but to many their flavor, 
alone, is far preferable. They decay quickly and 
should not be used unless fresh. Use silver knife for 
peeling. Wash them, remove the stem and peel the 
caps. The stems can be boiled separately and the 
water used to flavor sauces or soups. 

Saute Mushrooms. — Cut or break the caps in 
pieces, put them in a sauce pan or chaflng dish with 
some butter. Let cook in the butter for ten minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper and a little sherry if you 
like. Serve on toast. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 

Break the caps in small pieces. Cook with a very 
little water for five minutes, then add one-half cup of 
cream that has had a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with it, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and a little pep- 
per, add a tablespoonful of butter. Cook ten minutes. 
This amount of cream and seasoning for one pound of 
fresh mushrooms. Serve on toast, or as filling for 
patty cases, timbale cases or bake ten minutes in ram- 
quin dishes, covered with buttered crumbs. 



104 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MUSHROOMS A LA POULETTE. 

Stew the mushrooms in a little water with a table- 
spoonful of butter. Season with salt and pepper. 
When tender add a little chicken stock and cream and 
the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir until it thickens. 
Serve at once. 

BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

The largest size should be used for broiling. Peel 
them and remove the stem, brush over with melted 
butter, broil as you would steak, for about five min- 
utes. Place on buttered toast, season with salt, pep- 
per and butter and a little chopped parsley. 

TO PREPARE CALF'S BRAINS. 

Soak for an hour in cold water, then cook slowly 
in boiling water for twenty minutes with a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar or lemon juice. Slice of onion, a little 
thyme, bay leaf, salt and peppercorns. Place again 
in cold water to blanch, remove the skin and fibers 
and cook by any of the receipts given for sweetbreads. 

CHICKEN A LA DUXELLE. 

For a chicken weighing three pounds use two cups 
of stock or water, two tablespoonf uls butter, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, a 
few drops of onion juice, one teaspoonful lemon juice, 
one teaspoonful salt, pepper, crumbs. Cut the chicken 
as for fricassee, sprinkle with the salt and pepper. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings, grad- 
ually the stock, stirring all the time, dip the chicken 
in the sauce, then roll in fine crumbs, sprinkle over 



THE ROCK^ MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 105 

lightly with salt and pepper, place in baking pan. 
Cook thirty minutes in hot oven. Serve with Bech- 
amel, mushroom or poulette sauce. Garnish with 
thin pieces of toast cut in fancy shapes. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil an old chicken in as little water as possible 
until the meat slips from the bones. Remove the 
skin, pick the meat apart, remove all the fat. Season 
the liquor highly with salt, pepper and celery salt, or 
cook a few stalks of celery with the chicken. Cook 
down to one cup. Butter a mould; decorate it with 
slices of hard-boiled egg, truffles, sliced pickles and 
olives if liked. Pack the meat in, mixing the light 
and dark. Over each layer of meat pour some of the 
liquor, until all is used. Set away until cold, with 
a weight on top. When ready to serve remove from 
the mould. Garnish with lettuce, parsley, water- 
cress, hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, radishes or 
olives. 

SCOLLOPED CHICKEN OR TURKEY. 

Take equal parts of cold chicken or turkey and 
boiled rice or macaroni. Put in layers in a baking 
dish, cover with poulette or tomato sauce, well sea- 
soned. Cover with buttered crumbs. Bake until the 
crumbs are a rich brown. 

CHICKEN TIMBALE. 

Chop the meat from the breast and second joints 
of an uncooked chicken by passing it through the meat 
chopper several times. To one cup of the meat add 
five eggs, one at a time, beating them in thoroughly. 



106 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Then add one teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful 
pepper, a little celery salt and one-half cup of fresh 
mushrooms, if convenient. They can be omitted. 
Two cups of heavy cream. Decorate a well-buttered 
mould with slices of hard-boiled egg or truffles. Turn 
in the mixture and cover with a buttered paper. Cook 
standing in a pan of hot water until the center feels 
firm to the touch, from thirty to forty-five minutes. 
It can be cooked either on top of the stove or in the 
oven. Do not let the water boil. Put the bones of 
the chicken on to cook in cold water enough to cover, 
season highly with soup seasonings and cook slowly 
on the back of the stove for three hours. Iveduce the 
stock to one cup, strain and use with one-half cup of 
cream thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour that 
has been added to two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 
Season to taste and pour around the tinibale when 
ready to serve. 

Individual Moulds. — Can be decorated with hard- 
boiled eggs, cut in fancy shapes, trufiles, pickles or 
peas, and filled with the same mixture. Cook from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 

Macaroni Timhale. — Cook until tender in boiling 
salted water long sticks of very fine macaroni or spa- 
ghetti. When soft lay carefully on a napkin to cool. 
Butter well a mould, wind the macaroni around it, 
pressing it gently into the butter to hold it, then fill up 
carefully with the timbale mixture. 

HONEYCOMB TIMBALE. 

Cook in boiling salted water the largest-size mac- 
aroni. When tender remove to a cloth to cool, then 
cut in pieces one-half an inch long. Butter a dome- 
shaped mould or bowl thickly, cover it with the mac- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 107 



aroni by sticking each piece into tlie butter, one at a 
time, as closely together as possible. Fill with the 
chicken tinibale mixture. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE TIMBALE. 

Line the mould with cooked macaroni and fill with 
the following mixture : One cup of cooked macaroni, 
cut in small pieces, one-half cup of grated cheese. 
Stir these into a sauce made by melting two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, stirring into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one cup of milk. When smooth add one- 
half teaspoonful salt and paprica. Stir in two eggs 
slightly beaten, mix with the macaroni and cheese, fill 
up tlie mouUl and poach in hot water until firm. Serve 
surrounded by a white sauce. 

HAM TIMBALES. 

Soak one tablespoonful of fine bread crumbs in 
one cup of thin cream for half an hour, then add two 
well-boaten ofi^Q^s, one cup of finoly-chopjxid cooked 
ham, one-half cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of 
inustard and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Turn 
into well-buttered timbale moulds, or use one large 
mould. The moulds can just be decorated with slices 
of hard-boilod eggs, cut in fanciful shapes. Cook, set- 
ting the moulds in a pan of hot water till the centers 
are firm. Serve with a white sauce. 



BOUDANS. 



1 lb. of cooked chicken 
breasts (2 cups). 



1/^ cup of butter. 
1/4 cup salt pork. 



Put the meat and ])ork through the grinder, add 
to it three eggs, beating in one at a time until smooth 



108 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



and light, add a teaspoonful of onion juice and one 
of salt, pepper to taste, add one-half cup of the liquor 
the chicken was boiled in, cook in well-buttered 
moulds, either one large one or small one, as you 
mould a timbale. Serve with a sauce made of one- 
half cup of chicken stock, one-half cup of cream and 
one-half cup of canned mushrooms, seasoned and 
thickened with two tablespoonfuls of flour that has 
been added to two tablesiX)onfuls of melted butter. 

ASPIC JELLY. 



1 fowl. 

1 shin of beef. 
1 knuckle of veal. 
5 cloves. 

1 bay leaf. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 
1^ package of gelatine. 



large onions. 

carrots. 

stocks of celery. 

turnips. 

cup of sherry or madeira. 



6 peppercorns. 



The wine can be omitted. Put the meats in a ket- 
tle just covered with cold water and simmer for five 
hours. An hour before removing from the fire, add 
seasonings and vegetables that have been browned in 
marrow from the soup bone or butter, strain the 
stock ; it should be cooked down to two quarts. When 
cold remove all the fat, and stir into it the beaten 
whites of two eggs, clear as 3^ou would clear soup 
stock, then add the gelatine which has been softened 
in cold water. Aspic jelly can be made from any 
soup stock by clearing it and adding gelatine. 



TO MOULD IN ASPIC JELLY. 

Pack the mould in a pan of broken ice, have it set 
in the pan firm and straight, pour in a little of the 
jelly ; when firm, garnish with hard-boiled eggs, vege- 
tables, macaroni, nuts, olives, pickles, truffles, all 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 109 

cut in fancy shapes. Fasten each piece in place with 
a few drops of jelly, and when hard, add a little more 
jelly to cover. Then place whatever you wish to 
mould in the center carefully, pour in a little more 
jelly to hold it, when hard fill up the mould with the 
jelly. To decorate on the sides, dip the ornaments 
in the jelly and place on the sides after the mould is 
very cold. All kinds of meat, game or fish can be 
moulded in this way, either in one large mould or 
in individual moulds. A whole tongue is very nice 
moulded in Aspic. 

TO UNMOULD JELLY. 

Dip the mould quickly in warm water, put the 
dish over it and invert dish and mould together, gar- 
nish with some of the jelly cut in small pieces, pars- 
ley or any green. Nasturtiums, with the leaves, 
make a very effective garnish. 

CHICKEN CHARTREUSE. 

Mix finely-chopped cooked chicken (or any meat) 
that has been highly seasoned, with acream, or pou- 
lette sauce, or left-over sauce from the meats, line a 
well-huttered mould with hot cooked rice an inch 
thick, fill the center with the meat and cover the top 
with rice, cover the mould and cook standing in hot 
water for forty-five minutes, serve surrounded by a 
tomato sauce. A very nice way of using up left- 
overs. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 

To be cooked on the chafing dish or over hot 
water. Cut one cold chicken and one parboiled 



110 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



sweetbread quite fine, make one cup of cream sauce 
by using two tablespoonfuls of butter melted, add- 
ing to it two of flour, one cup of thin cream, season 
with salt and pepper, then put in the meat, when 
heated add the yolks of two beaten eggs, cook five 
minutes, then add a wine glass of sherry or madeira. 
Serve. 



MOCK TERRAPIN. 



2 ducks. 

1 lb. calf's liver, 

1 onion. 

3 stalks celery. 



2 cloves. 

1 tablespoonfiil salt. 
6 peppercorns. 
Sprig of parsley. 



Clean the ducks and put them on to cook in boil- 
ing water with the liver and seasonings, cook slowly 
until tender, remove from the kettle when cold. Cut 
ducks and liver in dice, mash the hard-boiled yolks 
of six eggs to a smooth paste, add gradually a cup of 
thick cream, melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
sauce pan, add two tablespoonfuls of fiour, one-half 
cup of milk, stir until smooth, gradually stir in the 
egg yolks and cream, stir constantly until it reaches 
the boiling point, season with salt and pepper, then 
add the meat, heat and serve. 

CHICKENS, PIGEONS OR GAME OF ANY KIND IN CAS- 
SEROLE. 

Singe and draw them, wipe dry, saute to a rich 
brown in frying pan, using butter, bacon or pork fat, 
then place in a casserole, add to the fat in the pan 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, and two cups of stock, 
chicken, veal or beef stock, season with salt, pepper, 
a teaspoonful of parsley or cloves, chopped fine, a 
half teaspoonful of onion juice. Cook the sauce for 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. Ill 

a few minutes. Turn it into the casserole, put on the 
cover, and cook slowly in the oven about two hours, 
according to the tenderness of the fowl or game. 
Skin off the fat, and if game, add half cup of stoned 
olives that have been heated or two tablespoonfuls of 
capers. Serve in the casserole. 

CHICKEN LIVERS. 

Put in the chafing dish or sauce pan (over the 
fire) two tablespoonfuls of butter. When hot add 
the livers cut in pieces. Turn them to brown on all 
sides, dredge with fiour, add a cup of stock after 
they have been cooking five minutes ; season with 
salt and pepper, add one-fourth cup of madeira or 
sherry, a few stoned olives. Serve on toast. 

Chickens' Livers. — May be cooked in butter until 
brown, sprinkled with fiour, add cream and season- 
ings. 

SALMI OF DUCK OR GAME (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut the meat from cold-roasted game or duck into 
small pieces. Break up the bones and remnants, cover 
with stock or cold water, add a pinch of herbs, two 
cloves and two peppercorns. Boil down to a cupful 
for a pint of meat. Fry two small onions cut fine in 
two tablespoonfuls of butter till brown, add two table- 
spoonfuls of fiour, stir till dark brown. Strain the 
liquor in which the bones were boiled and add it grad- 
ually to the butter and fiour, add more salt if needed, 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, two tablespoonfuls 
of Worcestershire sauce, and the pieces of meat. 
Simmer fifteen minutes, add a dozen mushrooms and 
a glass of claret if you like, or the juice of a sour 



112 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

orange. Serve hot on slices of fried bread. Garnish 
with parsley and slices of orange, or serve canned 
peas in the center vt^ith the meat on toast around them. 

MEAT PIE. 

Cut cold-cooked meat into thin slices, remove all 
the gristle, put in baking dish, cover with gravy or 
tomato sauce. Season well. Spread a crust of mashed 
potato over the meat, brush over with beaten egg 
and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 

MEAT PIE (No. 2). 

Put layers of cooked sliced meat and potato in a 
baking dish (other vegetables can be used if liked), 
cover with a gravy, season and spread over with a 
plain pastry rolled one-half inch thick, bake in a hot 
oven for thirty minutes^ or covered with a baking 
powder biscuit dough. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Put through the meat grinder two pounds of beef 
from the top of the round. Add one-half cup of 
cream, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, 
one-fourth cup of melted butter, two teaspoon fuls of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful of sage, one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of pepper. Pack solidly in a bread pan and 
bake from thirty to forty minutes. When cold slice 
thin, garnish with sliced pickles or olives. 

SPANISH RICE. 

Cut cooked mutton or lamb in thin slices or 
cubes. Place in a baking dish a layer of meat, 



THE ROCK^ MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 113 



sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper and cover a 
quarter of an inch thick with cooked rice, then with 
tomato sauce, and so on until the dish is full. Spread 
huttered crumhs over the top, hake in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

Two pounds from the neck of mutton or lamh, 
cut in inch pieces. Put two tahlespoonfuls of hutter 
into a frying pan, add one onion cut in thin slices, 
one good-sized carrot sliced, and the meat well 
hrowned, being careful that it does not burn, then stir 
in two tahlespoonfuls of flour and gradually add a 
cup and a half of water, tea spoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of pepper, tie in a piece of muslin 
a sprig of parsley, half a bay leaf and a clove (remove 
before serving). Cover closely and simmer for two 
hours. Add one-half can of peas ten minutes before 
serving. This can be cooked in a casserole dish. 

Coohed mutton or lamh may be prepared in the 
same way, cooking slowly one hour. 

LIVER LOAF. 

Put a calf's liver through the meat grinder, sea- 
son lightly with salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne and 
nutmeg and three eggs, one-fourth cup of melted but- 
ter ; mix well together, put into a well-buttered mould 
or bread pan, bake standing in a pan of hot water 
for one hour. Serve cold, garnished with slices of 
hard-boiled egg and pickles or olives. Or serve hot 
with a brown sauce. 



114 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



TO BROIL VENISON STEAK. 

Cover with melted butter and then broil as you 
would other steaks. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter, or cover with maitre d'hotel sauce. Serve at 
once. 

SWEETBREADS A LA TOURAINE. 

Parboil two sweetbreads ; melt three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, saute the sweetbreads in it with two 
good-sized slices of onion and one carrot sliced. 
When browned remove the sweetbreads to a baking 
pan, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry, one-half cup 
rich stock, cook in the oven for half an hour, basting 
often. Mash a pint of cooked peas through a sieve, 
reheat, allowing the water to cook out of them, 
season with butter, pepper and salt, shape in- 
to nests (on the platter) one for each sweetbread). 
Arrange the sweetbreads in the nests and pour around 
them the following sauce: Saute six fresh mush- 
rooms, cut in strips, in butter, stir in two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; when blended with the butter add a cup 
of thick cream, and the gravy left in the pan after 
cooking the sweetbreads. A nest of the whole peas 
may be used. 

HAM PUFFS. 
2 cups water. 



4 eggs. 



2 cups flour. 
V2 cup finely chopped 
cooked ham. 



1/^ teaspooriful curry powder. 

1/4 teaspoon ful salt. 

A little cayenne or paprica. 



As soon as the water boils stir into it the flour, 
beat well, stir until the batter leaves the sides, re- 
move from the fire, beat in the eggs one at a time, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 115 

add the ham and seasonings. Drop the batter from 
the tip of the spoon into smoking-hot fat^ cook until 
brown, drain on soft paper. Serve with white sauce 
or cabbage salad. 

TERRAPIN. 

The best terrapin are the ^^Diamond Back/' 
from Chesapeake Bay. Very good ones are taken in 
Long Island waters and along the sea coast. The 
season for eating them is from December to April. 

* 
TO PREPARE TERRAPIN. 

Drop the live terrapin into boiling hot water, let 
them remain for twenty minutes, remove the skin 
from the head and feet by rubbing with a cloth, 
wash in several waters; then put into fresh boiling 
water, cook until tender. This is shown by pressing 
the feet between the fingers. If they are not tender 
in an hour's cooking they probably are not good, the 
meat will be stringy and tough. Remove as soon as 
tender. When cold cut off the nails, remove the 
shells, very carefully take the gall sacks from the 
liver (if the sacks be broken, so the liquid touches the 
liver or meat, it will give a very disagreeable bitter 
taste). Remove the entrails, lights, heart, head, tail 
and white muscles; separate the pieces from the 
joints, divide the meat in pieces an inch and a half 
long. Do not break the bones. Place the meat, ter- 
rapin eggs and liver in a stew pan, cover with boiling 
water and boil until the meat is ready to drop from 
the bones. 



116 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



STEWED TERRAPIN. 

Mash the jolks of six hard-boiled eggs to a paste, 
mix them with one-fourth cup of butter, stir this in- 
to two cups of hot cream, cook in double boiler, stir 
until smooth ; season with salt, paprica and a dash of 
nutmeg, add one quart of the cooked terrapin and 
cook for fifteen minutes. Just before serving add 
two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Serve in very hot soup 
plates. 

TERRAPIN A LA NEWBURG. 

Put in a double boiler or chafing dish one quart 
of terrapin, one cup of cream. When it is well heat- 
ed through add to it the well-beaten yolks of four 
eggs, mixed with one cup of cream ; stir until it 
thickens; season with salt, pepper, paprica and two 
tablespoonfuls madeira or sherry just before serving. 

COCKTAIL OF LITTTLE NECK CLAMS AND OYSTERS. 

Chill thiroughly one-half dozen of little neck 
clams or oysters for each person ; mix one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, one tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup, six drops of tabasco sauce, a little paprica, 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
horseradish, allow a tablespoonful and a half for each 
person. Serve in sherry glasses, grape fruit, lemon 
and orange shells, fresh tomatoes or peppers. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 117 



FRITTERS^ 



FRITTER BATTER (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Yolks of two eggs well beaten, add one-half cup of 
milk or water, and one tablespoonfnl of olive oil, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one cup of flour, or enough 
to make it a drop batter. When ready to use add the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff. If intended for fruit, 
add a teaspoonful of sugar to the batter, if for clams, 
tripe or meat add one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
This batter will keep several days. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Cook the oysters until they are plump, drain 
from the liquor (use the liquor instead of milk to 
make the batter). Dip each oyster into the batter, 
fry until brown in deep fat. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Select large, fine peaches, skin and halve them, dip 
in batter and fry. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Chop the clams, mix with the batter, drop from 
a spoon into the fat. Use some of the clam water to 
make the batter in place of the milk. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Cut the banana in two-inch pieces, dip in the bat- 
ter and fry a rich brown, drain on paper. Serve with 
or without a sauce. 



118 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Slice in half-inch slices, dip in batter and fry the 
same as banana fritters. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare and core the apple, slice in half-inch thick 
slices, dip in batter and fry. Any of these fritters 
can be sprinkled with powdered sugar and served 
with a sauce. It is better to steam the apples a few 
minutes. 

VEGETABLE FRITTERS. 

Cook the vegetables until tender, cut in small 
pieces, dip in the batter and fry. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Make the same mixture as for cream puffs, drop 
from a spoon into hot fat, cook until brown, drain. 
Serve with a sauce. 



SAUCE FOR FRITTERS. 

Mix two tablcspoonfuls of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt with a cup of sugar, pour over it one 
cup of boiling water, stir and boil for ten minutes, 
then add one tablespoonful of creamed butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira, or flavor with a 
tablespoonful of lemon juice, nutmeg, or the juice of 
half an orange and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Fritters are served as an entree or dessert. 



t 
THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 119 



BATTER FOR TIMBALE CASES OR FONTAGE CUPS. 

Yolks of two eggs well-beaten, half a cup of 
water, one-fourtli teaspoonfiil of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of olive oil, one cup of flour, or enough to make a 
thin batter. Let it stand for two or three hours be- 
fore using. Have a kettle of hot fat, place the iron 
in the fat until it is very hot, or until the fat smokes, 
letting the iron heat up with the fat ; remove the iron 
from the fat and quickly wipe a little of the fat from 
the mould, dip it in the batter until it is coated, place 
again in the hot fat, cook a delicate brown, drain on 
soft paper. Be careful in cooking them that the iron 
does not touch the bottom of the kettle as that will 
break them at the bottom. Use them to hold creamed 
meats, mushrooms, vegetables, fish, or anything that 
you care to serve individually. 

BREAD BOXES. 

For these use stale bread, cut from a loaf slices 
an inch and a half thick, trim off the crusts, making 
a trim thick slice, cut out a square from the inside, 
making a box to hold creamed meats or vegetables. 
Cover the boxes with melted butter and brown in the 
oven. These can be cut in rounds, squares, hearts, 
diamonds or any fancy shapes. 



120 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



VEGETABLES. 



When convenient, vegetables should be freshly 
picked and thoroughly washed. The most simple 
ways of cooking them is the best, they then retain 
their own flavor. Most all vegetables should be 
cooked in boiling salted water, and removed from the 
stove as soon as done, as over-cooking will make them 
soggy. Grreen vegetables keep their color better by 
cooking without a cover. The time for cooking de- 
pends upon their freshness and the altitude. A high 
altitude requires a longer cooking. They should be 
seasoned with salt, pepper, butter, cream and sauces. 
Fresh green vegetables that contain sugar should 
have a small quantity of sugar added to the season- 
ing to replace that which is boiled away in the water. 
One vegetable, besides the potato, is served with the 
meat course; other vegetables, like egg plant, stuffed 
tomatoes and peppers, artichokes, mushrooms, maca- 
roni and many others, can be served as a separate 
course. 



POTATOES. 

To Boil Potatoes. — Wash them well with a brush, 
pare them and drop at once in cold water, having 
them uniform size so they will be done together. Put 
them on to cook in boiling salted water, about half 
a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of water, boil slowly 
till they are done (as violent boiling breaks them). 
Then drain off all the water, return to the back of 
the stove, shake gently to allow the steam to escape, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 121 

sprinkle with a little salt and serve on a hot dish. 
Potatoes cooked in this way will always be light and 
palatable. 

OLD POTATOES. 

In the spring of the year the potatoes become 
withered (the water evaporates from them), they 
should then be pared and allowed to soak in cold 
water two or three hours before cooking, so that they 
may take in some of the water they have lost. 

NEW POTATOES. 

New potatoes are boiled with the skin on. As 
soon as they are done peel them and dry on the 
stove, season with salt alone, or cover them with a lit- 
tle melted butter and a sprinkling of finely-chopped 
chives or parsley, just a little cream, pepper and 
salt make a nice dressing, or cover with cream sauce. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Boil and dry the potatoes as directed, mash them 
in the same dish in which they are boiled. For two 
cups of potato use one-half cup of milk or cream, 
heated with two tablespoonfuls of butter and a tea- 
spoonful of salt, add slowly to the potato, beating all 
the time; when very light and foamy, pile into a hot 
serving dish, but do not smooth them over, as that 
will make them heavy. 

RICED POTATO. 

Press well-seasoned, lightly mashed potato through 
a potato ricer onto the serving dish. Serve broiled 
meats around a mound of riced potato. 



122 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Mix a well-beaten egg with seasoned mashed po- 
tato, mould in cakes, dip in melted butter and bro^vn 
in the oven, on a buttered pan, or saute in butter or 
bacon fat; garnish with parsley. 

POTATO ROSES. 

Use well-seasoned, hot mashed potatoes, add to 
two cups of the potato the yolks of two eggs and the 
white of one well beaten, place in a pastry bag with 
a tube having a star-shaped opening; force out the 
potato from the tube with a gentle pressure, guide it 
around in a circle until it comes to a point, have them 
small, brush them over lightly with beaten egg, brown 
them in the oven by placing them onto a well-buttered 
pan, or garnish a planked fish with them. If 
browned on a pan remove them carefully with a 
broad-bladed knife. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Two cups of hot seasoned mashed potato, fold 
lightly into it the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
turn at once into well-buttered dishes, individual 
dishes, paper boxes or one large flat dish can be used ; 
brown in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. Serve at 
once with fish, meat or entrees. The potato can also 
be baked in a well-buttered border mould, then turned 
into a hot dish and the center filled with creamed 
meats, mushrooms or fish. 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes or thin slices, 
make a cream sauce in double boiler, season well with 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 123 



salt and pepper, heat the potatoes in the sauce for 
fifteen minutes. Serve on a hot dish with a sprink- 
ling of chopped parsley or chives over them. 

SCOLLOPED POTATOES. 

Butter a baking dish, cover the bottom with a 
layer of cooked sliced cold potato, then with a layer 
of cream sauce, and so on until the dish is full; 
sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top, brown in a hot 
oven. 

DELMONICO POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into small cubes, butter 
a baking dish, or individual dishes or cases, cover the 
bottom with a layer of potato, then with a layer of 
cream sauce; sprinkle over with grated or thinly 
sliced cheese and a little paprica; fill up the dish 
with the layers, having the cheese on top, bake in a 
hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes, according to 
the amount baked. These potatoes are delicious 
served with broiled meats. 

POTATOES A LA BECHAMEL. 

Cut cold potatoes into cubes as for Delmonico 
potatoes, bake in buttered dishes, cover the layer of 
potato with Bechamel sauce, and sprinkle buttered 
crumbs over the top, brown in a hot oven for fifteen 
minutes. 

VIENNESE POTATOES. 

Add to two cups of hot, seasoned mashed potato 
the yolks of two eggs and the white of one well beaten, 
and one-half cup of grated cheese, mould into small 



124 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

balls and roll the balls into long shape, thick in the 
center, with pointed ends, roll on a slightly-floured 
board, brush over with slightly beaten egg, lay 
on well-buttered pan one inch apart, make two 
slanting cuts on the top of each, again brush over 
with egg, brown in a hot oven ; remove carefully on 
a broad-bladed knife. Garnish broiled meats or fish. 

MASHED POTATOES MILANESE. 

Peel the potatoes, boil in boiling salted water till 
tender, drain and shake over the stove until the 
steam has escaped, mash till smooth and creamy, 
moistening all the time with chicken stock, season 
with salt and pepper and add cream enough to ena- 
ble to beat with an egg beater, pile in a dish without 
smoothing^ sprinkle grated cheese over the top, brown 
in a hot oven. 

POTATO BALLS. 

To make the balls, use a potato scoop, pare and 
wash the potato, press the scoop well into the pota- 
to and then turn it to form the ball (cook at once the 
scraps left from the potato and use for mashed or 
creamed potatoes). Cook till tender in boiling salted 
water. Serve with butter, pepper and salt or in 
cream sauce, or maitre d'hotel sauce. These make a 
pretty garnish to serve as a mound cannon-ball style, 
on top of boiled, broiled or baked fish. 

FRIED POTATO BALLS AND STRAWS. 

Cut the potatoes with the scoop for the balls, and 
in slices, then in thin strips for the straws, soak in 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 125 



cold water for one hour, dry between towels, fry a 
few at a time in smoking hot deep fat, drain on soft 
paper, season with salt. 



FRENCH-FRIED POTATOES. 



Cut raw potatoes in half-inch slices, then half- 
inch strips, soak in cold water for an hour, dry, and 
fry in smoking hot fat. Season with salt. 



POTATO NESTS. 

Prepare the potato as for straws, arrange them 
in nest shape in a wire utensil that comes for the pur- 
pose (it is a wire formed in the shape of a nest) ; fry 
in deep fat, remove from the form, drain, and fill 
with creamed fish, meats, or mushrooms; garnish 
with parsley. 

WALDORF POTATOES. 

Cut raw potatoes round and round, the same as 
you would pare an apple, fry in a basket in deep fat, 
drain on a paper, season with salt, garnish a roast or 
fish with them. 

POTATO CHIPS. 

Shave raw potatoes in thin slices. A potato slicer 
is much the better to use. Soak in cold water for one 
hour, dry between towels, fry in deep fat, drain on 
soft paper, sprinkle with salt. 

Cut raw potatoes in hearts, crescents and other 
fancy shapes by using cookie cutters and the French 
vegetable knife, first cutting the potatoes in slices; 
fry in deep fat or cook in boiling salted water. Serve 
with cream sauce. 



126 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

HASHED BROWNED POTATOES. 

Cut cold cooked potatoes into small cubes. Put 
into a frying pan slices of salt pork cut thin, when 
they are well browned remove them and put in the 
potato, with a knife press it into a mound, when it 
has browned on one side with a wide-bladed knife, 
turn and brown on the other side. Serve on a hot 
dish. The pork gives a very delicious flavor to the 
potatoes. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into slices half an inch 
thick, fry till brown on both sides in a frying pan 
that is well greased with salt pork or bacon fat, sea- 
son with salt and a little pepper. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES. 

Wash and pare the potatoes, put them in the pan 
with the meat, and baste when the meat is basted. 
Serve on the platter with the meat. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into cubes, season with 
salt and pepper. Saute one tablespoonful of finely 
chopped onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter until 
a light brown, then add the potatoes and stir with a 
fork until they have absorbed all the butter, add a 
half tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Serve 
on a hot dish. 

BROILED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut in slices one-quarter of an inch 
thick. Broil on both sides till tender, season with but- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 127 

ter, pepper and salt, or use cold boiled sweet or white 
potatoes, cut them in slices, dip in melted butter and 
broil till a delicate brown, season with salt and pep- 
per. 

BAKED SWEET AND WHITE POTATOES. 

Select potatoes of uniform size, wash and scrub 
them with a brush, place in a pan, and bake till soft. 
Break the skin to allow the steam to escape. Serve 
at once uncovered. 

STUFFED POTATOES. 

Bake four potatoes ; when tender cut in halves 
lengthwise and scoop out the inside, mash and beat 
till very light, season with a tablespoonful of butter 
and cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, and fold 
into the mixture the white of two eggs which have 
been beaten stiff, fill the skins, heaping it lightly on 
top, replace in a hot oven and brown. 

STUFFED POTATOES (No. 2). 

Bake the potatoes, cut a piece off the top of each, 
remove the inside, season, m.ash and mix with any 
chopped meat or grated cheese (the cheese is very 
delicious), replace in the potato, letting it come a lit- 
tle over the top of the potato, brush the top over with 
melted butter and brown in the oven. 

SWEET POTATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Cut cold, baked or boiled sweet potatoes in quar- 
ter-inch slices, cover the bottom of a baking; dish with 
a layer of the potato spread quite thickly with pieces 



128 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of butter, and scatter over a little sugar and salt, sea- 
son each layer in this way, having the sugar on top. 
Bake in the oven until heated through and browned 
slightly. 

GREENS. 

Greens should be will picked over, wash in several 
cold waters, put on to cook witliout water, the water 
that clings to the leaves is sufficient to cook them; 
sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt, and cook 
slowly, uncovered until tender, drain, chop fine, gar- 
nish with hard cooked eggs, cut in slices or eighths, or 
run the yolks through a potato ricer, and sprinkle 
over the top, cut the whites in rings and place around 
the outside. Season with butter and a little pepper 
and salt. 

SPINACH. 

Cook and prepare the same as greens, or after 
chopping mix with butter, a little cream, garnish 
with egg and points of toast, or form in a mound, 
cover with buttered cracker crumbs, brown in the 
oven and surround with broiled chops. Spinach is 
very nice served in Lread boxes. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE. 

Take one cup of spinach (prepared as directed 
above with the cream and butter), add to it the stiffly 
beaten whites of two egg^, fill individual dishes or 
paper boxes with the mixture (about two-thirds full), 
place in a hot oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Serve 
at once with a roast or broiled meats. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 129 



CABBAGE. 

Take off the outside leaves, cut in quarters, wash 
and soak in cold water for one hour, drain and put 
on to cook in boiling salted water with a fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda. The soda helps to make it more di- 
gestible. When tender drain, cut or chop fine, season 
with butter, hot milk or cream, salt and pepper, or 
mix with a white sauce, and cover with buttered 
crumbs, brown in the oven. 

CABBAGE BAKED WITH CHEESE. 

Cold cabbage can be used, chop cooked cabbage 
fine, put in baking dish layers of cabbage, white sauce 
and cheese, well seasoned, having the cheese on top 
brown in a hot oven. 

ROUTH KROUTH. 

Cut red cabbage in halves, soak in cold water, 
then shave in thin slices, put on to cook in the follow- 
ing mixture: For every two cups of cabbage use 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, the same amount of vin- 
egar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, little pepper, cook 
slowly till tender. Serve hot or cold. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim off the outside leaves, cut the stalk even 
with the flower, let it soak upside down in cold salted 
water for half an hour to draw out any insects, cook 
the same way as cabbag. Serve with white, Hollan- 
daise. Bechamel sauce or drawn butter; or serve in 
any of the ways as directed for cabbage. 



130 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Remove any wilted leaves, soak in cold salted 
water, to draw out any insects that may be in them, 
cook in boiling salted water (uncovered till tender, 
but not till they lose their shape), season with butter, 
pepper and salt, or cover with a cream or Hollandaise 
sauce. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off the white hard end of the stalks, untie the 
bundles, soak for half an hour in cold water, tie them 
up again, and cook in boiling salted water until ten- 
der, remove onto slices of buttered toast, cut the string 
and season with butter, pepper and salt, or cover with 
a white or poulette sauce; or cut the asparagus in 
inch pieces, boil, and season as directed above, or 
serve plain without toast. 

ASPARAGUS LOAF. 

Butter quite thick a three-pint mould or bowl (a 
pail could be used), decorate the bottom and sides 
with stalks of cooked asparagus ; melt two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a double boiler, stir into it two of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth of pap- 
rica, stir into it gradually one cup of cream, one cup 
and a half of cooked asparagus tips, and four well- 
beaten eggs, turn into the mould, cook standing in a 
dish of hot water until the center is firm, either in the 
oven or on top of the stove, do noot let the water boil. 
(It is easier to cook in the oven on that account.) In- 
vert on a sersang dish. Serve surrounded by a cream 
sauce with asparagus tips added, or serve without a 
sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 131 

ARTICHOKES. 

Cut off the outside leaves, soak in cold water for a 
half hour, trim away the lower leaves and the ends 
of the others, cook in boiling salted water until the 
leaves can he drawn out, drain, remove the choke and 
serve with cream sauce, or drawn butter. 

EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant in slices one-half an inch thick 
without removing the skin. Steam till tender, dip 
each slice in powdered crumbs then in egg, and in 
crumbs again, saute on both sides, in lard, butter or 
drippings till tender. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Boil the egg plant till tender, cut in halves, re- 
move the insides and mash, season with butter, pep- 
per and salt, if you like add two tablespoonfuls of 
grated cheese or one-half cup of almonds cut very 
fine, put back in the shells, cover with buttered 
crumbs, brown in the oven. 

SALSIFY OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape and at once throw into cold water, with a 
little vinegar or lemon juice to keep from discoloring, 
cook in boiling salted water till tender (about one 
hour), drain, season with butter, salt and pepper, or 
cut in half-inch pieces and serve in cream sauce, or 
dip in fritter batter and fry in hot fat, or when cold 
brown in butter. 



132 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



RAW TOMATOES. 

Scald by pouring boiling water over them a few 
hours before using, peel and put on the ice, slice or 
serve whole with mayonnaise or French dressing; 
garnish with lettuce. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Pour over them boiling water, remove the skins, 
and cut in small pieces, removing all the bad places, 
stew until tender, with a very little water. To one 
quart of tomato add one teaspoonful of salt and 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, and powdered 
cracker crumbs, and a little pepper, cook the cracker 
crumbs in the tomato five minutes before adding the 
seasonings. 

SCOLLOPED TOMATOES. 

Scald and peel the tomatoes, butter a baking dish 
and cover the bottom with a layer of tomatoes cut in 
half -inch slices, season with salt, pepper and a sprink- 
ling of sugar, cover with a thin layer of buttered 
crumbs, a little onion juice is an improvement; fill 
the dish with the layers, having the crumbs on top, 
bake in a hot oven for one hour, or less time if a 
small quantity is used. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select large firm tomatoes, cut a thin slice from 
the stem end and scoop out the inside, sprinkle the 
inside with salt and pepper, fill with the 
following mixtures: Mix with the pulp an 
equal amount of buttered cracker crumbs, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and onion juice, or use in 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 133 

place of the crumbs the same amount of cooked rice 
or macaroni, fill the tomatoes full, replace the slice 
of tomato, cover with a thin two-inch slice of salt, fat 
pork, hold the slices of tomato and pork in place by 
putting a wooden toothpick through them. The pork 
bastes them and adds very much to the flavor. Re- 
move the toothpick before serving. The top of the 
tomato can be covered with buttered crumbs instead 
of using the slices of tomato and pork. 

Bake in a granite pan, with a little stock or hot 
water. Serve on slices of toast or surrounded by a 
brown sauce. Any kind of finely chopped meat may 
be used for stuffing by mixing it with a few buttered 
crumbs, a little stock, or a little leftover sauce, well 
seasoned, and a grating of onion or cooked peppers 
finely chopped. Cooked mushrooms and sweetbreads 
can be used by chopping them and mixing with either 
of the following sauces : Cream, celery, allemande, 
poulette, or Bechamel, or stuff with seasoned rice. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CHEESE. 

One-half pound fresh mushrooms, one-half cup of 
grated cheese. Peel and cut the mushrooms in small 
pieces, stew for five minutes in two tablespoonfuls of 
boiling water, drain well, put in sauce pan, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, stir into it two of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful salt and one-eighth of paprica, and 
the water that was drained from the mushrooms 
with enough cream to make one cup in all. Cook ten 
minutes, stirring. Then add the mushrooms and 
grated cheese, fill the tomatoes with the mixture and 
cover the top with buttered crumbs. Bake with a 
few tablespoonfuls of stock or hot water in the pan. 
Serve on buttered toast. 



134 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CURRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut tomatoes in halves. Put them in a granite 
pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place a tea- 
spoonful of butter on each one. Let them cook till 
soft, but not to lose their shape. Remove on a hot 
dish surrounded with curry sauce. 

TOMATOES WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Prepare and cook the same as for curry tomatoes, 
surrounded with celery sauce. 

TO PREPARE PEPPERS FOR STUFFING. 

Cut a slice from the top, scoop out the inside and 
parboil in boiling salted water five minutes. Stuff 
with any of the mixtures you would use for tomatoes. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH OYSTERS. 

Chop one pepper and a slice of onion very fine. 
Parboil one pint of oysters, drain, cut in small pieces. 
Soak one-half cup of fine bread crumbs in the oyster 
liquor, press out the liquor. Saute the pepper and 
onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter till a light 
brown, add them to the oysters and crumbs. Season 
with salt and pepper, fill up the peppers, and cover 
the top with buttered cracker crumbs. Bake until 
tender. Serve with tomato sauce. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH SWEETBREADS. 

Simmer sweetbreads in boiling salted water, 
with a tablespoonful of lemon juice five minutes, 
then cut in small cubes. Melt two tablespoonfuls of 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 13b 



butter, add to it two of flour and one-half cup of 
chicken stock, the same amount of cream. Season 
with salt and pepper. Cook ten minutes, add the 
sweetbreads, and a half cup of mushrooms if you 
wish, fill the peppers, cover with buttered crumbs. 
Bake and serve on rounds of toast. 

BROILED TOMATOES. 

Cut the tomatoes in thick slices (without peeling) , 
brush over with melted butter and broil, turning fre- 
quently. Lay them on a hot dish, season each slice 
with salt, pepper and a piece of butter. 

CHESTNUT PUREE. 

Kemove the shells by cutting a cross on the flat 
side of each and putting them in a pan in a hot oven 
till the shell bursts open. The shell and skin will 
both come off together. Put them in boiling salted 
water and cook imtil very tender, then drain and 
mash through a potato ricer, or colander. Season 
with butter, pepper, salt and a little cream. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

Eemove the skins, put them on to cook in boiling 
salted water. After they have been cooking five min- 
utes change the water, and change again after ten 
minutes' cooking, then boil till tender, drain, remove 
carefully to a hot dish, put a piece of butter in the 
center of each and a little pepper and salt. A little 
thick cream may be poured over them, or a cream 
sauce. 



136 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ROASTED ONIONS. 

Boil the onions for ten minutes, drain tliem care- 
fully, and remove to a granite pan. Place a good 
sized piece of butter on each one, put in a hot oven 
and cook till tender, baste with melted butter if neces- 
sary to prevent burning. Place on a hot dish and 
season with salt and pepper. Or use as a garnish. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Cut in thin slices (it is best to use the young 
onions), and fry till brown and tender in butter, or 
fry until crisp six thin slices of salt fat pork, put in 
the onions and cook. The pork gives them a delicious 
flavor. Season with salt and pepper. 

SCOLLOPED ONIONS. 

If the onions are large cut in quarters, boil, put 
in a baking dish, cover with cream sauce and buttered 
crumbs. Bake till brown. 

STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. 

Peel and cut out a part of the inside, parboil them 
for five minutes, drain, fill with any kind of force 
meat, mixed with one-third part of moistened bread 
crumbs. Season with salt, pepper and melted butter, 
cover the top with buttered crumbs ; cook in the oven 
till tender. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots when young and tender make a very deli- 
cious vegetable. Wash and scrape them, cook in boil- 
ing salted water. Serve with butter, pepper and salt. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 137 



or a cream sauce. Cut in slices, cubes, strips or 
rounds, with a potato cutter if you like, before boil- 
ing. 

TURNIPS. 

Wash, pare, cut in slices, or fancy shapes. Cook 
and season the same as carrots, or mash and season 
with melted butter, pepper and salt. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, cook in boiling salted water. Sea- 
son the same as carrots. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Cut cold cooked parsnips in halves lengthwise, or 
if very large in half -inch slices. ^ Saute in hot butter, 
brown on both sides. Season with salt. 

BEETS. 

Wash and cook in boiling salted water. When 
tender, drain and plunge in cold water, the skm will 
then slip off easily. Season with butter, pepper and 
salt or vinegar. 

CORN ON THE EAR. 

Strip off the outside husks, leaving enough of the 
husks to completely cover the ear, tie a string around 
the end of each ear to hold the husk. Cook m boilmg 
unsalted water for ten or fifteen minutes, according 
to the age of the corn. Salt would harden the hull. 
Before boiling remove all the silk from the ear, then 
replace the husk. 



138 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Use equal parts of shelled beans and corn, cut 
from the ear, first cooking each separately; mix to- 
gether. Season with cream, butter, salt and pepper. 
In the winter time the dried lima beans, and canned 
corn may be used. Soak the beans over night in cold 
water, cook in boiling water till tender, drain off the 
water, add the corn, reheat and season. 

GREEN PEAS. 

The time for cooking depends upon the freshness 
and age of the peas. Cook them uncovered in boiling 
water, salt them when nearly done. They are done 
when they mash easily with a fork. Let the water 
boil nearly away, and season with butter, cream and 
a little sugar of you wish, or seiwe in a cream sauce. 
Peas contain a great deal of nutrition. 

STRING BEANS. 

Kemove the strings. Lay a number of the beans 
together, with a sharp knife cut them in quarter-inch 
pieces, or cut them lengthwise in thin strips. Cook 
in boiling salted water for one hour or longer. When 
tender season with salt, pepper, butter, cream or a 
cream sauce. 

SHELLED BEANS. 

Wash, and cook in boiling salted water for half 
an hour to an hour. Season the same as string beans. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 139 

DRIED LIMA BEANS 

Are cooked the same as shelled beans, just soaking 
them over night. Beans, like peas, contain a great 
deal of nutrition. 

CELERY. 

Scrape clean, saving the coarse outside pieces for 
soups, sauce or creamed celery. Put in cold water 
for half an hour before using. Serve with the soup. 

CREAMED CELERY. 

Clean, cut in inch pieces, cook in boiling salted 
water. Serve in cream sauce. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

If the shell be hard split the squash, remove the 
seeds, and steam. If the shell is soft pare it before 
steaming. To one pint of squash season with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
a little pepper, and a little heavy cream is a great im- 
provement; mash very lightly. , 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, remove the seeds, place in a pan 
and bake till soft. Mash and season. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Wash and cut in small pieces, cook with or with- 
out the skin and seeds. Cook in boiling salted water 
or steam. AVhen tender, remove to a piece of cheese 
cloth, squeeze till the squash is dry. Mash and sea- 
son. 



140 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CORN MOCK OYSTERS. 

Cut down through the center of each row or ker- 
nels with a sharp knife, with the back of the knife 
press out the pulp, leaving the hull on the cob. To 
one cup of the pulp add two well-beaten eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of butter and a half of salt, little pepper 
and two tablespoonfuls of flour, or enough to hold it 
together. Fry as you would griddle cakes on a but- 
tered griddle, or add a little more flour and drop 
from a spoon into deep fat, making a corn fritter. 
Use canned com the same way. 

SWEET CORN IN CREAM WITH CHEESE. 

Cut the corn from the ears, moisten with thick 
cream, season with salt and pepper; fill a baking 
dish, cover the top with grated parmesan or cream 
cheese. Sprinkle with a little paprica, bake quite 
slowly for half an hour. 

MACARONI, SPAGHETTI AND VERMICELLI. 

Macaroni and spaghetti are used as a vegetable, 
vermicelli for soups and puddings. They are made 
from flour and water, and should be combined with 
sauces or cheese. Cheese is most palatable cooked or 
served with it, as it supplies the fat which the maca- 
roni does not contain. Combined with cheese and 
sauce it makes a most nutritious dish, and should 
enter into our diet more extensively. 

TO COOK MACARONI. 

If the macaroni or spaghetti is to be used for a 
garnish or timbales, do not break it, but place the 
long pieces carefully in boiling salted water. When 
to be used in other ways, break in inch pieces. Cook 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 141 

in boiling salted water till tender, drain in a colander 
and pour cold water over it. This prevents it from 
being stickj. Reheat in a white sauce and serve. Or 
put in a baking dish, cover with white sauce and a 
sprinkling of buttered crumbs on top. Brown in a 
hot oven. 

BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 

Put into a baking dish a layer of cooked macaroni 
then a layer of white sauce, and grated or thinly 
sliced cheese with a sprinkling of salt and paprica. 
Fill up the dish in this way, having the cheese on top. 
Brown in a hot oven. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO OR OTHER SAUCES. 

Cook the macaroni as directed. Mix with the 
sauces and serve^ or mix with the sauces with the ad- 
dition of cheese and buttered crumbs and bake in the 
oven. Individual baking dishes may be used, as well 
as a large dish. 

MACARONI AND EGGS. 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with a layer 
of cooked macaroni, then a layer of hard cooked eggs, 
cut in thin slices. Cover with a white sauce and but- 
tered crumbs, or grated cheese. Brown in a hot oven. 
This makes a very ^ood luncheon dish, it being also 
most nutritious. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Can be cooked the same as macaroni. It is most 
often served without being broken. It then becomes 
an art to wind it around a fork and eat it success- 
fully. 



142 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



SAUCES. 



It is very easy to make good sauces if the proper 
care is taken at the beginning by first melting the but- 
ter and stirring the flour into it, thus forming the 
roux — or thickening. For white sauces the flour is 
not changed. For brown sauces the flour is cooked 
in the oven until brown. Sauces are a great im- 
provement to the dishes they accompany, especially 
so to made-over dishes. Save every scrap of meat 
and bone. It takes a very little to make the stock for 
a sauce. The flavor of vegetables can be obtained by 
sauteing them in butter before the flour is added. 
White sauces should be cooked in a double boiler to 
prevent the milk from burning. A sauce that is made 
by melting the butter, then stirring into it the flour, 
and gradually the liquid, cannot help being a smooth 
sauce, if quickly stirred. It is safer to strain all 
sauces before serving. If you do not have stock on 
hand beef extract can be used in place. In that case 
saute the vegetables flrst in the butter. 



DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE (For Fish). 



2 cups boiling water or ( 3 tablespoonfiils flour. 



white stock. 
Y2 cup butter. 



1/^ teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 



Melt the butter, and when bubbling stir in the 
flour, salt and pepper, gradually stir in the water, or 
stock. Cook ten minutes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 143 

CAPER SAUCE (To Serve with Boiled Mutton). 

Make the same as drawn butter sauce, using the 
liquid the mutton was boiled in instead of water. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of capers. 

WHITE OR CREAM SAUCE. 



2 cups of milk, cream or 

white stock. 
4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1/2 teaspoonful salt. 
Speck of pepper. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler. Melt the but- 
ter in a sauce pan, stir the flour into it, also season- 
ings, when smooth, stir it gradually into the hot milk. 
Cook ten minutes, stirring frequently. This sauce, 
when made partly of cream, can be used for creamed 
toast. 

SHRIMP SAUCE (For Fish). 

Add one cup of shrimps that have been cut in 
small pieces, to a white sauce, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice and a little paprica, or red pepper. Cook 
ten minutes after the shrimps have been added. 

EGG SAUSE (For Boiled Fish). 

Cut two hard-boiled eggs in slices or cubes, add 
to a white sauce, and a teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley, if cared for. , 

LOBSTER SAUCE (For Fish). 

One cup of lobster cut in dice, added to a white 
sauce, one tablespoonful lemon juice, the dried and 
powdered coral. 



144 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

OYSTER SAUCE (Boiled Fish or Fowl). 

Cook the oysters in their own liquors till the 
edges curl. Make a white sauce, using half the liquor 
the oysters were cooked in, and half cream. Add the 
oysters and a little paprica. Serve as soon as the oys- 
ters are added. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut the celery in one-half inch pieces. Cook till 
tender in boiling salted water, let the water cook 
down to one-half cup, make a white sauce with the 
celery water and cream, add the celery, reheat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Peel and break in small pieces one-half pound 
fresh mushrooms. Cook in one-fourth cup of hot 
water for ^ye minutes. Drain from the liquid. 
Make a white sauce by using the mushroom liquor 
and cream, half and half, add the mushrooms, reheat. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE (Using Canned Mushrooms). 

Make a brown roux, using two tablespoonfuls of 
butter and two tablespoonfuls of browned flour. Stir 
into it one cup of brown stock, one-half cupful of the 
liquor from the mushrooms, one teaspoonful salt, a 
little pepper. Cook ten minutes, add the beaten yolk 
of an egg that has been diluted with one tablespoon- 
ful of cream, then the mushrooms. Cook ten min- 
utes longer. Serve with beefsteak or fowls. Canned 
mushrooms can be used with the white sauce made of 
milk, cream or white stock. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 145 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, the same 
amount of capers, chopped pickles and olives, and 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped chives, or m place 
of the chives one-half teaspoonful onion ]uice to two 
cups of drawn butter sauce. 

ALLEMANDE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, using one-half chicken or 
veal stock and one-half milk. When the sauce has 
cooked ten minutes, add to it the yolks of two beaten 
ep'gs mixed with one-half cup of cream. Stir till it 
thickens, but do not let boil. A dash of nutmeg can 
be used. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Cook two slices each of onion and carrot in two 
tablespoonfuls of butter till a light brown. Dram olt 
the butter, reheat and stir into it two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt and a little pepper, 
then gradually add one cup of chicken or veal stock 
and one-half cup of cream. 

POULETTE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, using well-seasoned chicken 
stock that has been seasoned with onion, carrot cel- 
ery, salt and pepper. Just before serving add to it 
one teaspoonful lemon juice, yolk of one egg, diluted 
with two tablespoonfuls of cream and one teaspoonlul 
chopped parsley. Do not add the lemon ]uice until 
iust before sending to the table. The cream and egg 
can be cooked in the sauce about five minutes, cooking 
over hot water. 



146 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CURRY SAUCE. 

Brown two slices of onion in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter. When brown remove the onion and stir 
in two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with a teaspoon- 
ful of curry powder and half a teaspoonful of salt, 
then add two cups of milk or half cream, and make 
the same as white sauce. 

BREAD SAUCE (For Game). (Mrs. Lincoln). 



2 cups of milk. 

1/^ cup fine bread crumbs. 

3 slices of onion. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



y2 teaspoonful of salt. 

Speck of pepper. 

^ cup coarse bread crumbs. 



Cook the fine crumbs and onion in the milk for 
one-half hour (over hot 'water). Remove the onion 
and the salt, pepper and butter creamed. Brown the 
coarse crumbs in butter, sprinkle the crumbs over the 
bird and serve the sauce with it, or aroimd it. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE (For Baked, Broiled or Boiled'Fish). 



y2 cup of butter. 
Yolks of three eggs. 
Juice of half a lemon. 



^ teaspoonful salt. 

Speck of paprica or pepper. 

^ cup boiling water. 



Bub the butter to a cream in a double boiler, beat 
in the yolks one at a time, then add the lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. About ten minutes before using, 
add the boiling water, cook over hot water, stirring 
continuously until it thickens. Potato balls are 
cooked and served in the sauce and poured around 
the fish. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE (For Fish and Veal). 

Cook in double boiler for twenty minutes one-half 
cup of freshly gTated horseradish, and one-half cup 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 147 



of fine bread crumbs, then add one cup of cream and 
season with salt and pepper. If milk is used instead 
of cream, mix with it tbe beaten yolk of an egg and 
just before serving add a tablespoonful of butter. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE (For Fish). 

Pare one good-sized cucumber, grate and drain. 
Season with salt, pepper and tarragon vinegar. Com- 
mon vinegar can be used in place of the other. 

MINT SAUCE (For Lamb). 



1 cup finely chopped mint. 

1/4 cup sugar. 



y2 cup vinegar. 



Mix all together. Serve cold or hot. If cold, let 
it stand an hour before serving. If hot heat only to 
the boiling point. 

MUSTARD SAUCE (Com Beef or Fish). 

Make one cup of drawn butter sauce, add to it one 
tablespoonful of mustard mixed with a tablespoonful 
of vinegar and a little paprica or red pepper. 

CHAMPAGNE SAUCE (For Ham). 

Put in a sauce pan one cup of champagne, or 
white wine, one teaspoonf ul of sugar, one clove, four 
peppercorns. Let them heat very slowly for ten min- 
utes. Strain, add a cup of brown sauce, and if con- 
venient one-half cup of mushrooms. 



148 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



MAITRE D'HOTEL SAUCE. 
(Broiled Fish and Steaks). (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1/4 cup butter. 

y^ taspoonful of salt. 

Speck of pepper. 



1 tablespoonful each of 
chopped parsley and 
lemon juice. 



Rub the butter to a cream, add the salt, pepper 
and parsley and very slowly the lemon juice. 



ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 

Make a white sauce, add to it two yolks of eggs, 
beaten slightly, diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
cream. Dissolve one tablespoonful of granulated gel- 
atine in one cup of highly seasoned hot chicken stock. 
Mix with the white sauce and when cool dip pieces of 
cooked chicken, veal or lamb in it. Wlien cold, dip 
again to give it another coating. Serve very cold on 
lettuce leaves. Garnish with olives stuffed with 
peppers. 

BROWN SAUCE. 



2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
2 slices of onion. 



2 teaspoonfuls lemon juice. 

2 cups of stock. 

Salt and pepper to taste. 



Melt the butter in a sauce pan. When hot, add 
the onion and brown slightly, then add the flour and 
gradually the stock. Cook ten minutes, add the 
lemon juice, salt and pepper. Strain, reheat and 
serve. Stock for brown sauces can be made from 
any kind of meat and bones with the soup stock sea- 
sonings, first soaking the bones and meat in cold 
water for one hour. The different flavors and sea- 
sonings added to the brown sauce make a great variety 
of sauces. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 149 



BROWN MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one-half cup of 
mushrooms. 

SAUCE POINADE. 

To one cup of brown stock add one teaspoonful 
mixed herbs, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, one clove. 
Cook fifteen minutes, strain, reheat with one-half 
cup of claret. Make the sauce a little thicker than 
brown sauce to start with^ as the claret will dilute it. 

BROWN SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

To one cup of brown sauce add one teaspoonful 
each of chopped pickles, capers and olives, having the 
spoons rounding full. 

ROBERT SAUCE. 

To one cup of stock, one teaspoonful made mus- 
tard and two of tarragon vinegar. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE (For Mutton and Game). 

One cup of brown sauce, one-half cup of currant 
jelly. Heat both together and serve. 

OLIVE SAUCE (For Roast Duck). 

Soak one-half cup of olives in cold water for 
thirty minutes to extract the salt. Half of them chop 
fine and the remainder pare roimd and round, as you 
would an apple. Add to one cup of brown sauce. 
Simmer for ten minutes. 

FLEMISH SAUCE. 

One cup brown sauce, one-half cup of carrots that 
have been cut in dice and boiled, one tablespoonful 



150 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

green peas, chopped pickles and grated horseradish, 
a teaspoonful of finely chopped chives or a few drops 
of onion juice. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

Cook in two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped peppers and a teaspoon- 
ful of finely chopped onion. Cook in one cup of 
bro^vn sauce, one-half cup of stewed tomatoes for ten 
minutes. Strain and add slowly to the butter and 
peppers, with a tablespoonful each of capers and 
mushrooms. 

TOMATO SAUCE (No. i). 

Cook one cup of tomato and a slice of onion ten 
minutes, mash through a strainer and add to one cup 
of brown sauce w^ith a half teaspoonful of sugar. Salt 
and pepper to taste, making the brown sauce a little 
thicker. 

TOMATO SAUCE (No. 2— Good for Macaroni). 

One cup and a half of tomato, two slices of onion, 
"^ye peppercorns, one-half teaspoonful salt, one clove 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Cook all together with 
one-fourth cup of water for twenty minutes. Mash 
through a strainer and add it to two tablespoonfuls 
of flour that has been stirred into two of melted but- 
ter. Cook ten minutes. 

CHESTNUT SAUCE (For Roast Turkey). 

Cut a cross in the shell of one pint of large chest- 
nuts. Cook in a hot oven until the shells break open, 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 151 

tlien remove the shell and skin at once. Cook them 
in boiling salted water till very tender. Mash fine, 
either with a masher or potato ricer. Add to the 
turkey gravy made from the drippings of the pan. 
The chestnuts may be added to a cream or poulette 
sauce and served with boiled fowl. 

PORT WINE SAUCE (For Venison). 

One cup of brown sauce, one-half cup port wine, 
one-half cup of currant or grape jelly, one teaspoon- 
ful lemon juice, salt and paprica. Cook all together 
for ten minutes. 

GIBLET SAUCE (Roast Poultry). 

Put the giblets on to cook in warm salted water. 
When tender, chop very fine. Put into a sauce pan 
three tablespoonfuls of the drippings from the poul- 
try, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of flour. When 
foamy add one cup of the liquid the giblets were 
cooked in. Simmer for ten minutes, then add the 
giblets, heat and serve. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Put three pints of washed cranberries in a granite 
sauce pan, on top of them put three cups of granu- 
lated sugar and one cup and a half of water. After 
they begin to boil cook fifteen moinutes, closely cov- 
ered, and do not stir. Remove the scum. Serve as 
a sauce or mash through a strainer and they will jelly. 

APPLE SAUCE (Roast Pork). 

Pare, quarter and core six large, tart apples. 
Put on to cook in a granite sauce pan with one cup of 



152 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sugar and one of water. Cook till soft or remove be- 
fore they lose their shape. Flavor with a little lemon 
juice or nutmeg, if liked. 

PUDDINGS AND ICE CREAM SAUCES. 
PLAIN HOT PUDDING SAUCE. 



2 cups boiling water. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1/4 teaspoonful salt. 
Flavoring, 



Mix the flour, sugar and salt well together ; slowly 
pour on the boiling water, let boil ten minutes, then 
add the creamed butter and flavoring. A great many 
different flavorings may be used with this sauce — nut- 
meg, a teaspoonful of vanilla, tablespoonful of lemon 
and a little of the gTated rind, this makes a lemon 
sauce, or two tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira, or 
one of brandy. A little nutmeg added with any of 
these flavorings is an improvement. 

BROWN SUGAR SAUCE. 

Make the same as plain sauce, using brown sugar 
in place of white. 

MOLASSES SAUCE (Good with Apple and Rice Puddings). 

Melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir into it the same amount of flour and one cup of 
molasses that is diluted with one-half cup of hot 
water. Cook slowly ten minutes, flavor with a little 
lemon juice, vinegar and nutmeg. Half brown sugar 
and half molasses makes a very nice sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 153 



CARAMEL SAUCE. 

Put one-half cup of sugar in a sauce pan. Stir 
till melted and a liglit brown, then add one-half cup 
of boiling water. Simmer for fifteen minutes. 

HOT FRUIT SAUCE. 
Peach, Apricot, Strawberries, Raspberries, Etc. 



1 cup of the fruit or ber- 



ries. 



sugar. 
y2 cup of sugar. 



1 teaspoonful corn starch or 



Mix the corn starch smooth in a little cold water. 
Stir it into the fruit. Boil from ^Ye to ten minutes. 
Mash and strain. 



CREAMY SAUCE. 



Ya cup butter. 

1 cup powdered sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls of cream 
and the same amount of 



wine. 



Cream the butter, add the sugar slowly, then beat 
in the wine; just before serving add the cream. Or, 
add the cream and wine together and cook over hot 
water till smooth and creamy, but not enough to melt 
the butter. A hot or cold sauce can be made from 
this receipt. 



EGG SAUCE. 



Beat one egg very light, five minutes, then beat in 
one-fourth cup of powdered sugar and fold in one- 
half cup of heavy cream, whipped. 



154 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FOAMY SAUCE. 



y^ cup butter. 

1 cup powdered sugar, 

^ cup boiling water. 



3 tablespoonfuls of wine or 

fruit juice. 
"White of one ^^'g. 



Cream the butter, add the sugar and cream, then 
the wine; just before serving add the boiling water, 
Mix it in well and the white of %gg. Beat all together 
with a Dover beater till light and foamy. 



HARD SAUCE. 



y^ cup butter, 

1 cup powdered sugar. 



White of one ^gg^. 
Flavoring. 



Cream the butter and the sugar and cream, then 
fold in the white of ^gg beaten stiff. Flavor with a 
little nutmeg, lemon, vanilla or wine ; pile lightly on 



a serving dish. 



SABAYON SAUCE. 



Put in a sauce pan one-half cup of sherry, one- 
half cup sugar and one beaten ^gg. Beat over the 
fire with a Dover beater till it begins to thicken. 



WINE SAUCE. 



1 cup powdered sugar. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 
1 ^?>^- 



14 cup butter. 

1/^ cup wine. 

A little grated nutmeg. 



Mix the flour and sugar with a few grains of salt 
all together. Pour over them the boiling water, let 
boil ten minutes. Cream the butter and beat the ^gg 
lightly. Add the wine to the hot sauce and pour over 
the ^gg butter and nutmeg. Beat vigorously till well 
mixed. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 155 



WINE SAUCE (No. 2). 



1 cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup butter. 

2 eggs. 



2 tablespoonfuls of wine. 
1 teaspoonful brandy. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, the wine and brandy. Heat through over hot 
water. 



LEMON SAUCE. 



2 cups sugar. 
V2 cup butter. 
Whites of 2 eggs. 



The juice of 2 lemons and 
the grated rind of one. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the lemon juice 
and rind. Just before sending to the table add the 
whites of the eggs beaten lightly. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Grate one cup of pineapple fine, mix with it two 
tablespoonfuls of thick sugar syrup. Serve with 
puddings or fritters. 

RICHELIEU SAUCE (For Hot Puddings). 

Mix one-half tablespoonful of flour with three- 
fourths cup sugar and a few grains of salt. Pour 
slowly over it (stirring all the time) one cup boiling 
water. Cook ten minutes. Eemove from the fire 
and flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla or one 
tablespoonful of wine and two of lemon juice. Add 
one-fourth cup each shredded almonds and candied 
cherries, or pineapple cut in small pieces. 



156 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

GOLDEN SAUCE (Rich and Delicious). 

Cream one-third cup of butter and one cup of 
powdered sugar together. Add the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, juice and grated rind of a lemon, then add 
the whites beaten stiff. Cook over hot water, stirring 
constantly until it thickens like a custard. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Mix together one cup of sugar, two tablespoonf uls 
of flour, one teaspoonful grated orange peel. Pour 
over it all one cup of boiling water. Boil ten min- 
utes. Remove from the fire, add the juice of one 
orange and one-fourth cup of butter creamed. 

SYRUP SAUCES. 

Fruit juices make nice sauces for blanc mange, 
corn starch, rice or cottage puddings. Heat and 
sweeten the juices, thicken with a little flour and 
flavor with wine or nutmeg. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE (For Ice Cream or Puddings). 

Grate two ounces (two small squares) of Baker's 
chocolate and mix with it two cups of sugar and add 
two tablespoonf uls of butter, one-half cup of water. 
Cook to the soft ball stage, flavor with one teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Pour hot over ice cream. 

MAPLE SUGAR SAUCE (For Ice Cream). 

One cup of maple sugar, one-half cup hot water. 
Cook till it forms a soft ball in cold water. One-half 
cup of chopped walnuts may be added to it. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



157 



COFFEE SAUCE. 



1 cup of strong coffee. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 



% cup sugar. 

1/4 cup thick cream. 



Mix the sugar and flour together. Stir them into 
the boiling coffee. Cook five minutes, add the cream 
and serve cold on vanilla ice cream. 



158 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CHEESE DISHES. 



COTTAGE CHEESE. 



Let fresh milk stand in a warm place for two or 
three days or imtil the curd separates from the whey. 
Turn the whey in a double piece of cheese cloth, hang 
it up in a cool place until the curd is free from the 
whey, add salt and a little cream. Shape in balls. 



CHEESE SOUFFLE. 



Melt in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir into it two of flour. When smooth add half a 
cup of milk, half teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of 
cayenjie, or paprica. Cook two or three minutes. 
Add the joWs of three eggs, well beaten, and one cup 
of grated cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add 
the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Turn into a but- 
tered baking dish, set in a pan of hot water, bake 
thirty-five minutes. Or, turn in buttered individual 
dishes and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve 
at once. 

CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Butter crackers lightly, spread over with grated 
cheese, a little salt and paprica. Brown in the oven. 

CHEESE WATER CRACKERS. 

Split Bent's water crackers in halves, moisten by 
dipping quickly in very hot water, spread over with 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 159 



melted butter and French mustard, and a thick layer 
of grated cheese. Season with salt and paprica. 
Place in a hot oven until the cheese is creamy. 

WELSH RAREBIT (No. i). 

One pound of American cream cheese. Herki- 
mer county is the best. One-half cup of ale or beer, 
one-half teaspoonful each of dry mustard and salt, 
one-fourth teaspeonful of paprica. Other seasonings 
can be used. Slices of hot toast or crackers. Cut 
the cheese into small pieces and put it in the chafing 
dish with one tablespoonful of the ale or beer. Stir 
and as it begins to melt add the rest of the ale grad- 
ually. As soon as it is all melted stir in the season- 
ings, then serve at once on toasted bread or crackers. 
Heat the plates. Everything must be very hot, as 
the cheese hardens quickly. 

WELSH RAREBIT (No. 2). 

Make the same as 'No. 1, using milk in place of 
the ale or beer, and one well-beaten egg, mixed with 
the milk. Cream can be used in place of milk. 

CHEESE TIMBALES. 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in double boiler 
and two of flour, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-fourth 
of paprica. Gradually add one-half cup of cream 
and one-half cup chicken stock. When thick and 
smooth, stir into it one cup grated cheese and four 
eggs, beaten well. Pour in buttered timbale moulds, 
bake standing in a pan of hot water until the centers 
are firm. Serve surrounded by a white sauce. 



160 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FROZEN CHEESE (To Serve with Salad). 

Cook the beaten yolks of three eggs with one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt and a little paprica in a 
cup of scalded milk. Cook until it coats the spoon 
like a custard, then add one-half cup of grated cheese 
and one teaspoonful of granulated gelatine that has 
been softened in cold water. Beat until it begins to 
set a little, then fold in one-half cup of cream that 
has been whipped stiff. Pack in a baking powder 
or cocoa can for two hours, in equal quantities of salt 
and ice. 

CHEESE BALLS (To Serve with Salad). 

Mix with one cup and a half of grated cheese, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-fourth teaspoonful salt 
and a little paprica, then add the whites of two eggs, 
beaten stiff. Shape in small balls, roll in finely 
sifted cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat and drain 
on soft paper. 

CHEESE PUDDING (A Good Luncheon Dish). 

Soak one cup of fine bread crumbs in two cups 
of milk. Add the yolks of three eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one-half pound of American 
cream cheese, grated, one-half teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and Worcester- 
shire sauce, one-fourth teaspoonful paprica. Then 
add the stiffly beaten whites. Bake in a pudding 
dish or in individual dishes, until it is puffed up and 
brown, in a hot oven. It will take about thirty min- 
utes for the large dish. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 161 



SALADS. 



Salads should form an important part in our 
menu. The oil which we use w^ith them aids diges- 
tion and is one of the best forms of fat we can use. 
The green salads are the most easily prepared, and 
with a French dressing most appropriate for a dinner 
salad, often with the addition of some other fresh veg- 
etable. Almost all kinds of meat, fish, vegetables 
and eggs with the addition of some kind of greens 
make good salads. It only requires a little thought 
in making the combination to always have a palatable 
salad. 

TO PREPARE THE GREENS. 

All greens should be carefully washed in cold 
water and all poor leaves thrown aside, for the beauty 
of a salad is to have it perfectly fresh. Let the leaves 
remain in ice-cold water for twenty minutes or so, 
then swing them in a wire basket to free them from 
the water or dry each leaf with a napkin. 

TO PREPARE MEAT FOR SALAD. 

Meat for salads should be cut in dice, not smaller 
than a half inch, and should be marinated for one 
hour before serving. Meat salads are the only kind 
that are improved by marinating. 



162 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO MARINATE. 

Mix the meat with a French dressing one hoiir 
before serving. Before mixing the salad together, 
drain off any of marinate which has not been ab- 
sorbed in the meat. 

SOME THINGS THAT CAN BE SERVED WITH A SALAD. 

ISTut, cheese, olive, pickle, nasturtium, lettuce, 
watercress, cucumber, ginger, mint and plain sand- 
wiches, made from all kinds of bread, rolls and 
crackers. Different kinds of cheese, either toasted 
or plain, served with crackers or bread and butter 
sandwiches, cheese souffle, frozen cheese, cheese cro- 
quettes, cheese balls and cheese in any palatable form 
is permissible with salads. Wine or orange jelly 
moulded with nuts or fruits, or plain, is very delic- 
ious served with a salad. 

To Gut Radishes for decorating a salad. 

Radish Roses. — For these use the small, round 
ones. Cut the radish in scollops in two layers. Soak 
in ice water two hours before serving. 

Radish Tulips. — Select small ones of oblong 
shape, cut them in quarters nearly down to the stem. 
Soak. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 



1/^ teaspoonful salt. 
Yq teaspoonful paprlca. 
3 tablespoonfuis of oil. 



1 tablespoonful of vinegar 
or lemon juice. 



Mix in the order given, adding the oil slowly, 
stirring all the time. A little tarragon vinegar with 
the other is considered a great improvement by many. 
One-fourth teaspoonful of dry or made mustard can 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



163 



be added, and a little onion juice. The onion jnice 
is a great improvement when the dressing is to be 
used for potato salad. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 



1 teaspoonful mustard, 

y2 teaspoonful salt. 

^ teaspoonful paprica or a 



little cayenne. 



Yolks of four raw eggs. 
2 cups olive oil, 
2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 



When used for fruit salad take four tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice, without the vinegar. Mix the 
dry seasonings and the egg yolks well together, add 
the oil a drop at a time until it begins to thicken, 
then it can be added a little more quickly. When it 
gets very thick, thin it with a little lemon juice or 
vinegar, then alternate the oil, vinegar and lemon 
juice until it is all used up. Just before serving add 
one-half cup of w^hipped cream. A wooden spoon, 
fork or Dover egg-beater are used to mix the dress- 
ing with, but the best of all to use is the mayonnaise 
mixer. With this mixer the dressing can be made 
much quicker, easier and lighter. Mayonnaise dress- 
ing can be colored any color you wish by using the 
vegetable colorings. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING (Miss Howard). 

Mix half a tablespoonful of mustard, one-half a 
tablespoonful of sugar and one teaspoonful of salt, 
with the yolks of two raw eggs. Add three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and three-fourths of a cup 
of cream. Pour slowly on the mixture (stirring) one- 
fourth of a cup of vinegar. Cook the dressing in a 
double boiler until it thickens (stirring constantly). 
Strain and cool. 



164 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 



1 Ggg- 

y^. cup milk, 

3 tablespoonfulg of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 



y^ teaspoonful salt. 

^ teaspoonful mustard. 

Cayenne or paprica. 



Beat the egg until light, put all the ingredients in 
a double boiler except the vinegar. Cook until it 
thickens. Remove from the stove and add the vine- 
gar. 

COOKED DRESSING (Mrs. Lincoln). 



^ cup of butter, creamed. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
y^ teaspoonful mustard. 
^ teaspoonful paprica. 



Yolks of two eggs beaten 

slightly. 
2 tablespoonfuls hot water. 
2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



Mix the eggs and seasonings together. Add the 
hot water and vinegar. Beat (stirring constantly) 
in a double boiler. When thick and creamy, add the 
creamed butter, stirring. Wliipped cream or ^^^ 
whites can be added. If to be used on fruit salad, 
omit the mustard and use lemon juice in place of the 



vinegar. 



WINE SALAD DRESSING. 



1/^ cup sugar. 
% cup sherry. 



2 tablespoonfuls Madeira or 
2 teaspoonfuls of brand}'. 



Heat them all together until the sugar is melted. 
Cool and serve. 

SOUR CREAM DRESSING. 



1 cup sour cream. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
^ teaspoonful paprica. 



1 tablespoonful horseradish. 
A few drops onion juice if 
desired. 



Add the salt and paprica to the cream, whip until 
thick, then stir in the horseradish and onion juice. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 165 



TARTARE SAUCE. 

To one cupful of mayonnaise add four olives, two 
gherkins and two teaspoonfuls of capers, all chopped 
fine. The olives stuffed with peppers can be used m 
place of the plain olive. 

BEARNAISE SAUCE (To be used Hot or Cold with Meat or 

Fish). 

4 tablespoonfuls of salad 1 t«— of ^hot^water. 



Yolks of four eggs. 

y2 teaspoonful of salt. 

Paprica or cayenne. 



vinegar. 



Beat the yolks, add the oil and water, cook m 
double boiler imtil it thickens, remove, add salt, pep- 
per and vinegar. It should be thick like mayonnaise. 
Butter can be used in place of the oil. Cream three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and cook with the eggs. 
Omit the hot water. When thick, remove from the 
fire, add two tablespoonfuls more of butter creamed 
and the seasonings. 

LETTUCE AND WATERCRESS SALAD. 

Use only the tender leaves. Wash each leaf and 
let them stand in ice water a few minutes beiore 
usins: Dry them, arrange in a bowl with the largest 
leaves on the outside, sprinkle over with chives 
chopped fine, or new onions sliced very thin, biiced 
pickles or olives are sometimes used with the lettuce. 
Kub the bowl with garlic before putting m the lettuce 
if liked. Mix with a French dressing, (xarnish 
with radishes cut to represent roses or tulips. 



166 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Use only tlie lender stalks (the outside can be 
saved for soups and sauces). Scrape and wash each 
stalk, let stand in ice-cold water a half hour before 
using. Dry in a towel and cut in one-fourth inch 
pieces, or into straws one inch long. If cut into 
straws put in ice water for twenty minutes before 
serving to curl them. Mix with either French or 
mayonnaise dressing and garnish with lettuce leaves. 
Celery salad is often served with game. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Cook a chicken or fowl until tender in boiling 
water enough to cover, with a tablespoon ful of salt, 
six peppercorns, one clove, a small bay leaf, one onion, 
several stalks of celery, or two or three of the roots. 
Remove from liquid and when cold cut the meat in 
half-inch pieces. (Save the liquid and bones and 
add to your soup stock). Cut the celery in half-inch 
pieces, using half as much celery as meat. One-half 
cup of walnuts or olives cut in small pieces and added 
to two cups of the chicken and one of celery is an im- 
provement. 

Marijiate the chicken and celery one hour before 
serving, drain off any marinate that is left in the 
dish, mix the nuts or olives or both, with the celery 
and chicken. Arrange in a salad dish, first mixing 
a part of the mayonnaise dressing with the salad. 
Cover the top with mayoTinaise, garnish with celery 
leaves, olives, lettuce or hard-boiled eggs sliced. In 
the summer, when celery is out of season, cucumber 
cut in cubes can be used in place of it. Garnish with 
lettuce or watercress. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 167 



MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD. 

Put the chicken on to cook in warm water with 
all the seasonings and vegetables as for chicken salad. 
Cook until tender, then cook the stock down to two 
cups. Strain and when cold remove the fat. Clear 
the stock (see clearing soup stock), and add to it two 
tablespoonfuls of granulated gelatine that has been 
softened in one-half cup of cold water. Keheat for a 
few minutes to dissolve the gelatine; prepare the 
chicken and celery as for chicken salad. Season with 
salt and pepper. When the stock begins to get cold 
and thicken, beat into it one cup of whipped cream 
and the chicken and celery. Pour into a mould that 
has been decorated with hard-boiled eggs, cut to rep- 
resent daisies, or slices of egg, truffles, or olives. The 
decorations can be held in place by a little of the 
stock. After the gelatine has been added mould in 
individual or one large mould. Kemove on salad 
dish. Garnish with lettuce or celery leaves and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 2). 

Garnish individual moulds or one large one. 
After the garnish is set with a little of the jelly, then 
add a layer of jelly one inch thick. When that has 
hardened, place the salad in carefully and cover it 
with a thin layer of the jelly to hold it firm. When 
that has hardened fill up the mould with the jelly, 
making three layers, with the salad between. Gar- 
nish with greens, lettuce," watercress or celery leaves. 
Serve with mayonnaise. 



168 TPIE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 3). 

Mould in a double mould. If one is not at hand, 
use any two moulds or tins of the same shape, one of 
which is an inch or so smaller than the other. Place 
the larger one on ice, decorate it and hold in place 
with a little of the jelly, then pour enough of the jelly 
to make a layer the same thickness as the width of 
space between the two moulds. When it is set fill the 
smaller mould with ice and set inside of it and fill 
the space between the two with jelly. When that is 
set remove with a spoon the ice from the mould and 
pour into it a little warm water (not hot). The 
mould can then be easily removed. Fill up the space 
with the chicken salad. TTold it in place with more 
jelly. Remove from the mould when cold. Garnish 
and serv^e with mayonnaise. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 4). 
Mould in tomato jelly instead of the chicken 

jelly. 

MOULDED CHICKEN SALAD (No. 5). 

Mould in wine jelly, placing the chicken salad in 
the center. Garnish and serve with mayonnaise. 

MOULDED CELERY AND WALNUT SALAD. 

Use half the quantity of walnuts as of celery. 
Clean and cut the celery in half-inch pieces. Cook 
the walnuts for ten minutes in boiling salted water 
with a slice of onion, a clove and three peppercorns. 
Cut in small pieces. Mix the celery and walnuts 
with just enough mayonnaise to hold them together. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 169 



Mould the same as chicken salad, either chicken, to- 
mato or wine jelly. 

MOULDED SWEETBREADS AND CUCUMBER SALAD 
(Boston Cooking School). 

Simmer one pair of sweetbreads twenty minutes 
in boiling, salted, acidulated water, with a bit of bay 
leaf, a slice of onion and a blade of mace. Cool and 
cut in dice. There should be three-fourths of a cup. 
Soak one-fourth a tablespoonful of gelatine in a table- 
spoonful of cold water and dissolve in two tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Add one tablespoonful and a 
half of lemon juice and a half cup of cream, beaten 
thick. Add the cubes of sweetbreads, one-fourth of a 
cup of cucumber cubes and season with salt and pap- 
rica. Turn into moulds, chill and serve on lettuce 
leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

MOULDING SALADS. 

Any kind of salad can be moulded in the jelliei 
the same as chicken salad. Garnish with the greens 
and serve with mayonnaise, cooked, or sour cream 
dressings. 

TO GARNISH V7ITH CURLED CELERY. 

Cut the stalks of celery in one or two-inch lengths, 
then cut each piece in strips nearly to the center, be- 
ginning at each end, leaving enough whole to hold to- 
gether. Set in ice water one hour before using. 

TO UNMOULD JELLY. 

Place the mould quickly in warm water, remove 
put the serving dish over the top of the mould and 



170 



THE EOCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



invert them together. 



A very little heat will melt 



gelatine. 



TOMATO JELLY. 



1 cup of any kind of strong 

soup stock. 

2 cups tomatoes. 
1 slice of onion. 



clove, 
peppercorns. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful catsup. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 



Boil all together for one-half hour or imtil the 
tomatoes are soft. Soften the gelatine in one-half 
cnp of cold water, then stir it into the tomato when 
dissolved and mould. A very pretty effect is ob- 
tained by moulding it in a ring mould. Have celery 
salad in the center mixed with mayonnaise or a 
cooked dressing, and surround it with lettuce. Or 
mould, with a salad moulded iuside, or in small 
moulds, and garnish a salad around with them. 

Another nice way to serve it is to mould in the 
shape of a cup and fill with a salad, resting on lettuce. 
This is doue the same as (moulded chicken salad 
[N'o. 3) by placing one mould or cup inside of another. 



SOME SALADS TO SERVE IN WHOLE TOMATOES OR 

PEPPERS. 

Equal parts of celery, nuts and apples, or celery 
and nuts, celery alone. Chicken salad, celery and 
sweetbreads equal parts, celery mushrooms aud Eng- 
lish walnuts, equal parts. Grape fruit aud nuts, 
equal parts. Celery, cucumbers and sweetbreads, in 
fact, almost auy salad with the exception of fish and 
fruit salad, are served in tomatoes or peppers. To 
prepare the peppers and tomatoes, scoop out the cen- 
ters and season. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 171 



CELERY JELLY. 



1 cup cold water. 

2 cups celery cut in i/^-inch 

pieces and the roots 
cut fine. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 
3 peppercorns. 



Cook slowly until the celery is very tender, keep- 
ing about a cup of water in it all the time. When 
tender, mash through a strainer. To two cups of 
celery, after it is strained, add one tablespoonful of 
granulated gelatine that has been softened in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water. Keheat until the gela- 
tine is dissolved, then pour in moulds. Mould as 
you would chicken or tomato jelly. 

TO PREPARE WHOLE TOMATOES FOR SALAD. 

Scald and skin them, select all as near the same 
size as possible. Place on ice until half hour before 
serving, then scoop out the center (saving the pieces 
for soup stock, or a sauce). Sprinkle with salt and 
a little pepper, turn over and drain, fill with may- 
onnaise, or any combination you care for. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (To Serve with Fish). 

Peel the cucumbers, place them in ice-cold water 
to become crisp. (Do not add salt, as that wilts 
them). Wipe them dry, place on a flat dish and slice 
very thin without destroying the shape of the cucum- 
ber. Garnish w^ith cress or lettnce. Pour over it all 
a French dressing. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and place in ice water, then cut the cucum- 
ber across in lengths of three inches, scoop out the in- 



172 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

side to form a cup to hold the following salad : Equal 
parts of sweetbreads^ cucumbers and English walnuts 
mixed with mayonnaise. Eill up the cup with the 
salad, set on lettuce leaves, put a teaspoonful more 
mayonnaise on top of each salad and place on it a 
radish cut to represent a rose. 

CUCUMBER SALAD (No. 2). 

Pare and chill a cucumber, cut in half lengthwise, 
remove the seeds and dry. Fill with the following: 
Chop fine the solid part of a peeled tomato, a thin 
slice of new onion, or a few sprigs of chives and a 
couple of stalks of tender celery. Mix with Bear- 
naise sauce, French or mayonaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD. 

Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad dish, then 
a layer of sliced cucumber and one of tomatoes sliced. 
Use a French or mayonnaise dressing. A good din- 
ner salad. 

CUCUMBER AND TOMATO SALAD (No. 2). 

Peel the tomatoes by dipping in boiling water, 
take out the centers, turn them upside down to drain. 
Sprinkle with salt and fill with cucumber that has 
been cut in cubes and mixed with mayonnaise. Serve 
on lettuce leaves. 

ORANGE SALAD. 
(Very Nice to Serve with Game or a Winter Dinner Salad). 

Place a bed of crisp lettuce in a salad bowl, peel 
and cut seedless oranges in one-half inch slices, 
spread them over the lettuce, mix with French dress- 
ing. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 173 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD (To Serve with Game). 

Arrange on lettuce the same as orange salad. Peel 
and remove the pulp from the sections, cut up in inch 
pieces. Serve with French or wine dressing. 



RUSSIAN SALAD (No. i). 

One cup each of cooked carrots, beets, peas and 
string beans, all cut in cubes. Arrange on a salad 
dish in four mounds on four nests of lettuce. Mix 
and cover the top of each with mayonnaise or cooked 
dressing. Garnish the top of the carrot and beet 
salad with capers and pickles cut in fancy shapes, the 
peas and beans, with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg or 
the coral from the lobster. Have a tuft of lettuce in 
the center and arrange around each mound shrimps 
or lobster. 



RUSSIAN SALAD (No. 2). 

Fill the outside of a mould with clear aspic jelly 
and the center with a number of different vegetables 
mixed with mayonnaise. Cover the top with jelly. 
Serve on a flat dish. Garnish with plain or shredded 
lettuce. (See moulding salads). 

STRING BEAN SALAD. 

Use the very small beans. After being cooked, 
cut in half -inch pieces. Serve on lettuce with French 
or mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with the yolk of 
hard-boiled egg that has passed through a potato ricer. 
String beans mixed with peas makes a delicious salad, 



174 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Use only the tips. Cook in salted water until 
tender. Chill, serve with French or mayonnaise 
dressing on lettuce, or in little cups made from the 
new turnips that have been cooked and scooped out. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Two cups of cooked potato balls, or sliced potato. 
Sprinkle over each layer a grating of onion, a little 
celery cut fine, pepper and salt and the yolk of a hard- 
boiled egg, passed throug a strainer. On the top 
sprinkle chopped parsley, mix with Trench or a 
cooked dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish 
around the mound with beets cut in slices or fancy 
shapes. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the meat from a fresh boiled lobster in one- 
inch pieces. Marinate (or mix with a French dress- 
ing) one hour before serving. Keep in a cold place, 
then drain it and mix with it a little mayonnaise. 
Place it on a flat dish surrounded by lettuce leaves. 
Smooth it off, leaving it high in the center. Cover 
quite thick with mayonnaise. Stick in the top the 
heart of the lettuce and sprinkle over it the powdered 
coral of the lobster. 

FISH SALADS. 

Salmon, shad roe or any firm white fish mixed 
with mayonnaise and garnished with lettuce can be 
served as a salad. Olives, pickles and capers are a 
pleasant addition to these salads, or tartar sauce may 
be used with them in place of mayonnaise. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 175 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cook the oysters in their own liquor until they 
are plump (about five minutes). Drain and chill. 
Mix with mayonnaise or tartar sauce. Serve on let- 
tuce, garnish with olives, capers or pickles. Celery 
or tender young cabbage cut fine can be served w^ith 
the oysters. 

WALDORF SALAD. 

Peel two raw tart apples, cut in dice, measure 
and take the same amount of celery cut in small 
pieces, mix with the apples. Mix with mayonnaise 
and serve on nests of lettuce or in red apples with the 
center removed to form cups. Set them on lettuce 
leaves. Have a layer of the dressing on top with a 
heart or small leaf of the lettuce stuck up in the 
center. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD. 

Use equal amount of pineapple cut in dice, cher- 
ries stoned and cut in halves, one-half the amount of 
strawberries cut in halves. Serve with a wine or 
mayonnaise dressing. If mayonnaise is used, mix it 
with one-half whipped cream. Serve the salad in the 
whole pineapple surrounded by lettuce leaves and a 
few sweet peas. Cut off the top of the pineapple 
about one inch deep. Scoop out the inside and use 
for the salad. Drain, chill and fill with the salad 
just before serving. 

A FRUIT SALAD SERVED IN CANTELOUPE. 

Equal parts of the cantaloupe (cut in dice), or- 
anges cut in small pieces and apples, one-half the 



176 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

amount of Englisli walnuts cut in small pieces. Mix 
with mayonnaise, which is one-half whipped cream. 
Select small cantaloupes of uniform size, cut off the 
top and save to use for a cover. (A bow of narrow 
ribbon may be drawn through the top to form a 
handle). Carefully remove the pulp for the salad, 
drain and fill just before serving. Surround each 
one by lettuce leaves. 

OTHER FRUIT SALADS (No. i). 

Equal parts of apple, celery and nuts, mixed with 
mayonnaise or cooked dressing, served on lettuce or 
in cups made from red apples, oranges or lemons. 

FRUIT SALAD (No. 2). 

Mix equal parts of bananas, oranges, white grapes 
and pecan nuts, cut in small pieces. Add a little 
lemon juice and mix with mayonnaise which has a 
part of whipped cream with it. Serve on lettuce 
with some of the dressing on top. Garnish with slices 
of orange and nuts. 

FRUIT SALAD (No. 3)- 

Remove the stone from dates, halve them and 
press into the hole pieces of walnuts. Pour over a 
French or wine dressing. Serve on shredded lettuce. 

GRAPE SALAD. 

Remove the seeds from malaga grapes, stuff each 
one with a filbert nut which has been blanched (let 
them stand in boiling hot water ^ve minutes, then 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 177 



remove the skin). Serve on a bed of lettuce, cover 
with mayonnaise, which is a part whipped cream. 
Garnish around it with sections of orange. 

MANDARIN SALAD (Good Dinner Salad). 

Equal parts of mandarins sliced very thin with 
the skin on, white grapes seeded and halved, bran- 
died peaches, one-half of marachino cherries and figs 
that are fresh and moist cut in inch pieces. Serve 
with wine dressing in punch glasses or in orange 
cups. 

NUT AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Two cups of cucumber, pared and cubed, one cup 
of Brazil nuts blanched and cut in small pieces. Serve 
with ^ French or mayonnaise dressing on lettuce. 
Garnish with radishes cut to form roses. 

CUCUMBER AND RADISH SALAD. 

Use equal parts of cucumber and radishes sliced 
very thin. Serve in layers on lettuce leaves, with 
French dressing. 

CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM SALAD. 

Cut the chicken in dice shape, break fresh mush- 
rooms in small pieces, add a very little hot water, 
cook five minutes. When cold mix with the chicken, 
having equal quantities. Season with salt, mix with 
mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. Garnish by 
placing a few olives stuffed with peppers over the top. 



178 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

SALMON AND CUCUMBER SALAD. 

While the boiled salmon is hot, flake in small 
pieces, sprinkle over it a little lemon juice, onion 
jnice, pepper and salt. Set on the ice; several hours 
before using mix lightly together v^ith thin slices of 
cucumbers cut in halves. Cover with tartar sauce. 
Serve on lettuce. 

TRUFFLE SALAD (A Good Dinner Salad). 

Cut tender stalks of celery in half-inch pieces, 
put sliced truffles to soak in sherry wine for a half 
hour. Have equal quantities of truffles and celery, 
drain the truffles and mix with the celery. Sprinkle 
with a little salt. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce hearts and scatter a few capers over 
the top. 

EGG SALAD. 

Cook six eggs in water just oif the boil for twenty 
minutes, chill and shell them. Cut the whites in 
strings and put the yolks through a potato ricer. Ar- 
range on shredded lettuce, making little nests of the 
whites and filling them with the yolks. Pour lightly 
over them a French dressing. Serve with cheese 
balls and toasted sandwiches or toasted crackers. 
This salad can be made by using little nests of the 
whites and filling them with balls of the yolks that 
have been mashed and mixed with French dressing. 

EGG SALAD (No. 2). 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in halves, remove the yolks, 
mix them with olives, chopped fine and mayonnaise 
dressing. Fill the whites with the mixture and 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



179 



round them on the top to give the appearance of a 
whole yolk. Serve in nests of lettuce or watercress. 

EGG SALAD (No. 3). 

Cut hard-cooked eggs in slices. Serve on water- 
cress. Sprinkle over with finely chopped chives and 
French dressing. 



WATER LILLY SALAD. 



Cut cold hard-hoiled eggs in quarters lengthwise ; 
if the eggs are very large cut in eighths. Place six of 
these pieces in a circle, one pointed end of each piece 
meeting in the center, to represent the lilly. Arrange 
them on lettuce leaves and cover with French dress- 



ing. 



CHEESE SALAD. 



3 eggs cooked hard. 
1^ cups of cream cheese 
cut in small dice. 



1 cup chicken cut in dice. 



Rub the yolks through a ricer, mix with the chick- 
en and cheese. Serve with French or cooked dress- 
ing. Garnish with lettuce, the whites of eggs cut in 
shreds forming little nests around the mound of salad, 
each nest having two or three olives in it, stuffed with 
peppers. 

BIRDS' NEST SALAD. 

Use the soft cream cheeses. Roll into balls the 
size of a bird's egg^ arrange in nests of lettuce, four 
or five balls to a nest. Cover with French dressing 
and sprinkle a few specks of paprica over each egg. 
Or a little green coloring paste can be rubbed in the 
cheese to make the little green eggs. 



180 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Mix with a soft cream cheese, one gherkin and 
three good-sized olives chopped fine and enough may- 
onnaise dressing to shape in its original shape. Chill 
thoroughly. Serve on a hed of lettuce surrounded 
by nasturtium blossoms. Cut in slices for serving. 

AMERICAN CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

One cup of the American cream cheese grated. 
Add to it one tablespoonful of chicken chopped fine, 
three olives, season with salt and pepper and mix 
together with enough mayonnaise to shape it in the 
form of a cream cheese. Chill thoroughly, serve on 
lettuce, surrounded by olives or nasturtium blossoms. 
Cut in slices for serving. 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred a red or white cabbage very fine, mix it 
with a French dressing, using twice the amount of 
vinegar as is used for French dressing, or cover with 
the following dressing: Heat half a cup of vinegar 
with one teaspoonful each of salt and sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of mustard, a little pepper and pap- 
rica. While hot stir into it a tablespoonful of but- 
ter creamed, then pour over the beaten yolks of two 
eggs. Cook over hot water until it thickens a little. 
Mix the dressing with the cabbage while hot. Serve 
cold alone as a salad or with broiled fish or fried 
oysters. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 181 



EGGS. 



Eggs are a very valuable food, being bigbly nutri- 
tious and easily digested. Almost any of tbe fol- 
lowing receipts can be prepared in the chafing dish 
on the table. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. i). 

To cook the eggs soft, place in boiling water. Set 
on the back of the stove where it won't boil, for eight 
minutes, at a high altitude, one minute less for sea 
level. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. 2). 

Another way of cooking the egg soft is to place it 
in cold water on the stove, remove as soon as they 
reach the boiling point. Cooking eggs either by ISTo. 
1 or ^o. 2, you will find the albumen is creamy and 
easily digested. Boiling eggs makes the albumen 
hard and horny, not easily digested. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL (No. 3)- 

To cook an egg hard, place in boiling water, set 
on the back of the stove from twenty minutes to a 
half hour. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Place in a frying pan as many mufiin rings as 
you have eggs to poach, drop an egg in each ring, then 



182 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

turn in enough boiling water to cover them. Add a 
little salt, cook slowly on the side of the range. It 
should take from ten to fifteen minutes to cook them. 
Remove carefully, using a pancake turner, or a wide- 
bladed knife, onto a round piece of toast ; remove the 
rings. Season with a little salt, pepper and apiece of 
butter. Serve on a platter. Garnish with water- 
cress or parsley. Before toasting the bread cut the 
slices into rounds with a large sized biscuit cutter. 
To poach the eggs without rings break carefully in 
the boiling salted water. 

POACHED EGGS (No. 2). 

Add a little salt to the white of the egg, and beat 
it into a stiff froth, place it into a cup, and carefully 
drop the yolk (so as not to break it) into the center. 
Set the cup in a dish of boiling water, cover and boil 
four minutes. At the sea level three minutes would 
be long enough. Season with a little butter, salt and 
pepper. Serve in the cup. A good way to serve an 
egg to an invalid. 

POACHED EGGS (No. 3). 

Spread the toast with creamed chicken, minced 
ham, anchovy or sardine paste, and place a poached 
egg on top. Or, serve poached eggs with boiled ham 
or bacon. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Put a little butter in a frying pan, when it is hot 
break in the eggs ; cook slowly. If they are to be 
served hard, turn them and cook on the other side. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 183 



SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat the eggs lightly, just enough to mix them. 
To each egg add two tablespoonfuls of milk, or half 
milk and half cream, a little salt and pepper. Put in 
a sauce pan a tahlespoonful of butter, when it bub- 
bles add the eggs and stir constantly until they set. 
They should be just a little firm, but not hard. They 
can be mixed with chopped meats, chives, tomato that 
has been cooked, parsley, or anything that one has, to 
give a good flavor. 

SHIRRED EGGS. 

Individual baking dishes are generally used, al- 
though several can be cooked in one large dish. But- 
ter the dish, break into it an egg^ sprinkle a little salt 
on the whites, cover with a tahlespoonful of thick 
cream, or baste several times while baking with 
melted butter. Set the dish in a pan of hot water, 
cook until quite firm to the touch.v 

EGGS COCOTTE. 

Butter individual baking dishes, and line with a 
paste of fine bread crumbs mixed with cream, or 
sprinkle the dish over with finely chopped ham, 
chicken or mushrooms mixed to a paste, with a little 
cream, or sauce, and seasoned. Lining with a thin 
layer, break in the egg and cook the same as shirred 
eggs. When done cover the top with a little cream, 
to'dato, or bechamel sauce, and sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 



184 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

OMELETS. 

It is better to make several small omelets than 
one large one. An omelet should be served at once, 
and let the family wait for the omelet rather than 
the omelet for the family. With a little care 
one can soon become an expert at making them. They 
should cook slowly, be a delicate brown when done* 
Avoid burning. 

OMELET (No. i). 

Beat the yolks of two eggs until light and foamy, 
and one-fourth teaspoonf ul of salt, a little pepper and 
a tablespoonful of milk for every egg used. Beat the 
whites stiff, fold lightly into the yolks, melt a tea- 
spoonful of butter in an omelet pan (it is best to 
keep this pan for omelets alone). Let the butter 
cover the pan, when bubbling turn in the omelet, 
cook slowly and carefully until brown on the bottom, 
then set the pan on the upper grate in the oven for a 
minute to dry. When the center is dry as you cut 
into it, run a knife around the edge, then under the 
half nearest the handle, and fold over to the right, 
then invert the omelet on a hot platter ; garnish with 
parsley. 

OMELET (No. 2). 

Beat two eggs slightly, add one tablespoonful of 
milk, one-fourth teaspoonf ul salt and a little pepper. 
Melt a teaspoonf ul of butter in the omelet pan, when 
bubbling pour in the egg. With a fork break the egg 
in several places, letting the uncooked egg run under 
and brown. When the egg is set, fold and serve on a 
hot platter the same as for omelet ISTo. 1. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 185 

A VARIETY OF OMELETS. 
CHEESE OMELET. 

Make the same as 'No. 1 or 2. Add one-fourth 
cup of grated cheese to the yolks of two eggs, and a 
little paprica. 

RUM OMELET. 

Make the same as omelet ISTo. 1. Have the omelet 
slightly underdone; just before sending to the table 
pour two tablespoonfuls of brandy around it, dip a 
block of sugar in the brandy, set it on top of the ome- 
let and touch a lighted match to it, or light on the 
table. 



Pour a cream-tomato or mushroom sauce around 
omelets. 



A good change is to mix chopped chives or parsley 
with the omelet before putting in the pan. 



HERB OMELET. 



Mix chopped parsley, chives, chervil and tarragon 



with the eggs before cooking. 



Mix chopped chives or parsley with the omelet be- 
fore putting in the pan. 



HAM OMELET. 



Stir into omelet No.! two tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped ham. The same amount of chicken can be 
used, or mushrooms. 



186 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PEA OMELET. 

Cover the omelet just before folding with a layer 
of creamed peas. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Broiled tomatoes may be used to cover the omelet 
before turning, or garnish the omelet with a row of 
them. 

JELLY OMELET. 

Make the same as 'No. 1 ; omit the pepper ; allow 
a teaspoonful of powdered sugar to each egg; when 
ready to fold, cover over with a layer of jelly or mar- 
malade. 

ORANGE OMELET (Mrs. Lincoln). 

The thinly grated rind of one orange and three 
tablespoonfuls of the juice, three eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Beat the yolks 
and the sugar, rind and juice. Fold in the whites 
and cook as omelet ISTo. 1. Turn out, sprinkle thick- 
ly with powdered sugar and score in diagonal lines 
with a clean red-hot poker. The burnt sugar gives 
the omelet a delicious flavor. 

PINEAPPLE OMELET. 

Make the same as omelet No. 1 ; omit the pepper 
and part of the salt; add to the yolks two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and one-half cup of grated 
pineapple. 'V\Tien done sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and score the same as for orange omelet. Gar- 
nish if you like with slices of pineapple. Orange and 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 187 



pineapple omelets make delicious and quickly pre- 
pared desserts. 

EGGS COOKED IN WHOLE TOMATOES. 

With a pointed knife take out the center of the 
tomato, season with salt and pepper, drop into it a 
whole egg, cover the top of the egg with a little 
cream sauce, set in a buttered pan and bake in the 
oven until the egg is finn ; remove to a platter, gar- 
nish around them with a cream sauce. The sauce can 
be omitted entirely, covering the top of the egg with 
a piece of butter. 

EGGS IN GREEN PEPPERS. 

Parboil the peppers in boiling water for ^ve min- 
utes ; when cool cut about an inch from the pointed 
end, take out the seeds, and cut off the stem; sprinkle 
the inside with salt and pepper, and break an egg 
into each, put a little piece of butter on top and place 
in an agate plate, bake in the oven t^venty minutes, 
or until the egg is firm. Serve on a slice of toast, 
surrounded with white or tomato sauce. 

EGGS EN COQUILLE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Cut slices of stale bread in large rounds ; with a 
smaller cutter, cut half way through and scoop out 
the center, leaving a cavity large enough to hold an 
egg ; dip the bread shells in egg beaten with a little 
milk, and saute or fry in deep fat a delicate brown. 
Place them on a platter, cover with hot cream sauce, 
or poultry gravy. Serve a poached egg in each shell. 
The shells may be covered with melted butter and 
browned in the oven. 



188 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

POACHED EGGS A LA HOLLANDAISE. 

Split and toast some round muffins; put on each 
a round thin slice of broiled ham, and on the ham a 
poached egg. Pour over the top of each some Hol- 
landaise sauce. 

POACHED EGGS WITH CELERY SAUCE. 

Place a poached egg on a round slice of toast and 
surround it with celery sauce. Take one cup of cel- 
ery cut in half inch pieces and cook in boiling salted 
water till tender. Make a white sauce by using two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and butter, one-half cup of 
cream and the same amount of the water the celery 
was cooked in (letting the water cook down to that 
amount), one-fourth teaspoonful salt, a little pepper. 
After the sauce has cooked over hot water ten min- 
utes, add the cooked celery, reheat and serve. 

EGG BALLS TO SERVE IN SOUP. 

Mash the cooked yolks of four hard-boiled eggs 
through a sieve, season with a little salt nnd pepper, 
one-half teaspoonful of melted butter and enough 
raw yolk of an egg to make the mixture the right 
consistency to mould in little balls. Then poach them 
in hot water, or dip in white of egg and flour. Saute 
in butter. It takes about three minutes to cook them. 

EGG TIMBALES (Miss Barrows). 

Beat four eggs slightly, add one cup of milk, 
chicken or veal stock, season with salt and pepper, 
and if desired onion juice and chopped parsley. 
Turn into buttered small moulds, and steam or bake 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 189 



in a pan of hot water till firm in the center. Turn 
out and serve hot with a cream or tomato sauce, or 
garnish with sliced cucumbers or olives. 

CURRIED EGGS. 

Cook six eggs in hot water twenty minutes. Ke- 
move the shells and with a sharp, thin knife cut in 
slices. Saute one tablespoonful of finely chopped 
onion to two tablespoonfuls of butter, till a delicate 
brown, add two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed with 
one-half tablespoonful of curry powder, stir until 
smooth, then add slowly one cup of white stock, cream 
or milk. Season with salt and pepper, cook till the 
onion is soft, then add the eggs when they are heated 
through. Serve on toast, or cover hot toast with slices 
of hard-boiled egg, and cover with the sauce. 

CURRIED EGGS (No. 2). 

Boil rice so every kernel is separate (see boiling 
rice), make little nests of it and place in each nest 
one hard-boiled egg that has first been dipped in the 
sauce, then pour a tablespoonful more of the sauce 
over the egg. 

STUFFED EGGS (No. i). 

Cut hard cooked eggs in two lengthwise. Ke- 
move the yolks and mash fine. Mix with them any 
finely chopped meat; ham or chicken are the best. 
If convenient a few mushrooms or trufEes chopped 
fine, a little cream or any kind of sauce, a gherkin or 
a few capers if cared for. Season with salt and pep- 
per, fill the whites with the mixture, smooth them 



190 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

over the top and rub a little raw egg over them, press 
the tv^^o halves together. Make a mound of the re- 
maining yolks, place it in the center of the platter 
and the eggs around it, and pour around the eggs 
a cream sauce. 

STUFFED EGGS (No. 2). 

Prepare and stuff the eggs (as stuffed eggs No. 
1). Roll them in fine crumbs, then in egg, and in 
crumbs again. Fry in deep fat a rich brown. Serve 
surrounded by a white or tomato sauce. 

EGGS WITH CHEESE. 

Cut cold, hard cooked eggs into slices. Butter a 
baking dish, cover the bottom with a layer of 
the egg, then a layer of grated cheese sprinkled over 
with paprica and a covering of cream sauce, and so 
on until the dish is full, having the cheese on top. 
Cook in a hot oven till the cheese is brown. This 
can be baked in individual dishes and makes a very 
good luncheon dish. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 191 



SANDWICHES. 



Sandwiches, like salads, can be made in great va- 
rieties, only care and thought must be taken in select- 
ing the combinations. 

Sandwiches can he made from white, brown, gra- 
ham bread, fresh rolls, crackers, etc., and may be cut 
in any shape, with or without the crust. To many 
the most appetizing part of the bread is sacrificed 
when the crust is removed. 

Some of the shapes may be cut in squares, rounds 
(with a biscuit cutter), triangles, hearts or rolled. 
To Iceep sandiviches moist cover with a damp napkin. 
The butter for sandwiches can be either salted or un- 
salted, and should be creamed before spreading, as it 
then will spread evenly without breaking the bread. 
Seasoning of chopped mint leaves or parsley, spinach 
juice, that has been crushed and pressed through a 
cloth, a little tarragon vinegar, onion juice, if cared 
for, capers, pickles, nasturtiums, or olives finely 
chopped. 

Cut the bread in very thin slices, trimming off 
the crust before slicing, the crust and the trimmings 
can be dried for crumbs. PTave the slices fit evenly 
one upon the other. Bread for sandiviches should be 
fine grained and a day old. Rolls used for sand- 
wiches should be fresh and small. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES. 

Lay a crisp, dry leaf of lettuce between thin slices 
of buttered bread, sprinkle with salt. Mayonnaise 
can be used in place of the butter. 



192 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

WATERCRESS SANDWICHES. 

Wash and dry the watercress, crash the leaves a 
little and prepare the same as lettuce sandwiches. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered graham bread with mixed mus- 
tard, a layer of cottage cheese, then with a layer of 
chopped olives or pickles mixed with mayonnaise. 

MEAT SANDWICHES. 

Spread the bread with butter or mayonnaise, or 
mix the meat with mayonnaise. A crisp lettuce leaf 
or watercress can always be used with the meat; 
chop chicken and celery together, mix with mayon- 
naise or fresh dressing. Thinly sliced meat of any 
kind, seasoned with salt and pepper, and mustard if 
ham is used ; spread over with mayonnaise or French 
dressing, if liked. Meats chopped or pounded to a 
paste mixed with hard-boiled eggs, maslied, a little 
cream, season with salt and pepper, and if you like, 
a little onion juice. 

Chopped ham mixed with mustard, a little cream 
or mayonnaise, and a little chopped pickles or olives. 

Chickens' livers cooked till tender with a thin 
slice of onion, a few peppercorns and salt, chopped 
very fine mixed with cream, or mayonnaise. 

Game can be prepared the same as meat. A few 
chopped olives or pickles mixed witli it is an im- 
provement. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered bread with a little chopped pars- 
ley, watercress or olives, and cover with thin slices 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 193 

of hard-boiled egg. Chop the eggs fine, mix with 
mayonnaise, lay the egg between crisp lettuce leaves. 
Sliced boiled eggs can be covered with mayonnaise 
and laid between lettuce leaves. 

FISH SANDWICHES. 

Anchovies or sardines can be freed from the bone 
pounded to a paste and moisten with a little lemon 
juice, or mixed with finely chopped pickles, olives or 
capers, served between thin slices of toasted bread 
or crackers, or the plain buttered bread or crackers. 
These sandwiches are sometimes served for the first 
course at a dinner, surrounded by lettuce or water- 
cress, as an accompaniment to oysters or alone. 

Shad Roe, made very fine, seasoned with salt, 
pepper and a little lemon juice and spread between 
lettuce leaves if you like. With bread or crackers 
any fresh boiled fish can be used in the same way. 

NUT SANDWICHES. 

Peanuts, walnuts, pecan, almonds and almost any 
kind of nut can be used for sandwiches. Chop them 
fine, mix with cream, mayonnaise or French dressing, 
or with cream or E^eufchatel cheese. 'Rut sandwiches 
are very nice made of graham or brown bread, as 
well as white bread. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut American or Swiss cheese in thin slices, cover 
with a thin coating of French mustard and put be- 
tween buttered graham or rye bread. Any kind of 
grated cheese can be mixed with salt, paprica, a little 
cream or butter and spread between slices of brown. 



194 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



graliam or white bread or crackers, l^eufchatel 
cheese nibbed to a paste and put between thin slices 
of brown bread. 

Grated cheese and anchovies mixed with salt, pap- 
rica and a little vinegar. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. 

Cut slices of bread two inches square. Cut from 
the square a small square of bread, leaving the box a 
half inch thick all around, fill the space with a piece 
of American cheese, sprinkle it over with a little salt 
and paprica, cover tlie top with a thin slice of the 
bread, thus forming a box, brush over with melted 
butter or beaten white of an egg, brown in a hot oven. 
These are delicious. Serve very hot on hot plates. 

CLUB HOUSE SANDWICHES. 

Use four pieces of toasted bread spread with may- 
onnaise dressing. Cover two of these with lettuce 
leaves, lay thin slices of cold chicken upon the lettuce, 
over this thin slices of cold bacon or minced ham, 
then more lettuce, cover with the other slices of toast 
that have been spread with mayonnaise. Garnish 
with lettuce leaves and mayonnaise. 

HOT HAM OR CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Spread buttered bread with chopped ham or chick- 
en. If ham is used, mix it with a little mustard and 
moisten with a little cream if necessary. Mix chopped 
chicken with pepper, salt and a little cream or chicken 
gravy. Dip each sandwich into a slightly beaten egg 
that has been diluted with two tablespoonfuls of 
milk. Saute in butter, browning both sides. This 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 195 



can be browned in tbe chafing dish or on the stove. 
Serve with pickles or olives. 

SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Spread thin slices of buttered bread with any 
kind of jam, jelly, preserves, candied fruits; the 
bread can be cut in fancy shapes or the sandwiches 
rolled. For rolling very fresh bread should be used, 
and the sandwiches should be fastened together with 
wooden toothpicks for an hour before serving, keep- 
ing them moist by covering with a napkin wrung out 
in cold water. Spread thin slices of bread with 
orange marmalade or preserved ginger cut in thin 
slices. 

GINGERBREAD SANDWICHES. 

Bake gingerbread in thin sheets, when cold cut it 
open and into shapes for sandwiches. Spread with 
cream cheese and thin slices of preserved ginger, or 
the ginger can be chopped fine. These are nice to 
take on a picnic. • 



196 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CANAPES. 



Canapes are served hot and are thin slices of 
bread. Saute in butter, or browned in the oven. 
They are cut in circles or strips. Sometimes they 
are used as the first course at a luncheon and some- 
times as a dessert. 

ANCHOVY OR SARDINE CANAPES. 

Spread strips or rounds of sauted bread with an- 
chovy or sardine paste that has been mixed with a 
little lemon juice. Arrange on top rosettes of hard- 
boiled eggs, chopped fine, the white and yolks ar- 
ranged separately, or in alternate lines down the 
canapes cut in strips. 

HAM CANAPES. 

Cut thin slices of bread in rounds with a large 
biscuit cutter. Saute in butter or brown in the oven. 
Chop boiled ham very fine, mix with mustard and a 
little cream spread on the bread, cover the top with 
grated cheese with a sprinkling of paprica, put in a 
hot oven for a few minutes for the cheese to melt. 

CHEESE CANAPES. 

Cover pieces of sauted bread with grated parme- 
san cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprica, brown in 
the oven. Serve at once. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 197 

CHICKEN CANAPES. 

Chop chicken and celery very fine, half and half, 
season highly, mix with gravy, stock or cream spread 
on sauted bread and serve with thin slices of hard- 
boiled egg in rows down the center. 

PRUNE OR FIG CANAPES. 

Soak the fruit in cold water for ten minutes, cook 
in a little hot water till tender, cut the figs in quar- 
ters, remove the stones from the prunes. Stew the 
fruit with sugar and a little water, using one table- 
spoonful of sugar and half a cup of water to a cup 
of the fruit. When the sugar and water is mostly 
cooked in the fruit, add two tablespoonfuls of sherry 
wine, cook for two or three -minutes and place on 
sauted squares or roimds of bread, cover the top with 
whipped cream. These make a very nice dessert and 
can be cooked on the chafing dish. 

FRUIT CANAPES. 

All kinds of preserved fruit can be used, the fruit 
being heated and a little wine added if cared for, 
placed on the sauted bread, covered with whipped 
cream. Peaches and pineapple are particularly good 
served in this way. A little brandy can be added to 
the peaches. 

ALEXANDRA CANAPES. 

Butter small rounds of toasted bread, cover each 
piece with anchovies. Scatter over them hard-boiled 
eggs, olives and capers chopped together very finely. 

APRICOT Canapes. 

Cut thin slices of bread into rounds. Saute a 
delicate brown in hot butter, cover with apricot mar- 
malade and dot with whipped cream. 



198 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PASTRY. 



The pie, although greatly abused, has more 
friends than any other dessert. In 'New England, 
not many years ago, it was the custom to make up 
enough mince pies a week before Thanksgiving to 
last a good part of the winter. In many homes the 
custom is still carried out. It was no unusual sight 
to see forty or fifty pies all ready for the brick oven. 
The beauty of a pie is to have the pastry light and 
flaky and well brownd. 

A well made plain pastry is good enough for most 
any pie. But the puff paste greatly improves a mince 
pie, especially for special occasions, like Thanksgiv- 
ing or Christmas. The puff paste is used mostly for 
pate shells, tarts, cheese straws, etc. 

PLAIN PASTRY (Enough for One good sized Pie). 



lYz cups of flour. 

V2 cup of lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 



Ys teaspoonful of salt. 
Ice water. 



Sift the flour and salt together, cut in the lard 
with a knife or rub in with the tip of the flngers, then 
cut in just ice water to hold it together. In putting 
in the water add only a few drops at a time, so as not 
to get too much. The pastry should be dry. Flour 
the board well, and roll out the pastry lightly, pat- 
ting it with the rolling pin to get in shape to roll. 
Cover it over with one tablespoonful of butter cut in 
little bits ; sprinkle a little flour over the butter. (The 
pastry should be rolled in an even square). Fold over 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 199 



the two sides to nearly meet in the center, then fold 
the ends over to the center, and the ends over again 
one over the other, making a square piece of pastry; 
pat and roll out again, place in the other tablespoonful 
of butter and roll and fold in the same v^ay ; roll and 
fold once more, making three times in all. The pas- 
try is then ready for use. All pastry is better to re- 
main on the ice some time before using. It can be 
kept a week or more in this way. 

PUFF PASTE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Four cups of flour (or one pound), two cups of 
butter (or one pound), one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
ice water. This amount makes about twelve pate 
shells. 

Put the butter in a bowl of ice water, work it 
with the hands or wooden spoon until it becomes 
smooth and waxy. This is to wash out the salt and 
make it lighter. Then knead it in a napkin to get 
out all the water, pat it in half a dozen flat thin strips, 
lay it flat on a napkin in a pan ; place this pan be- 
tween two pans that are filled with cracked ice. This 
is done to thoroughly chill the butter. Sift tlie flour 
and salt together, mix it to a stiff dough with ice 
water, using a knife and only a few drops of water 
at a time. Then knead it on the board imtil it is 
smooth, place on the ice for thirty minutes. Then 
flour the board well and toss the ball of dough in it, 
using a knife; then roll out in a long sheet. Take 
one piece of the butter from the ice, roll it in a little 
flour, cut in thin strips and place on the pastry ; fold 
over the sides of the pastry, letting the edges just 
meet in the center. Then fold the ends over to the 
center and double it over again; pound gently in a 



200 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

flat cake and roll out again. Roll each piece of butter 
in the same way. After tlie butter is all in, roll and 
fold once more, or as many more times as you care to 
do it. Should the paste become soft and sticky, put 
it on the ice for a while, then flour the board well 
and roll out. The 'paste should be folded and rolled 
till no streaks of butter remain. Then place it on 
the ice to chill, or cut out in the shapes to be used, 
place in the pans and chill on the ice for thirty min- 
utes before baking. 

TO BAKE PUFF PASTE. 

The dough should be ice cold before putting in 
the oven. The oven should be hot, the greater heat 
at the bottom so the paste may rise before browning. 
It is well to place an asbestos mat or paper on the 
grate above them so they will not brown too soon. A 
brown crust over the top will hold them down and 
prevent them being as light. Pate cases should bake 
about twenty-five minutes, and tarts fifteen minutes. 

TO MAKE PATE SHELLS FROM PUFF PASTE. 

Roll the paste to a quarter of an inch thickness. 
Cut into rounds with a fluted or plain cutter. Use 
the circles or rounds for one pate shell ; cut a hole in 
the center of two with a small cutter. Moisten the 
edge of each circle with a very little water, as too 
much water will hold the edges down and make them 
heavy. Place the two rings with the holes cut in 
them on top of the whole round, pressing the edges 
lightly together. Glaze them on the top with an egg 
if you like; the egg must not go over on the edges. 
Use the small pieces that are cut from the rounds for 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 201 

covers after the cases are filled. Bake them in a sep- 
arate pan as thej do not require as long a baking. 
Tarts — Are made with the two layers, cutting 
one in a circle and placing it on the round the same 
as for a pate. Fill with jelly, jam, preserves or 
lemon cream, the same as for lemon pie, first cooking 
the lemon cream in a double boiler. When cool fill 
the tart shells. Serve cold. 

VOL AU VENT. 

Can be cut in any shape required, a large round being 
most often used. Roll out the puff paste one-half 
inch thick ; turn a pie plate upside down on the paste, 
press it down to make a marking, and cut out with a 
sharp knife. Put two or three rims around the edge 
as you would a pie, only thicker ; place in a large pan 
on a paper; bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes. 
Fill with any kind of cream, meats, mushrooms or 
oysters, or serve as a dessert, filled with stewed fruits 
covered with whipped cream. 

PUFF PASTE STRIPS. 

Eoll out the paste one-fourth an inch thick, cut 
in strips with a pastry wheel one inch wide and four 
inches long; bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 
On a papered pan spread a strip with apricot or 
raspberry jam, cover with a strip, place a meringue 
over the top, brown in the oven and serve as a dessert. 
Cut puff paste in a three-inch square, bring the four 
corners to the center, moisten them a little to keep 
in place. Bake for twenty minutes and put a little 
jam or jelly in each corner, with a little whipped 
cream on the jelly. 



202 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

TO GLAZE PASTRY. 

Beat an egg slightly, then mix with it a table- 
spoonful of water. Brush over the pastry with a 
brush very lightly, and dust with a very little pow- 
dered sugar. This gives a brown and glossy look. 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

Roll puiT paste thin, s]n'inkle with grated cheese 
and a little paprica. Fold and roll out, sprinkle and 
fold twice more; roll the last time one-half inch 
thick, cut into straws, place in the pans, put on the 
ice for half an hour; bake in a hot oven for ten or 
fifteen minutes. 



APPLE PIE. 

Cut sour apples in quarters, peel aud core, and 
slice. Place them evenly in the plate, piling a little 
in the center. Cover with half a cup of sugar; sea- 
son with one-half teaspoonful cinnamon or grated 
nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of butter. Tu the spring 
of the year when the apples have lost their flavor, 
season with lemon juice and a little of the grated 
rind. Cut slits in the upper crust for the steam to 
escape, dam]^en the edges of both upper and under 
crust, press them together. Place around the edge a 
half inch strip of the pastry ; moisten it before put- 
ting on so it will cling to the crust. Bake about thir- 
ty minutes in a hot oven, try the apples to see if done, 
with a straw or fork. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 203 



SQUASH PIE. 



1 cup dry sifted squash. 
iy2 cups scalded milk, 
y2 cup sugar. 



1/4 taspoonful salt. 

14 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

2 eggs. 



Mix in the order given. ' Line a plate with pastry, 
put on a rim. Bake until the center is firm. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

Make the same as squash, only season with one- 
fourth teaspoonful each of ginger and cinnamon. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat three eggs slightly, then heat in six table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
nutmeg or cinnamon. Pour on to this mixture two 
cups of scalded milk. Line a deep plate with pastry, 
put a rim around and hake slowly. Watch carefully, 
when it puffs up take out at once. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

If the rhuhard is very young and tender do not 
peel it. If the skin has become tough peel, cut in half 
inch pieces. Line a plate with the crust, fill with the 
rhuhard, sprinkle with one cup of sugar, and a tea- 
spoonful of butter; if liked flavor with cinnamon or 
nutmeg, cover with a crust and put a rim around 
it. Bake in a quick oven for about thirty minutes. 

BERRY PIES. 

Pick over and wash the berries, line a plate with 
pastry, fill with the berries, sprinkle with half cup of 



204 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

sugar, or more if the berries are very acid ; cover with 
a crust; bake. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Stew the cranberries. Line a plate with pastry, 
and a rim of pastry around it. Fill with the cooked 
cranberries, having them cold, and cover the top with 
strips of pastry about half an inch wide, having them 
cross each other to form little squares. Bake. A 
Thanksgiving pie. 

APPLE TART PIE. 

Make the same as cranberry pie. Stew the ap- 
ples, sweeten and season with lemon juice and nut- 
meg. 

PRUNE, APRICOT OR PEACH PIE. 

Line a deep plate with pastry and bake, or invert 
the pie plate, and bake the pastry on the outside of 
it. When cold fill with the stewed fruit, cover the 
top with whipped cream. 

Peach Pie can be made the same as a sliced apple 
pie. 

DELICIOUS LEMON PIE (Boston Cooking School). 

Beat two eggs with the yolks of two more ; add one 
cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, and the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon ; mix all together, bake in a 
crust-lined plate till it puffs up, and when a knife 
will come out of it clean ; cover with the following 
meringue : Beat the whites of three eggs until stiff. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



205 



beat in four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar grad- 
ually, then fold in three more tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Bake about ten minutes in a slow oven. 

LEMON PIE (With Corn Starch). 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of corn starch with one 
cup of sugar; add one cup of boiling water, boil ten 
minutes take from the stove; add a teaspoonful of 
butter, one whole egg and one yolk, the grated rind 
and juice of a lemon. Bake between crusts or with 
a meringue. 

CREAM PIE. 

Boil one cup and half of milk; stir into it one- 
fourth cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn starch 
or flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt; stir until 
smooth. Remove from the stove and add three egg 
yolks slightly beaten. Bake in a crust-lined plate. 

MINCE MEAT. 



4 cups chopped meat. 

1 cup chopped suet. 

8 cups chopped apple (sour). 

2 cups meat liquor. 
2 cups brown sugar. 
2 cups molasses. 

2 cups cider. 

Juice and grated rind of two 

lemons. 
Juice and grated rind of 

three oranges. 
1 lb. of stoned and chopped 
raisins. 



1 lb. washed currants. 
y2 lb. chopped citron. 
l^ lb. chopped figs. 

% lb. chopped English wal- 
nuts, if liked. 

2 tablespoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls mace. 

2 teaspoonfuls powdered 

cloves. 
2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

1 cup of brandy. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose water. 



Mix in the order given. Use cold tea in place of 
cider and brandy if you wish. Cook slowly in a pre- 



206 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

serving kettle for one hour, stirring often. Add the 
brandy and rose water after removing from the stove. 
Meat from the lower part of the round is the best to 
use. A little more brandy or wine can be poured 
over the pie just before the upper crust is put on. 
Mince meat is better to pack in an earthen jar, and 
to keep several days before using. 

PETIT PIES. 

Line small round patty or gem pans with plain 
or puff paste. Fill with lemon or cream filling, 
stewed fruits or berries. Cover with a crust, cut a 
dash in the center for the steam to escape. Bake in 
a quick oven. 

ENGLISH APPLE PIE. 

Fill a buttered pudding dish with tart apples cut 
in eighths, pared and cored ; sprinkle with sugar, a 
little salt and grated rind of a lemon. Pile the apples 
high in the center ; add one-fourth cup of cold water, 
a few pieces of butter. Invert the dish upon the pas- 
try; cut large enough to give place for the high cen- 
ter and shrinkage. Cover the pie with the paste, 
putting a rim of paste around the edge. Bake about 
fortv-five minutes. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 207 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



CREAM RICE PUDDING. 

1 quart of milk | 1 teaspoonful salt. 

y2 cup well washed rice. [ A little stick cinnamon or 

y2 cup sugar. j nutmeg. 

Soak half an hour in the milk. Bake slowly about 
an hour, or until the rice has thickened the milk, or 
a thick creamy substance. This is a delicious, inex- 
pensive and nutritious dessert. One-half cup of the 
whole raisins or a few pieces of preserved ginger can 
be cooked with it to give variety. Serve with butter 
alone, or butter and maple sugar, or cream. 

BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Make the same as cream rice pudding, with the 
exception of using one-half cup of molasses in place 
of the sugar. Season with cinnamon; add one-half 
cup of raisins and one cup of sour apples if liked, 
that have been pared, cored and quartered. Serve 
with cream. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

1 quart of milk. \ V2 cup sugar. 

^ cup tapioca. [ Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Scald the milk in double boiler. Soak the tapi- 
oca in it for one hour, or until it is transparent. Re- 
move from the stove ; add the beaten yolks and sugar, 
bake in buttered pudding dish for half an hour. Serve 
with lemon sauce, or remove from the oven, cover the 
top with a layer of jam or jelly, and spread over it a 



208 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



meringue made from the whites of the eggs and four 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Brown in the 
oven. 

APPLE AND PEACH TAPIOCA. 

Wash one-half cup of tapioca (the pearl is the 
best) J pour over it one quart of boiling water, cook in 
double boiler till transparent (about an hour), stir 
often that it may not become lumpy; add half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, core and pare eight tart apples, place 
them in a buttered pudding dish, and fill the cores 
with sugar, a little lemon juice and cinnamon; pour 
the tapioca over them, and bake till the apples are 
soft. Serve hot or cold with foamy sauce or sugar 
and cream. Peel the peaches, cut in halves, cook in 
the same way. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler ; wash 
and add to it one-half cup of sago, and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt; let it cook till transparent, stirring 
often to prevent lumping. Beat two eggs with one- 
half cup of sugar. Remove the sago from the stove ; 
add the eggs and sugar. Bake in buttered pudding 
dish for one-half hour, or until it puffs up. Serve 
hot or cold, with cream. 

Make sago with apple or peaches the same as 
peach and apple tapioca. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Mix one cup of yellow corn meal, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of salt; pour onto them one 
quart of scalded milk, one fourth cup of butter, and 
two beaten eggs; let bake in a deep pudding dish 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



209 



slowly for one-lialf hour, then pour in three pints of 
cold milk. Bake very slowly for five or six hours. 

WHOLE WHEAT PUDDING. 

Mix one cup and a half of whole wheat flour, one- 
half cup of white flour, one-half teaspoonful each of 
soda and salt; sift, add one cup of milk, half a cup 
of molasses, one-half cup each of shelled and chopped 
walnuts and raisins. Steam for two hours and a 
half. Serve with cream, foamy or lemon sauce, or a 
hard sauce flavored with lemon juice, or sherry. This 
will serve eight people. 

FIG PUDDING. 



12 butter crackers, rolled 

fine. 
^ lb. figs, chopped fine. 
^ cup of suet, chopped fine, 
2 eggs well beaten, 
1 cup sugar. 



1 cup of milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda dissolved 

in the milk, 
4 teaspoonfuls of brandy, 
^ nutmeg. 



Mixi. in the order given. Steam four hours. Serve 
with a wine or hard sauce. Will serve eight people 
generously, as it is a rich pudding. 



THANKSGIVING PUDDING. 



1^ cups of soft bread 

crumbs. , 
1 cup scalded milk. 
^ cup sugar. 
5 eggs. 
1 cup raisins. 
^ cup of currants, 
^ cup of finely chopped 

dates, 
^ cup finely chopped citron. 



1/^ lb, finely chopped suet. 
The gi-ated rind of a small 

lemon. 
% cup chopped walnuts. 
% nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
iy2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls each of 

brandy and sherry. 



Pour the hot milk over the crumbs. Mix in the 
order given. Steam in a buttered mould six hours. 



210 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 



iy2 lbs. raisins, stoned. 
1% lbs. currants. 
11/^ lbs. suet chopped fine. 
lYz lbs. bread crumbs. 
1 lb. flour, or 4 cups. 
1 lb. sugar. 

1 lb. preserved lemon and 
orange peel mixed. 



Crated rind of one lemon. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

^ nutmeg. 

^ ounce mixed spices. 

1 cup brandy. 

1 dozen eggs. 

1 cup scalded milk. 



Pour tlie milk over the crumbs. Mix in the order 
given. This quantity makes four puddings. Steam 
six hours. 



SUET PUDDING. 



y2 cup chopped suet. 
% cup molasses. 
1 cup milk. 
1 cup stoned raisins. 
Vz cup chopped citron. 
% teaspoonful soda. 



Grated rind of half a lemon. 
1/^ teaspoonful cinnamon. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
About two cups and a half of 
flom\ 



Sift all the dry materials together, then stir in 
the others. One-half cup of butter can be used in- 
stead of the suet. Steam in a buttered pudding mould 
three hours. Serve with hard, foamy or wine sauce. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. 



Remove the crusts and butter thin slices of stale 
bread. Lay them in layers in a pudding dish, alter- 
nating with layers of stoned raisins. When the 
dish is full pour over it two well-beaten eggs mixed 
with half a cup of brown sugar, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful salt, one pint of milk. Bake slowly for one hour. 
Sprinkle cinnamon and nutmeg over each layer of 
bread. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



211 



STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 



1 cup soft bread crumbs. 

2 cups scalded milk. 
1/4 cup sugar. 
Yolks of three eggs. 



1/^ cup currants or raisins. 

% cup candied orange peel. 

% teaspoonful salt. 

% teaspoonful nutmeg. 



Mix in the order given. Steam three hours. 
Serve with wine or creamy sauce. 

BROWN BETTY. 

In a buttered pudding dish arrange alternate lay- 
ers of soft bread crumbs and sliced sour apples. Sea- 
son each layer with bits of butter, a little salt, and 
ground cinnamon. When the dish is full pour over 
it one-half cup of molasses, and a half cup of hot 
water. Bake for a half or three-quarters of an hour 
or until the apples are soft. Raisins, chopped al- 
monds or walnuts can be used with the apple. Serve 
with cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 



^ cup melted butter. 

1/4 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 

14 teaspoonful salt. 



1 cup milk. 

2 cups flour. 

1 rounding teaspoonful bak- 
ing powder. 



Sift the dry materials together ; beat the eggs and 
sugar, and add them with the milk and melted butter. 
Bake in a round pan with a hole in the center for 
one-half hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 



STEAMED BERRY PUDDING (Mrs. Lincoln). 



2 cups flour. 


2 eggs. 


1 teaspoonful baking pow- 


1/^ cup sugar. 


der. 


2 cups of berries, or fruit, 


y2 teaspoonful salt. 


raisins or currants may 


1 cup milk. 


be used. 


2 tablespoonfuls melted 




butter. 





212 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Sift the dry materials together ; add the fruit, stir 
it well around in the flour, then add the rest of the 
materials. Steam two hours. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Butter a mould well. Ornament it with candied 
fruits. Arrange in it slices of sponge cake or lady 
fingers ; dip them lightly in sherry if you like. Ar- 
range alternate layers of cake and fruit, then pour 
over it all a custard made of a pint of milk, yolks of 
three eggs and three tahlespoonfuls of sugar; pour 
it into the mould, bake setting in a pan of water for 
one hour. Serve with a wine sauce. 

BAKED PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and grate one pineapple ; to every cup of the 
pineapple add one-half cup of sugar and one-fourth 
cup of butter creamed together, one cup of thin 
cream and four eggs slightly beaten, a little salt. 
Bake in rather a slow oven until it puffs up and the 
center seems firm. Cover with a meringue made 
with the whites of three eggs beaten foamy, beat in 
four tahlespoonfuls of powdered sugar till stiff, then 
fold in two tahlespoonfuls. Bake in a slow oven for 
ten minutes. 

STEAMED ORANGE OR PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Let one cup of soft bread crumbs soak*in one cup 
of hot milk ten minutes; add one cup of sugar, one 
cup of orange juice or one cup of grated pineapple 
and one tablespoonful lemon juice. If orange is 
used one tablespoonful of grated orange peel with the 



THE ROCKV^ MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 213 

orange and lemon juice, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
melted butter, one-fourtli teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder sifted with one-fourth cup 
of flour. Steam in a buttered mould two hours and 
a half. Serve with a creamy sauce. 

QUINCE PUDDING (Mrs. Hill). 

Pare and grate six ripe quinces ; mix the pulp 
as grated with the juice of a lemon to keep it from 
discoloring; add the grated yellow rind of a lemon, 
a cup of sugar, the beaten yolks of six and the whites 
of three eggs, and one cup of cream. Mix thoroughly 
and bake until firm in a buttered pudding dish, stand- 
ing in a pan of hot water. Serve cold ; sprinkle with 
powdered sugar. Or serve with sugar and whipped 
cream. 

BOSTON APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare and core sour apples enough to make three 
good cups before they are cooked. Stew with them 
one cup and a half of sugar, one-half cup of water, 
two inches cinnamon bark; cook until they are soft, 
then mash through a sieve ; add one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, one cup hot cream, and the yolks of 
four eggs and one white, and a tablespoonful melted 
butter. Line a pudding dish with rich pastry and 
pour in the mixture ; bake till firm, or butter a pud- 
ding dish and bake without the pastry till firm. Serve 
with cream, hot or cold. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Six ears of sweet com, one quart of milk, or half 
milk and half cream, one-fourth cup of flour, four 



214 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

eggs, one-lialf cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful melted butter. Cut the corn 
down through the kernels and press out the pulp. 
Bake in a buttered mould till finn. Serve hot with 
lemon sauce. 

SNOWBALL PUDDING. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs till light, then grad- 
ually beat in one cup of granulated sugar. When 
light add three tablespoonfuls of milk, one cup full 
of flour, v/ith one teaspoonful of baking powder sift- 
ed with it. Beat the whites stiff, fold lightly into 
the mixture. Fill well-buttered cups or moulds two- 
thirds full ; steam for one-half hour. Serve with 
lemon, foamy or wine sauce, or any fruit sauce. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cup of molasses, one-half cup 
chopped suet, one cup of sweet milk, two and one-half 
cups of flour, one cup seeded raisins, one cup chopped 
English walnuts, one-half cup chopped figs, one-half 
grated nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful each of cinna- 
mon and salt, mix well together, steam three hours. 
Serve with a hard or orange sauce. 

WEYMOUTH PUDDING. 

Two cups stale bread crumbs soaked in one cup 
hot milk, one cup finely chopped suet, one cup each 
chopped figs and raisins, one cup sugar, one-hnlf tea- 
spoonful salt, three eggs, juice and grated yellow of 
the rind of a lemon. Beat all the ingredients well 
together; steam in a well-buttered mould for three 
hours. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



215 



COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Place in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish 
six fresh cocoanut cakes. Pour over them a custard 
made of one pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoon - 
fuls of sugar, a little salt ; bake till the custard is firm. 
Remove from the oven, cover the top with a layer of 
raspberry jam, or currant jelly; apricot jam is also 
very delicious with it. Spread over it a meringue 
made of the whites of two eggs and three tablespooon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, beaten stiff. 

Macaroon Pudding can be made in the same way, 
using macaroons in place of cocoanut cakes. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

Butter eight butter crackers ; place them in a but- 
tered pudding dish, pour over them a custard made 
of three cups of milk and the yolks of four eggs and 
white of one, half cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful of salt; bake till firm. Serve with lemon or 
orange sauce. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 



2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn starch. 

^ teaspoonful salt. 



^ cup sugar. 

Yokes of three eggs, white of 
one. 



Scald the milk in double boiler; sift the corn 
starch, salt and sugar together, stir into the m.ilk. 
Cook fifteen minutes, stirring until smooth, then add 
the eggs slightly beaten ; cook ten minutes. Serve 
hot or cold with cream and sugar. 



216 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



DUTCH APPLE CAKE. 



2 cups flour. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der. 
% cup butter. 



1 egg. 

1 cup milk. 

4 sour apples. 

Sugar and cinnamon. 



Sift the dry materials together ; rub in the butter, 
then the milk and beaten egg; spread on a buttered 
shallow pan ; pare, core and quarter the apples, lay 
them in rows on top of the dough and press the sharp 
edge a little in the dough; sprinkle them over with 
sugar and a little cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes. Serve hot with lemon or a hard 
sauce. Peaches can be used in place of the apples. 

APPLE SNOWBALL. 

Cook one cup of well-washed rice in a double boil- 
er with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one cup of milk 
and one and one-half cups of water. When the rice 
has taken in all the liquid, butter small moulds or 
cups well, line them with one-half inch of the hot 
rice, fill the center with a quarter of a sour apple; 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, or lemon juice. 
Cover it all over with rice, and steam in a steamer, 
or setting in a pan of hot water on top of the stove 
for one-half hour. It is better to have the apples 
slightly cooked first. Peaches or pineapple are de- 
licious used in the same way. Serve with creamy 
sauce. Be careful in taking them from the mould 
that they don't lose their shape. 

STEAMED CARROT PUDDING. 

1 cup bread crumbs. I 1 cup currants. 

1 cup carrot. | i/^ cup suet. 

1 cup potato. I 1 teaspoonful soda. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 217 



1/4 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1/4 teaspoonful nutmeg. 



1 cup flour. 
1 cup molas'ses. 
1 cup raisins. 

Grate the carrot and potato, add the bread 
crumbs, sift the spices and soda with the flour, also 
salt. Add the suet, molasses and fruit, dredged with 
a little extra flour. Steam in a well-buttered mould 
for four hours. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Pare and core six sour apples, and place them in 
a buttered pudding dish. Mix one-fourth cup of 
flour and one-fourth teaspoonful salt with a little 
milk to form a paste ; then add the yolks of four eggs, 
well beaten, a little more of milk, then fold in the 
whites the rest of the milk, making two cups in all. 
Pour over the apples ; bake in a moderately hot oven 
for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with any kind 
of a sauce. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough ; roll it 
out and cut in squares ; pare and core sour apples ; 
fill the center with sugar and a little cinnamon mixed 
with it, a little piece of butter ; wrap each apple in a 
square of dough, having the points meet on top; 
dampen them a little with milk and press together; 
bake for twenty-five minutes, or until the apples are 
tender, or steam for one hour. Serve with a molasses 
sauce. A hard or creamy sauce is also good. 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLING. 

Make a rich biscuit dough. Poll out about half 
an inch thick. Peel core and quarter sour apples; 



218 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

place them in the dough, cover with a little sugar, 
cinnamon nutmeg and bits of butter; roll the dough 
over the apples, pressing the ends tight together. 
Steam for an hour and a quarter. Serve with mo- 
lasses, hard or creamy sauce. Peaches can be used 
in the same way. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING. 

Fill a mould or dish half full of sour apples that 
have been pared, quartered and cored, cover with half 
a cup of sugar, half a teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
little pieces of butter; cover the top with a rich bis- 
cuit dough, cut a slit in the center for the steam to 
escape. Steam for one hour and a half, or bake in 
the oven until the apples are tender. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Cut bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick, 
then in inch wide strips; dip each piece in melted 
butter and line a baking dish with them, having the 
pieces meet closely together. Fill the center of the 
mould with apple sauce, that has been cooked in quar- 
ter pieces, sweetened and flavored with lemon juice. 
Cover the top with strips of bread dipped in the 
melted butter. Bake in a hot oven forty minutes. 
Turn carefully out on a flat dish. Serve with cream 
or a sauce. 

APPLES AND RICE. 

Steam one cup of well-washed rice in a double 
boiler with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one cup of 
milk and one cup of water till soft ; add a little more 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 219 



milk or water if necessary, also cook with it a little 
nutmeg, cinnamon or rose water, and a half cup of 
chopped almonds, if cared for. When the rice is 
soft and has absorbed the liquid press it in the shape 
of a bowl. Cook sour apples that have been cored 
and pared in a syrup made of half as much water as 
sugar, till they are tender; remove carefully with a 
big spoon, place around the rice and fill the inside 
with them, boil the syrup down and pour around 
them. Fill each apple up with whipped cream and 
put a piece of currant or raspberry jelly on top of 
each. Serve hot or cold. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

Core and pare six or eight sour apples, cover the 
tops with sugar, a little grated orange or lemon peel 
and one-half cup of water ; cover and bake in a^ pud- 
ding dish till tender. Then cover with a meringue 
made of the whites of three eggs beaten until foamy, 
then beat in gradually four tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar ; bake in a slow oven ten minutes. Serve 
cold. 



CUSTARD SOUFFLE. 



% cup sugar. 
Yz cup flour. 
2 cups hot milk. 
1/4 cup butter. 



Yolks of five eggs. 
White of five eggs. 
1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



Mix the sugar and flour together with a little 
cold milk, stir into the boiling milk, cook for ten 
minutes, stirring until smooth, then add the butter; 
mix and stir in the well-beaten yolks. Kemove from 
the stove, add the whites beaten stiff. Bake in a 
pudding dish or little moulds. Place the dish in a 



220 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

pan of hot water, bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. 
If little moulds are used bake twenty minutes. Serve 
at once. If the soufSe is done before time to serve let 
it remain in the oven with the door open. Serve with 
whipped cream or any light sauce. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 

Make the same as custard souffle ; melt two 
squares of chocolate, mix it with two tablespoonfuls 
of hot milk and stir into the double boiler before the 
yolks are added. 

PINEAPPLE SOUFFLE. 

Add one-half cup of grated pineapple to a cus- 
tard souffle. After it is removed from the stove, just 
before the whites are added, use one more egg, and 
if the pineapple is not sweetened, one-half cup of 
sugar, instead of a fourth. Serve with whipped 
cream, flavored with pineapple. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

Beat the whites of five eggs till foamy, add one- 
fourth teaspoonful cream of tartar, and beat till dry, 
then beat in gradually half a cup of powdered sugar 
and one-half cup of prunes that have been cooked, 
stoned and chopped ; turn into a buttered pudding 
dish, set in a pan of hot water and bake one-half hour. 
Serve at once in the same dish, with whipped cream 
or a cold boiled custard. 

CHERRY. SOUFFLE. 

Two cups of canned cherries. Butter a mould 
well and decorate it with the cherries. Mix three 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 221 



tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold cherry syrup 
and stir into one-half cup of the hot syrup. Stir 
until it thickens, beat the yolks of three eggs and stir 
into the mixture with one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Eemove at once from the stove and when cool 
fold in the whites beaten stiffly. Turn into the 
mould, steam for one hour and a quarter, then take 
the souffle from the stove. Let it stand in the mould 
a few minutes before turning out. Serve with 
sweetened and flavored whipped cream, or with hot 
cherry juice. 

PEACH SOUFFLE. 

Make the same as cherry souffle, decorating the 
mould with half peaches and using two tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon juice. 

LEMON SOUFFLE (Boston Cooking School). 

Beat the yolks of three eggs till light and foamy, 
beat the whites till dry, then beat the yolks into the 
whites; now beat in gradually a scant half cup of 
sugar and the juice and grated rind of a lemon, turn 
into a buttered pudding dish, dust with sugar and 
bake about twenty minutes. Serve at once with or 
without a sauce. 

RICE SOUFFLE. 

Cook one-half cup of well-washed rice in one cup 
of boiling water and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. 
When tender drain from the water and put the rice 
in a double boiler with one cup of milk and one of 
cream. Cook twenty minutes. Add the yolks of 
^ve eggs that have been beaten lightly with five table- 



222 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Remove at once from 
the stove, set aside to cool, then add one tablespoonful 
of grated orange peel and a tablespoonful of the juice, 
fold in the stiiSy-beaten whites. Bake in a well but- 
tered pudding dish forty minutes. Serve at once 
with a light delicate sauce. 

GINGER PUDDING. 



2 Clips flour. 

1 teaspoonful baking pow*- 

der. 
% teaspoonful salt. 

1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted 

butter. 



2 eggs. 

% cup sugar. 



1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 
3 tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped preserved ginger. 



Sift the baking powder, salt and flour together, 
then mix the ginger thoroughly into the flour, then 
add the sugar, melted butter, lemon juice, beaten eggs 
and milk. Steam two hours in a large mould or one 
hour in individual moulds. Serve with lemon sauce. 



DELMONICO PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk in a double boiler, then 
stir into it one-half cup of corn starch that has been 
mixed to a paste with cold milk and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring con- 
stantly until perfectly smooth, then add the yolks of 
four eggs beaten with one-half cup of sugar. Cook 
for -Q^Ye minutes, then turn into a buttered pudding 
dish. Bake twenty minutes. Bemove from the 
oven, cover the top with a layer of jelly or jam and 
over that a meringue. Beturn to the oven and brown 
slowly. Serve hot or cold, with or without whipped 
cream. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 223 



STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Fill a three-pint mould or pail two-thirds full 
with alternate layers of sliced sponge cake and mac- 
aroons. Add to a pint of the strawberry juice one 
cup of cream, one-half cup of sugar and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt. Pour it over the cake, cover the 
mould tightly, steam for two hours. Serve hot with 
whipped cream, flavored with a little sherry. 



224 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COLD DESSERTS. 



GARNISHING. 

Tor garnishing cold desserts use fancy cakes, 
icings, fresh or candied fruits, compotes, jellies, nuts, 
currants, raisins, angelica, spun sugar, which can 
be made in nests, balls or to encircle a dish. Fresh 
flowers and leaves also make a most attractive decora- 
tion. Angelica can be cut in strips, then in little 
diamond shapes, making very effective decoration, 
and especially so when combined with candied cher- 
ries, sugared rose leaves, or sugared violets or lilac 
blossoms. Angelica is not expensive, a ten-cent piece 
will last quite a while. 

FLAVORING. 

Essences of fruit, flowers and nuts make some of 
the best flavoring. They cost about twenty cents a 
bottle. Yanilla is most commonly used, but many 
other flavors should help to take its place. It is not 
considered wholesome. Oranges and lemons are al- 
ways a pleasant flavor, using the juice or grated yel- 
low of the peel (not the white). The preserved peel 
makes a delicious flavor as well as a pretty garnish. 

LIQUEURS AND WINES. 

Liqueurs and cordials are rich syrups of different 
flavors, with only enough alcohol to keep them. They 
give a very delicate and pleasant flavor and are inex- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



225 



pensive, as a bottle will last a long time. Maras- 
chino has the flavor of bitter cherry, noyan of peach, 
curacao of orange peel. Eum, brandy and wine, 
either madeira, sherry or port are used a great deal 
and impart a very agreeable flavor, if not too gener- 
ously used. 

COLORING. 

Use the vegetable coloring paste ; it comes twenty- 
five cents a bottle. A bottle will last a long time, as 
it requires a very little to give the delicate coloring 
that you wish to use. Dilute a little in milk or 
water before usins:. 



BOILED CUSTARD. 



2 cups milk. 
Yolks of four eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



Speck of salt. 

Flavor with nutmeg, vanilla, 
or a little sherry wine. 



Scald the milk in a double boiler, beat the yolks, 
sugar and salt together. Pour the hot milk slowly 
into the egg (stirring all the time), pour back in the 
double boiler and cook until it is thick like cream, or 
till it coats the spoon. As soon as it thickens, re- 
move from the stove at 07ice, as too long a cooking 
will cause it to curdle. Watch and stir it all the 
time it is cooking, then strain through a fine strainer 
and flavor. Using only the yolks gives a much 
smoother custard. Three yolks can be used, but four 
makes a much richer custard. 

Chocolate Custard. — Melt one-half ounce of Bak- 
er's chocolate with a tablespoonful of milk, stir into 
boiled custard just before straining, flavor with va- 
nilla. 



226 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Caramel Custard. — Melt four tablespoonfiils of 
sugar to a caramel with one tablespoonful of water. 
Stir into the hot milk before pouring on the egg yolks. 
Make the same as boiled custard. 

Nut Custard. — One-half cup finely chopped wal- 
nut added to boiled custard after straining. 

Cocoanut Custard. — One cup finely grated cocoa- 
nut added to boiled after straining. 

Maple Custard. — Sweeten boiled custard with one- 
half cup of thick maple syrup, add it to the hot milk 
with the eggs. Candied fruits may be cut fine and 
added, making a fruit custard. 

BAKED OR STEAMED CUSTARD. 



One quart of milk. 
6 eggs. 



6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 



Scald the milk, beat the eggs, salt and sugar to- 
gether. Pour the milk over them, stirring all the 
time. Strain into a baking dish, flavor with grated 
nutmeg, bake standing in a pan of hot water until 
the custard puffs up, or try with a knife, if it comes 
out clean, free from the milk, it is done. Watch care- 
fully. Bake or steam in cups or moulds if desired. 

BAKED OR STEAMED CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Make the same as plain baked or steamed, with 
the exception of melting the sugar to a caramel with 
two tablespoonfuls of water, then adding it to the hot 
milk. Steam in a buttered mould and serve, if you 
like, serve cold, with caramel sauce. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 227 

BAKED OR STEAMED CHOCOLATE OR COCOANUT 
CUSTARD. 

Melt one ounce of chocolate in the hot milk for 
chocolate custard. Bake in a buttered mould, set 
in a pan of hot water. Serve very cold v^ith cus- 
tard sauce or surrounded with whipped cream that 
has a few maraschino or candied cherries strewn 
over it. Make the same as baked or steamed custard. 

Baked Cocoanut Custard. — Add one cup of grated 
cocoanut to the hot milk. Bake or steam. 



FLOATING ISLAND. 

Beat the whites of three eggs stiff with one table- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Scald two cups of milk 
for boiled custard, poach the whites in the milk until 
firm, two tablespoonfuls at a time. Remove care- 
fully on a sieve. Make the boiled custard. Serve 
the whites on the custard with a piece of bright col- 
ored jelly on top, or blanched almonds, stuck endwise 
into the white. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Quarter and core two cups of sour apples (do not 
pare), steam or stew the apples till tender, mash 
through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff 
with half a cup of powdered sugar, add the apple and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice or a grating of nut- 
meg. Beat till like snow. Pile in a dish with bits 
of bright jelly on top. Serve with or without cream. 



228 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

1/^ cup Irish moss. [ 1 teaspoonful vanilla, or two 

1 quart of milk. tablespoonfuls of wine. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. [ 

Soak the moss in cold water for fifteen minutes, 
pick it over, wash and tie in cheese cloth, boil it in the 
milk till it thickens, when dropped on a cold plate, 
add the salt, strain, flavor. Mould in small cups or 
egg shells. Ser\-e with sugar and cream. 

Blanc Mange may he made by using one table- 
spoonful of sea moss farina. Stir it into the boiling 
milk. Cook twenty minutes. 

PLAIN BAVARIAN CREAM (Chocolate and Coffee). 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated I ^2 cup sugar. 

gelatine. j 2 cups cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls cold water. | Flavor. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, whip the cream 
until you have about three pints (if it is the thin 
cream; if heavy cream, use one cup). Scald the re- 
mainder of the thin cream, if thick cream is used, 
scald one cup of milk, add the gelatine to the hot 
milk. Strain, flavor with vanilla, wine, melted choc- 
olate or one-half cup of strong coffee. Place the dish 
in one of cracked ice, stir until it begins to thicken, 
then fold in the whipped cream. Pour into a mould. 
When stiff enough to drop from a spoon, mould in in- 
dividual or a large mould. The mould can first be 
decorated with half preserved peaches, slices of or- 
ange or pineapple, candied fruits or angelica. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 229 

BAVARIAN CREAM WITH EGGS. 

Yz cup sugar. 



2 cups heavy cream whipped 

2 cups milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

gelatine. 
^ cup cold water. 



Yolks four eggs. 
Speck of salt. 
Flavoring. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, whip the cream, 
heat the milk in a double boiler, beat the egg yolks, 
sugar and salt together, stir into the hot milk, cook 
for two minutes, stirring constantly. Add the soaked 
gelatine. Strain into a big bowl or granite dish, set 
in a pan of cracked ice. When cool add flavoring, 
vanilla, almond, a teaspoonful each, two tablespoon- 
fuls of wine, a half cup of candied orange peel, and 
two tablespoonfuls of the juice. Stir until it begins 
to harden, then fold in the cream. Mould. 



FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM. 



2 cups of any kind of fruit 
juice or pulp sweet- 
ened to taste. 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 



3 tablespoonfuls gelatine. 
^ cup cold water. 
V2 cup boiling water. 
2 cups heavy cream. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water for one hour, dis- 
solve in the boiling water. Add it to the fruit juice 
or pulp. Set the dish in one of ice water or cracked 
ice. Stir until it begins to thicken, fold in the 
whipped cream. The mould may be garnished witli 
the whole fruit, or surrounded by it when served. To 
garnish the mould place the fruit around the mould, 
hold it in place with a little of the Bavarian cream. 
When it is firm pour carefully in the remainder. It 
is better to mould fruits in an earthen or agate mould. 



230 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

FRUIT BAVARIAN CREAM (No. 2). 

If you wisli to mould in layers, put half of tlie 
dissolved gelatine in the cream and the other half in 
the fruit. Pour one-half of the cream first in the 
mould. When that is firm pour in the fruit. Allow 
that to become finn, then add the rest of the cream, 
making three layers, with the fruit in the center. 
Garnish with whipped cream, flavored with the fruit 
juice. 

BAVARIAN IN THE SHELL. 

Line a mould with lady fingers or maccaroons, 
dipped lightly in wine, if liked. Fill up with Ba- 
varian cream, garnish with whipped cream sprinkled 
over with candied fruits or nuts. 

BAVARIAN EN SURPRISE. 

Use a double mould for this, or one small mould. 
Set in a larger one. Line the mould with chocolate 
or coffee Bavarian. Fill the center with the plain 
Bavarian or flavor the plain with chopped nuts that 
have been soaked a half hour in wine or orange juice. 
Or line a mould with the fruit Bavarian, fill the cen- 
ter with the plain, garnish with fruit or whipped 
cream. Or line the mould with Bavarian cream and 
fill the center with the fruit Bavarian. 

PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN. 

Use two cups of grated pineapple in place of the 
milk in making plain Bavarian cream. Have it 
sweetened to taste. Line the mould with slices of 
pineapple that have been cooked in a syrup, garnish 
with whipped cream. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 231 

DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 

Mould in a double mould. Line a mould one 
inch thick with wine, orange or lemon jelly, fill up 
the center with Bavarian cream. First decorate the 
mould with candied fruits, making some design, hold 
the decoration in place with a little of the jelly the 
mould is to be lined with. When firm, line with the 
jelly, decorate with whipped cream, sprinkled over 
with the fruits. 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Soften one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls of gran- 
ulated gelatine in one-fourth cup of cold water, dis- 
solve with one-fourth cup of hot milk, add one-half 
cup of sugar, one-half cup each of cooked figs and 
prunes, cut in small pieces, and one-half cup of white 
grapes skinned, seeded and cut in pieces. Mix all to- 
gether with one cup of heavy cream, whipped, stir oc- 
casionally until it begins to set, then mould. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

Two cups grated pineapple sweetened to taste, 
add one tablespoonful granulated gelatine that has 
first been softened in one^fourth cup cold water and 
dissolved in a little hot water. Set in a dish of cold 
water or cracked ice, stir until it begins to thicken, 
add a tablespoonful of lemon juice and fold in the 
whites of four eggs. Mould, serve with whipped 
cream flavored with the pineapple or custard sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Make a lemon or orange jelly. When it begins to 
thicken beat in the whites of three eggs that have 



232 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

been wliipjDed stiff. Beat all together vigorously 
until it is stiff enough to drop from a spoon, mould, 
serve with custard sauce. 

LEMON JELLY. 



1 cup sugar. 

% cup lemon juice. 



y2 box gelatine. 
^ cup cold water. 
2 cups boiling water. 

Soak the gelatine in cold water, dissolve with the 
boiling water, then add the sugar and lemon juice. 
When all is dissolved, strain and mould. 



ORANGE JELLY. 



y2 box gelatine. 
Yz cup cold water. 
^ cup boiling water. 



2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 cups orange juice. 



Soften the gelatine in cold water, dissolve it with 
the hot water, add the sugar, lemon juice, orange. 
When all is dissolved, strain through a cheese cloth. 
Mould, garnish the mould, if you like, with slices of 
orange held in place with a little of the jelly, unmould 
and surround with whipped cream, sprinkled over 
with candied orange peel. Or serve the orange jelly 
in orange basket made from the skin, with a little 
whipped cream on top. Set the orange basket on a 
few green leaves. 



COFFEE JELLY. 



'Y2 box gelatine. 
y2 cup cold water. 
% cup sugar. 



1 cup boiling water, 
^Vz cups strong coffee. 



Soften the gelatine in the cold water, add the boil- 
ing water, sugar, coffee. When well dissolved, strain 
through a cheese cloth, mould, serve with whipped 
cream flavored with a little orange. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIIM COOK BOOK. 233 



WINE JELLY. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup sherry wine or one 

cup of madeira. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 



y2 box gelatine. 
V2 cup cold water. 

1 cup boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon 

juice. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water, add the hot 
water and sugar and the rest of the materials, strain 
through a cheese cloth. The mould can first he deco- 
rated with maraschino cherries. 

CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 

Make the same as wine jelly, using one cup of 
champagne. Omit the hrandy. 

SAUTERNE JELLY. 

Make the same as wine jelly, omit the brandy, use 
one cup and a half of sauteme. 

ROMAN JELLY. 

Into one quart of lemon jelly put two wine glasses 
kirsch and one of rum, divide this into three equal 
parts, color one green, the other red and leave the rest 
uncolored. Wliip each part till they begin to thicken, 
then put in a mould in alternate layers. 

PEACH CHARLOTTE. 



1 tablespoonful granulated 

gelatine. 
% cup cold water. 
^4 cup boiling water. 
^ cup sugar. 



2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 

juice. 
1 cup peach juice. 
Whites of three eggs, or one 

cup of heavy cream 

whipped. 



Soften the gelatine in cold water, dissolve in hot 
water, add the sugar, lemon and peach juice, strain. 



234 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

When it begins to thicken, fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites or the whipped cream. Line a nionld with 
half peaches, hold them in place with a little of the 
jelly. When they are firm, gently pour in the char- 
lotte, garnish with whipped cream and peaches. 

ORANGE AND STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. 

Make the same as peach charlotte. For orange 
use one cup of the orange juice and one cup of sugar. 
Line the mould with slices of orange. Garnish the 
dish with whipped cream, flavored with orange. 

For Strawberry Charlotte^ line the mould with 
large strawberries, hold in place with the jelly. Make 
the same as peach charlotte, using one cup of straw- 
berry juice and one cup of sugar. Garnish the dish 
with whipped cream and strawberries. 

SPANISH CUSTARD. 



1 tablespoonful granulated 

gelatine. 

2 tablespoonfuls cold water. 
^ cup boiling water. 
Yolks of three eggs. 



% teaspoonful salt. 
2 cups thin cream. 
Whites of three eggs. 
Flavoring. 



Soak the gelatine in cold water, then dissolve in 
boiling water. Beat the yolks, sugar and salt to- 
gether. Scald the cream and pour over the egg and 
sugar. Return to the double boiler and cook till it 
thickens, then add the gelatine and whites of eggs, 
take from the fire and flavor with an essence, wine or 
orange or lemon peel preserved. Mould. 

ITALIAN JELLY. 

Make a lemon, orange or wine jelly. Decorate 
the mould with preserved fruits or nuts, hold in place 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 235 

with a little of tlie jelly, just a few drops on each 
piece. When it is set, ponr in a layer of the gelatine 
an inch thick. When that is firm, cover with a layer 
of fruits or nuts, hold these in place with a little of 
the gelatine, and so on until the mould is full. Gar- 
nish with whipped cream and the fruits and nuts. 

RICE CREAM. 

Put one-half cup of well washed rice on to boil 
in one quart of boiling salted water, and the yellow of 
the rind of one-half orange, or lemon. When the 
rice is tender, drain, remove the peel, mix lightly 
with the rice one tablespoonful of gelatine that has 
been softened in a little cold water and dissolved with 
one-half cup of hot milk and one-half cup of sugar. 
When the mixture begins to be a little firm, flavor 
with three tablespoonfuls of sherry or madeira (that 
can be omitted), and fold in one cup of heavy cream 
whipped stiff. Mould. This can be garnished with 
whipped cream and candied orange or lemon peel, or 
serve with plain cream or preserved fruits. 

RICE AND ALMOND CREAM (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Blanch and cut fine one-half cup of almonds. Put 
them in double boiler with three cups of milk, one- 
fourth cup of sugar and one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
When hot, add one cup of well-washed rice. C(5ok 
until the rice is tender. Wlien ready to serve dip out 
in frappe glasses, haviug them about half full, put on 
a teaspoonful of jelly, then fill with thick whipped 
cream, with more jelly on top. 



236 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Pare and core three or four cooking apples. Cook 
with them the yellow rind of half a lemon or orange 
and half an inch of stick cinnamon. Cook until the 
apple is very tender. Press through a sieve. There 
should be one cup of the pulp. Cook half a cup of 
sugar with one-fourth cup of water to the thread 
stage, pour slowly onto the white of one egg beaten 
stiffly, stirring all the time. Beat frequently until 
cold, then add to the apple with three tablespoonfuls 
of sherry wine and one tablespoonful of granulated 
gelatine that has been softened in one-fourth cup of 
cold water, then dissolve over hot water. Set the 
mixture in a pan of ice or snow, stirring until it be- 
gins to thicken, then fold in one cup of heavy cream 
that has been whipped stiff with one-fourth cup of 
powdered sugar. Pill the mould decorated with lady 
fingers or macaroons. Garnish, when unmoulded, 
with whipped cream and cherries. Apricots can be 
used in place of the apples. 

CHARLOTTE SNOWBALLS. 

Bake sponge cake mixture in deep round gem 
pans. When cold ice the outside with a boiled icing. 
Pill up the center with whipped cream sweetened and 
flavored. Place a candied cherry on top or fill with 
wine or orange jelly and whipped cream. The cakes 
may be surrounded with the jelly when served. 

CHOCOLATE BAV ARIOSE (Boston Cooking School). 

Melt two ounces of chocolate (in a double boiler) 
with one-fourth cup each of sugar and water. Cook 
until glossy, add to it one cup of milk. When hot 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 237 



add the yolks of three eggs that have been well beaten, 
with one-fourth cut of sugar. Cook in the hot milk 
and chocolate till the mixture coats the spoon, then 
add one tablespoonful of granulated gelatine that has 
been softened in one-fourth cup of cold water, strain. 
Set the dish in cold water or surround with cracked 
ice. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir 
until the mixture becomes thick, then fold in one cup 
of heavy cream that has been whipped stiff. Mould. 
When ready to serv^e, surround with whipped cream 
and garnish with a few candied cherries or other 
fruits. 

NEWPORT WHIPS. 

Mix two cups of sweet or sour cream with half a 
cup of fruit juice and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, and half a cup of pov/dered sugar. Beat till 
stiff. Serve in glasses with sponge cake or first line 
the glasses with lady fingers and fill up with the whip. 

STUFFED FIGS. 

Select fine, large figs, wash them, make an opening 
on the side of each fig and press in a teaspoonful of 
English walnut meats finely chopped, fasten together 
with a toothpick. Cover with boiling water, cook 
until tender. The time depends upon the toughness 
of the figs. Ten minutes before removing from the 
fire add one-third cup of sugar and the juice of half 
a lemon (this amount is for a pound of figs). Flavor 
with sherry wine. Serve with whipped cream. 

ORANGE SECTIONS MOULDED IN JELLY. 

Make an orange jelly, have ready individual 
moulds. Set in ice water, pour in a very little of the 



238 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

jelly. When hard arrange in each a section of orange 
that has been freed from the skin. Add a few drops 
of the jelly to hold it in place. \^n^ien firm, fill up 
the mould with the jelly. To serve, remove from the 
mould, surround with whipped cream that has been 
sweetened. 

PINEAPPLE IN THE SHELL. 

Select a pineapple that has a nice green top. Cut 
off the top, remove the ]3ineapple, cut in small pieces 
and use the same amount of orange and bananas, mix 
with the pineapple, sprinkle with sugar, chill. When 
ready to serve, replace in the shell with the top on, 
surround the base with green leaves and serve from 
the shell. 

CHESTNUT PUREE WITH CREAM. 

Use the large French chestnuts. With a sharp- 
pointed knife, cut a cross on the shell of the chestnut, 
put in a pan in the oven with a teaspoonful of butter. 
Let bake imtil the shell is well broken open, then the 
skin will com.e from the nut shell, boil in hot water 
with a little salt till tender, then mash through a 
puree sieve. Put in a double boiler, sweeten, flavor, 
add a little cream, stir over the hot water till almost 
dry, press through a colander or potato ricer, onto the 
serving dish, making a mound, surround with 
whipped cream that has been sweetened a little and 
flavored. 

CHESTNUTS WITH CREAM. 

Remove the shell and skin (as given in chestnut 
puree), boil till tender, then add sugar (a half cup 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 239 

of sugar to a pound of chestnuts), and boil until clear. 
Let tliem remain in the syrup until cold, then drain. 
Pile on a dish, boil the syrup down to a thick con- 
sistency, pour over the nuts. Serve cold with 
whipped cream. 

PARIS DE MARRONS (Chestnuts). 

Make a puree of boiled chestnuts (see chestnut 
puree with cream), sweeten and flavor with lemon, 
vanilla or sherry to one pint of puree, add one table- 
spoonful of granulated gelatine that has been softened 
in a little cold water and dissolved over hot water, 
and one-half cup of heavy cream whipped. Mould, 
garnish with whipped cream and glace chestnuts. 

CHERRY CREAM. 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of granulated gel- 
atine softened in one-fourth cup of cold water, then 
add one-half cup of boiling water, one-half cup of su- 
gar (the amouont of sugar depends upon the acidity 
of the fruit), one cup of cherry juice, juice of half a 
lemon. When this is cold enough to hold together, 
add one cup of whipped cream. This is very pretty, 
moulded in individual moulds and served on sponge 
drops. 



240 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



!Frozen desserts are much more acceptable in 
warm weather than hot desserts. They can be pre- 
pared several hours before using, which is often 
greatly in their favor. Every household should be 
supplied with an ice cream freezer, and the art of 
making frozen desserts (which is very simple), should 
be acquired. 

Proportions of Salt and Ice. — The ice should be 
cracked very fine. Use coarse rock salt. In freezing 
ice cream or sherbets, three measures of ice to one 
of salt is used. Place the can inside the freezer 
with the mixture in it, put on the cover and adjust 
the crank firmly, turn the crank to see that it is 
in proper working order, pack the three measures of 
ice and one of salt around the can and so on till the 
freezer is full. Turn slowly at first, this makes it 
fine grained, turn constantly until the mixture stiff- 
ens, this you can tell by the way the crank moves. 
Before removing the cover wipe oif all the ice and 
salt, remove the paddle, pack down the mixture solid 
with a spoon, replace the cover, put a cork in the hole, 
drain oif the water and if not to be used at once, pack 
the freezer full with ice and salt. Cover the top 
with an old piece of carpeting or thick cloth. 

Mousses, Parfaits, are whipped cream flavored 
with or without eggs, packed in ice and salt. To 
pack them use two measures of ice to one of salt 

To Unmould Frozen Desserts. — Dip the mould in 
cold water, wring out a cloth in warm water, wrap 
around it and invert on the serving dish. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 241 



PUNCHES AND SHERBETS. 

These are water ices and are -iisually served in 
glasses. Punches are simply ices or sherbets, with 
liquors added. 



LEMON SHERBET. 



1 quart of water. 
21/^ cups of sugar. 

2 cups of lemon juice. 



Juice of one orange. 
White of one egg. 



Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, 
when cold add it to the lemon and orange juice, 
freeze. When nearly frozen, add the white of egg 
beaten to a foam. 



ORANGE SHERBET. 



Make the same way as lemon sherbet, using one 
pint of orange juice, juice of one lemon, two cups of 
sugar. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 



1 quart of water. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 can grated pineapple. 



Juice of two lemons and one 

orange. 
White of one egg. 



Make the same as lemon ice. The sherbet is 
made more delicate by just pressing the pineapple 
through a sieve or squeezing through cheese cloth. 

STRAWBERRY, RASPBERRY AND CURRANT SHERBETS. 

Squeeze the berries through cheese cloth ; to every 
pint of juice add the juice of one lemon. Boil two 
cups of water, one and one-half cups of sugar to- 
gether for ten minutes, add to the juices, freeze, add- 
ing the white of egg just before it is frozen. 



242 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CHERRY, PEACH, APRICOT AND PLUM SHERBETS. 

These fruits should be cooked in a very little 
water. When tender, squeeze through cheese cloth. 
Make the same as strawberry sherbet. One cup of 
whipped cream may be added to sherbets after they 
are frozen, stirring the crank a few times to mix the 
cream with the sherbert. 

APPLE SHERBET. 

Select nice, bright-flavored apples ; cook with them 
a piece of cinnamon bark and a pinch of salt, and 
water enough to cover. When very soft and fine, 
mash through a puree sieve ; add a grating of nutmeg 
and the juice of a lemon ; sweeten to taste. Freeze, 
adding the beaten white of egg, as in other sherbets. 
A little preserved ginger cut in small pieces may be 
added with the white of egg. 

BOSTON SHERBET. 

Four cups raspberry juice, from fresh or pre- 
served berries; juice of one lemon; sweeten to taste, 
then add one-half cup of maraschino ; freeze. When 
frozen, stir in one-half cup of maraschino cherries, 
cut in small pieces. Add the white of egg as in other 
sherbets. 



GRAPE 


SHERBET. 


! 


3 cups water. 
2 cups sugar. 
1/4 cup lemon juice. 




2 cups grape juicQ (purple 

grapes). 
White of one egg. 




% cup orange juice. 









Boil the sugar and water for fifteen minutes ; add 
the fruit juices, freeze, and add the white of egg be- 
fore it is quite stiff. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 243 



GRAPE BOMBE. 

^ Line a mould with the gi-ape sherbet an inch 
thick. A melon mould makes a pretty bombe. Fill 
the center with sweetened whipped cream ; cover the 
top over with the sherbet; pack, buried in ice and 
salt, for three hours, using two measures of ice to 
one of salt. 

Bomhes. — Any of the sherbets used the same as 
the grape, makes delicious bombes, strawberry or 
raspberry being particularly delicious. 

FRAPPE. 

Frappes are made the same as sherbets, only not 
frozen as hard. 

COFFEE FRAPPE. 



1 quart of clear black cof- 
fee. 

1 cup sugar dissolved in the 
coffee. 



Speck of salt. 

White of one egg added be- 
fore it is quite frozen . 



Serve in glasses with a little whipped cream on 
top. 

PUNCHES. 

Punches are used to serve between courses, or 
with a meat course. They should be frozen only to 
a mush. 

TOMATO PUNCH. 

Cook together one-half can of tomatoes, one cup 
of water, three apples cut in eighths (without peel- 
ing), one cup of sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of gin- 
ger. When the apples are tender, rub through a 



244 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

fine sieve and add the juice of one lemon, two table- i 

spoonfuls of preserved ginger cut in fine pieces, four « 

tablespoonfuls of maraschino; freeze; serve in 
glasses. 

TEA PUNCH. 

Make one quart of strong tea, made from Cejlon 
or Oolong; add tlie juice of one orange and of half a 
lemon, one cup of sugar, and before it is quite frozen 
add the beaten white of egg. After freezing, stir in 
one cup of whipped cream ; or, omit the cream in 
the freezing and put a spoonful on the top of the 
glasses when serving. 

GRAPE FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil one cup of sugar and two cups of water for 
fifteen minutes; add one cup of grape fruit juice, and 
the juice of one large lemon, the beaten white of one 

egg. 4 

MINT PUNCH. 



4 cups water. 

2 cups sugar. 

1 cup lemon juice. 

Juice of one orange. 



White of one egg. 
1 cup creme de menthe cor- 
dial. 



Just before the punch is frozen, add the beaten 
white of egg, finish freezing, and stir in the cup of 
creme de menthe ; pack for one hour ; serve in glasses. 



ROMAN PUNCH. 



Make the same as the mint punch, using the 
lemon ice for the foundation, and add, after freez- 
ing, a cup of rum. Orange ice may be used in 
place of the lemon ice for any of the punches. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 245 

CHAMPAGNE PUNCH. 

Make an orange sherbert. Wlien frozen, add a 
cup of champagne. 

SAUTERNE PUNCH. 

Make the same as champagne punch, using one 
cup of sauterne in place of the champagne. 

CURACAO, MARASCHINO, NOYON PUNCH. 

Make a quart of pineapple, orange or lemon sher- 
bet; when frozen, stir in one cup either of cham- 
pagne, sauterne or rum, and a half cup of any of the 
above cordials. 

GINGER ALE IN PUNCHES. 

In making the sherbets for the punches, one 
quart of ginger ale can be used in place of the water. 
This gives a very bright, sparkling punch, and when 
sauterne is added to it, can hardly be recognized from 
champagne punch. 

Serving. — These punches will serve twelve peo- 
ple. 

MILK SHERBET (Mrs. Durand). 



4 cups of milk. 
Juice of three lemons and 
the grated rind of one. 



3 cups sugar. 
White of one egg. 



Do not add the milk until ready to freeze. Serve 
ten people. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 



4 cups of cream. 
1 cup of sugar. 



1 tablespoonful of vanilla. 
1 ^gg- 



Beat the egg until foamy, then beat in the sugar, 
add flavoring and cream; freeze. 



246 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



LEMON ICE CREAM. 



Make the same as vanilla, omitting the vanilla, 
and adding the juice of one lemon. Decorate the ice 
cream with preserved lemon peel. 



ORANGE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 
1 cup orange juice. 
Juice of one lemon. 



1% cups of sugar. 
1 ^gg- 



Beat the sugar and egg together, add the orange 
and lemon juice, and just before freezing mix it with 
the cream. 



PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 

iy2 cup sugar. 

1 cup grated pineapple. 



Juice of one lemon. 

1 ^gg- 

More sugar if necessary. 



Mix all together, beating the egg and sugar till 
light; add the pineapple and lemon and cream just 



before freezing. 



PEACH AND APRICOT ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream, 
1 ^gg- 



1 cup of the fruit pulp. 
Sweeten to taste. 



Beat the egg, mix all together, freeze. 



COFFEE ICE CREAM. 



4 cups heavy cream. 
1 cup sugar. 



1 cup black coffee. 
1 ess. 



Beat the egg, add sugar, cream and coffee, freeze. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 247 



WALNUT ICE CREAM. 



1 cup walnut meats chopped 
fine. 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 

The walnut meats can be soaked in a little sherry 
wine one hour before freezing if liked. Beat egg, 
add sugar and cream, and freeze. When frozen, stir 
in the nuts. 



GINGER ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 
% cup sugar. 



1 cup preserved ginger cut 
in small pieces. 



Beat the egg, add sugar to cream, freeze. When 
nearly frozen add the ginger. 



ALMOND ICE CREAM. 



4 cups cream. 
1 cup sugar. 

1 ^gg- 



2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 
1 teaspoonful almond. 



Color green with coloring paste, mix and freeze. 



RICE ICE CREAM. 

Cook one-half cup of rice till very tender, with 
the yellow rind of half a lemon. Make a vanilla or 
lemon ice cream. When frozen, stir in the rice. 
Make this cream fully an hour before serving. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

Make a vanilla ice cream ; pack one-third of it 
in a mould. Mix one square of Baker's chocolate 
with another third ; pack that in the mould ; add a 



248 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

teaspoonful of almond to the last third and color 
green with coloring paste; pack smoothly over the 
chocolate, cover the mould securely; pack in ice and 
salt for two hours. 

FROZEN PUDDING OR TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

Make a vanilla ice cream, using heavy cream. 
To one quart of the ice cream add, after it is frozen, 
one cup of candied plums, apricots and cherries (one 
cup all together) that have been cut in fine pieces 
and soaked in sherry or maraschino, with a table- 
spoonful of brandy if cared for, for one hour. Turn 
in a mould, pack in ice and salt two hours before 
serving, or serve from the freezer. 

PLUM PUDDING GLACE. 

Make one quart of chocolate ice cream, prepare 
and add one cup of the fruits, as given in frozen pud- 
ding. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Cook three-fourths of a cup of sugar to a caramel 
and dissolve with one-half cup of hot water; add the 
water gradually and let remain on the back of the 
stove until the caramel dissolves. When cool, add 
it to one quart of cream, one-half cup of sugar and 
one beaten egg; freeze. 

MACAROON ICE CREAM. 

Make a vanilla ice cream, using four cups of 
cream. Roll half a dozen macaroons to a powder, 
soak in sherry for ten minutes, add to the cream af- 



I 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 249 



ter it is frozen. The sherry may be omitted if de- 
sired. 

FROZEN ELLIOTT PUDDING. 

Make a vanilla ice cream. Line a melon mould 
with macaroons that have first been dipped lightly 
in sherry; spread them over with apricot jam, fill up 
the mould with the vanilla ice cream, pack in ice and 
salt for two or three hours before serving. This 
pudding can be served with a brandy sauce. 



FROZEN BANANAS. 



Juice of three oranges. 
2 cups heavy cream. 



1 dozen bananas. 

2 cups of sugar. 
2 cups of water. 

Boil the water and sugar five minutes, cool, then 
add the bananas, which should be mashed to a pulp, 
and juice of oranges ; freeze. Just before it ^ is 
frozen add the cream, which has been whipped stiff. 
Any fruit can be used in this way. This will serve 
fifteen people, 

ORANGE DELICIEUSE. 

Boil together for ten minutes three cups of sugar 
and one and one-half cups of water; cool, add three 
cups of orange juice. Scald in double boiler one and 
one-half cups of cream ; when scalded, add the beaten 
yolks of three eggs ; cook till it coats the spoon (about 
five minutes). Wlien cold, mix with the syrup; 
beat one cup and a half of thick cream and add to 
the other ingredients, then freeze at once. When 
nearly frozen, stir into it one-half cup of finely 



250 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

shredded orange peel. This will serve eighteen peo- 
ple. This receipt can easily be divided, using one 
or two-thirds, as one likes. 

FROZEN PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Place on each side of a melon mould a nice slice 
of canned pineapple. Put one cup of the juice in a 
sauce pan with the yolks of four eggs (beaten 
slightly), stir until it begins to thicken; remove 
from the fire and beat with a Dover beater until cool, 
then add half a cup of grated pineapple and one cup 
of heavy cream beaten stiff. Fill up the mould with 
the mixture, pack in ice and salt for three hours. 
Oranges may be used in this way, filling the mould 
with orange ice cream and lining it with slices of 
orange. 

PEACHES, APRICOTS AND GRATED PINEAPPLE 
FROZEN IN THE CAN. 

Place a tin can of any of these fruits in a deep 
pail or tub, pack with ice and salt (two measures of 
ice to one of salt) for three hours. Open the can 
with the can opener, remove, without breaking, onto 
the serving dish, surround with whipped cream and 
serve. 

Serve Ice Creams or Slierhets in champagne 
glasses with whipped cream on top, coloring the 
cream an opposite color from the frozen cream, us- 
ing the juices of fruits or berries or jellies. 

FRESH FRUIT ICE CREAM. 

Make a plain ice cream, the same as for vanilla 
ice cream, omitting the vanilla. Use two cups of the 



THE ROCK^ MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 251 

fresh fruits and pulp; sweeten to taste. In using 
raspberries for raspberry ice cream, it is better to 
cook tbem for about five minutes, then they will mash 
through a sieve more easily. 

LALLA ROOKH OR FROZEN EGG-NOG. 



4 cups of cream. 

4 eggs. 

1 cup sugar. 



^ nutmeg gi'ated. 

y2 cup of rum. 

2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 



Beat the eggs to a stiff foam, add the sugar and 
beat again. Mix with the cream nutmeg and a 
speck of salt and freeze ; when frozen, stir in the rum 
and brandy. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Make a vanilla ice cream with a rich, thick 
cream. Boil one cup of blanched French chestnuts 
until tender ; mash through a puree sieve, one cup of 
mixed candied fruits cut in small pieces, moisten 
with two tablespoonfuls of maraschino, sherry or or- 
ange juice. Stir the fruit into the cream after it is 
frozen ; let stand fully an hour before serving. 

SULTANA ROLL AND CLARET SAUCE. 

Line one-pound baking powder cans with pis- 
tachio ice cream, sprinkle with sultana raisins that 
have first been boiled for five minutes, then soaked 
several hours in brandy (drain from the brandy be- 
fore using). Fill the center with whipped cream 
that has been sweetened and flavored; cover the top 
with pistachio ice cream ; pack in ice and salt for two 
hours before serving. Serve with claret sauce. 



252 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

Boil one cup of sugar and oiie-lialf cup of water 
to a thick syrup; when cool (not cold), add one-third 
cup of claret. Serve very cold over the sultana roll. 

MARASCHINO, SHERRY, PORT AND BRANDY SAUCES. 

Make the same as claret sauce, using whatever 
liquor you like. 

SAUCES FOR ICE CREAM. 

Can he made from sweetened whipped cream, 
chilled and flavored. 

GINGER SAUCE. (Boston Cooking School). 

Dilute two teaspoonfuls of corn starch with Avater 
and stir in one-fourth of a cup each of hrandy and 
ginger syrup, and two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice; 
cook five minutes, then add one-fourth cup of finely- 
chopped ginger, a few gratings from tlie rind of a 
lemon and one teaspoonful of butter. Serve hot or 
cold. 

MAPLE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil two cups of maple syrup until quite thick, 
then add one-half cup of cream and a speck of salt; 
cook until it will form a soft hall when tried in cold 
water, then pour over the ice cream. Keep it hot by 
standing the dish in hot water until ready to use. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Mix one ounce of grated chocolate with one cup 
of sugar, add one-fourth cup of water, one-fourth 
cup of cream, speck of salt; cook till it will forai a 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 253 

soft ball when tried in cold water. Serve at once, 
or keep hot by setting in hot water. This sauce may 
be used cold if preferred. 

HOT COFFEE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Boil one cup of sugar and half a cup of cream for 
^ve minutes, with a speck of salt, then add one cup 
of strong black coffee ; boil for ten minutes, or until 
it becomes a thick syrup. 

HOT RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of sugar, two cups of fruit juice and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice to a thick syrup. 
Serve hot or cold. 

HOT ORANGE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Mix with one cup of orange juice and the juice 
of one lemon one teaspoonful of corn starch that has 
been dissolved in a little cold water, one cup of sugar ; 
cook to a thick syrup, strain, and serve hot or cold. 

MOUSSES. 

Mousses are whipped cream fruit pulps and fla- 
vorings mixed together and packed in ice and salt to 
freeze. 

FRUIT MOUSSES. 

Wliip two cups of cream stiff. If the thin cream 
is used, drain it through a sieve before adding to the 
pulp. Mix enough sugar to the pulp to sweeten — the 
amount depends upon the acidity of the fruit — then 
mix with the cream, pour in a mould, pack in ice and 



254 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

salt for three hours, using two measures of ice to one 
of salt. Raspberries and peaches make very delicious 
mousses, the flavor of the preserved being almost as 
good as the fresh fruit. 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, CURACAO OR NOYON MOUSSES. 

Whip two cups of cream stiff, add to it three- 
fourths cup of black coffee that has been cooked to 
a thick syrup with three-fourths cup of sugar, then 
cooled. Pack in ice and salt. 

Chocolate Mousse. — Melt two ounces of choco- 
late, add to it one-half cup of cream ; add three- 
fourths cup of sugar; melt all together, cool, and add 
to two cups of whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt 
for three hours. 

CURACAO AND NOYON MOUSSE. 

Add one-lialf cup of curacao or noyon to two cups 
of whipped cream, sweeten with a little powdered 
sugar if necessary. Pack for three hours in ice and 
salt. 

PARFAITS. 

Parfaits are flavorings, whipped cream and eggs. 
They are frozen by being packed in ice and salt. 

ANGEL PARFAIT. 

Boil one cup of sugar and one-half cup of water 
till it threads, then pour in a fine stream on the 
whites of two eggs beaten till foamy. Set in a dish 
of ice water and beat until cold. Add two tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla, fold into it two cups of heavy 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 255 

cream beaten stiff. Turn into a mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours, two measures of ice to 
one of salt. 

PINEAPPLE PARFAIT. 

Make the same as angel parfait, omitting the va- 
nilla and stirring into the syrup and eggs when cold 
one cup of grated pineapple. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

To one cup of rich maple syrup add the beaten 
yolks of four eggs, cook in a sauce pan, stirring con- 
tinually till it boils. Boil for ^ve minutes, strain, 
set aside to cool. Beat two cups of heavy cream un- 
til stiff, then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Whip the syrup with a Dover beater until very light, 
and stir all the ingredients together ; mould and pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. This amount will 
serve twelve people. 

GINGER PARFAIT. 

Heat one cup of ginger syrup, pour slowly over 
the whites of two eggs ; beat two cups of heavy cream 
stiff, add to the other ingredients when cold, with 
half a cup of the preserved ginger that has been put 
through a meat grinder, or chopped very fine. Pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. 

CAFE PARFAIT. 

Boil one cup of clear black coffee and three- 
fourths of a cup of sugar to a thick syrup, then slowly 
pour over the whites of two eggs that have been beaten 



256 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

to a foam ; beat till cold, mix with two cups of heavy 
cream that has been whipped stiff, mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours. 

PARFAITS OF CHESTNUTS OR CANDIED FRUITS. 

Make an angel parfait; when ready to put in the 
mould, add a cup of boiled chestnuts or candied 
fruits that have been soaking in brandy for half an 
hour; drain well from the brandy, roll in powdered 
sugar and mix with the parfait; mould and pack in 
ice and salt for three hours. 

PARFAITS OF TEA AND ORANGE PEEL. 



1 cup of strong black tea. 
1 cup of sugar. 

A mcrcra 



2 cups heavy cream. 

1/^ cup candied orange peel. 



4 eggs. 

Mix the tea, sugar and beaten yolks of eggs to- 
gether, cook in double boiler until thick and creamy. 
When cold, mix with it the cream beaten stiff, and 
the whites of the eggs, also. Cut the candied peel in 
small pieces, soak until very soft in maraschino or 
orange syrup or juice, fold into the mixture ; pack in 
ice and salt for three or four hours. Ser\"e, garnished 
with candied peel. 

BANANA PARFAIT. 

Peel and mash to a pulp half a dozen bananas; 
add to them a wine glass of rum and one of maras- 
chino, a tablespoonful of lemon juice (a few drops of 
yellow vegetable coloring mixed with a little cream 
will improve the color), one-half cup of sugar, three 
eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one cup 
of heavy cream whipped stiffly ; mix all together, fold- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 257 

ing the whites in last; put in a mould, pack in ice 
and salt for four hours, using equal parts of ice and 
salt. The liquor can be omitted ; then three hours 
would be long enough to freeze. Apricots or peaches 
can be used in the same way. 

BISCUIT GLACE OR TORTONI. 

Make a thick syrup of one cup of sugar and one- 
fourth cup of water. Beat the yolks of four eggs. 
When the syrup is cool, add to the eggs with half a 
cup of cream. Cook all in a double boiler until the 
mixture coats the spoon like a custard, then place in 
a dish of ice water and whip till cold ; then fold in 
two cups of heavy cream whipped stiff, flavor with 
vanilla or maraschino. Put the mixture in paper 
boxes, sprinkle over the top almonds browned and 
chopped fine, or macaroons rolled to a fine powder. 
Put the boxes in a tin pail, place paper between each 
layer. Pack in ice and salt for four hours. 

MACEDOINE FRAPPE. (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Make a syrup by boiling four cups of water and 
two cups of sugar ten minutes; add the shaved rind 
of one lemon, cool, strain out the lemon; add the 
juice of three lemons and one-half cup of orange 
juice, one-half cup of strong tea, one grated pineap- 
ple, one pint of apollinaris; add more sugar if 
needed. Freeze to a granular consistency, using as 
much salt as ice. 

COLLEGE ICES. 

Put into a frappe glass two tablespoonfuls of 
any kind of fruit or berries that have been sugared 



258 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and flav^ored with a little brandy or wine; fill tlic 
^lass with vanilla ice cream ; pour over the top a 
little fruit syrup or chocolate sauce. 

GOOSEBERRY SORBET. 

Cook together one quart of gooseberries, two 
cups of water and one cup of sugar till S(^ft, then add 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice and a little green 
vegetabl coloring. When cold freeze. When quite 
stiff, add a wine glass of maraschino and two table- 
spoonfuls of rum. Before adding the lemon juice 
and coloring, mash through a fine sieve. 

CHOCOLATE SURPRISE. 

Line a melon mould with a rich chocolate ice 
cream about one inch thick, fill up with orange sher- 
bet, cover the top with the ice cream. Pack the 
mould in ice and salt for two hours. When ready to 
serve, surround with crystallized orange peel. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 259 



CAKES. 



DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING CAKE. 

The baking of cakes is more affected by the higli 
altitude than anything else we cook. Our sea level 
receipts can be used in high altitudes by adding one 
more egg, not changing the receipt in any other way, 
in this way making a rich, moist cake. 

Baking Cake. — The oven should be slow, and 
enough fire to last until the cake is done. Grease 
the pans with lard, as butter burns very quickly, 
making the cake black. 

Preparing the Materials for the Cake. — The but- 
ter and sugar should be creamed together very 
lightly, making a creamy, soft mixture. A great deal 
depends upon creaming the butter and sugar prop- 
erly. The eggs should be beaten light and foamy. 
When the whites are to be beaten alone, put them in 
a flat dish — a plate or platter — and beat with the 
Daisy beater; they beat up much quicker beaten in 
this way, although if one cares to, they can beat the 
whites in a bowl with the Dover beater before beat- 
ing the yolks, thus having the beater to wash but once. 
Sift salt and baking powder with the flour. When 
fruit is used, roll it in flour and add it last. Wlien 
a cake cracks open in baking, too much flour has 
been used. It is hard to give the exact amount of 
flour a cake will take, as some flour will take more 
moisture than other. Layer cakes require a hotter 
oven than thick cakes. When a cake browns before it 
has raised, the oven is too hot. Any loaf cake can 



260 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

be baked as a layer cake. All cakes should be baked 
as soon as they are made. Mix cake in an earthen 
bowl and beat with a wooden spoon. Do not use a 
cheap quality of butter or stale eggs. For cake 
making use a very fine granulated sugar; the coarse 
sugar makes the cake heavy and coarse-grained. 
Have everything ready before beginning to make the 
cake. Cakes are divided into two classes — cakes 
with butter, and cakes without butter. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

4 egga. I Yz teaspoonful of salt. 

% cup of sugar. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 

1 cup of flour. I 

(In making Miis cake at a low altitude, use one 
wliole cup of sugar). Separate the whites from the 
yolks, putting the yolks in the mixing bowl ; beat 
them until creamy and gradually beat in the sugar; 
add lemon juice. Beat the whites till stiff; sift the 
salt with the flour, add one-fourth of the whites to 
yolks ; sift over it one-half of the flour, then add an- 
other fourth of the whites, fold in, sift in the rest 
of the flour, then fold in the remainder of the whites. 
Bake in a slow oven about thirty minutes, or until 
the cake leaves the side of the pan. If you care for 
a sugary top, sprinkle a little sugar over it before 
putting in the oven. This cake can be baked in loaf, 
layers or drop cakes. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Make the same as above; spread very thin on 
shallow pans ; bake in a moderate oven ; spread with 
jelly while warm ; roll up. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 261 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE (No. 2). 

Beat the jolks of ^ye eggs till light ; beat in grad- 
ually one cup of sugar and alternately half a cup of 
heavy cream and two cups of flour ; sift with the flour 
one teaspoonful of baking powder and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt ; add the grated rind of half a lemon, 
and lastly fold in the stifly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Bake about forty-five minutes. 

BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat seven eggs two minutes (at a low altitude 
use six eggs) ; add three cups of sugar, beat five min- 
utes, two cups of flour sifted with one teaspoonful 
of baking powder ; beat two minutes ; one cup of cold 
water, beat one minute; one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt sifted in two cups of flour, beat three minutes ; 
grated rind and juice of one lemon, beat one minute. 
Observe the time exactly. This quantity makes 
three loaves. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Four eggs, half a cup of powdered sugar, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon 
or vanilla flavoring. Make the same as sponge 
cake. Drop in buttered lady finger pans, sprinkle 
the top with powdered sugar. Bake from ten to fif- 
teen minutes. Drop by the spoonful on a buttered 
pan for sponge drops. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One cup of flour, sifted ; mix with one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar and sift four times. Beat 



262 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

the whites of twelve eggs until stiff. (Eleven eggs 
can be used in a low altitude). Add one cup and a 
half of fine granulated sugar and beat again. Add 
one teaspoonful of vanilla or almond, then mix in 
the flour quickly and lightly. Bake in a funnel cake 
pan; line the bottom with paper, not greased, pour 
in the mixture and bake fifty minutes 

MARSHMALLOW ANGEL CAKE. 

Bake a thin angel cake. When cold, cut through 
the center. Spread over it a layer of flavored and 
sweetened whipped cream that has one-half cup of 
marshm allows cut in small pieces and whipped with 
the cream. Cover with the cake and spread a little 
of the cream on top, with the whole marshmallows 
for garnish. 

CAKES WITH BUTTER. 

By changing the receipts a little, various cakes 
can be made from one receipt, simply by adding 
spices, fruits, chocolate and different flavorings. 
When the fruits are used, roll in flour first. Where 
chocolate is used, vanilla combines with it to give 
the best flavoring. 

SPICE CAKE. 
(Made from the Yolks of Angel Cake. Mrs. Durand). 

10 yolks. I 1 scant cup of granulated 

1^4 cups of flour. I sugar. 

Put the yolks in a granite sauce pan, beat the 
sugar gradually into the eggs with a flat beater ; beat 
till light and thick; set the sauce pan in a pan of 
boiling water on the stove. Cook till thick. When 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



263 



cool, add two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of cloves and one cup of nut meats, cut 
fine, and tlie flour tliat has been sifted four times. 

WHITE CAKE. (Mrs. Gaylord). 



Whites of five eggs. 
3 cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of Yanilla or 
rose water. 



y2 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking 

powder. 
1 cup of milk. 

Cream, butter and sugar, sift the baking powder 
and flour together, add half of the flour and half of 
the milk until used up, then fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites and flavoring. 



GOLD CAKE. 



^ cup of butter. 
1^ cups powdered sugar. 
y2 cup of milk. 
Yolks of five eggs. 
Yz teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



1/4 teaspoonful of salt. 
2 cups of flour. 
Flavor with mace, nutmeg 
or vanilla. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the flavoring, 
beaten yolks, part of the flour that has the salt and 
baking powder sifted in it, the milk, then the rest of 
the flour. Bake from thirty to forty minutes. 



SILVER CAKE. 



Make the same as the gold cake, using the whites ; 
add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar, then 
add part of the flour, part of the whites, the rest of 
the flour, and fold in the remaining whites; flavor 
with almond or lemon juice. 



264 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BRIDE'S CAKE. 



1 cup butter. 

1^ cups powdered sugar. 
Whites of eight eggs. 

2 cups flour. 

'^ teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 



14 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful of lemon or 
rose extract or ^ tea- 
spoonful of almond. 



Cream the butter aud sugar, add the flavoring, 
the sifted flour that has the salt and baking powder 
sifted in it, half of the beaten egg ; beat thoroughly ; 
Fold in the rest of the whites. Bake in a round pan 
with a tube. Cover with boiled icing. 

POUND CAKE. 



% lb. of butter. 

1 lb. of sugar (or 2 cups). 

8 or 9 eggs (if small, nine) 



1 lb. of flour (4 cups). 

2 tablespoonfuls of wine and 

2 of brandy. 



In a low altitude one pound of butter could be 
used. Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually 
and cream, then the brandy and wine. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs very light, add those alternately 
w^th flour; fold in the whites last. One cup of cur- 
rants, raisins or citron may be added, or spices. 



WEDDING CAKE. (Mrs. Sheppard). 



2 lbs. currants. 

2 lbs. raisins. 

1 lb. citron. 

1 teaspoonful each cinna- 
mon, mace, allspice, 
cloves and 2 grated 
nutmegs. 

Yz cup brandy. 



lb. browTi sugar. 



1 lb. butter. 

1 

9 eggs. 

4 cups flour. 

Yz teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoon- 
ful of water. 



Cream, butter and sugar, add yolks well beaten, 
part of flour, spices, part of brandy, rest of flour, then 
the whites of eggs ; lastly the fruit that has been rolled 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



265 



lightly in flour. Bake in a wooden box, lined with 
three layers of paper. This cake requires from five 
to six hours' baking in a moderate oven. 



FRUIT CAKE. 






cup of butter, 
cup of sugar, 
cup dark molasses, 
teaspoonful soda sifted 
in the flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful mixed 

spices. 

2 cups flour. 



2 tablespoonfuls brandy. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

14 cup of candied orange 
peel. 

Vz cup walnut meats 
chopped fine. 

y2 cup each of raisins, cur- 
rants and citron. 



Slice the citron and orange peel. Cream the 
butter and sugar, add spices and molasses, the beaten 
yolks of eggs, part of the flour, brandy, lemon juice, 
rest of the flour, whites of eggs beaten stiff, lastly the 
fruit floured, and nuts. Bake in a slow oven for 
about an hour and a quarter. 

LIGHT FRUIT CAKE. 

Make a pound cake ; add one cup of currants and 
raisins (one cup in all), and one-half cup of sliced 
citron, one tablespoonful of mixed spices, the juice 
and grated rind of half a lemon. Flour the fruit 
and add it last. 



ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE. 



1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

5 eggs (4 eggs can be used 
at low altitude). 



2 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
^ teaspoonful of baking 

powder and salt. 
About lYz cups of flour. 



This cake should have a good long beating after 
all the ingredients are mixed. Cream the butter and 



266 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

siigar, add tlie eggs well beaten, part of the flour that 
has the baking powder and salt sifted with it, then 
the milk and the rest of the flour. Bake in little 
cakes, or one loaf. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Cream one cup of butter and two cups of pow- 
dered sugar (at a low altitude granulated sugar can 
be used), beat the yolks of six eggs till tliick and 
light, add alternately one cup of milk and four cups 
of flour sifted with one-half teaspoonful of soda ; 
beat thoroughly, then add the beaten whites of the 
eggs, lastly the grated yellow rind of a good-sized 
lemon with the juice. Cover with an icing flavored 
with lemon juice. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Make the same as spice cake, omitting the spices, 
adding one-half cup of chopped almonds, one-half 
teaspoonful of almond extract; flour the nuts, cover 
with a boiled icing and sprinkle over with almonds 
cut in strips. 

PISTACHIO CAKE. 

Bake a silver or bride's cake in a large, shallow 
pan. When cold, cover with a boiled icing, colored 
green with vegetable coloring and flavored with al- 
mond. Sprinkle with blanched and finely chopped 
pistachio nuts. 

NUT CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of chopp^'d nuts (floured) to 
^^Rocky Mountain" cake. Sprinkle a layer of chop- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 267 



ped nuts and a little powdered sugar over the top just 
before putting in the oven, or frost with a white or 
chocolate frosting, and decorate with the whole nut 
meats. A maple icing is delicious on this cake. 



FIG CAKE. 



Add one-half cup of finely chopped figs (floured) 
to spice cake after it is mixed. 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN CAKE (Loaf or Layer Cake.) 



1 scant Clip of sugar. 

^ cup of butter. 

% teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
% teaspoonful of salt. 



Yz cup of milk. 



3 eggs. 



1% cups of flour. 
Flavoring. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add flavoring of any 
kind, the well-beaten eggs, part of the flour (with the 
salt and baking powder sifted in it), the milk and 
the rest of the flour ; beat thoroughly for ten minutes. 
Bake in gem pans if you like. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Make the same as ''Kocky Mountain'' cake, add- 
ing the grated yellow of the rind of one orange. Bake 
in layers and spread with orange filling. Cover with 
orange icing. 

Orange Filling. — Beat one whole egg and the 
yolks of two more ; add three-fourths cup of sugar. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Make a "Eocky Mountain" cake; mix melted 
chocolate with on^third of it ; put in the pan a layer 
of the plain cake, then the chocolate mixture, after 



268 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



that the remainder of the mixture. A very nice way 
to make marble cake is to take one-third of the mix- 
ture of ^'Rocky Mountain" cake and mix with it 
spices, currants and citron, or a little preserved or- 
ange or lemon peel. 

SPICE CAKE. 



V2 cup of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

Ys cup of milk. 

IV^ cups of flour. 

% teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
^ teaspoonful of salt. 



Juice and grated rind of a 

lemon. 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Several gratings of nutmeg. 
% teaspoonful allspice. 
3 whole eggs and the yolk 
of one. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add spices, tlic 
beaten yolks of eggs, lemon juice and rind, part of 
the flour which has sifted in it the baking powder 
and salt, then the milk, the rest of the flour and the 
stiffly beaten whites. Bake until the cake leaves the 
side of the pan. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Make the spice cake, omitting the spices and add- 
ing one-half cup of currants that have been floured. 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

Add one-half cup of grated cocoanut that has 
been floured to ^^Rocky Mountain" cake just before 
putting in the oven. Cover with boiled icing that 
has two tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut mixed 
with it, or ice with the icing and sprinkle the cocoa- 
nut over the top. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIIN COOK BOOK. 269 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Add one square of Baker's chocolate (melted) to 
"Rocky Mountain" cake; after the cake is mixed, 
flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla ; ice with a boiled 
or chocolate icing. 

LOAF CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Boil to a thick cream one-half cup each of sugar 
and milk and three squares of chocolate; let cool; 
then cream together one-half cup of butter and one 
cup of sugar, then add three well-beaten eggs, one- 
half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder 
sifted with two cups of flour, a little salt, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and the chocolate mixture added 
last. 

TWELFTH NIGHT CAKE. 

Beat to a cream one cupful of butter and two of 
granulated sugar. Beat the whites and yolks of six 
eggs separately; beat in the yolks to the creamed 
butter and sugar, a little at a time, then add one-half 
cup of milk alternately with three cups of flour that 
has one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted with it, 
then fold in the beaten whites of the eggs, lastly add 
the grated rind and juice of half a lemon, a cup of 
seeded raisins soaked in brandy and rolled in flour, 
and a teaspoonful of caraway seed. Bake in a round 
pan with a tube in the center, line it with buttered 
paper. Boll the silver pieces in thin white paper, 
then in flour, place in opposite sides of the cake. 
Bake slowly. When cold, ice with a thick white 
frosting, decorate with candied cherries and angelica, 
surround with holly and stick a piece in the center. 



270 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 



6 eggs. 



1 cup milk. 

2 cups raisins. 
2 cups chopped figs 



FIG CAKE (No. 2). 

1 cup blanched almonds. 
1 tablespoonful honey. 
3%, cups of flour. 
1 teaspoonful baking pow- 
der. 
1^ teaspoonful salt. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add tlie eggs well 
beaten, and the honey. Soak the fruit in brandy for 
a half hour, sift in the flour, baking powder and salt, 
add fruit, mix with the flour, then the milk. Mix 
well and bake in two loaves. 

ANGEL OR SPONGE CAKE WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Make an angel or sponge cake; bake in a sheet. 
When cold, cut in halfs and cover with a layer of 
chestnuts and whipped cream; or, bake in a round 
pan; when cold, cut out the center, flll with the 
chestnuts and cover the top with whipped cream 
flavored with maraschino. Shell and blanch the 
chestnuts, boil in sweetened water. WHien soft mash 
through a sieve, then use in the cake. 



ROOSEVELT CAKES. 



Cut rich white cake in squares ; cut the squares 
in halves and spread with apricot jam ; cover with the 
other half. Press whipped cream through a pastry 
bag in fanciful shapes on top, or if the bag is not 
used, dot with the cream and sprinkle with finely-cut 



angelica. 



POUND CAKE WAFERS. 



1/^ lb. butter (1 cup). 
% lb. sugar (l^^ cups). 
4 eggs. 

^ teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



1 tablespoonful caraway 

seeds. 
Nutmesr. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



271 



Flour ^ enough to roll thin, cut out in rounds, 
sprinkle with sugar and bake in a quick oven. Cream 
the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, nut- 
meg, flour and baking powder sifted together, then 
caraway seeds. 

VENETIAN CAKES. 



^ cup of butter. 
V2 cup of powdered sugar. 
1^ cups of flour or a little 
less. 



1 cupful of chopped almonds 

or walnuts. 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 



Yolks of 3 eggs. 



Cream the butter and su^ar till 



verv 



light, 



idd 



the well beaten yolks, the almonds, flour and vanilla. 
Take a small piece, roll it in powdered sugar, then 
make a ball of it in the hands ; put a piece of the nut 
on the top of each. Place them an inch apart, bake 
in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 

ORANGE QUARTERS. 

Make an orange or sponge cake; drop in tins 
made for these cakes. Bake in a moderate oven; 
cover with orange icing. 



ALMOND WAFERS. 

Cream half a cup of butter and one cup of pow- 
dered sugar together, then beat in, very slowlv. half 
a cup of milk, and lastly two cups of flour and half 
a teaspoonful of vanilla. Spread very thin on the 
inverted bottom of a dripping pan, buttered. Mark 
in squares, sprinkle with blanched almonds chopped 
fine. Bake in a moderate oven ^ve to eight min- 
utes. Lift from the pan w-ith a knife, roll on the hot 
pan, putting one corner over the other, or one side 
over the opposite side. 



272 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



PEANUT COOKIES. 



4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

y^ cup of sugar. 
1 cup of flour. 



1 teaspoonful of baking 

powder. 
Speck of salt. 
1 cup shelled and chopped 

peanuts. 



Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten ^g^^ 
then the flour, salt and baking powder sifted together, 
the nuts last. Roll into little balls. Place an inch 
apart. Bake ten to fifteen minutes. 

HONEY CAKES. 

Four pounds of strained honey, one and one-half 
pounds brown sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, cloves 
and cinnamon to taste, one-half pound citron, cut in 
strips, one quart hickory nut meats, one pound shelled 
almonds, flour enough to roll out and cut in little 
squares. Warm the honey, then add sugar, add soda 
dissolved in warm water, add the citron, nuts, chopped 
fine. Warm the flour before adding. Bake slowly in 
pans, not to touch. 

Warm the honey, then add sugar; add soda dis- 
solved in warm water; itdd the citron, nuts cliopped 
fine. Warm the flour before adding. Bake slowly 
in pans, not to touch. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR COOKIES. 



1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 
4 cups of flour. 



4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of caraway 
seeds or spices to taste. 



Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, 
then flour and spices. If you like, cover the tops 
over with finely chopped preserved ginger, or pre- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 273 

served orange peel and a sprinkling of sugar. Add 
ginger to the mixture and bake as a sugar ginger- 
bread in one slieet. 



JUMBLES. 

Roll one-two-three-four cookies a little thicker, 
cut with a doughnut cutter and sprinkle over with 
sugar. 



WALNUT WAFERS. 



^ lb. brown sugar. 
1^ lb. walnut meats. 



6 tablespoonfuls of flour. 



2 eggs. 



Beat the yolks till light, beat in the sugar, add the 
flour and nuts and beaten whites of eggs. Drop by 
spoonfuls on larded tins that have been sprinkled 
with flour. Bake quickly. 



SUGAR COOKIES. 



y^ cup of butter. 

1 cup of powdered sugar. 

2 ^g%^. 



1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



Flavor with lemon juice, vanilla or nutmeg. Use 
flour enough to roll out; speck of salt. 

HERMITS. 

Add half a cup of stoned and chopped raisins to 
sugar cookies ; a little cinnamon and nutmeg. 

COCOANUT COOKIES. 

Add a half cup of grated cocoanut to sugar cook- 
ies. 



274 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



MARGARET DELAND CAKES. 

Beat two eggs and the yolk of another until 
foamy; add one-half cup of brown sugar, three- 
fourths cup of sifted flour, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt sifted to- 
gether, then stir in one cup of pecan nuts cut in small 
pieces. Put the mixture in small gem or muffin 
pans with a pecan nut meat in the center of each. 
Sift a little powdered sugar over the top. Bake 
about fifteen minutes. 



PEPPER NUTS. 



2 cups of powdered sugar. 



4 eggs. 



^4 teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 
^2 lb. citron. 



1 cup of hickorj nuts cut 

fine. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
As much flour as you can 
knead in. 



Beat the eggs well, then add sugar and beat again. 
Cut the citron in bits, add it with the nuts and spices, 
sift flour, soda and salt together. After the flour is 
added, roll in little balls, place an inch apart and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



SNOW BALL CAKES. 



Bake angel or bride's cake in small round gem 
pans. Cover with a boiled icing flavored with lemon 
and put a piece of candied ginger in the center of 
each. Cut in diamond shape. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



275 



FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKE. 
CHOCOLATE FILLING. 



iy2 cups granulated sugar. 

^ cup cream. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 



Speck of salt. 

Square of Baker's chocolate. 



Cut the chocolate in small pieces ; put all on to- 
gether to cook. Try it in cold water; when it 
reaches the soft ball stage remove from the fire. 
When cool, beat nntil a thick cream ; spread on the 
cake. Do not stir the filling after it begins to boil. 



FIG FILLING. 



% lb. of figs. 
^ cup sugar. 



Juice of half a lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry. 



Chop the figs fine, boil till tender, then add the 
sugar and lem^on juice. Cook till smooth. Remove 
from the fire and add the sherry. 

CREAM FILLING. 

For Cream Calces a7id Layer Cahes. — Scald one 
cup of milk, or part milk and cream. When scalded, 
add one egg beaten with one-fourth cup of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour and a speck of salt. Beat all 
together with a Dover beater; stir into the milk. 
Cook ten minutes and flavor. 



FIG CARAMEL ICING. 



1 cup of brown sugar. 
^ cup of cream. 



1 tablespoonful butter. 
Speck of salt. 



Boil all together until it will form a soft ball when 
tried in cold water. Remove from the stove. When 
cool, add one-half cup of figs chopped fine; beat till 



276 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

cool enough to spread. Dates or cooked prunes can 
be used in the same way. 

PRUNE WHIP FILLING. 

Bake sponge cake in layers. Whip a cup of 
cream, sweeten with powdered sugar. Cut up cooked 
prunes to make one-half cup ; add to the cream. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING AND FILLING. 

Make a boiled icing, using the white of two eggs 
instead of one ; cut one-half pound of marshmallows 
in small pieces and melt in a double boiler with two 
tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Wlien melted, stir 
into the boiled icing; flavor with vanilla and spread. 
Use for a filling or icing. 

LEMON OR ORANGE FILLING. 

Mix the juice and grated rind of one lemon with 
one cup of sugar and the beaten yolks of two eggs 
and two tablespoonfuls of milk, a speck of salt. Cook 
in a double boiler, stirring constantly until it thick- 
ens. Spread when cold. To make orange filling, 
use the grated rind and juice of one orange and two 
teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Make the same as 
lemon filling. 

BANANA FILLING. 

Make a boiled icing. When it is thick enough to 
spread, stir into it one-half cup of bananas cut in 
thin, small pieces. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 277 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

Add one-half cup of grated pineapple to boiled 
icing when it is ready to spread. 

NUT FILLING. 

Add one-half cup of any kind of nuts (chopped 
fine) to boiled icing when thick enough to spread, 
or nuts may be added to a lemon or orange filling. 

ICINGS FOR CAKES. 

PLAIN ICING. 

Wliite of one egg. | About one ciip of powdered 

1 teaspoonful of lemon sugar. 

juice. 1 

Stir the sugar in the white of egg without first 
beating the white ; flavor with the lemon or any fla- 
voring you prefer. 

ORANGE ICING. 

Juice of half an orange, one-half teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, powdered sugar; stir enough powdered 
sugar into the juice to spread a thin icing. 

CONFECTIONERS' FROSTING. 

To two tablespoonfuls of boiling water or boiling 
fruit juice and one teaspoonful of lemon juice, add 
enough confectioners' sugar to spread. 

BOILED ICING. 



1 cup granulated sugar. 
Ys cup of boiling water. 
White of one ess. 



^ teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. 



Boil the sugar and water without stirring until 
the syrup threads; beat the egg stiff, add the cream 



278 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

of tartar and pour the boiling syrup over the egg 
in a fine stream, beating all the while. When it is 
thick enough to spread, put it on the cake. It hard- 
ens quickly and should be put on the cake before it is 
too thick. 

ROYAL ICING. 

This icing is thickened largely by the beating. 
Beat the white of one egg and a tablespoonful of con- 
fectioners' sugar vigorously for two minutes ; add 
the sugar by the tablespoonful, beating after each 
one for some time. Keep on adding the sugar and 
beating till the mixture begins to sugar on the spoon, 
and a knife will make a clean cut through it. Add 
a few drops of lemon juice at a time until a table- 
spoonful has been used. 

YELLOW FROSTING. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs till light colored, then 
stir in powdered sugar till stiff enough to spread. 
Flavor with lemon, vanilla or wine. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Stii- into boiled icing a square of melted choco- 
late; add it to the icing before it is thick enough to 
spread. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. (No. 2). 



1 cup granulated sugar. 
1/4 cup of cream. 
1 square of scraped choco- 
late. 



1/4 teaspoonful of salt. 
Speck of cinnamon bark — 
Cook with it if cared for. 



Cook all together without stirring till it will fly 
a fine thread when tried. Remove from the fire. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 279 



When cold, beat to a thick cream; flavor with va- 
nilla (if the cinnamon is not used). Eemove the 
cinnamon before starting to beat it. 

NUT ICING. 

Stir into a boiled or plain icing one-half cup of 
any kind of nuts you prefer. Chop the nuts fine. 

BANANA ICING OR FILLING. 

Add to a boiled icing one-half cup of bananas 
cut in fine pieces; flavor with one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. 

PINK ICING. 

Color the plain or boiled icing with a little of 
the pink vegetable coloring. 

CARAMEL ICING. 



1 cup of brown sugar. 
% cup of cream or milk. 



If milk is used, add one 
tablespoonful of butter 
with it. 

1/4 teaspoonful of salt. 



Boil without stirring till the mixture threads. 
Kemove from the fire and when cool beat to a cream 
and spread over the cake. 



MAPLE ICING. 



Boil the maple until a thick syrup, then add one- 
fourth cup of cream and a little salt. Make the same 
as caramel icing. 



280 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



GINGERBREAD AND COOKIES. 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 



% cup molasses. 
V2 cup milk. 

^ cup melted butter. 



^ teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon and ginger. 
1/4 teaspoonful salt. 
y2 teaspoonful of soda. 
iy2 cups flour. 



Sift the dry materials all together; mix with the 
others. Bake about one-half hour. If sour milk is 
used, take one teaspoonful of soda; if heavy sour 
cream, omit the butter. 



SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 



^ cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 

1 POPor 

1/4 cup of milk. 



2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 
1/4 teaspoonful salt, 
1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. 



Mix stiff enough with flour to roll out. Bake 
in a sheet; mark off the top in diamond shapes. 

SOFT GINGER COOKIES. 

Put one teaspoonful of ginger and soda in a mix- 
ing bowl. Heat one cup of molasses and put in the 
bowl. Scald half a cup of buttermilk, add to the 
molasses ; stir in sifted flour enough to form a soft 
dough, then half a cup of softened butter. Chill 
thoroughly ; roll out, cut into cakes. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven. Do not change the order of mixing. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 281 



HARD MOLASSES COOKIES. 



1 tablespoonful of ginger. 
14 teaspoonful of salt. 



1 cup molasses. 
1 cup of butter. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Heat the molasses and butter together until the 
butter is melted. When cool, add one teaspoonful of 
soda and the flour and salt. Use enough flour to roll 
out, but not more than is necessary. 

GINGER SNAPS. 



1 cup molasses. 
Vs cup sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 



1 teaspoonful of soda. 
% cup softened butter. 
Flour enough to roll very 
thin. 



Heat the molasses, pour it over the sugar, then 
add to it the rest of the materials. Bake quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS. 



1 cup sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

der. 



Flavor with cinnamon, nutmeg or vanilla. Use 
only as much flour as is necessary to roll out. Cook 
in hot, deep fat four to six at a time. Roll out only 
a part of the dough at a time. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 



2 cups raised bread dough. 
% cup sugar. 
2 eggs. 



1 tablespoonful melted but- 
ter. 



Spice to taste. Flour enough to roll. Mix the 
ingredients well into the dough. Cut out and fry at 
once. 



282 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

CREAM PUFFS AND ECLAIRS. 



y2 cup of butter. 
1 cup boiling water. 
1 cup flour. 



3 eggs. 
Speck salt. 



Put the butter and water in a sauce pan. When 
the butter is melted and the water boiling, stir in the 
flour and salt all at once. Stir quickly until the 
mixture is quite firm (a minute or two), remove 
from the fire, ^^^len cool, beat in the eggs one at a 
time, until the mixture is light and smooth. Drop 
in tablespoonfuls a little distance apart on buttered 
tins. Bake in quite a hot oven, for thirty minutes. 
Split; when cool, fill with a whipped or made cream. 

Eclairs. — Make the same as for cream puffs. 
Bake in strips four inches long and one Avide. When 
cool, fill with cream. Cover with chocolate or any 
frosting you care to use. 

CREAM FOR CREAM PUFFS AND ECLAIRS. 



2 cups milk scalded in 

double boiler. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 eggs. 



Yz cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful butter. 

Speck of salt. 



Mix the salt, sugar and flour together, wet Vv'ith 
a little cold milk; stir into the hot milk; cook ten 
minutes, then add the beaten egg; cook five minutes. 
Remove from the fire; flavor to taste. When cool, 
use for the filling. 

MERINGUES OR KISSES. 

Beat the whites of four eggs till stiff and flaky. 
Beat into them gradually one cup of powdered sugar. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 283 

When it has become thick drop in tablespoonfuls on 
buttered paper placed on a board. Bake slowly in 
a warm oven for half an hour, or until they feel 
hard and hollow to the touch. When cool, remove 
the soft part, fill with ice cream, sherbet or whipped 
and flavored cream; put two together. Place on 
the paper in oblong shape for meringues ; for kisses, 
drop from a teaspoon in any shape. 



284 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, JELLIES 
AND PICKLES. 



COMPOTES OF APPLES, PEARS, PEACHES AND 
APRICOTS. 

Pare, core or stone the fruit, cut in quarters or 
halves according to the size of the fruit. Make a 
syrup of one-half as much water as sugar. When 
the syrup is quite thick, put in the fruit and cook un- 
til tender. Do not use over-ripe fruits — rather a lit- 
tle under-ripe. Then remove from the syrup with 
a skimmer, lay carefully on a serving dish in a cir- 
cle, or letting each piece overlap the other. Boil the 
syrup down till thick ; pour over the fruit. Serve 
cold. Compotes are very delicious when used to sur- 
round moulds of rice or cornstarch, decorated with 
whipped cream. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Core and pare sour apples ; put in a shallow agate 
or earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar or chopped 
nuts, chopped dates or figs in place of the sugar. 
Maple syrup can he used. When nuts or fruit are 
used to fill them, use sugar or syrup, too. Add water 
to cover the bottom of the dish. Cook in a quick 
oven till tender. Remove carefully on the serving 
dish. Let the syrup cook down until quite thick. 
Pour over the fruit. A little mound of whipped 
cream can be served on each apple. Pears and 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 285 

quinces can be baked in the same way. A little 
lemon juice or some of tbe grated rind can be used for 
flavoring. 

STEWED RHUBARB. 

Wash, and if the rhubarb is a little tough, peel, 
cut in inch pieces. Cook till tender in a granite 
sauce pan. Use one cup of sugar to two of the fruit, 
and enough water to well cover the bottom of the dish. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Wash very carefully, soak in cold water for two 
hours. If they seem soft and fresh, do not soak them. 
Put in porcelain kettle with boiling water to cover. 
Boil until tender, then add a tablespoonful of sugar to 
every cup of prunes. Boil ten minutes longer. Lem- 
on juice may be added. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE AND JELLY. (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Put three pints of washed cranberries in a gran- 
ite sauce pan. On top of them put three cups of 
sugar and three gills of water. After they begin to 
boil, cook them ten minutes, closely covered and do 
not stir them. Remove the scum; mash through a 
fine strainer into a mould for jelly, or serve them as 
a sauce with the skins. 

PRESERVING. 

Select the best of fruits. Have them ripe and 
fresh. The cans should be carefully washed and 
filled up with hot water. Wash the covers and put in 
hot water. Use new rubbers every year to prevent 
any air reaching the fruit. 



286 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PEACHES AND APRICOTS. 

Peel the peaches by placing in a wire basket and 
plunging into boiling water, then the skins will slip 
easily. Halve them or leave them whole. Use a 
few of the pits — they improve the flavor. Weigh 
the fruit and use three-fourths or one-half (just as 
you prefer) as much sugar as you have fruit. Make 
syrup by adding half as much water as you have 
sugar. Cook down until quite thick (about as thick 
as molasses), then add the fruit. Cook until trans- 
parent; remove tlie scum as it forms. Skim the 
fruit from the syrup and fill the jars. If the syrup 
seems a little thin, cook down; pour into the jars, 
filling full to overflowing. Tightly screw on the cov- 
ers ; turn bottom side up, and as they cool the covers 
can be tightened. 

BRANDIED PEACHES OR APRICOTS. 

Prepare and cook the peaches as above, leaving 
them whole. Fill jars with the fruit, to every pint 
jar of the peaches, add to it one-fourth cup of brandy. 
Cook the syrup down very thick, fill up the jars with 
it and seal. 

PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Prick the fruit with a fork in several places ; this 
prevents the skin from breaking somewhat, or they 
may be skinned the same as the peaches. Cook in 
the same way. 

BRANDIED PLUMS. 

Make the same as brandied peaches. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 287 



PRESERVED QUINCES AND PEARS. 

Pare and quarter, removing the core; preserve 
tibe same as peaches. Pears are improved by cooking 
in the syrup a little of the yellow rind of oranges or 
lemons. 



PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 

Pare and remove the eyes; use a silver fork to 
shred it, or cut in slices, or inch pieces, not using the 
core. Preserve the same as peaches. 

GRAPES. 

Wash and press the pulp from each grape; boil 
the pulp till tender; press through a sieve to remove 
the seeds, add the pulp to the skins, measure, add 
two cups of sugar to every three cups of the fruit. 
Boil all together imtil quite thick and seal while hot 
like the other preserves. 

CITRON. 

Pare and core the citron, cut in cubes or in fancy 
shapes, or scollop the edges. Cook the same as 
peaches, tie a little ginger root in a piece of cheese 
cloth and cook in the syrup to flavor, or a little of 
the yellow rind of lemon. 

CHERRIES. 

Wash, remove the stones and preserve the same as 
peaches. 



288 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS. 

Wash, remove from tlie stems and preserve the 
same as peaches. 



SUNSHINE STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, BLACK- 
BERRIES, GOOSEBERRIES AND CURRANTS. 

Select and hull three pounds of perfect fruit. 
Cook three pounds of fine granulated sugar and two 
cups of boiling water until a light thread is formed. 
Do not stir the sugar after it begins to boil. Cook 
the fruit in the syrup ten minutes. After it begins 
to boil, then pour out in platters and let stand in the 
sun for two days. Cover with cheese cloth. Put in 
the jars cold, have them fresh scalded. Berries are 
delicious done in this way; tliey absorb the syrup, 
making them plump and full. 

CANNING. 

Prepare the fruit the same as for preserving. 
Canning differs from preserving only in the amount 
of sugar used, and often no sugar at all is used. The 
proportion of sugar used is one-fourth as much 
as fruit, and a pint of water to a pound of sugar in 
making the syrup. Another way of canning is to 
pack the fruit tightly in the jars, fill the jars with 
the syrup, place the jars in a kettle of hot water, rest- 
ing the bottles on slats of wood or folded paper. Do 
not let them touch. Cover the boiler, let them cook 
till the fruit is tender. The fruit will shrink a little, 
so the jars will have to be filled up. It is well to re- 
serve a little syrup for this purpose. Place on the 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 289 

tops and seal at once. Another way is to cook tJiem 
in their own juices. Fill the jars with the fruit, put 
on in the kettle with cold water to reach half way up 
the jars. Raise to the boiling point and cook until 
the fruit is tender. Let stand in the water till cold 
again. If the fruit has shrunken, fill up the jars, 
using the contents of one to do it. 

The fruit may be cooked without sugar and will 
keep as well by thoroughly cooking in a little 
water and sealing immediately. 

CANNING TOMATOES. 

Remove the skins by first dipping the tomatoes 
in boiling water. Cut in small pieces, reject the 
pith or any bad specks. Cook them until soft, with- 
out adding water, then put in the jars at once; have 
the jars hot and freshly scalded. 

JAMS OR MARMALADES. 

Use equal quantities of fruit and sugar. Pare, 
core and cut in small pieces the large fruits ; the small 
ones wash and hull, place in the preserving kettle the 
fruit and sugar in layers. Let stand half an hour to 
extract the juice. Cook it slowly. When it becomes 
clear, put a little on a cold plate, if it hardens it is 
done; put in glasses or jars and cover. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

For making marmalade buy Messina or Saville 
oranges if you can. 

1 dozen oranges. 3 lemons. 

4 grape fruit. 

Slice the fruit very thin. Remove the seeds, 
weigh it, to every pound allow three pints of water; 



290 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

put in a crock and let stand twenty-four hours, then 
put on the fire and boil one-half hour. Return it to 
the crock and let remain another twenty-four hours, 
then measure. To every pint add two and one-fourth 
cups of suc:ar, then boil until it jellies slightly. This 
amount will make about twelve quarts. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. 

Cut rind of orange in thin strips. Soak two days 
in cold water. Cover well with water and change 
fully ten times a day. Drain, put on the stove cov- 
ered with cold water. Let come to a boil, then drain. 
Make a thick syrup, cook the straws in the syrup till 
it hairs, then remove from the syrup and roll in gran- 
ulated sugar. 

JELLIES. 

To make clear jelly, select perfect fruit, wash it 
and put in a porcelain-lined kettle with one quart of 
water to twenty-four boxes of fruit. Apples and 
quinces require twice that amount of water. Cook 
slowly till the fruit is tender, strain through a flan- 
nel bag, measure the juice, allow one cup less of sugar 
than you have of juice. Warm the sugar in the oven, 
but do not allow it to burn. Boil the juice twenty 
minutes, then add the hot sugar, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, skim thoroughly and cook about ten min- 
utes, or until it jellies when a little is dropped on a 
cold plate. Turn at once in glasses, let remain to 
settle twenty-four hours, then cover the tops with 
melted paraffine. Over-ripe fruit will not jelly. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 291 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Wash the currants, pick off any that are not per- 
fect, but do not stem them. A few boxes of raspber- 
ries cooked with the currants gives a delicious flavor. 
Four boxes of raspberries to twenty-four boxes of cur- 
rants give a delicate flavor of the raspberries. Pro- 
ceed with making the jelly as directed above. 

CRABAPPLE AND APPLE JELLY. 

Wash, cut in quite small pieces, but do not pare. 
Barely cover with cold water, cook till soft, then 
strain. A little of the yellow of lemon or orange peel 
improve the flavor, cooked with the apples, or a little 
of the root ginger. 

QUINCE JELLY. 
Make the same as apple jelly. 

GRAPE JELLY. 

Select under-ripe grapes ; the wild grapes give the 
best flavor. Wash them, add a quart of cold water 
to twelve boxes of grapes, cook until they are tender 
and well broken apart and proceed the same as di- 
rected. 

PLUM JELLY. 

Make the same as grape jelly, using the wild 
plums if convenient. 

TO SWEET-PICKLE FRUIT AND BERRIES (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Eight pounds of fruit, four pounds of best brown 
sugar, one quart of best vinegar, one cup of mixed 



292 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

whole spices, stick cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice 
and cloves, less of the latter than of the former. Tie 
the spices in a hag and boil with the vinegar and su- 
gar. Skim well, then add the fruit. Cook till the 
fruit is clear. Remove carefully from the syrup and 
put in a jar or a crock. Boil the syrup down nice 
and thick and pour over the fruit. Seal. 

PEACHES. 

Scald to remove the skins, leave them whole, cook 
without breaking. Do not stick with cloves. 

PEARS. 

Pare them, leave them whole with the stem on. 

CUCUMBER, WATERMELON AND CANTALOUPE. 

Fare them, remove the soft part from inside, cut 
<n pieces to serve. Cook in boiling water for ten 
minutes, drain and cook in the hot syrup till clear 
and tender. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Pare, remove the eyes, cut in serving pieces, or 
slices and cook in the syrup till clear. 

CURRANTS, GRAPES AND ALL BERRIES. 

Remove from the stems, wash and cook in the 
syrup until they form the consistency of jam. Pre- 
pp/i-e the grapes f-^r the syrup, as given for preserving. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 293 

PICKLED WALNUTS (Boston Cooking School). 

Take the walnuts when they are well filled out 
and tender, pierce each one with a strong needle three 
or four times and lay them in a brine which com- 
pletely dissolves its salts, changing for fresh every- 
day for nine days, then spread the nuts in the air un- 
til they become black. Put them in crocks and pour 
over them this mixture, boiling hot: A gallon of vin- 
egar, an ounce each of ginger root, allspice, mace and 
whole cloves, and two ounces of peppercorns, boiled 
all together for ten minutes. Cover, pressing the 
nuts under the vinegar with a plate. Let them stand 
six weeks before using. 

APPLE CHUTNEY (Boston Cooking School). 

Pare and core a dozen sour apples, peel a mild 
onion and seed one cup of raisins, chop the apples, 
onions, raisins and three green peppers very fine, add 
one pint of cider vinegar, half a cup of currant jelly 
and let simmer an hour. Then add two cups of su- 
gar, the juice of four lemons, one tablespoonful of 
ground ginger and a tablespoonful of salt, and cook 
another hour, stirring almost constantly. Store as 
canned fruit. 

GINGER APPLE. 

Pive pounds of sour apples chopped fine, three 
pounds brown sugar, one ounce ground white ginger 
root, one cup of water. Cook slowly three or four 
hours or till transparent. 

PICKELED CUCUMBERS. 

Make a brine of one pint of coarse salt and six 
quarts of boiling water, boiled and skimmed clear. 



294 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

wash one hundred and fifty small cucumbers, put in 
the brine and let remain forty-eight hours, covered, 
then drain. Soak in cold water for two hours, drain 
and put them in a crock. Stick one large onion full 
of cloves, an ounce of horseradish root and several 
little red peppers, and put with the cucumbers and a 
piece of alum the size of a pea. Fill a muslin bag 
with one cup of mixed spices, celery seed, white mus- 
tard seed, whole cloves, allspice, peppercorns, stick 
cinnamon, boil this in vinegar enough to cover the 
cucumbers for ten minutes. Put the bag in the 
crock with the vinegar, pour off the vinegar the third 
day, reheat it and return to the pickles. Do not use 
for three weeks. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

' Anything that you wish to use can be added to the 
cucumbers in the brine — pieces of cauliflower, small 
onions, nasturtium seeds, watermelon, beans. All 
make good pickles. 

MUSTARD PICKLES. 

Equal quantities of small cucumbers, button 
onions, cauliflower, picked apart, sliced green toma- 
toes and two or three sliced green peppers. Soak in 
the brine and drain, as given in Pickled Cucumbers. 
Prepare enough of the following mixture to cover: 
To one quart of vinegar, use one cup of brown sugar, 
half a cup of flour and one-half a cup of ground mus- 
tard. Boil the sugar and vinegar for ^ve minutes, 
skim, mix the mustard and flour together, pour the 
hot vinegar slowly onto it, stirring until smooth. 
Pour hot over the pickles. They will be ready to use 
in three weeks. 



1 peck of green tomatoes. 

1 cup of salt. 

2 cups brown sugar. 
8 small onions. 

2 heads of celery. 
1 teaspoonful of white 
pepper. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 295 

PICCALLILI OR CHOW-CHOW. 

1 tablespoonful whole cin- 
namon, broken up. 

1 tablespoonful of whole al- 
spice. 

1 tablespoonful mustard 
seed. 

2 quarts best vinegar. 

Chop or slice the tomatoes, sprinkle the salt over 
them and let stand over night, in the morning drain 
off the water and chop the onion and celery, place all 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, sprinkle with sugar, tie 
the spices in a bag, add those and the vinegar, cook 
slowly all day. Put in jars or earthen crock. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Make the same as the chow-chow, only using ripe 
tomatoes and chop them quite fine. To every peck 
of the tomatoes use one pound of onions chopped fine. 
Salt over night and proceed the same as the above 
receipt. 

TOMATO CATSUP. (Mrs. Campbell). 

Boil one bushel of ripe tomatoes, skins and all. 
When soft, mash through a colander to remove the 
skins and seeds. Mix one cup of salt, two pounds 
of brown sugar, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, 
three ounces each of ground allspice, mace and celery 
seed, two ounces of ground cinnamon, tie in a mus- 
lin bag, add to the tomato two quarts of best vinegar. 
Cook slowly till reduced to one-half. It is an im- 
provement to add a cup of brandy a few minutes be- 
fore it is done. Put in small bottles, seal, keep in a 
cool place. 



296 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



CANDIES. 



FONDANT. 

Fondant is the basis of all French cream candies 
and can be kept any length of time, if air tight and in 
a cool place. A great variety of bonbons and choco- 
lates can be made from it by using different flavor- 
ings, nuts and fruits, and also makes a delicious icing 
for small and large cakes. White grapes and straw- 
berries with the hulls on dipped in the fondant makes 
a delicious bonbon. 

To Make Mints. — When the fondant is rather a 
thin cream, flavor with mint, drop on buttered slab 
or rice paper from a teaspoon. 

VEGETABLE COLORING. 

The vegetable colorings are perfectly harmless; 
use only a small quantity, as a little will color a large 
amount of fondant. 



TO MAKE FONDANT. 



2 cup3 of sugar. 
^ cup of water. 



% teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. 



Do not stir after it begins to boil ; let it cook until 
it reaches the soft ball stage; the thermometer reg- 
isters at that stage 236° — 238°, or try a little in cold 
water, and if it forms a soft ball in the fingers, it is 
done, and must be removed at once. Let it cool until 
it forms a crust; if stirred while too warm it will 
grain. Stir until it becomes thick and creamy. If 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 297 

it becomes grainy, cook again with a little cold water, 
various candies can now be made by using the differ- 
ent flavorings, nuts and fruits. Fondant is used for 
creaming nuts, figs and dates. 

COATING FOR CHOCOLATE. 

Place equal quantities of fondant and chocolate 
with a few drops of vanilla, over hot water, stirring 
constantly until melted. Dip, place on rice paper, 
allow to harden. If the chocolate gets thick, add a 
few drops of hot water, also place the dish that holds 
the chocolate in warm water while dipping to keep 
from hardening. 

GLACE ORANGES, GRAPES, NUTS, ETC. 
2 cups sugar. | y^ cup water. 

Boil together without stirring, until the thermom- 
eter registers 340° or until the syrup crackles and 
breaks when a little is put in cold water. Remove 
from the fire, drop the pieces into the syrup one at a 
time with a candy wire, or two forks, place on an 
oiled slab or rice paper to dry. 

To glace oranges, divide the sections carefully, 
allow them to dry several hours before dipping. To 
glace grapes, wipe the grapes dry and leave the little 
stem on to prevent them from getting moist. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 



2 cups fine granulated su- 
gar. 
^ cup cream. 



2 squares of Baker's choco- 
late or 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of cocoa. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

Speck of salt. 

Stir until the ingredients are melted, but not after 
it begins to boil. Cook until it forms the soft-ball 



298 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

stage, when tried in cold water. Remove from the 
fire. When cool, stir until thick and creamy, pour 
into a pan and when cold cut in squares. One-half 
cup of chopped nuts can be added just before taking 
from the fire. 

MAPLE FUDGE. 



2 cups thick maple syrup. 
^ cup of cream. 



2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Speck of salt. 



Make the same as chocolate fudge. If tlie syrup 
is not very thick, cook down before putting in the 
other ingredients. 



PANOCHA. 



Speck salt. 

^ cup chopped walnuts. 



2 cups brown sugar, 
^ cup cream. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Make the same as fudge, add the nuts just before 
removing from the fire. 

OPERA CARAMELS. 

3 cups fine white sugar. I ^4 teaspoon ful of cream of 
1 cup of cream. | tartar (scant). 

Boil together until it roaches the soft-ball stage. 
When cool, flavor, add one-half cup of any chopped 
nuts, or fruits, or a mixture of both. Stir to a thick 
cream, then turn into a buttered dish to the depth of 
half an inch. When cold cut in little squares. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 



2 squares Baker's chocolate. 
% cup of cream or milk. 



^ cup white sugar. 
^ cup brown sugar. 
Yz cup molasses. 

If milk is used, add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Stir the mixture constantly while cooking. When it 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 299 

snaps and cracks tried in cold water, remove from 
the fire, pour in buttered pans, add chopped nuts be- 
fore removing from the fire if desired. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

2 cups sugar. [ ^ cup butter. 

%, cup cream. [ 

Cook all together until it snaps when tried in cold 
water. Stir while cooking, pour in buttered pans, 
cut in little squares before quite cold. 

PEANUT CANDY. 



sugar with a little water until it crackles when tried 



Fill a tin one-half inch deep with the nuts. Cook 
ar with a little water until it c 
in cold water, pour over the nuts. 

VINEGAR CANDY. 



2 cups sugar. 
^ cup water. 



3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 



Cook all together until it hardens when tried in 
cold water. Pour in a buttered pan. When cool 
enough to handle pull until it is white and creamy 
looking, cut in squares or sticks. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

2 cups molasses. I % cup of butter. 

1 cup of white or brown j 
sug^r. I 

Cook until it hardens when tried in cold water. 
Pour in buttered pans. When cool enough to handle 
pull till light colored. Cut in sticks. One cup of 
chopped nuts may be added just as you take it from 
the stove. 



300 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



BEVERAGES. 



To make good, bright-tasting tea and coffee, the 
water should be freshly boiled. Water that has been 
boiled for some time looses its life and gives a dull 
taste to your drinks. Before making tea or coffee, 
scald the pot 

TEA. 

Put the tea in a strainer and let the cold water 
wash it off, then put in the scalded pot and pour on 
the freshly boiled water, let remain on the back of the 
stove for five minutes, then pour the tea from the 
leaves into a hot pot and serve, often the tea is left 
to remain on the leaves, it then soon becomes bitter. 
The proportion used depends upon the strength re- 
quired, and the kind of tea used. Tea is considered 
by some to be better if made very strong and diluted 
with boiling water. Wlien a quantity of tea is to be 
made, as for a reception, tie the tea in muslin bags, 
put the bag in the boiling water, let remain for five 
minutes, then remove. 

Tea Ball. — The boiling water is poured from the 
samovar into the cup, the ball is placed in the cup, 
removed when the right color is attained. 

Russian Tea. — Is made by adding sugar and a 
thin slice of lemon to each cup. 

Tea Punch. — Is made by first soaking the sugar 
in rum or brandy and adding the lemon. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 301 

Iced Tea. — Make the tea several hours before 
using. When cool, put on ice. If not cold enough 
when wishing to serve, put cracked ice in each glass, 
one tablespoonful lemon juice, sugar to taste, added 
when hot. 

COFFEE. 
TO MAKE COFFEE. 

Oftentimes the coffee leaves its flavor in the 
kitchen by being cooked too long. There are now 
many reliable coffee cookers that can be used on the 
table. Coffee made in this way is preferable, as it 
is served as soon as made. The coffee pot should be 
kept scrupulously clean and aired. Great care 
should be taken to have the spout free from grains. 
Coffee will go much farther if finely ground, and 
should always be freshly made. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

The white of one egg is sufficient to clear one cup 
of ground coffee. Use one level tablespoonful of 
coffee for every cup. Mix the coffee in a bowl with 
the white of egg and a very little cold water (one- 
fourth cup to a cup of ground coffee), put into the 
scalded pot and pour on the boiling water, let boil 
three minutes. Remove to the back of the stove, add 
two tablespoonfuls of cold water, let settle for ten 
minutes, pour the coffee from the grounds and send 
to the table. If stronger coffee is required, increase 
the proportion of coffee. 

DRIP COFFEE. 

Use one rounding tablespoonful of coffee to a 
cup, put the coffee in a flannel bag, lay on the strainer 



302 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

and pour the boiling water over it. Have the pot 
hot to begin with and stand in a pan of hot water 
while dripping. 

BREAKFAST COFFEE (Mrs. T. L. Watson). 

This is to be mixed the night before. Mix six 
tablespoonfnls of coffee with the white of an egg (or 
smaller quantity if you like). Put into a small cov- 
ered earthen dish, pour over it two cups of cold water, 
cover tightly, a preserve jar would do, and the next 
morning put into the coffee pot, pour the boiling 
water over it, using a cup to every tablespoonful, let 
it boil up just once, pour into it half a cup of cold 
water, let settle a few minutes before serving. This 
can be made for after-dinner coffee by preparing in 
the morning. 

TURKISH COFFEE. 

Have the coffee very finely ground, using a table- 
spoonful to a cup, put in a pot, add cold water. When 
it touches the boiling point it is ready to serve. The 
Turk does not use cream or sugar. 

BLACK COFFEE. 

Is made by any of the above receipts, using about 
double the proportion of coffee. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Iced coffee is served in glasses. Add cream and 
sugar to the coffee and chill on the ice several hours 
before serving. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 303 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scald two cups of milk in double boiler, then add 
to it one square of Baker's chocolate that has been 
broken up in pieces, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
a pinch of salt. When the chocolate has dissolved, 
add a few drops of vanilla if you like. Beat with a 
Dover egg beater for a few minutes and serve at once. 
Put a teaspoonful of whipped cream in the cup be- 
fore pouring in the chocolate. 

MAILLARD'S CHOCOLATE. 

For each cup of chocolate use one cupful of milk 
and one bar of chocolate. Put the milk in a sauce 
pan, porcelain-lined, break the chocolate in small 
pieces, add to the milk, stir constantly with a wooden 
spoon until the chocolate is dissolved, and the milk 
has boiled up once. Add more hot milk if too rich. 
Beat vigorously. Serve at once. 

COCOA. 

Dissolve one tablespoonful of cocoa in two of 
water. Add to two cups of boiling milk, let boil up 
once. Sweeten to taste, beat well and serve. 

SHELLS. 

Steep one cup of shells in one quart of boiling 
water three hours, adding more water as it boils 
away. Strain, serve with cream and sugar. 

LEMONADE. 

Allow the juice of two lemons to three glasses of 
lemonade. Sweeten with sugar, or better still, sugar 



304 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

syrup. Add the water and cracked ice, put a thin 
slice of lemon in each glass. 

ORANGEADE. 

To the juice of two oranges add the juice of a 
half of a lemon. Sweeten, add water and ice, half 
a thin slice of orange for each glass. 

EGG LEMONADE. 

Beat an egg thoroughly, beat in four tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and the juice of two lemons, three cups 
of water, two tablespoonfuls of maraschino, if liked, 
ice and serve. 

SUMMER DRINK. 



4 quarts of lemonade. 
1 pint of pineapple juice. 
1 pint of strawberry or 
raspberry juice. 



A few thin slices of lemon 
and a few of the berries. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

Boil a grated pineapple, four cups of sugar and 
four cups of water twenty minutes, add one cup of 
strong tea, then strain. When cold, add the juice of 
five lemons, six oranges, one pint of strawberry, rasp- 
berry or grape juice, half a pint of maraschino cher- 
ries, six quarts of water and a big piece of ice. When 
ready to serve a bottle of apollinaris water, or ginger 
ale, mint leaves, pieces of pineapple or berries can 
also be used, with or without the cherries. 

COBBLERS. 

Cobblers are made by filling a glass with cracked 
ice, adding any kind of wine, and a little water if de- 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



305 



sired. Sweeten with sugar syrup, add a strawberry, 
raspberry, bit of pineapple, slice of orange, maras- 
cbino cherry, or any fruit you happen to have. 



CLARET CUP. 



1 pint of claret. 

1 pint of soda water. 

Piece of 1 lemon and 

orange. 
1 glass of curacao. 



Slice of cucumber. 
Sweeten with sugar syrup. 
Bimch of mint. 
Have it well iced. 



CHAMPAGNE CUP. 



1 quart of champagne. 
1 glass of sherry. 
1 glass white curacao. 
Juice of one orange and 
lemon. 



1 pint of apoUinaris. 
Slice of cucumber. 
Bunch of mint. 
Large piece of ice. 



GINGER ALE PUNCH. 



Juice of six lemons and six oranges, two quart 
bottles of ginger ale, one pint of champagne, sweeten 
with sugar syrup, a large piece of ice and thin slices 



of lemon and orange. 



SAUTERNE PUNCH. 



The juice of six oranges and lemons, two quarts 
of sauteme, one pint of sherry, one cup of curacao, 
one pint of soda water, sweeten with sugar syrup, 
add a few pieces of any kind of fruits and a large 
piece of ice. 



EGG-NOG. 



Beat the yolk of one egg and one teaspoonful of 
sugar until very light and thick, beat the white to a 



306 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

stiff foam, mix togetlier, turn into a glass, add a tea- 
spoonful of rum or brandy, or both may be used, stir 
or shake all together, add a little grated nutmeg. 
Whipped cream may be used instead of the milk. 
Add more sugar and rum if desired. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Add to a glass of milk a tablespoonful of sherry, 
rum or brandy, sweeten to taste, shake, or mix well, 
put a little nutmeg on top. 

GRAPE JUICE. 

Add one quart of water to four quarts of grapes 
that have been washed and removed from the stems. 
Let them come slowly to the boiling point and set on 
the stove for fifteen minutes, then strain through a 
thick cloth, return the liquid to the fire, let it come to 
tlie boiling point, turn into glass jars and seal. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Turn over four quarts of ripe raspberries one 
quart of vinegar. Let remain for twenty-four hours, 
then strain through a cheese cloth, turn the liquor 
over four quarts more of fresh raspberries ; let stand 
for twenty-four hours ; again strain out the juice, 
and to each two cups of juice add two cups of sugar. 
Boil for twenty minutes, turn into bottles, cork 
when cold. When used, dilute, using three parts of 
water. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 307 



INVALID COOKERY. 



!N'otliing but the best of cooking should be served 
to the sick. 

First. — The greatest care should be taken in se- 
lecting the best materials. 

Second — The greatest care should be taken in 
cooking them. 

Third. — The food should be served on the dainti- 
est of china and glass, and the freshest of linen. 

Fourth. — Those whose profession it is to care for 
the sick are not competent to cook for them until 
they have had thorough instruction in the art by a 
professional teacher. Cooking should be an import- 
ant adjunct of nurse training. A very great deal de- 
pends upon the patient being properly nourished dur- 
ing convalescence, and if the food is not well cooked 
it cannot easily be digested, the materials are spoiled, 
and the result of nourishing the patient is not ob- 
tained. Cooking eggs in various ways, broiling (see 
broiled steak), bread making, soups, fancy dishes and 
ices are found in the book. 

TO MAKE TOAST. 

Select bread that is fully twelve hours old (if 
newer bread has to be used, cut in thin slices and set 
in the oven to dry out the moisture before toasting. 
If moist bread is used to toast, the inside will be soft 
and indigestible), cut in thin slices, cut off the crust 
unless preferred on, toast slowly a delicate brown on 



308 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

both sides, butter while warm, and serve only while 
it is fresh. 

CREAM FOR CREAM TOAST. 

Scald one cup of milk in the double boiler; melt 
in a sauce pan two tablespoonfuls of butter; when 
melted stir into it two tablespoonfuls of sifted flour 
(level), pour onto it a little of the hot milk, stirring 
until smooth, then the rest of the milk ; turn all back 
in the double boiler and cook ten minutes. This way 
the flour is thoroughly cooked, and if well stirred can 
not be lumpy. 

TO MAKE TEA. 

Use only freshly boiled water. Scald the teapot. 
Put the dry tea into a strainer and let the cold water 
run through to wash out the dust. Put the tea in 
the teapot, pour the boiling water over it ; set on the 
back of the stove to steep five minutes. Pour the tea 
from the grounds into a hot pot and serve at once. 
The amount of tea to be used depends upon the 
strength required. 

COCOA. 

Heat two cups of milk in the double boiler; 
when scalded add two tablespoonfuls of cocoa, one of 
sugar, and a few grains of salt. Dissolve the cocoa, 
sugar and salt in a little boiling water, stir into the 
hot milk, cook for fifteen minutes, beat with the Do- 
ver beater for a minute and serve at once. 

TO COOK AN EGG IN THE SHELL. 

If the egg is to be served soft in the shell (the 
white cooked and the yolk soft), place the egg in a 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 309 



sauce pan, cover with water that has come to the 
boil, set on the back of the stove for ten minutes 
(where it won't boil), or cover the egg with cold 
water, place on the front of the stove and allow it to 
just reach the boiling point; remove from the water 
at once. Eggs cooked in this way are easily di- 
gested; the white is of a jelly-like consistency, not 
hard and horny as when boiled. To cook the egg 
hard, let remain in the water longer. 

TO COOK CEREALS. 

Cereals should be thoroughly cooked. It is best 
to use a double boiler, as cereals being starchy will 
easily stick on. Put the cereal in the double boiler, 
with a little salt, a half teaspoonful to a cup of the 
dry cereal, cover with boiling water and cook fast on 
the top of the stove for Rve minutes, stirring a little 
to prevent sticking; then place in the boiler and 
cook for a half hour, anyway. Some cereals require 
longer cooking. ivTow many of them go through a 
steaming process before being put on the market, 
so that the -^Ye minutes of hard boiling and the half 
hour cooking in the double boiler is all that is re- 
quired. The cooking of rice and all kinds of cereals 
are minutely given in the book. 

TO COOK CORN STARCH OR TAPIOCA. 

Heat the milk in double boiler; when scalded add 
the com starch that has been mixed smooth the thick- 
ness of cream with a little cold milk and a little salt. 
Stir into the hot milk and cook for twenty minutes 
before sugar or eggs are added. Various ways for 



310 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

cooking corn starcli and tapioca are given in tlie 
book. Wash the tapioca and add to the hot milk, 
stirring frequently. 

CORN STARCH GRUEL. 

Scald two cups of milk in a double boiler ; mix a 
tablespoonful of corn starch with a little cold milk 
and an eighth of a teaspoonful of salt; stir into the 
hot milk and cook for twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. If too thick, add a little hot milk; flavor 
with a little sugar and nutmeg, or lemon or orange 
juice. 

Make arrowroot gruel the same as corn starch. 

MILK PORRIDGE. 



1 cup of milk. 

1 tablespoonful of flour. 



1 dozen raisins, quartered. 
Vs teaspoonful of salt. 



Scald the milk in double boiler, rub the flour to 
a thin paste with a little cold milk, add to the hot 
milk with the salt, stir till smooth ; cook twenty min- 
utes. The raisins should be washed in cold water, 
quartered and boiled for ten minutes, letting the 
water boil out, then add to the milk after the flour 
has been put in. Flavor with a little sugar and nut- 
meg. 

CRACKER GRUEL. 

Brown fresh crackers in the oven until a light 
brown is reached. Roll very fine; use two table- 
spoonfuls of the powdered cracker, one-half cup boil- 
ing water and one-half cup hot milk, speck of salt; 
stir the cracker crumbs in the milk and water, add 
salt, let boil for one minute. A little sugar and fla- 
voring may be added. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 311 



CORN MEAL GRUEL. 



2 tablespoonfuls of corn 

meal. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 



y2 teaspoonful of salt. 
2 cups of milk or water. 



If milk is used, heat in double boiler to prevent 
burning. Mix the meal, flour and salt to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, pour onto it the milk 
or boiling water, a little at a time, stirring rapidly. 
When smooth the liquid can be added more rapidly. 
Let cook for thirty minutes. It can be thinned with 
hot milk and flavored with a little sugar, nutmeg or 
lemon. 

OATMEAL GRUEL. 

2 cups boiling water. I ^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls oatmeal, j 

Boil all together for one hour; add more boiling 
water if necessary, strain. Serve with hot milk or 
cream. 

RICE WATER. 



1 tablespoonful of rice. 
1 quart of cold water. 



^ teaspoonful of salt. 



Put the well-washed rice and salt in the cold 
water ; let cook for one hour or until it is soft. A lit- 
tle cream, sugar and flavoring may be added. 

BARLEY WATER (Mrs. Lincoln). 



1 tablespoonful pearl bar- 
ley. 
3 blocks of sugar. 



y2, lemon. 

1 quart boiling water. 



Wash the barley in cold water ; put barley, sugar 
and lemon into the boiling water; let it stand cov- 



312 THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

ered on the back of the stove for three hours, then 
strain it and serve. Currant jelly or orange juice 
may be used instead of the lemon. This is a valua- 
ble demulcent for colds and affections of the chest. 

TOAST OR CRACICER WATER. 

Toast in the oven bread crumbs or crackers very 
brown, but do not burn. To a cup of cnmibs or 
crackers, add one cup of cold water ; let stand for one 
hour, then strain, add cream and sugar to taste. 

SLIPPERY ELM TEA. 

Poiir one cup of boiling water over one teaspoon- 
ful of the powdered slippery elm, or a little of the 
bark. When cool, strain, flavor with lemon juice 
and sugar. Serve cold. 

BEEF TEA. 

Remove the fat from one pound of round steak, 
cut in small pieces, put in a glass jar, add one cup of 
cold water; set the jar in cold water, after being 
closely covered; heat very slowly, taking fully an 
hour or more, or till the meat is white ; strain, press- 
ing the meat to obtain all the juice; season with salt. 

BEEF JUICE. 

Remove the fat from a slice of the round of 
beef, wipe with a cloth that has been dipped in warm 
water. Broil for a few seconds to start the juice. 
Cut the meat in small pieces, press through a meat 
press. Pour boiling water through the press just 
before using it. Season with salt. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 313 

LAMB BROTH. 

Cut lean, juicy meat in incli pieces, cover witli 
cold water; let stand for half an hour, then put on 
the stove and heat gradually. Cook slowly after it 
begins for a half hour. Salt, peppercorns and a 
small onion may be added when it is put on the 
stove. Strain, season if more is needed, add a little 
well-cooked rice. The fat should be all skimmed 
off before serving. Do not skim until the broth is 
strained. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

The best flavor and most nourishment is obtained 
from an old chicken. Cut apart the joints, remove 
all the fat that is possible. Cover the chicken 
with cold water, let stand for a half hour, then put 
on the stove where it will heat slowly. Simmer till 
the meat is cooked from the bones ; add salt, pepper- 
corns and a small onion when put on the stove. 
Strain before serving. Remove the fat and add a 
little well-cooked rice. 

ACID DRINKS, 

Pour boiling water onto any kind of acid berries ; 
when cold, serve, or dissolve acid jelly in cold water. 
Barberry and currant are especially good. 

TAMARINDS WATER. 

Boil one-half cup of tamarinds in three pints of 
boiling water for one hour; cool; sweeten a little if 
cared for. 



314 THE ROCKy MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 

LEMONADE. 

Juice of a small lemon, cutting off a thin slice to 
put in the glass ; one glass of ice water, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, or, much better, a little sugar 
sjrup. 

ORANGEADE. 

Make tlie same as lemonade, using the juice of 
half a lemon and half an orange. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE (Mrs. Lincoln). 

Pour one quart of boiling water over four table- 
spoonfuls of whole flaxseed and steep three hours ; 
strain, add the juice of two lemons, sweeten to taste; 
add a little more water if the liquid seems thick. 
This is soothing to colds. 

ALBUMENIZED WATER. 

Beat the white of one egg; slightly; mix with a 
glass of cold water; flavor with brandy, wine, lemon 
or orange juice, as directed. 

ALBUMENIZED MILK. 

Shake the white of an egg and a glass of milk in 
a jar or shaker until they are mixed thoroughly, 
sweeten, and flavor to taste. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. 

Use one-fourth as much commeal as mustard; 
mix to a consistency to spread with warm water. 

FLAXSEED POULTICE. 
Hix the ground flaxseed with hot water. 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



315 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Milk Bread 

Milk Bread (with sponge) 
Water Bread . . . 
Whole Wheat Bread 
Graham Bread . . , 

Rye Bread 

Rolled Oats Bread , 
Parker House Rolls 



BREADS. 

Page 
5 



Page 

. 7 
. 7 



Bread Sticks .... 
Cinnamon Rolls . . 
To make Crescents .... 8 

Bunns 8 

Squash Bread 9 

Corn Meal Bread 9 

French Rolls 9 

Beaten Biscuit 



BREADS WITH BAKING POWDER. 



Baking Powder Biscuits . . 11 

Entire Wheat Biscuits . . 11 

Cream Scones 11 

German Coffee Cake ... 12 

Short Cake 12 

Cream Muffins 13 

Rice Muffins 13 

Boston Brown Bread ... 13 

Brown Bread (sour milk) . 13 

Muffins 14 

Muffins, Rye 14 

Muffins, entire Wheat ... 14 

Muffins, Graham 14 



Pop-Overs 14 

Rusks 15 

Zwieback 15 

Sally Lunns 15 

Corn Cake 16 

Corn Cake (Mrs. Lincoln) . 16 
Corn Cake, Spider (Miss 

Parloa 16 

Corn Meal Mush 17 

Corn Meal Jems (Parker 

House) 17 

Spoon Bread 17 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



Griddle Cakes 18 

Griddle Cakes (corn meal) . 18 
Griddle Cakes (entire 

wheat) 18 

Flannel Cakes 18 



Griddle Cakes (rice) ... 18 

Pancakes 19 

Waffles 19 

Lemon Syrup 19 



To Boil Rice 



CEREALS. 
. 19 ! Rice (steamed) 



20 



SOUPS. 



General Rules for Soup 

Stock 21 

Caramel, for coloring Soups 

and Sauces 22 

To Clear Soup Stock ... 22 

Garnishes for Soups .... 22 



Croutons 22 

Egg Balls 22 

Marrow Balls 23 

Noodles 23 

Royal Custard to serve with 

Consomm^ 24 



316 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Force Meat Balls 24 

Brown Soup Stock .... 24 

White Stock 25 

White Soup 25 

Consomm^ 25 

Julienne 25 

Macaroni or Vermicelli Soup 26 

Bouillon 26 

Tomato Soup 26 



Page 

Vegetable Soup 26 

Mock Turtle Soup 27 

Ox Tail Soup 27 

Mullagatawny Soup .... 28 

Black Bean Soup 28 

Clam Bouillon 29 

Scotch Broth 29 

Mutton Broth 29 

Chicken Broth 30 



CREAM SOUPS. 



Oyster Soup . . 
Potato Soup . . 
Mock Bisque Soup 
Split Pea Soup . 
Green Pea Soup 



30 
30 
31 
31 
31 



Green Corn Soup 32 

Clam Chowder 32 

Cream of Clam Soup ... 33 

Asparagus Soup 33 



Peanut Soup 34 

Almond Soup 34 

Mushroom Soup 34 

Mushroom Stock Soup ... 35 

Bermuda Soup 35 

Spinach Soup 35 

Cream of Cauliflower Soup . 36 

Cream of Stock Soup ... 36 



SUMMER SOUPS. 



Strawberry Soup 37 

Raspberry, Currant and 
Gooseberry Soup .... 37 



Plum, Cherry, Pineapple 

and Peach Soup 37 

Orange Soup 37 



FISH. 



To Skin and Bone a Fish . 38 

To Boil Fish 38 

To Broil Fish 39 

To Bake Fish 39 

Stuffing for Fish 40 

To Bake a Whole Fish . . 40 

To Cook Smelts 40 

Fillets Baked with Toma- 
toes 41 

Stuffed Fillets or Sliced 

Fish 41 



Boiled Salmon 41 

Salmon Cutlets 41 

Fish Timbale 42 

Planked Shad and Potato 

Roses 42 

Casserole of Fish 43 

Creamed Fish Served in 

Mashed Potato Case . . 43 

Cream Salt Fish 43 

Salt Fish Balls 43 

Salmon Fish Balls .... 44 



SHELL FISH. 



Oysters, Raw 45 

Ovsters, Cooked in the 

Shell 45 

Oysters. Served in Ice ... 46 

Fried Oysters 46 

Broiled Oysters 46 

Oyster Cocktail 47 

Panned Oysters 47 

Creamed Oysters 47 

Oysters in Shells or Ram- 

quin Dishes 48 

To Butter Crumbs .... 48 

Scolloped Oysters 48 



Pigs in Blanket 48 

Ovsters in Batter 48 

Little Neck Clams .... 49 

Roasted Clams 49 

Steamed Clams 49 

Clams in Batter 49 

Scollops 49 

Crabs 49 

Soft Shell Crabs 50 

Boiled Crabs 50 

Deviled Crabs 50 

Fried Frogs' Legs .... 50 

Deviled Shrimp 51 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



317 



Lobsters 

To Boil a Lobster . . 
To Open a Lobster . . 
To Broil a Live Lobster 
Plain Lobster .... 



Page 

51 
51 
51 
52 
52 



Page 

Saute Lobster 52 

Creamed Lobster 52 

Deviled Lobster 53 

Lobster a la Newburg ... 53 



MEATS. 



To Roast Beef 54 

Rolled Roast 54 

Searing 54 

Gravy for Roast Beef ... 55 

Yorkshire Pudding .... 55 

Fillet of Beef 55 

Braised Beef or Pot Roast . 56 

Beef a la Mode 56 

Beef Stew with Dumplings . 57 

Dumplings 58 

Meat Pie 58 

Warmed-Over Beef .... 58 

Rolled Stuffed Flank ... 58 



Boiled Dinner 59 

Pressed Corn Beef .... 60 

Corn Beef Hash 60 

Vegetable Hash 60 

Spiced Beef 60 

Broiled Beef Steak .... 61 

Broiled Fillet of Beef ... 61 

Hamburg Steak 61 

Beef Tongue 62 

Smoked Tongue 62 

Fresh Tongue 62 

Tongue in Jelly 62 



PORK. 



Roast Pig 63 

Roast Pork 63 

Pork Chops 63 

Bacon 64 

Fried Apples 64 

Broiled Ham and Eggs . . 64 

Fried Ham 64 



Boiled Ham 64 

Baked Ham 65 

Sausages 65 

To Try Out Lard 65 

Boston Baked Pork and 

Beans 66 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 



Roast Leg of Mutton ... 67 

Roast Loin of Mutton ... 67 

Crown Roast 67 

Roast Saddle of Mutton . . 68 
Roast Leg of Mutton, 

stuffed 68 

Boiled Leg of Mutton ... 68 



Ragout of Mutton . . 
Curry of Mutton . . . 
Mutton and Lamb Chops 
French Chops .... 
Chops in Paper Cases . 
Roast Spring Lamb . . 
Boiled Lambs' Tongues 



69 
69 
69 
70 
70 
70 
70 



VEAL. 



Roast Veal 71 

Stuffed Shoulder of Veal . . 71 

Stuffing 71 

Veal Cutlets 72 

Veal Cutlets, with cream . 72 

Veal Stew 72 

Veal Pot Pie 73 

Veal Loaf 73 

Scolloped Veal 73 

Braised Calf's Liver .... 74 

Broiled Liver 74 

Calf's Heart Roasted ... 74 

Sweetbreads 75 



Calf's Head with Brain 

Sauce 75 

To Prepare Sweetbreads . . 75 

Fried Sweetbreads .... 76 

Larded Sweetbreads ... 76 

Creamed Sweetbreads ... 76 
Sweetbreads served in 

Ramkin Dishes or Shells . 76 

Tripe 76 

Broiled Tripe 77 

Tripe in Batter 77 

Batter 77 



318 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



POULTRY. 



Page 

Poultry and Game .... 78 

To Clean and Truss Poultry 78 
To Stuff and Truss a Fowl 

for Roasting 79 

Giblet Sauce "80 

To Dress Fowls or Birds 

for Broiling 80 

To Bone a Bird, Fowl or 

Turkey 80 

Forcemeat for Stuffing 

Boned Fowls 81 

To Boil Fowl 82 

Braised Chicken 82 

Broiled Spring Chicken . . 82 

To Broil a Turkey .... 83 

Panned Chicken 83 

Fricassee Chicken 84 

Chicken Stew with Dump- 
lings 84 



Page 

Chicken Curry 84 

Spanish Chicken 85 

Chicken Fritters 85 

Stuffed Chicken or Turkey 

Legs 85 

Chicken a la Maryland . . 86 

Chicken Souffle 86 

Planquette of Chicken . . 87 

Chicken a la Bechamel . . 87 

Chicken Pie 88 

Veal Pie 88 

Chopped Puff Paste for 

Chicken Pie 89 

Roast Goose 89 

Potato Stuffing 89 

Roast Tame Duck .... 90 

Ovster Stuffing 90 

Chestnut Stuffing 90 



GAME. 



Canvasback and Redhead 

Ducks 91 

Salmi of Duck or Game . . 91 

Larded Grouse 92 

Potted Pigeons 92 

Roast Pigeons or Squabs . 92 

Quails Broiled 93 

Quails Roasted 93 



Woodcock Roasted 






93 


Venison Roasted . . 






94 


Venison Steak . . . 






94 


Roasted Partridge 






94 


Stewed Pigeons . . 






94 


Pigeons in Cassarole 






95 


Hot Pigeon Pie . . . 






95 



ENTREES. 



Croquettes 96 

Chicken Croquettes .... 96 
Sauce for Croquette Mix- 
ture 97 

To Prepare the Egg and 

Crumbs for Croquettes . . 97 

To mould Croquettes ... 98 

To Fry Croquettes .... 98 

Sweetbread Croquettes . . 98 

Mushroom Croquettes ... 99 

Nut Croquettes 99 

Egg Croquettes 99 

Cheese Croquettes . . . . 99 

Hominy or Rice Croquettes 100 
Corn Meal Mush to Serve 

with Game 100 

Macaroni and Spaghetti 



Croquettes 
Oyster Croquettes 
Shad Roe Croquettes 
Lobster Cutlets . . 
Salmon Cutlets . . 
Clam Croquettes . . 



100 
100 
101 
101 
101 
102 



Sweet and White Potato 

Croquettes 102 

Potatoes in Surprise . . . 102 

Celery Croquettes .... 102 

To Prepare Mushrooms . . 103 

Saut6 Mushrooms .... 103 

Creamed Mushrooms . . . 103 

Mushrooms a la Poulette . 104 

Broiled Mushrooms . . . 104 

To Prepare Calf's Brains . 104 

Chicken a la Duxelle . . . 104 

Pressed Chicken 105 

Scolloped Chicken or Tur- 
key 105 

Chicken Timbale 105 

Individual Moulds .... 106 
Macaroni Timbale .... 106 
Honeycomb Timbale . . . 106 
Macaroni and Cheese Tim- 
bale 107 

Ham Timbales 107 

Boudans 107 

Aspic Jelly 108 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



319 



Page 

To Mould in Aspic Jelly . 108 

To Unmould Jelly .... 109 

Chicken Chartreuse ... 109 

Chicken Terrapin .... 109 

Mock Terrapin 110 

Chickens, Pigeons or Game 

of any kind in Casserole 110 

Chicken Livers Ill 

Salmi of Duck or Game . Ill 

Meat Pie 112 

Meat Pie (No. 2) 112 

Beef Loaf 112 



Page 

Spanish Rice 112 

Ragout of Mutton or Lamb 113 

Liver Loaf 113 

To Broil Venison Steak . . 114 

Sweetbreads a la Touraine 114 

Ham Puffs 114 

Terrapin 115 

To Prepare Terrapin . . 115 

Stewed Terrapin 116 

Terrapin a la Newburg . . 116 
Cocktail of Little Neck 

Clams and Oysters ... 116 



FRITTERS. 



Fritter Batter 116 

Oyster Fritters 117 

Clam Fritters 117 

Banana Fritters .... 117 

Orange Fritters 117 

Peach Fritters 117 

Apple Fritters 117 



Vegetable Fritters .... 118 

Queen Fritters 118 

Sauce for Fritters .... 118 
Batter for Timbale Cases or 

Fontage Cups 118 

Bread Boxes 119 



VEGETABLES. 



To Boil Potatoes 120 

Old Potatoes 121 

New Potatoes 121 

Mashed Potatoes 121 

121 
122 
122 
122 
122 
123 
123 
123 
323 



Riced Potatoes .... 

Potato Cakes 

Potato Roses 

Potato Souffle 

Creamed Potatoes . . . 
Scolloped Potatoes . . . 
Delmonico Potatoes . . 
Potatoes a la Bechamel 
Viennese Potatoes . . . 
Mashed Potatoes Milanese 124 

Potato Balls 124 

Fried Potato Balls and 

Straws 124 

French-fried Potatoes . . 125 

Potato Nests 125 

Waldorf Potatoes .... 125 

Potato Chips 125 

Hashed Browned Potatoes 126 

Fried Potatoes 126 

Franconia Potatoes ... 126 
Lyonnaise Potatoes ... 126 
Broiled Potatoes .... 126 
Baked Sweet and White 

Potatoes 127 

Stuffed Potatoes 127 

Stuffed Potatoes (No. 2) . 127 
Sweet Potatoes, Southern 

style 127 

Greens 128 



Spinach 128 

Sinach Soufflg 128 

Cabbage 129 

Cabbage Baked with 

Cheese 129 

Routh Krouth 129 

Cauliflower 129 

Brussels Sprouts 130 



Asparagus . . 
Asparagus Loaf 
Artichokes 



130 
130 
131 

Egg Plant 131 

Stuffed Egg Plant .... 131 

Salsify or Oyster Plant . . 131 

Raw Tomatoes 132 

Stewed Tomatoes .... 132 

Scolloped Tomatoes ... 132 

Stuffed Tomatoes .... 132 
Tomatoes Stuffed with 

Cheese 133 

Curried Tomatoes .... 134 
Tomatoes with Celery 

Sauce 134 

To Prepare Peppers for 

Stuffing 134 

Peppers Stuffed with Oys- 
ters 134 

Peppers Stuffed with 

Sweetbreads 134 

Broiled Tomatoes .... 135 

Chestnut Pureg 135 

Boiled Onions 135 

Roasted Onions 136 



320 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Fried Onions 136 

Scolloped Onions 136 

Stuffed Spanish Onions . . 136 

Carrots 136 

Turnips 137 

Parsnips 137 

Fried Parsnips 137 

Beets 137 

Corn on the Ear . . . . 137 

Succotash 138 

Green Peas 138 

String Beans 138 

Shelled Beans 138 

Dried Lima Beans .... 139 

Celery 139 

Creamed Celery 139 



Winter Squash 139 

Baked Squash 139 

Summer Squash 139 

Corn Mock Oysters .... 140 
Sweet Corn in Cream with 

Cheese 140 

Macaroni, Spaghetti and 

Vermicelli 140 

To Cook Macaroni .... 140 
Baked Macaroni with 

Cheese 141 

Macaroni with Tomato or 

other Sauces 141 

Macaroni and Eggs . . . 141 

Spaghetti 141 



SAUCES. 



Drawn Butter Sauce (for 

Fish) 142 

Caper Sauce 143 

White or Cream Sauce . . 143 

Shrimp Sauce 143 

Egg Sauce 143 

Lobster Sauce 143 

Oyster Sauce 144 

Celery Sauce 144 

Mushroom Sauce 144 

Mushroom Sauce (canned 

Mushrooms) 144 

Sauce Piquante 145 

Allemande Sauce 145 

Bechamel Sauce 145 

Poulette Sauce 145 

Curry Sauce 146 

Bread Sauce 146 

Hollandaise 146 

Horseradish 146 

Cucumber Sauce 147 

Mint Sauce 147 

Mustard Sauce 147 

Mustard Sauce 147 

Champagne Sauce .... 147 

Maitre d'Hotel Sauce ... 148 

Espagnole Sauce 148 

Brown Sauce 148 

Brown Mushroom Sauce . 149 

Sauce Poinade 149 

Brown Sauce Piquante . . 149 

Robert Sauce 149 



Currant Jelly Sauce ... 149 

Olive Sauce 149 

Flemish Sauce 149 

Spanish Sauce 150 

Tomato Sauce (No. 1) . . 150 

Tomato Sauce (No. 2) ... 150 

Chestnut Sauce 150 

Port Wine Sauce 150 

Giblet Sauce 150 

Cranberry Sauce 150 

Apple Sauce 150 

Plain Hot Pudding Sauce . 152 

Brown Sugar Sauce . . . 152 

Molasses Sauce 152 

Caramel Sauce 153 

Hot Fruit Sauce 153 

Creamy Sauce 153 

Egg Sauce 153 

Foamy Sauce 154 

Hard Sauce 154 

Sabayon Sauce 154 

Wine Sauce 154 

Wine Sauce (No. 2) .... 155 

Lemon Sauce 155 

Pineapple Sauce 155 

Richelieu Sauce 155 

Golden Sauce 156 

Orange Sauce 156 

Syrup Sauces 156 

Chocolate Sauce 156 

Maple Sugar Sauce . . . 156 

Coffee Sauce 157 



CHEESE DISHES. 



Cottage Cheese 158 

Cheese Souffle 158 

Cheese Crackers 158 

Cheese Water Crackers . . 158 

Welsh Rarebit (No. 1) . . 159 



Welsh Rarebit (No. 2) . . 159 

Cheese Timbales 159 

Frozen Cheese 160 

Cheese Balls 160 

Cheese Pudding 160 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



321 



SALADS. 



Page 

To Prepare the Greens . , 161 

To Prepare Meat for Salad 161 

To Marinate 162 

Some Things that can be 

Served with a Salad . . 162 

Radish Roses 162 

Radish Tulips 1G2 

French Dressing .... 162 

Mayonnaise Dressing . . . 163 

Cooked Salad Dressing . . 163 
Cooked Salad Dressing 

(No. 2) 164 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

(No. 3) 164 

Wine Salad Dressing . . . 164 

Sour Cream Dressing . . 164 

Tartare Sauce 165 

Bearnaise Sauce 165 

Lettuce and Watercress 

Salad 165 

Celery Salad 166 

Chicken Salad 166 

Moulded Chicken Salad . . 166 
Moulded Chicken Salad 

(No. 2) 167 

Moulded Chicken Salad 

(No. 3) 168 

Moulded Chicken Salad 

(No. 4) 168 

Moulded Chicken Salad 

(No. 5) 168 

Moulded Celery and Wal- 
nut Salad 168 

Moulded Sweetbread and 

Cucumber Salad .... 169 

Moulding Salads 169 

To Garnish with Curled 

Celery 169 

To Unmould Jelly .... 169 

Tomato Jelly 170 

Salads to Serve in Whole 

Tomatoes or Peppers . . 170 

Celery Jelly 171 

To Prepare Whole Toma- 
toes for Salad 171 

Cucumber Salad (to Serve 

with Fish) 171 



Page 

Cucumber Salad 171 

Cucumber Salad (No. 2) . . 172 
Cucvxmber and Tomato 

Salad 172 

Cucumber and Tomato 

Salad (No. 2) 172 

Orange Salad 172 

Grape Fruit Salad (to 

Serve with Game) ... 173 
Russian Salad (No. 1) , . 173 
Russian Salad (No. 2) . . 173 
String Bean Salad ... 173 

Asparagus Salad 174 

Potato Salad 174 

Lobster Salad 174 

Fish Salads 174 

Oyster Salad 173 

Waldorf Salad 175 

Pineapple Salad 175 

A Fruit Salad Served in 

Cantaloupe 175 

Other Fruit Salads (No. 1) 176 
Fruit Salad (No. 2) .... 176 
Fruit Salad (No. 3) .... 176 

Grape Salad 176 

Mandarin Salad (Dinner 

Salad) 177 

Nut and Cucumber Salad . 177 
Cucumber and Radish 

Salad 177 

Chicken and Mushroom 

Salad 177 

Salmon and Cucumber 

Salad 178 

Truffle Salad (Dinner 

Salad) 178 

Egg Salad 178 

Egg Salad (No 2) .... 178 
Egg Salad (No. 3) .... 179 
Water Lily Salad .... 179 

Cheese Salad 179 

Bird's Nest Salad .... 179 
Cream Cheese Salad ... 180 
American Cream Cheese 

Salad 180 

Cold Slaw 180 



EGGS. 



Eggs Cooked in the Shell 
(No 1) 181 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 
(No. 2) 181 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 
(No. 3) 181 

Poached Eggs 181 



Poached Eggs (No. 2) . . 182 

Poached Eggs (No. 3) . . . 182 

Fried Eggs 182 

Scrambled Eggs 183 

Shirred Eggs 183 

Eggs Cocotte 183 

Omelets 184 



322 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 

Omelets (No. 1) 184 

Omelets (No. 2) 184 

Cheese Omelet 185 

Rum Omelet 185 

Herb Omelet 185 

Ham Omelet 185 

Pea Omelet 186 

Tomato Omelet 186 

Jelly Omelet 186 

Orange Omelet 186 

Pineapple Omelet ... .186 
Eggs Cooked in Whole 

Tomatoes 187 



Page 

Eggs in Green Peppers . . 187 

Eggs en Coquille .... 187 
Poached Eggs a la Hol- 

landaise 188 

Poached Eggs with Celery 

Sauce 188 

Egg Balls to Serve in Soup 188 

Egg Timbales 188 

Curried Eggs 189 

Curried Eggs (No. 2) . . . 189 

Stuffed Eggs (No. 1) . . . 189 

Stuffed Eggs (No. 2) ... 190 

Eggs with Cheese .... 190 



SANDWICHES. 



Lettuce Sandwiches ... 191 

Watercress Sandwiches . . 192 

Spanish Sandwiches ... 192 

Meat Sandwiches .... 192 

Chopped Ham Sandwiches . 192 

Chicken Liver Sandwiches 192 

Game Sandwiches .... 192 

Egg Sandwiches 192 

Fish Sandwiches 192 

Anchovy Sandwiches ... 193 



Shad Roe Sandwiches . . 193 

Nut Sandwiches 193 

Cheese Sandwiches .... 193 
Hot Cheese Sandwiches . . 194 
Club House Sandwiches . 194 
Hot Ham or Chicken Sand- 
wiches 194 

Sweet Sandwiches .... 195 

Gingerbread Sandwiches . 195 



CANAPES. 



Anchovy or Sardine Can- 
apes 196 

Ham Canapes 196 

Cheese Canap6s 196 

Chicken Canapes .... 197 



Prune or Fig Canap§s . . 197 

Fruit Canapes 197 

Alexandra Canap6s ... 197 

Apricot Canapes 197 



PASTRY. 



Plain Pastry 198 

Puff Paste 199 

To Bake Puff Paste ... 200 
To Make Pat§ Shells from 

Puff Paste Tarts .... 201 

Vol au Vent 201 

Puff Paste Strips .... 201 

To Glaze Pastry 202 

Cheese Straws 202 

Apple Pie 202 

Squash Pie 203 

Pumpkin Pie 203 

Custard Pie 203 

Rhubard Pie 203 



Galley 4 Cook Book Index 

Berry Pie 203 

Cranberry Pie 204 

Apple Tart Pie 204 

Prune, Apricot or Peach 

Pie 204 

Delicious Lemon Pie ... 204 
Lemon Pie (with corn 

starch) 205 

Cream Pie 205 

Mince Meat 205 

Petit Pies 206 

English Apple Pie .... 206 



HOT PUDDINGS. 



Cream Rice Pudding ... 207 
Baked Rice Pudding ... 207 
Cream Tapioca Pudding . 207 



Apple and Peach Tapioca . 208 

Sago Pudding 208 

Baked Indian Pudding . . 208 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



323 



Whole Wheat Pudding . . 209 

Fig Pudding 209 

Thanksgiving Pudding . . 209 

English Plum Pudding . . 210 

Suet Pudding 210 

Bread and Butter Pudding 210 

Steamed Pudding .... 211 

Brown Betty 211 

Cottage Pudding 211 

Steamed Berry Pudding . . 211 

Cabinet Pudding 212 

Baked Pineapple Pudding . 212 
Steamed Orange or Pine- 
apple Pudding 212 

Quince Pudding 213 

Boston Apple Pudding . . 213 

Corn Pudding 213 

Snowball Pudding .... 214 

Nut Pudding 214 

Weymouth Pudding ... 214 

Cocoanut Pudding .... 215 

Cracker Pudding .... 215 



Corn Starch Pudding 
Dutch Apple Cake . 
Apple Snowball . . . 
Steamed Carrot Pudding 
Bird's Nest Pudding . 
Baked Apple Dumpling 
Rolled Apple Dumpling 
Steamed Apple Pudding 
Apple Charlotte 
Apple and Rice . 
Apple Meringue 
Custard Souffle 
Chocolate Souffle 
Pineapple Soufflg 
Prune Soufflg 
Cherry Souffle 
Peach Souffle 
Lemon Souffle 
Rice Soufflg . 
Ginger Pudding 
Delmonico Pudding . 
Strawberry Pudding 



Page 
215 
216 
216 
216 
217 
217 
217 
218 
218 
218 
219 
219 
220 
220 
220 
220 
221 
221 
221 
222 
222 
223 



COLD DESSERTS. 



Garnishing 224 

Flavoring 224 

Liqueurs 224 

Coloring 225 

Boiled Custard 225 

Chocolate Custard .... 225 

Caramel Custard 226 

Nut Custard 226 

Cocoanut Custard .... 226 

Maple Custard 226 

Baked or Steamed Custard 226 
Baked or Steamed Caramel 

Custard 226 

Baked or Steamed Choco- 
late or Cocoanut Custard 227 

Floating Island 227 

Apple Snow 227 

Irish Moss Blanc Mange . 228 

Plain Bavarian Cream . . 228 

Bavarian Cream with Eggs 229 

Fruit Bavarian Cream . . 229 
Fruit Bavarian Cream (No. 

2) 230 

Bavarian in the Shell ... 230 

Bavarian en Surprise ... 230 

Pineapple Bavarian .... 230 

Diplomatic Pudding ... 231 

Fruit Cream 231 



Pineapple Sponge 
Snow Pudding . 
Lemon Jelly . . 
Orange Jelly . . 
Coffee Jelly . . 
Wine Jelly . . , 
Champagne Jelly 
Sauterne Jelly 



... 231 

... 231 

... 232 

... 232 

... 232 

... 233 

... 233 

... 233 

Roman Jelly 233 

Peach Charlotte 233 

Orange and Strawberry 

Charlotte 234 

Spanish Custard 234 

Italian Jelly 234 

Rice Cream 235 

Apple Charlotte Russe . . 236 

Charlotte Snowball .... 236 

Chocolate Bavariose ... 236 

Newport Whips 237 

Stuffed Figs 237 

Orange Sections Moulded in 

Jelly 237 

Pineapple in the Shell . . 238 

Chestnut Puree with Cream 238 

Chestnuts with Cream . . 238 

Paris de Marrons .... 239 

Cherry Cream 239 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 



Proportions of Ice and Salt 240 
Mousses, Parfaits .... 240 
To Unmould Frozen Des- 
serts 240 



Punches and Sherbets . . 241 

Lemon Sherbet 241 

Orange Sherbet 241 

Pineapple Sherbet .... 241 



324 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 
Strawberry, Raspberry and 

Currant Sherbets .... 241 
Cherry, Peach, Apricot and 

Plum Sherbets 242 

Apple Sherbet 242 

Boston Sherbet 242 

Grape Sherbet 242 

Grape Bombe 243 

Frappg 243 

Coffee Prappg 243 

Punches 243 

Tomato Punch 243 

Tea Punch 244 

Grape Fruit Punch .... 244 

Mint Punch 244 

Roman Punch 244 

Champagne Punch .... 245 

Sauterne Punch 245 

Curacao, Maraschino, No- 
yon Punch 245 

Ginger Ale in Punches . . 245 

Milk Sherbet 245 

Vanilla Ice Cream .... 245 

Lemon Ice Cream .... 246 

Orange Ice Cream .... 246 

Pineapple Ice Cream ... 246 
Peach and Apricot Ice 

Cream 246 

Coffee Ice Cream 246 

Walnut Ice Cream .... 247 

Ginger Ice Cream .... 247 

Almond Ice Cream .... 247 

Rice Ice Cream 247 

Neapolitan Ice Cream ... 247 
Frozen Pudding or Tutti- 

Frutti 248 

Plum Pudding Glac6 ... 248 

Caramel Ice Cream .... 248 

Macaroon Ice Cream ... 248 

Frozen Elliott Pudding . . 249 

Frozen Bananas 249 



Page 

Orange Delicieuse .... 249 

Frozen Pineapple Pudding . 250 
Peaches, Apricots and 
Grated Pineapple Frozen 

in the can 250 

Fresh Fruit Ice Cream . . 250 
Lalla Rookh or Frozen 

Egg-Nog 251 

Nesselrode Pudding .... 251 

Sultana Roll Claret Sauce . 251 
Maraschino, Sherry, Port 

and Brandy Sauce . . . 252 

Ginger Sauce 252 

Maple Sauce 252 

Hot Chocolate Sauce ... 252 
Hot Coffee Sauce .... 253 
Hot Raspberry and Straw- 
berry Sauce 253 

Hot Orange Sauce .... 253 

Mousses 253 

Fruit Mousses 253 

Coffee, Chocolate, Curacao 

or Noyon Mousses . . . 254 

Chocolate Mousse .... 254 

Curacao and Noyon Mousse 254 

Parfaits 254 

Angel Parfait 254 

Pineapple Parfait .... 255 

Maple Parfait 255 

Ginger Parfait 255 

Caf6 Parfait 255 

Parfaits of Chestnuts or 

Candied Fruits 258 

Parfaits of Tea and Orange 

Peel 256 

Banana Parfait 256 

Biscuit Glac6 or Tortoni . 257 

Macedoine Frapp6 .... 257 

College Ices 257 

Gooseberry Sorbet .... 258 

Chocolate Surprise .... 258 



CAKES. 



Directions for Making Cake 259 

Baking Cake 259 

Preparing the Materials . . 259 

Sponge Cake 260 

Roll Jelly Cake 260 

Cream Sponge Cake (No. 2) 261 

Berwick Sponge Cake . . 261 

Lady Fingers 261 

Angel Cake 261 

Marshmallow Angel Cake . 262 

Cakes with Butter .... 262 i 

Spice Cake 262 ' 

White Cake 263 ; 

Gold Cake 263 

Silver Cake 263, 



Bride's Cake 264 

Pound Cake 264 

Wedding Cake 264 

Fruit Cake 265 

Light Fruit Cake 265 

One-two-throe-four Cake . 265 

Lemon Cake 266 

Almond Cake 266 

Pistachio Cake 266 

Nut Cake 266 

Fig Cake 267 

Rocky Mountain Cake — a 

Loaf or Layer Cake . . 267 

Orange Cake 267 

Marble Cake 267 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



325 



Spice Cake 268 

Currant Cake 268 

Cocoanut Cake ". 268 

Chocolate Cake 269 

Loaf Chocolate Cake ... 269 

Twelfth Night Cake ... 269 

Fig Cake (No. 2) .... 270 
Angel or Sponge Cake with 

Chestnuts 270 

Roosevelt Cakes 270 

Round Cake Wafers ... 270 

Venetian Cakes 271 

Orange Quarters 271 



P£LSr6 

Almond Wafers 271 

Peanut Cookies 272 

Honey Cakes 272 

One-two-three-four Cookies 272 

Jumbles 273 

Walnut Wafers 273 

Sugar Cookies 273 

Hermits 273 

Cocoanut Cookies .... 273 

Margaret Deland Cakes . 274 

Pepper Nuts 274 

Snow Ball Cakes 274 



FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKE. 



Chocolate Filling 275 

Fig Filling 275 

Cream Filling 275 

Fig Caramel Filling ... 275 

Prune Whip Filling .... 276 

Lemon or Orange Filling . 276 



Marshmallow Icing and 

Filling 276 

Banana Filling 276 

Pineapple Filling 277 

Nut Filling 277 



ICING FOR CAKE. 



Plain Icing 277 

Orange Icing 277 

Confectioners' Frosting . . 277 

Boiled Icing 277 

Royal Icing 277 

Yellow Frosting 278 

Chocolate Frosting .... 278 



Chocolate Frosting (No. 2) 278 

Nut Icing 279 

Banana Icing or Filling . . 279 

Pink Icing 279 

Caramel Icing 279 

Maple Icing 279 



GINGERBREAD COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS. 



Soft Gingerbread 280 

Sugar Gingerbread .... 280 

Soft Ginger Cookies ... 280 

Hard Molasses Cookies . . 281 

Ginger Snaps 281 

Doughnuts 281 



Raised Doughnuts .... 281 

Cream Puffs and Eclairs . 282 
Cream for Cream Puffs and 

Eclairs 282 

Meringues or Kisses . . . 282 



COMPOTES, PRESERVING, JELLIES AND PICKLES. 



Compotes of Apples, Pears, 

Peaches and Apricots . . 284 
Baked Apples 284 



Stewed Rhubarb 285 

Stewed Prunes 285 

Cranberry Sauce and Jelly 285 



PRESERVING. 



Peaches and Apricots ... 286 
Brandied Peaches or Apri- 
cots 286 

Preserved Plums 286 

Brandied Plums 286 



Cherries 287 

Preserved Strawberries, 
Raspberries, Blackberries, 
Gooseberries and Cur- 
rants 288 



326 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



Page 
Preserved Quinces and 

Pears 287 

Preserved Pineapple ... 287 

Grapes 287 

Citron 287 



Page 

S u n s h in e Strawberries, 
Raspberries, Blackberries, 
Gooseberries and Cur- 
rants 288 



Canned Tomatoes 
Jams or Marmalades 



CANNING. 

. 289 I Orange Marmalade . 
. 289 I Candied Orange Peel 



289 
290 



JELLIES. 



Currant Jelly 291 

Crab Apple and Apple Jelly 291 

Quince Jelly 2^ 

Grape Jelly 291 

Plum Jelly 291 

To Sweet-Pickle Fruit and 

Berries 291 

Peaches 292 

Pears 292 

Cucumber, Waterm e 1 o n. 

Cantaloupe 292 

Pineapple 292 



Currants, Grapes and all 

Berries 292 

Pickled Walnuts 293 

Apple Chutney 293 

Ginger Apple 293 

Pickled Cucumbers ... 293 

Mixed Pickles 294 

Mustard Pickles 294 

Piccalilli or Chow-Chow . . 295 

Chile Sauce 295 

Tomato Catsup 295 



CANDIES. 



Fondant 296 

To Make Mints 296 

Vegetable Coloring .... 296 

To Make Fondant .... 296 

Coating for Chocolates . . 297 
Glac6 Oranges, Grapes and 

Nuts 297 



Chocolate Fudge 297 Molasses Candy 



Maple Fudge 298 

Panocha 298 

Opera Caramels 298 

Chocolate Caramels . . . 29S 

Butter Scotch 299 

Peanut Candy 299 

Vinegar Candy 299 



299 



BEVERAGES. 



Tea .... 
Tea Ball 
Russian Tea 



300 
300 
300 



Tea Punch 
Iced Tea 



300 
301 



COFFEE. 



To Make Coffee . . 
Boiled Coffee . . . 
Drip Coffee .... 
Breakfast Coffee . . 
Turkish Coffee . . . 
Black Coffee . . . 
Iced Coffee .... 

Chocolate 

Maillard's Chocolate 

Cocoa 

Shells 

Lemonade 

Orangeade 



301 
301 
301 
302 
302 
302 
302 
303 
303 
303 
303 
303 
304 



Egg Lemonade . . 
Summer Drink . . 
Fruit Punch . . . 
Cobblers .... 
Claret Cup . . . 
Champagne Cup . 
Ginger Ale Punch 
Sauterne Punch 
Egg-Nog .... 
Milk Punch . . . 
Grape Juice . . . 
Raspberry Vinegar 



304 
304 
304 
304 
305 
305 
305 
305 
305 
306 
306 
306 



THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN COOK BOOK. 



327 



INVALID COOKERY. 



Page 

To Make Toast 307 

Cream for Cream Toast . . 308 

To Make Tea 308 

Cocoa 

To Cook 'an Egg in the 

Shell 308 

To Cook Cereals ^soy 

To Cook Corn Starch or 

Tapioca 309 

Corn Starch Gruel • • • • 310 

Milk Porridge ^lO 

Cracker Gruel gi|J 

Corn Meal Gruel ^ji 

Oatmeal Gruel 311 

Rice Water 3ii 

Barley Water ^iJ- 



Page 

Toast or Cracker Water . . 312 

Slippery Elm Tea .... 312 

Beef Tea 312 

Beef Juice 312 

Lamb Broth 313 

Chicken Broth 313 

Acid Drinks 313 



Tamarind Water .... 

Lemonade 

Orangeade 

Flaxseed Lemonade . . 
Albumenized Water . . 
Albumenized Milk ... 

Mustard Poultice 314 

Flaxseed Poultice .... 314 



313 
314 
314 
314 
314 
314 




NOV 17 ^903 



ij;:u;:(:^^ 



