:,.•:•;.■ :.;---.:--- : .' •■)■;■■ - •"';<;: 



TX392 







^v* 






^- ■** a* .: 



J. '"*. 













,/\ 







:• °* -4.° -^* "^ 



> ° • * A 




*!^L'* V 















° <k „<£ 



•bK 

































<$>> ♦©i.o* ^' 







- W • 



<J> 






4 o 




^ 



•^ ^ tun* 

^ *^- y 

^ :Jilll- ^ -^s 





'V ,<*■ 



THE FOUNDATION OF 
ALL REFORM 



A GUIDE 

TO 

HEALTH, WEALTH 

AND 

FREEDOM 



A POPULAR TREATISE ON THE DIET QUESTION 
BY 

OTTO CARQUE' 



KOSMOS PUBLISHING CO., 

765 N. CLARK STREET, 
CHICAGO, ILL., U. S. A. 



L. N. FOWLER & CO., 

7 IMPERIAL ARCADE, LUDGATE CIRCUS, 
LONDON, ENGLAND. 



o 



c\ 



(K 



LIERARY of CONGRESS 
Two Copies Received 

APR 18 1904 

Copyright Entry 

CLASS C*~ XXc. No. 

COPY B 







Entered at 
Library of Congress, Washington, D. C. 

AND 

Stationers' Hall, London, England, 
In the Year 1904. 



All Rights Reserved. 



. * . * « • . 



Introduction. 

In the traditions of all nations we find the myth of a lost para, 
dise where man once lived free from disease, in perfect happiness 
and freedom, and through all the ages mankind's greatest spirits have 
eagerly sought the way that might lead back to the glorious garden 
of Eden. Indeed, all reforms that have moved the world since the 
beginning of civilization sprang in the last instances from this seem- 
ingly undying yearning of human nature for an ideal state of exist- 
ence where all might live in supreme harmony and peace. 

Yet in spite of the many and constantly renewing efforts, man 
seems to be as far from his ideal as ever, and we might often feel in- 
clined to share Mephistopheles' pessimistic view of human life in 
his address to the Lord : 

" Of sun and worlds I nothing have to say; 
I only see how mortals fume and fret. 
The world's small god retains his old stamp yet, 
And is as queer as on the primal day. 
He had been better off, had'st Thou not some 
Faint gleam of heavenly light into him put; 
Reason he calls it, and doth yet become 
More brutish through it than the veriest brute." 

(Goethe's Faust I.) 

For war and murder, poverty and crime, gluttony and disease, still 
hold their unabating sway in human society. The mad rush for 
wealth is absorbing the life-blood of the nations ; our perverted mor- 
als, the extensive use of poisonous stimulants and narcotics, the oftea 
complete ignorance of the laws of nature and health, constantly fill 
the prisons, poorhouses, hospitals, and lunatic asylums with thou- 
sands of human wrecks leading a miserable existence until premature 
death delivers them from their sufferings. 

The reason why the old evils continue and why the old errors 
are handed down from generation to generation, is because we have 
been ourselves educated in the old traditions, are working under the 



same conditions, and are surrounded by the same influences as our 
ancestors. 

But the existing state of things, however discouraging, is never 
permanent, and the history of evolution shows that all nature works 
unceasingly for advance. The day is already dawning when it will 
become clear to every thinking mind that all the misery and mishap 
of the past will but serve to a better understanding of human nature, 
that all true progress must come through individual effort and better- 
ment, and that we can never improve the conditions of life by merely 
overthrowing political and religious systems. 

The present treatise shows that diet reform involves the most 
beneficial changes which everybody can at once begin to work in 
himself, without waiting for the enactment of legislative measures or 
a revolution of the social order. Diet reform, which — in a larger 
sense — means the mental and physical regeneration of the individual, 
must therefore be the foundation of all reforms tending to the uni- 
versal happiness of mankind, and only by making the unit of society 
healthy and self-providing we shall ever be able to successfully solve 
the social and economic problems that disturb the world to-day. 



Index to Chapters, 



1. Man's Position in Nature 8 

2. Chemistry and Physiology of Nutrition. 16 

3. The Raw Food Question 32 

4. The Superiority of the Fruitarian Diet 39 

5. Diet-Reform, -the Ultimate Solution of 

the Economical and Social Problems 45 

6. The Ethics of Diet-Reform 61 



'True and lasting reform 
Must begin with thyself.' 



T 



•he battle for supremacy which is now going on 
in all fields of human endeavor has more than 
ever brought the question to the front: "How shall we 
live to develop the greatest energy and perseverance 
mentally and physically and at the same time enforce our 
resistance against weariness and disease ? ' ' The interest 
in solving this problem is growing deeper every year, and 
there is no doubt that man can wonderfully increase his 
capacity for work with brawn and brain by proper selec- 
tion of his food according to the principles of physiology 
and hygiene. 

The transmutation of food, air and drink into mus- 
cular and mental energy is of course a process of the 
body which is common to all animals. But it is given to 
man to understanding^ derive from the quality of his 
nourishment an excess of those forces which play an im- 
portant part in his evolution from a stage of savagery to 
civilization, as well as in his physical well-being and the 
further advancement of his mental capacities. 

It is therefore not too much to assert that the solu- 
tion of the great social and economic problems of to-day 
would be greatly promoted by attention to the question 
of food. 

Modern science enables us to establish a perfect diet- 
ary for man, first, by revealing his true position in na- 
ture and his history in the past ; second, by studying 
the qualities and chemical compositions of the different 
articles of food, and the laws which govern nutrition. 

7 



1. Man's Position in Nature. 

According to their bodily structure and their natural 
capacity to provide, digest and assimilate food, compara- 
tive anatomy divides the mammalia, to which man be- 
longs, into four distinct classes, viz., into the omnivorous, 
the herbivorous, the carnivorous, and the frugivorous 
class, the latter taking the highest rank. Man's strong 
resemblance to the anthropoid apes which subsist almost 
exclusively on fruits and nuts places him in the frugivor- 
ous class. In fact, all the great anatomists, Sir Charles 
Bell, Dr. Richard Owen, Dr. William P. Carpenter, Baron 
Cuvier, have shown that not only is man adapted by ana- 
tomical structure to a diet of fruits and nuts, but that 
the meat-eaters' violation of this law has been the un- 
doubted source of endless suffering and disease. This 
fact which had been already recognized by the ancient 
sages, as Plato, Socrates, Pythagoras, Plutarch, and 
others, has also been fully confirmed by the great univer- 
sal law of evolution which Lamarck, Darwin and Haeckel 
have scientifically established and which has thrown 
much light upon the origin of life and its development 
on our planet. 

In the beginning of the nineteenth century already, 
the French scientist Lamarck by his geological researches 
came to the inevitable conclusion, that all the present 
species of plants and animals have gradually developed 
from the lowest and simplest forms to their present com- 
plicated organisms, and that immense periods, perhaps 
many millions of } r ears, had been necessary to effect these 
seemingly wonderful transformations. 

Lamarck was the first who clearly showed by his 
' ' Zoologie philosophique ' ' that the history of organic 
life upon our planet is recorded in the rocks of its super- 
ficial crust, and that these rocks are the leaves in the 
great book of Nature which unmistakingly reveals the 
wonderful work of Creation. In the different strata of 

8 



rocks we find different fossils or petrifactions of animals 
and plants, and ascending from the interior to the surface 
of the earth we find an almost uninterrupted gradation 
from the lowest to the highest form of organic life. Ac- 
cording to the time in which these changes on the earth's 
surface were going on, the different layers are called pri- 
mary, secondary, tertiary, and quarternary rocks or 
strata. 

The lowest forms of the vertebrate animals, the 
fishes and amphibiums, are found in the primary rocks. 
In the secondary strata appear already fossils of reptiles, 
birds and mammals, while in tertiary rocks, those near- 
est to the surface, we find remains of the higher organ- 
ized mammalia, the anthropoid apes, and prehistoric 
men. 

In the development of animal and plant life through- 
out all times, there exists a certain relation highly in- 
structive for our present problem. Plants assimilate the 
inorganic matter, or, in other words, organize water and 
the tissue salts as found in the earth and air into vege- 
table substance. Animal life being of a higher order, 
the original elements of which it is composed must be 
furnished to it in a more refined or vitalized condition. 
This idea is borne out of the evolutionary truth that man 
appears last in the order of creation, having to wait for 
gross matter to be sufficiently refined to become food for 
him. 

All life originated in the water which in the primor- 
dial age almost entirely covered our planet. The lowest 
animal forms were nourished by the lowest plant forms, 
the ancient fishes by the sea plants of that period, the 
monsters of the carboniferous period by the coarse and 
luxuriant vegetation now stored up in the coal-beds, 
while the higher orders of plants, especially the fruit- 
trees, belong to the era of man and his immediate pro- 
genitors, and the fact that the majority of our present 

9 



flower-bearing plants and fruit trees are unknown in a 
fossil state, clearly demonstrates their recent origin, simul- 
taneously with that of man. 

Thus by a review of all the sciences bearing upon 
this subject, we come to the conclusion that man as the 
highest developed animal could only thrive on such foods 
which contain the elements of nutrition in the purest and 
most perfect form. Indeed, the original home of man is 
also the home of the fruit trees, and most of our well- 
known varieties have been acclimated from the south and 
spread over the globe simultaneously with the wander- 
ings of the human race. 

It is also evident that the food of all animals was 
originally derived from the vegetable kingdom which is 
the store-house of all nutrition, as the animal organism 
cannot directly assimilate the elements of the soil, and 
some naturalists even hold that no animals were origi- 
nally carnivorous, but that the evolution of this class of 
animals was brought about by scarcity of proper plant- 
food in a later geological period, and that still later, prob- 
ably for the same reason, man was forced by fierce hunger 
to subsist on flesh- food. 

But as the fact remains that in the process of evolu- 
tion so great a change in man's diet had not the slightest 
bearing on his anatomical structure, this change must 
have occurred at a comparatively more recent date of 
man's existence on this planet and apparently under the 
most adverse conditions. 

Man's normal type dates from the period when the 
digestive organs of our frugivorous ancestors adapted 
themselves to such food ; a period compared with whose 
duration the age of flesh-pots and grist-mills is but of 
yesterday. The importance of this fact and the conclu- 
sion derivable therefrom are too seldom thought of. Evi- 
dence accumulates that man with his perfected anatomy 
has trod the earth untold chiliads, and that not evolution 

10 



but cataclysm caused his change of food from fruit to 
flesh with "made dishes" to hide the taint of death. 
It is very probable that the so-called glacial period 
or age of ice, which according to geologists occured 
some twenty or thirty thousand 3^ears ago and subjected 
organic life to altogether new conditions, has also caused 
man's deviation from his original and natural diet, after 
he had subsisted on the products of fruit trees during 
many thousands of generations. 

Although we are unable to state exactly the time of 
man's prehistoric existence, so much is certain that for 
his gradual development from his animal predecessors 
into an intellectual being at least several hundred thou- 
sand years were requisite, and that the human race was 
widely spread over the globe, when for the first time 
enormous ice and snow fields reached far down into the 
present temperate zones. 

Geological researches have succeeded in tracing 
man's ancestry back to the middle and even to the early 
part of the tertiary period when the climate and configu- 
ration of the continents were quite different as they are 
now, and all progressive anthropologists agree that the 
evolution of man from the anthropoid apes took place in 
the south of Asia where a now sunken continent, called 
Lemuria, stretched from Madagascar to Sumatra, Java, 
Borneo, New Guinea, and West Australia ; Ceylon and 
the thousand smaller islands seem to be also remains of 
this once uninterrupted land mass wherefrom the human 
race gradually spread over the entire planet. 

Recent paleontological evidence renders it also rea- 
sonably certain that mankind was homogeneous before 
the age of ice and that the separation into distinct races 
entered during the migration of the glacial periods. 

Before those remarkable geological and topographi- 
cal changes upon the surface of our planet and during a 
vast period of time a uniform warm climate existed over 

11 



the entire earth, even within the arctic zones, a fact 
which is proven by many fossil remains of tropical ani- 
mals and plants found far in the north. There were 
probably no alterations of seasons in the primordial 
World. Day alternated with night, but month succeeded 
month in almost unbroken sameness of the age, and as 
late as the carboniferous time the globe must have been 
nowhere colder than the present subtropical zones or be- 
low a mean temperature of 60° F. The bondage of win- 
ter did hot impede the growth of vegetation, and animals 
developed into fabulous forms and dimensions which give 
us an idea of the wonderful productiveness of nature in 
that far far-remote age. 

In such a climate of eternal spring, when snow and 
ice were unknown, primeval man lived for thousands of 
years, and the tropical forests spontaneously furnished 
all the necessaries of life in abundance. With but little 
effort man could procure bread-fruit, bananas, dates, 
nuts, etc., in endless variety during all times of the year. 
There was no need for inventing tools and fire as long as 
nature so lavishly and continuously provided for all. 

But these paradisical conditions came almost sud- 
denly to an end with the beginning of the glacial period, 
and man had to go through the school of want and neces- 
sity. The antediluvian continent extending to the south 
of Asia began to sink below the level of the sea. The 
waters of the Indian Ocean broke through the Red 
and Mediterranean Seas, formed the Persian Gulf and 
opened the Straits of Gibraltar in the west and the Bering 
Straits in the north, and with the transfiguration of the 
continents began also the differentiation of climatic zones. 

Man, hemmed in between an endless sea in the south 
and the enormous ice fields of the glacial period in the 
north, was subjected to the greatest want, and new con- 
ditions arose for animals and plants. Millions of crea- 
tures must have suddenly perished by terrible earth- 

12 



quakes and inundations, and those who survived were 
forced to a remorseless struggle for existence. All these 
changes on the surface of our planet were going on in a 
comparatively short time, and while they do not appear 
to have caused the development of new species, they con- 
siderably influenced the character and habits of those 
already existing. 

Man was compelled to leave the tropical regions which 
were probably densely populated, as a long period favor- 
able to animal life had already passed, and cave-deposits 
and fossil remains show that prehistoric man orginally 
migrated along the routes opened by the climatic and 
topographical changes of the different glacial periods to 
which the Northern and Southern hemisphere were alter- 
nately subjected. The shores of the Mediterranean in 
the west and the coasts of the Pacific ocean, in the east 
seem to have first attracted our early ancestors, the more 
they were barred from migration toward north by the 
high mountain ranges of th'e Himalaya. Further to the 
west, however, they gained easier entrances to the middle 
and western parts of Europe where they found an in- 
hospitable region of forests and swamps after the ice had 
melted. Here man had to contend with the mammoth, 
the bear, the cave-lion and other now extinguished animals 
in a sometimes fearful struggle for existence. Yet these 
seemingly adverse conditions put man firmly on his feet, 
taught him the free use of his arms and hands, and devel- 
oped his ingenuity and cranial capacity in defending him- 
self against the monsters of the forests. 

Cut off from the abundant tropical soil, the majority 
of the human race had to resort to all kinds of food, 
hitherto repulsive to them, and dire want finally forced 
man to eat the carcasses of animals which he had killed. 
It is very probable therefore that the use of flesh- foods 
has originated during long periods of famine in the glacial 
era. The invention of making fire and weapons of stones 

13 



and bones of animals probably also occurred during the 
age of ice, as man gradually became a hunter and began 
to cook his food. 

Having become a hunter, there was only a short step 
for man to become a warrior, especially when scarcity of 
food forced the different tribes to contest for the spoils of 
the chase, and it is but natural that carnivorous men, 
like carnivorous animals, are disposed to a roaming, 
savage and war-like life. 

The consumption of flesh- foods for thousands of years 
may indeed have given to man certain carnivorous char- 
acteristics, yet his anatomical structure and physiological 
functions remained unchanged, which clearly shows that 
nature had not destined him to a flesh-eating animal and 
that sooner or later he had to return to the products of 
the soil. 

The testimony of the Indian chief in ' ' Lorna Doone ' ' 
is especially to the point here : ' ' Do you not see, ' ' says 
he, " that the whites live on corn, but we live on flesh; 
that the flesh requires thirty moons to grow, and is often 
scarce; that every one of the wonderful seeds which they 
scatter on the soil returns them more than one hundred- 
fold; that the flesh has four legs to run away, and we 
only two to catch it; that the seeds remain and grow 
where the white man sows them; that winter which for 
us is the season of laborious hunts, is to them a time of 
rest ? It is for these reasons that they live longer than we 
do. I say, then, to every one who hears me, before the 
maples of the valley cease to yield us sugar, before the 
trees above our huts shall have died of age, the race of 
sowers of corn will have extirpated the race of flesh- 
eaters, unless the hunters resolve to sow. ' ' 

In all ages since civilization began, the truth has 
dawned in all great minds that man was not organized 
to devour his fellow-beings for sustenance, a practice 
which decidedly lowered his character and put him on the 

14 



same level with the beasts of prey, but that nature had 
destined him to a higher and nobler state of existence. 

Necessity soon taught man the secrets of agriculture, 
and wherever this industry originated it was the begin- 
ning of all real culture and the awakening of man's higher 
intellectual and moral faculties which lift him so far 
above the animal world. We find therefore in the tem- 
perate zones, where by human skill and effort fruits be- 
came most varied and abundant that the life of man is 
most progressive and prolific and that his sense of the 
beautiful, the basis of fine arts, is best developed. 

The natural course of development as man progresses 
from a savage to a civilized state, is certainly not in the 
direction of meat-eating. The ability to kill and devour 
is naturally of a lower order than the ability to till the soil. 
The first steps towards civilization have certainly been 
man's first trials in agriculture and horticulture. 

In reviewing the long march of evolution of the 
human race from the earlier part of the tertiary period 
up to the present, we come to the conclusion that for a 
vast period of time man subsisted on fruits and nuts, his 
natural diet, which was abundantly furnished by a virgin 
soil and a congenial climate. 

During the age of ice which occured in a com- 
paratively late period in the history of the organic world, 
the surface and the temperature of the globe were com- 
pletely changed and man was forced by necessity and 
want to take his food, at least partly, from the animal 
kingdom. But as man's anatomical structure and phys- 
iological functions had been already firmly established, 
he had to return gradually to his natural diet, by cultivat- 
ing the soil which will furnish by proper care and skill 
his nourishment in abundance. 

The biblical mythe of the Garden of Eden seems to 
have a historical back ground, and the more developed 
mind of modern man will readily perceive that when 

15 



nature drove our primordial ancestors from the tropical 
fields and condemned them to earn their bread by the 
sweat of their brow, she gave them at the same time the 
opportunities to develop their latent intellectual powers 
which opened them new and grander fields of activity. 

In ignorance and want man left his early paradise; 
through knowledge and industry he will regain it, but 
with all the achievements of art and science he will make 
it " far happier than that of Eden," and with a conscien- 
tious life according to the laws of nature there will be no 
danger of a return to the misery and savagery of pre- 
vious ages. 

Through hardships and sufferings man's crowning 
heights of mental and moral perfection seem to be at- 
tained leading him onward and upward to higher forms 
of life and civilization. 

2. Chemistry and Physiology of Nutrition. 

After our review of man's early history upon earth, 
we come now to the second part of our problem, the in- 
vestigation of the character of food and the laws of nutri- 
tion : — two branches which are intimately related, one 
comprising the chemical composition of the different food 
materials (an investigation which is purely analytical) 
while the other deals with the physiology of alimentation. 

Nearly all our definite knowledge of the chemical 
composition of food materials and their nutritive value 
has been achieved within recent time. Fifty years ago 
nobody knew what our bodies and our foods were com- 
posed of and how the different nutritive ingredients of 
food served their purposes in nutrition, and even to-day 
the majority of people understand but very little about 
what their food contains, how it nourishes them, whether 
they are economical or wasteful in buying or preparing 
it for use, or whether or not the food is rightly fitted to 
the demands of the body. 

16 



Modern physiology teaches us that we need food to 
build and repair the various tissues of the body and to 
supply it with heat and energy. Every motion, even- 
exertion of the muscles, the beating of the heart, the cir- 
culation of the blood, the respiration of the lungs, every 
thought of our brain, every impression that our senses 
receive, is attended by a waste of some portion of the 
tissues, and this loss must be replaced by a proper supply 
of food containing the corresponding elements. 

Chemistry shows that our body is made up by from 
fifteen to twenty elements, the most abundant of which 
are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, calcium, potas- 
sium, sodium, iron, phosphorus, sulphur, etc.; water, 
protein, fats, carbohydrates and mineral salts are the prin- 
cipal combinations into which these elements are formed. 

Water, composed of hydrogen and oxygen, forms 
over 60 per cent of the weight of the body of the average 
man and is a component part of all tissues, being there- 
fore an important constituent of our food. 

Protein, composed of nitrogen, hydrogen, carbon, 
sulphur and phosphorus, forms about 18 per cent, of 
the weight of our body. Protein compounds which prin- 
cipally repair the wear and tear of the tissues, are chiefly 
found in nuts, also as albumen in the white of eggs, as 
casein in milk, as gluten in wheat and as legumin in 
pulses. 

Fats, composed of hydrogen, oxygen and carbon, 
form about 15 per cent, of the body of a healthy man. 
They serve to maintain bodily heat and to create muscular 
energy and are also stored up in the body as a reserve 
fund to preserve the tissues in cases of emergency. Fats 
are contained as high as to 60 per cent, in nuts which 
contain it also in the purest form. 

Carbohydrates contain the same chemical elements 
as the fats, only in a less concentrated form. They exist 
abundantly in nearly all plantfoods, especially in the 

17 



starch of cereals and in the sugar of sweet fruits. Carbo- 
hydrates are not directly required, like protein, to build 
up or repair the cells of the body, but they are readily 
oxydized into carbonic acid and water, carrying on the 
process of combustion in the tissues, and are therefore 
of great value as fuel material to keep up the tempera- 
ture of the body and muscular activity. Although the 
carbohydrates form only a very small proportion of the 
body tissues (about 1 per cent.), yet they should always 
constitute the greater part of our bill of fare, especially 
as scientific researches have shown that a much larger 
proportion of heat-producing foods is needed by the sys- 
tem than of all others combined. For the daily nourish- 
ment of the average man at moderate exercise about 
fourteen ounces (400 gr.) of fat and carbohydrates are 
required to less than two ounces (40 gr.) of protein. The 
carbohydrates abound in the cereals in the form of starch, 
while fruits contain a large quantity in the form of sugar. 

The mineral elements which take part in the forma- 
tion of our body amount to about 5 or 6 per cent, of its 
weight. They chiefly build up the bones and teeth, but 
are also present in the different organs, tissues and fluids 
of the body. 

We take these mineral constituents in the shape of 
organic salts which are contained in the purest and 
highest organized form in all natural foods, as fruits, 
nuts, and cereals. These salts supply little or no energy, 
yet they are indispensable in the process of nutrition, 
especially in the exchange of fluids through the mem- 
branes of the cells which compose our body. 

Scientific experiments have shown that the exchange 
of fluids through membranes, a process which is called 
endosmosis and exosmosis, can only take place when a vari- 
ety of minerals is present, so that the ingredients of the 
fluids on one side of the membranes are different in chem- 
ical composition from those on the other side. We can 

18 



easily exemplify this process when we immerse a bladder, 
containing a solution of salt, in pure water. In a short 
time both fluids begin to pass through the membrane 
towards each other until a uniform solution is attained. 
If the fluids are of the same consistency, no exchange 
takes place. 

The same process is going on in the millions and 
millions of cells in our body, and without the mineral 
ingredients in the fluids no change, or hardly any, could 
be effected, and the assimilation and nutrition would 
come to a standstill. A German scientist who has made 
a large number of experiments to discover the importance 
of mineral matter in our food, found that animals fed by 
compulsion on food freed from its mineral matter died 
sooner than those not fed at all. 

Recent discoveries by Professor Jacques Loeb of the 
University of Chicago also prove the importance of the 
organic salts. According to his theory the process of 
osmose in the organic world is based on electrolysis, 
going on in millions of invisible batteries by the play of 
electrically charged molecules whose negative or positive 
effects depend on the presence of certain mineral salts. 

The chemical transformation of the different food- 
materials is first carried on by the saliva of the mouth 
and then by the different digestive juices secreted by the 
stomach and intestines. Here the food is turned into a 
more liquid form, called chyle, and thence into blood, 
which nourishes all parts of our body. 

The blood leaves the heart by the arteries; it returns 
to the heart by the veins; but this last statement requires 
modification, for in the capillaries some of the blood- 
plasma exudes into the cell-spaces of the tissues and 
nourishes the tissue elements. This fluid, called lymph, 
is gathered up and carried back again into the blood by 
a system of vessels called lymphatics. The greater num- 
ber of these vessels empty themselves into one main duct, 

19 



the thoracic duct, which passes upward along the front of 
the spine and opens into the large veins on the left side 
of the root of the neck. The remainders empty them- 
selves into a smaller duct which terminates in the corre- 
sponding veins on the right side of the neck. 

Chyle is an opaque, milky white fluid absorbed by 
the villi of the small intestine (see page 21) from the 
food and carried by the lacteal vessels to the commence- 
ment of the thoracic duct, where it is intermingled with 
the lymph and poured into circulation through the same 
channels. Lymphatic and lacteal vessels are almost iden- 
tical in structure, the character of the fluid they convey 
is different only while digestion is going on. At other 
times the lacteals convey a transparent, nearly colorless 
lymph. 

The villi, as shown on the following page, are minute, 
highly vascular projections going out from the mucous 
membrane of the small intestine throughout its whole 
extent and giving to its surface a velvety appearance. 

The structure of the villi whose total number amounts 
to about four millions is arranged in the following manner: 
situated in the centre of the villus is a lacteal vessel, term- 
inating near the summit in a blind extremity which takes 
up the chyle; running along this vessel are unstriped 
muscular fibres, surrounded by a network of capillary 
vessels, the whole being enclosed by a membrane at the 
basis and covered by a columnar epithelium. The struc- 
tures which are contained within the basement mem- 
brane—namely, the lacteal vessel, the muscular tissue, 
and the blood-vessels — are surrounded and enclosed by a 
delicate network of tissues. 

It appears from the structure of these villi that the 
longer and better we masticate our food, the easier it will be 
converted into chyle and the more of its nourishing ingre- 
dients can be absorbed by the lacteals. Improperly masti- 
cated food will give rise to indigestion and fermentation 

20 




Lymph irttnk. 



—'Capillaries. 



Small artery:' Lymphatic plexus. 
!.'•-■ Villi of small intestine. " ri 



Linear enlargement about 50 : 1 ; the dark parts in the middle of 
each villus represent the lacteals which convey chyle during the 
process of digestion, while at other times they carry lymph; the 
lacteals are surrounded by lymphatics and capillary blood vessels. 




Diagrammatic section of a villus, showing the cells ; linear en- 
largement about 300 : 1 ; ^-epithelium (only partly shaded in) ; e e e' 
membrane and tissue-cells; /-lacteal; /'-upper limit of the chyle- 
vessel ; /olymph corpuscles ; m-muscle fibres surrounding the lacteal; 
^-blood-vessels ; £-fine net work (protoplasma) filling out the space 
between the cells. 

21. 



and therefore supply but little nutrition in proportion to 
its bulk, a fact to which we will refer again in the next 
chapter. 

We must distinguish, however, between digestion 
and fermentation or putrefaction. The first is a vitaliz- 
ing process which supplies material for new organic struc- 
tures, while the latter are destructive or decaying pro- 
cesses, carried on by microbes or germs, which gradually 
reduce the organic compounds into inorganic substances. 

We should not forget, however, that every digestive 
process is also a mechanical one, carried on by the con- 
traction of muscles by which all our voluntary and in- 
voluntary movements are executed. Regular bodily ex- 
ercise in pure air and frequent deep breathing increase 
not only oxydation in the tissues but also promote the 
peristaltic motion of the bowels and the dissolving power 
of the digestive fluids. 

Food must also contain some indigestible portions 
which are indispensable for the movement and the regular 
evacuation of the intestines. Highly concentrated foods 
fail to exert that mechanical influence upon the bowels, 
and anyone who would undertake to analyze food into its 
proximate constituents, and take them separately, as mere 
albumen, starch or sugar, would soon find himself in a 
most deplorable condition, as the muscles of the digestive 
apparatus would soon be enfeebled by lack of proper ex- 
ercise. 

The following table shows the chemical analysis of 
some principal food materials; the figures which are taken 
from reports of the United States Department of Agricul- 
ture include also the amount of calories which are the 
units commonly used in measurement of the fuel value or 
heat-forming qualities of food. One calory represents 
the amount of heat which would raise the temperature of 
1 kilogram of water, 1 • Celsius, or, what is nearly the 
same, of 1 pound of water, 4° Fahrenheit. 

22 



Composition of Food Products 








. 




. - 




£■§£ 




Si a 


.2 a 


a 


£•«> a 


« J a 




Food Materials 




<U <D 


*- <u 


O ~(J 


u z 


!>2/2 


(Average) 


£s 


O^ 


fe^ 


u >- i-i 


•2 3u 


!-. 0,cB 




&H V 




CST3 V 


SS <» 






& 


Ph 


a. 


u cu 


•^^cu 


u. a.5 


Bananas 


77.1 
79.4 


1.6 
0.6 


0.3 
0.5 


20.2 
19. 


0.8 
0.5 


380 


Grapes 


360 




86.2 

67. 

84.5 


1.5 
2.5 

0.5 


0.2 

22.7 

0.5 


11.4 
3.4 

14. 


0.7 
4.4 
0.5 


225 


Olives 


810 


Apples 


230 


Pears 


81. 


1. 


0.5 


17. 


0.5 


325 


Peaches 


86.4 


0.6 




12.5 


0.5 


225 


Raspberries 


86.4 
90.4 


0.6 
1. 


0.G 


11.7 
7.4 


0.4 

0.6 


240 


Strawberries 


180 


Water Melons 


92.1 
29.2 
28.5 
38.2 


0.9 
2.5 
4.5 
3. 


0.1 
0.6 
0.6 

0.4 


6.6 
65. 

63.2 

57. 


0.3 
2.7 
3.2 

1.4 


135 


Dried Prunes 


1170 


" Raisins 


1200 


11 Dates 


1140 


" Figs.. 


27.7 


4.3 


0.7 


71. 


1.3 


1395 


Sugar, Refined 






.... 


100. 


.... 


1750 


Almonds. 


4.8 


21. 


54.9 


17.3 


2. 


3030 


Brazil Nuts 


5.3 
3.7 
3.7 
3. 


17. 
15.6 
15.4 
11. 


66.8 
65.3 
67.4 
71.2 


7. 
13. 
11.4 
13.3 


3.9 
2.4 
2.1 

1.5 


3329 


Filberts 


3432 


Hickory Nuts 


3495 


Pecans 


3633 


Walnuts 


2.5 

4.5 


27.6 
27.9 


56.3 
61.2 


11.7 
3.4 


1.9 

3. 


3105 


Butternuts 


3371 


Pine Nuts (Pignolias) 


3.4 


14.6 


61.9 


17.3 


2.8 


3364 


Cocoanuts 


14.1 


5.7 


50.6 


27.9 


1.7 


2986 


Milk 


91.2 


0.5 


0.1 


7. 


1.2 


150 


Peanuts, Raw 


4.9 


32.6 


47.3 


12.6 


2.6 


2735 


Chestnuts, Dried 


5.9 
54. 


10.7 
16.5 


7. 
16.1 


74.2 


2.2 

0.9 


1875 


Beefsteak 


975 


Halibut Steak 


61.9 


15 3 


4.4 




0.9 


475 


Eggs 


65.5 


13.1 


9.3 


.... 


0.9 


635 


Cow's Milk 


87. 


3.3 


4. 


5. 


0.7 


310 


Cream Cheese 


34 2 


25.9 


33.7 


2.4 


3.8 


1885 


Butter 


11. 


1. 


85. 




3. 


3410 


Dried Peas 


9 5 

12.6 


24.6 
22.5 


1. 

1.8 


62. 
59.6 


2.9 
3.5 


1665 


" Beans 


1620 


" Lentils ... 


11.6 


26. 


1. 


59. 


2.4 


1620 


Oatmeal 


15.8 
12.5 


14. 
9.2 


6. 
1.9 


62. 
75.4 


2.2 
1. 


1800 


Cornmeal 


1635 


Wholewheat 


10.1 
14.2 


14. 
9.2 


2.2 

1. 


71.9 
75.1 


1.8 
0.5 


1650 


White Flour 


1635 


Rice, Peeled 


13.2 


8. 


0.8 


77. 


1. 


1650 


" Peeled and Polished 


14.3 


7. 


0.3 


78. 


0.4 


1600 


Potatoes 


75.1 


2.6 


0.3 


17.8 


1.5 


350 


Tomatoes 


94.3 
91.5 


0.9 
1.6 


0.4 
0.3 


3.3 
5.6 


0.6 
1. 


100 


Cabbage 


145 


Spinach 


1 88.5 


3.5 


0.6 


5.3 


2.1 


160 



23 



It has been estimated that an average man at mode- 
rately active labor requires enough food-material to make 
up about 3000 calories. The demands naturally change 
in different occupations, climates or individuals. The 
amount of protein needed daily is generally given at 
about 100 grams (4 ounces), and most people believe that 
increased muscular and mental activity requires a corre- 
spondingly enlarged amount of tissue building food. 

One of the most advanced physiologists of our time, 
Professor Voit of Munich, has found, however, by care- 
ful investigations, carried on for a number of years, that 
even at the most strenuous work the body consumes not 
any more protein than when at rest; that heat and energy 
are almost exclusively created by the combustion of fats 
and carbo-hydrates; that 17-31 grams (about one ounce) 
protein daily are sufficient for the average man, while 
about the same amount of mineral matter is needed in the 
form of organic salts. 

All progressive physicians admit that a large number 
of diseases is due to the excessive amount of protein we 
take in our nourishment. On the other hand, an inade- 
quate supply of mineral elements as has been already 
pointed out is equally detrimental, especially during the 
time of growth of the organism. Not enough can be 
warned of the prevalent use of white flour, refined sugar 
and candy which contain little or no organic salts. The 
annual per capita consumption of sugar in the United 
States has increased 300 per cent, (from 23 lbs. to 69 lbs. ) 
in the last fifty years, and the annual expenditure now 
amounts to $100,000,000.— Aside from that, the American 
people spent over $80,000,000 for candy in the same time, 
and in New York State alone nearly $3,000,000 a year are 
paid out in wages to employees of candy manufacturers. 

Whatever interest these figures may or may not 
possess from a commercial standpoint, considered from 
sanitary grounds they are most significant and most dis- 

24 



comforting, indeed the use of artificial sweets is one of 
the most pernicious customs of the day. The great injuri- 
ousness of eating candies does not consist, however, in 
the biting of hard substances, as it is generally believed, 
but in their lack of organic salts alone, and it is the latter 
circumstance which causes defective development of the 
skeleton of our body {rachitis) and in the later age a 
morbid softening of the bones {osteomalacia). That we 
have to employ 40,000 dentists in this country to repair 
the defects caused by the premature decay of our teeth, 
is but one of the striking evidences for our dietetic mis- 
takes in this respect. — The taste for sweets is natural and 
indicates a physiological demand. This demand, how- 
ever, can be met only by the natural sweets existing in 
fruits and succulent plants. 

In reading the chemical analysis of food materials we 
must bear in mind also, that we cannot always determine 
the food value of an article by the percentage of its con- 
stituents or its price alone, for any food which promotes 
health and vitality has in itself an element of economy of 
the highest value. Our body is sometimes likened to a 
steam engine, but food has more to do than to build and 
repair organs and supply them with energy. We have a 
brain and a nervous system, we have sensibilities and 
higher intellectual faculties, which are all more or less 
influenced by the quality of our nourishment. 

Flesh-foods are commonly regarded as essential for 
the attainment of physical and mental vigor, but modern 
science as well as practical experience slowly deprive this 
theory of its foothold, by clearly demonstrating that the 
nutritive value of meat is inferior to many plant-foods in 
various respects. Besides meat being a very expensive 
article of diet in comparison with other food, it is also 
objectionable for other reasons. Even if taken under the 
most favorable conditions, from perfectly healthy animals, 
it is contaminated by the effete and poisonous matter 

25 



{urea, uric acid, creatin, creati?iin, leukomain, etc.) which 
results from the chemical changes of nutrition and which 
is constantly generated in the various organs and tissues 
of the body. 

Animal life largely depends on the continuous re- 
moval of this worn-out material, and after the death of 
the animal a certain amount of these poisons naturally 
remains in the body. With every piece of meat therefore 
we overtax our excretory organs, especially the liver and 
kidneys, by the additional poisons created in the tissues 
of the animal. 

Two eminent German physiologists, Bureau and 
Schur, have demonstrated that in man the liver destroys 
only about one-half of the uric acid circulating in the 
blood, whether derived from external sources as a meat- 
diet or generated within the body by ordinary tissue 
changes. This is due to the fact that in man the liver 
and kidneys receive equal quantities- of blood. In carniv- 
orous animals, however, as the dog and the cat, the liver 
is much more active, receiving a much larger blood supply 
in proportion to that received by the kidneys. The liver 
of the carnivorous animal is, in fact, able to destroy pro- 
portionately ten to fifteen times as much uric acid as 
the liver of man, a fact which clearly indicates that the 
human constitution is not physiologically adapted to a 
meat-diet. 

In the meat of diseased animals — and a large per- 
centage or stable-fed cattle suffers from one disease or 
another — poisons must be sometimes contained in an 
alarming degree, and enormous quantities of such detest- 
able and dangerous food are probably eaten throughout 
the country. 

During the first three montus of 1902 the Board of 
Health of New York City confiscated over 325,000 lbs. of 
meat which was totally unfit for use^and it is quite cer- 
tain that especially in the poorer districts of all our 

26 



larger cities immense quantities of objectionable meat 
are sold, which escape investigation and thus endanger 
public health and life. 

Among the foods which surpass meat in nutritive 
value, nuts take the first place, in fact they are the most 
nutritious products of nature. They contain on an aver- 
age about sixty per cent, of fat, 18 per cent, of protein and 
about 12 per cent, carbohydrates, thus having more than 
double the fuel- value or energy-power of meat. Besides 
they need no further preparation, and a walnut or a 
almond, if thoroughly masticated, is converted in the 
mouth into a creamy substance, not unlike in taste and 
consistency to the cream of milk. "Of all the food," 
says an author, ' ' that makes brains, the blanched almond 
is the best and gives the highest nerve or brain and 
muscle nourishment. The person who wishes to keep 
his brain power up would do well to include these in his 
daily bill of fare. ' ' At present the price of nuts is still 
high in comparison with other plant-foods, but the more 
and more spreading fact of their high nutritive value and 
easy preservation during the whole year will undoubtedly 
increase their culture and simultaneously reduce the cost 
of production and transportation. 

Pulses are also superior to meat, in fact, they con- 
tain more protein than any other vegetable food. They 
form really a class by themselves and, if well prepared, 
are far more economical and healthful than flesh- foods. 

Mrs. Mary Hinman Abel says in the U. S. Farmers' 
Bulletin, No. 121, about the nutritive value of beans, 
peas, and lentils : ' ' Judged by the chemical analysis 
alone, we should give legumes the very highest place 
among foods, containing as they do more protein than 
the best cuts of meat, and in some cases a large percen- 
tage of fat, besides a considerable amount of starch. 
Pound for pound, they would thus be more valuable than 
meat or our best cereals. Forty years ago they were an- 

27 



nounced by Moleschott as ' ' true treasure houses for the 
renewing of our blood," being equal in their albumen 
content "peas to veal, beans to the flesh of doves, while 
lentils leave every kind of meat far behind." 

Pulses should always be eaten in connection with 
green vegetables, especially those containing mild organic 
acids, as an excess of nitrogenous foods leads eventually 
to gout and rheumatism, an ailment which is commonly 
met with among the vegetarian natives of India. It has 
undoubtedly its origin in an exclusive diet of pulses, as 
these people have but little fresh fruit and vegetables. 

Cereals contain the needs of the body in almost the 
right proportion and have therefore taken a predominant 
place in the dietary of all civilized nations. 

Special care should be taken, however, in the prepa- 
ration of both pulses and cereals. 

The act of cooking or baking, if practiced at all, 
should always go on steadily and slowly, as it is practi- 
cally the same process which takes place, still slower yet, 
while the seeds are germinating in the soil. Here the 
starch is converted by different chemical processes into 
dextrose which serves as nourishment to the embryo 
plant, until its roots are sufficiently grown to extract 
nourishment direct from the soil. 

Most of the cooking and baking as it is now prac- 
ticed is wholly empirical and to a great extent bad. 
Rapid and excessive cooking is done in many cases, irre- 
spective of economy and health. Perhaps the most fatal 
mistakes are made in the preparation of our daily bread, 
the so-called ' ' staff of life. ' ' Nature has prepared in the", 
kernels of the wheat one of the most perfect foods for 
man. It contains all of the fifteen or more elements 
found in the human body, and almost in the identical 
proportion, namely: oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, phos- 
phorus, carbon, calcium, sodium, potassium, magnesium, ■ 
sulphur, chlorine, fluorine, silicon, and iron. All these 

28 



elements are absolutely necessary to repair the daily waste 
and wear of our mental and physical forces. 

But instead of using the entire wheat kernel for the 
flour, only the inner portions are commonly used, which 
of course give a white product because it contains mostly 
starch; but such flour is a disorganized food, because the 
best parts of the wheat, the gluten and the nutritive salts, 
have been separated from it by our modern milling pro- 
cesses. 

So impoverished is this so-called ' ' superfine flour ' ' 
that the people spend hundreds of millions of dollars an- 
nually to buy yeast, baking powder, soda, cream of tar- 
tar, etc., for lightening, and lard, butter, and other 
greasy materials to fatten and revive this disorganized 
substance into shape to tickle the palate. The housewife 
is not satisfied unless her bread is as light and white as 
snow, being totally ignorant of the fact that the whiter 
it is the less is its nutritive value. 

During the common process of baking, which in- 
cludes the mixing of dough with yeast, another portion 
of the nutritive ingredients of the wheat is lost. The 
yeast germs consume nearly twenty per cent, of the 
starch in the flour, converting it by different chemical 
changes into alcohol and carbonic acid gas, two injurious 
substances, the latter causing the expansion of the dough. 

As a matter of fact, bad teeth, nervousness, consti- 
pation, and general ill health, so common among old and 
young, are mostly due to the prevalent consumption of 
white bread in our American households. And then in 
the vain effort to counteract the evil effect of this unnat- 
ural food, some more hundreds of millions of dollars are 
thrown away for patent medicines and nostrums which 
no hog would swallow. 

But all these evils are avoided by making unleavened 
bread from the entire wheat. Such bread, if carefully 
prepared, possesses all of the nutritive constituents re- 

29 



quired by the human body, and is one of the very best 
balanced foods for man. It has protein for muscles, brain 
and nerves, fat and carbohydrates for animal heat, mineral 
matter for the bones and tissues, and hence comes nearer 
to being the ' ' real staff of life ' ' than the' weakening 
white bread. 

To illustrate the fatal mistakes which are made in 
the production of "superfine" flour, we give below a 
diagrammatic section of a wheat kernel, greatly enlarged; 
the same wasteful methods are employed also in the 
preparation of other cereals, for instance in the peeling 
and polishing of rice, in the foolish attempt to give the 
kernel a better appearance. All these milling processes 
cause a loss of organic salts of from 50 to 75 per cent., 
making these valuable products of nature entirely unsuf- 
ficient for proper and adequate nutrition. 

Section of Wheat Kernel, Enlarged. 




The outer line 1 is the bran coat which furnishes but little nour- 
ishment, but is necessary in the digestive process as bulk; layers 2 
and 3 contain nitrogenous matter and the indispensable salts of phos- 
phorus and potassium which build bones and teeth; in 4 and 5 we 
find a cerealine substance which gives color and flavor to the kernel; 
layer 6 consists mostly of gluten, while 7 contains principally starch; 
8 is the germ, containing the easily soluble organic salts which sup- 
ply vitality and the first nourishment to the embryo-plant. In white 
flour parts 1 to 6 and 8 are removed, leaving a product which is en- 
tirely insufficient as food. 

30 



Better care should also be taken in the preparation 
of vegetables which are at their best, however, in their 
natural and raw state. By excessive cooking they are 
robbed of the most valuable food elements, especially the 
organic salts, as these ingredients are chemically disasso- 
ciated and rendered useless for nutrition. If vegetables 
are steamed with but little water, their natural flavors 
valuable food-elements are far better preserved. 

Professor W. O. Atwater who made a number of in- 
vestigations in regard to the purchase and preparation of 
nourishment, interpreting the observations of practical 
life in different parts of the country, says, that a fourfold 
mistake in food economy is very commonly made. 

First, the costlier foods are used when the less ex- 
pensive are just as nutritious and can be made nearly or 
quite as palatable. 

Second, the diet is apt to be one-sided, in that foods 
are used which furnish relatively too much of the nitro- 
genous materials and too little of the fuel-ingredients. 

Third, excessive quantities of food are used; part 
o. the excess is eaten and always to the detriment of 
health ; part is thrown away in the table and kitchen 
wastes. 

Fourci, we are guilty of serious errors in our cook- 
ing. We waste a great deal of fuel in the preparation 
of our food, and even then a great deal of food is badly 
cooked. 

Few people, indeed, seem to realize what an im- 
mense quantity of the very best food material is lost 
in the artificial preparation of our nourishment and if we 
would gather careful statistics in this respect, the figures 
would be astonishing. In spite of the wonderful progress 
of science during the last century the average housewife 
seems still to live in complete darkness in regard to the 
most important factors on which health and happiness in 
•life depend. 

31 



A great field for useful reform opens here and the 
large number of missionaries who go to foreign lands 
every year, would find a splendid opportunity to show 
their usefulness right at home, by teaching the people 
the simple laws of nature and hygiene. 

5. The Raw Food Question. 

In selecting and preparing our food we should always 
bear in mind that we can never improve on nature and 
that everything what we can relish in its natural and 
raw state is best adapted for the nourishment of our body. 
While the most delicious products of the soil, the fruits, 
do not possess the high nutritive value of the more con- 
centrated foods, they are nevertheless indispensable for 
maintaining health and vitalit3 r and every cent spent on 
fruit is a good investment, which will return us ample 
dividends, in increasing our resistance against disease. 

More than other products of the soil, fruits enjoy a 
free and uninterrupted exchange of the influences of 
light, heat and air, by which the electrical forces of the 
sun are transmitted. Vital energy is thus stored up in 
the fruits in a higher degree, and while we cannot grasp 
or determine this subtle power by chemical analysis, we 
can feel its enlivening effects through our whole system. 

Professor Jacques Loeb, in his recent physiological 
searches, likewise comes to the conclusion that the energy 
of foodstuffs and the motion of the heart are not only due 
to the production of heat, but also to the chemical energy 
in electrically charged molecules. ' ' Evidently, ' ' he says, 
1 ' the chief role of food is not to be digested and ' burned ' 
in the muscles and organs, as present-day physiology 
assumes, but to supply electrical 'ions.' The heat devel- 
oped is a by-product. The chief action is the production 
of electricity. The body is in some sort a dynamo. Food, 
then, is of value according to the amount and kind of 

electricity it affords. ' ' 

32 



This electrical vitality we can only enjoy in uncooked 
fruits, nuts and grains as they come from the hand of 
nature, prepared by the rays of the heavenly light, filled 
with life and vigor, unblemished by the hand of man. 
Raw food must therefore be declared as the ideal diet, of 
man, and the unperverted appetite demands nothing else. 

Scientific investigations have shown that cooking 
effects a radical change in the chemical composition of 
all food materials. The albuminous matter, for instance, 
is coagulated by boiling and thus rendered indigestible; 
the starchy foods, on the other hand, become too pappy 
and soft and the system is overloaded with matter 
which causes an excess of unhealthy and fatty deposits 
in the tissues. Excessive heat further causes the com- 
plete disorganization of the more complex compounds, 
especially the separation of the mineral constituents from 
their organic combinations. The mineral elements, like 
iron, calcium, potassium, etc., which are so essential for 
the building up of tissues and bones, become " free," i. e. 
return into their inorganic state in which they cannot be 
used in the metabolic processess of the body cells. The 
cooking of our food has still another disadvantage; the 
earthy substances (principally lime) which are contained 
in the water remain by the evaporation of the latter, and 
as constantly more water is added to prevent burning, 
the system is overloaded with a large amount of unneces- 
sary material which must in time seriously encumber all 
organs. 

For a long time inorganic substances were supposed 
to be useful for the body, and to-day they are still used 
to a great extent in the preparation of the so-called patent- 
medicines. Modern physiology, however, has repeatedly 
shown, that inorganic matter cannot be assimilated and 
that it remains partly in the system, obstructing and im- 
pairing the vital action of the organism. In fact, the 
chalky deposits in the body are the cause of the harden- 

33 



ing of the walls of the arterial blood vessels {arterioscle- 
rosis*), a sign of premature senility. 

The radical changes going on during the process of 
cooking are further illustrated by the fact, that all seeds 
do not sprout any more, after they have been boiled; 
they are no more capable of reproducing their own kind, 
because the vitality of the germ has been destroyed. 

What has been said about the effects of cooking upon 
our food refers especially to the boiling of milk which 
thereby becomes not only less digestible because some of 
the casein has been coagulated, but also less nutritious, 
for its most essential parts, the organic salts, have entered 
dissolution. Cow's milk, which in most instances is used 
as a substitute for mother's milk, is most readily affected, 
not only by the food of the animal, but also by the con- 
ditions and environments in which it is living. It is a 
matter of fact that a great mass of cattle is being fed 
upon the offal of breweries and distilleries and also with 
the swill collected from the restaurants, etc., of large 
cities. The remnants of alcoholic fermentation are cer- 
tainly a food of very doubtful character which will soon 
affect the health of the cow and change the quality of 
the milk often to such a degree that it is entirely unfit 
and detrimental as food. Pasteurizing such milk to kill 
the hypothetical germs will therefore by no means im- 
prove its quality; in the contrary, the milk will become 
still worse for the same reasons we have already stated. 

But here the question arises, is the milk of even per- 
fectly healthy cows a desirable article of food for man in 
general and for infants in particular ? The answer must 
be an emphatic " no." Nature has destined the milk of 
the cow, like that of all other mammals, for the nourish- 
ment of their respective young. The milk contains in 
every instance a certain per cent, of solid substances, and 
these include just the elements and in such a proportion 
as they are necessary to build up the tissues, bones, and 

34 



different organs of the new-born animal. So nature pre- 
pares for the young creatures just the kind of food which 
they need for the growth and development of their body 
until they are able to provide for themselves. It is evi- 
dent, therefore, that the chemical composition of the 
milk in the various species of mammals must differ as 
widely as their anatomical peculiarities. 

In a natural state the lactiferous glands of the cow 
as well as those of any other mammal, are only active till 
the teeth of the young one have grown sufficiently to en- 
able it to take solid food. Then the milk glands of the 
mother-cow would naturally dry up again, if it were not 
for the unnatural practice of milking the animal. 

Nature has prepared for man an abundance of unsur- 
passed nourishment in the various products of the soil, 
and the expectant mother living on a plain and frugal diet 
and breathing fresh, pure air day and night will not only 
have an easy parturition, but will also have a sufficient 
secretion of healthy milk which can never be equalled by 
an}^ artificial food whatsoever. It is but self-evident that 
the infant should be given solid food as soon as his teeth 
and the salivary glands are sufficiently developed to 
afford proper mastication. Milk is often recommended 
to adults in case of impoverished blood; but like most 
liquid foods, soups, etc., it makes the blood still more 
watery. 

The period of early childhood is often decisive for 
the rest of our life, and our amount of vitality to resist 
injurious influences, aside from those of heredity , depends 
largely upon the nourishment we receive in the first days 
of our earthly existence. The demand for the natural 
is always inborn, while the desire for the unnatural is 
acquired by irrational food, and indeed children which 
have been nourished on raw foods, principally fruits, have 
grown up strong and health)-, physically and mentally, 
and have never been attacked by violent diseases or even 

35 



gave cause for anxiety. Nature clearly and distinctly shows 
us the way in which we should take our food: the first nour- 
islnncnt of the new-born is relished in its natural and raw 
state. 

A very interesting discovery which also speaks for the 
use of raw food has been made by certain experiments 
conducted by Mr. Horace Fletcher. When food has under- 
gone thorough mastication a very much less quantity is 
required to keep the body in vigorous trim than when 
eaten in the ordinary way. All advocates of raw food 
should emphasize this point particularly, as it is beyond 
question that a large part of the improvement manifested 
in the condition of men who desert the ordinary cooked 
dietary for a dietary of raw foods, is due to the perfect 
mastication that these foods require. 

Thus, the ration of the German soldier provides for 
about five ounces of protein daily. Mr. Fletcher found 
by careful experiments that he gets along doing hard 
work and maintaining perfect health by eating only one 
and one-half ounces of protein daily. He makes these 
great gains hy means of thorough mastication, chewing 
his food four times as long as is customary for most 
people. 

It is also probable that the average individual eats 
four or five times as much starchy food as is digested, 
because our multitudes of mushes and porridges, cakes 
and pies, boiled potatoes and new bread are hastily swal- 
lowed or washed down with coffee, tea, or water. The 
digestion of starch is especially promoted by the alkaline 
secretions of the mouth, and for that reason we should 
always take cereal foods in a dty state. 

By a thorough chewing of the food all the elements 
which it contains are brought into close contact with 
the digestive fluids and are thus well prepared for perfect 
assimilation. The economy in the consumption of food 
by proper mastication is enormous, and these observa- 

36 



/; 



tions prove, that it is not only possible to reduce the 
amount of proteids, but also the amount of fat and carbo- 
hydrates, so that the total of economy in food material, 
which is worse than wasted when insufficiently masti- 
cated, amounts to fully one-third. 

As a result of this thorough mastication, not only a 
smaller quantity of food is required, but it is also un- 
questionable that there is a still greater saving in the 
economy of vital energy. It certainly takes strength and 
vigor to digest the unnecessary food stuffs. When they 
are not digested, they ferment and decompose and cause 
all forms of physical disturbances, including neuralgia, 
rheumatism, lassitude, obesity, dropsy, kidney and 
bladder troubles; in fact, there is hardly a disease which 
is not aggravated or induced by an over-consumption of 
food imperfectly digested. 

An argument of the greatest importance in favor of 
the fruitarian diet — at least from the economical and 
social point of view — is, that it means the emancipation 
of woman. She will then no longer be a slave to the 
kitchen, for it will hardly be needed. The time which 
she formerly devoted to' so much cooking and toiling, she 
will then be able to devote to a proper education of her 
children and to her own culture. 

The housewife often prides herself in the preparation 
of sumptuous dinners, but she forgets that in most in- 
stances the sun has already done all the necessary cook- 
ng and that she can hardly improve on the natural 
qualities and flavors of the food. On the other hand, the 
display of a great variety of dishes at one meal and the 
extensive use of condiments always lead to over-eating. 

The following figures give a graphic description of 
different food materials, showing that meat, aside from 
its injurious ingredients, is less nourishing than most of 
the plant foods; the dark sections of the circles represent 
the respective food values. 

37 



©©©©© 

Eggs Fish Pork Beef Potatoes 

©€€©© 

Milk Cheese Bread Whole Wheat Cabbage 

Dates Bananas Nuts 

The following diagrams in which the black part rep- 
resents the proportions of aliment, indicate the superiority 
of a simplicity in diet; the ideal food for man should con- 
sist of fruits, nuts, and grains properly masticated. 




Dinner No. 1. Dinner No. 2. Dinner No. 5. Dinner No. 4. 

Oysters Butter Soup White Beans Raw Fruit 

Soup Ice Cream Meat Bread Lettuce Nuts 

Fish Cakes Potatoes Pudding Bread Grains 

Roast Wine Spinach Coffee (whole wheat) 

Poultry Coffee Lettuce Cheese Stewed Fruit 

Pickles Mustard 

Potatoes Vinegar 

Pastry Pepper 

White Sugar 
Bread 

38 



The Superiority of the Fruitarian Diet. 

After all these arguments of modern chemistry and 
physiology we must come to the conclusion that plant- 
foods, especially fruits, nuts and grains, contain the needs 
of the body in far better proportions and in a much purer 
state than flesh-foods and that in any case the best of 
health, strength and nutrition are not to be obtained by 
waste of time and money on elaborate food, when the 
simplest things are all that is required and readily accepted 
by our system. 

Not only in the prevention, but also in the cure of 
all diseases, the most important factor will always be : 
The immediate return to a simple and fmgal diet, consisting 
mainly of the delicious, enlivening fruits, just as we receive 
them from the hands of nature. They are food and medi- 
cine alike, purifying the blood and consequently the 
entire body, in the same time rebuilding the devitalized 
tissues and bringing new life and vigor to every organ of 
the body. 

To be sure many will at first experience a seeming 
change to the worse in adopting a fruitarian diet. The 
various disagreeable symptoms which will appear in most 
instances and cause so many to quickly return to their 
beloved flesh-pots are really a sign of improvement. The 
body which, by the old perverted dietetic habits has been 
encumbered with morbid matter, is always invigorated 
by the natural food and is trying now to rid itself from 
the superfluous and injurious material which for years 
accumulated throughout the system. The nerves and 
the alimentary canal will become especially active and the 
increased activity in all parts of the body will often be fol- 
lowed by a temporary mental and physical lassitude. But 
if one perseveres in the new dietary, these symptoms will 
soon give way to much better health than one has ever 
enjoyed. There is no victory without struggle and those 

39 



who do not have the will and determination to carry out 
the once undertook work of self -reformation, should 
rather not begin at all, because such wavering individuals 
will only detain others to make a start towards a healthier 
and better life. 

Unfortunately, numbers of people who call them- 
selves "vegetarians," or others who for one reason or 
another have abjured meat-eating, have no real physio- 
logical knowledge and fail only too often to put an 
adequate quantity of fat and organic salts into their 
diet. The result has been that their nutrition has often 
failed either to quite satisfy themselves, or to command 
their methods of living to others. As in every reform 
movement we also find here fanatics who fall from one 
extreme into the other and who naturally give rise to 
false views and criticisms on vegetarianism. So Professor 
Hueppe tells us in the British Medical Journal, "that 
vegetarians of our time belong to the class of neurotic 
men who, falling out amid the strain of town life, are 
ever sick for a "heal all" in one or another fad. Their 
doctrines pushed with fanatic zeal, make no impression 
on the healthy, and overthrow only the balance of those, 
who, like themselves, are the victims of an unnatural 
mode of existence. ' ' 

This shows how little vegetarianism is still under- 
stood by the majority of those who begin to practice it, 
as well as by those who so severely criticize it from either 
a practical or scientific standpoint. But where ever in 
the world vegetarianism is practiced on rational principles 
its superiority over a meat or mixed diet is evident, and 
individuals as well as nations furnish the most striking 
examples. 

The United States Department of agriculture has 
been conducting a series of dietary experiments with the 
aid of Professor Jaffa of the University of California, the 
results of which should be found encouraging to all those 

40 



students of food values who are trying to solve the prob- 
lem of a cheap yet perfectly- nutritious and sustaining 
diet. The dietary studies were carried on mostly upon 
nuts and fruits as a true food of man. 

The persons upon whom the experiments were made 
were two of the students of the university at which the 
experiments were going on, two middle-aged men, two 
women and three children. The male members all did 
hard manual work during the time of experiments. The 
cost, as estimated by Professor Jaffa, amounted to about 
fifteen to eighteen cents a day. 

The results of these valuable experiments even if 
they do not induce a majority of the people to adopt a 
fruitarian diet, prove the fact so long emphasized by fruit- 
arians, that fruits and nuts are a thorough, sustaining, 
wholesome food, and that man can live on them, getting 
more than sufficient nourishment and energy from this 
natural diet. 

The athletes of ancient Greece were trained entirely 
on a fruitarian diet. The boatmen of Constantinople who 
live on bread, cherries, figs, dates and other fruits, have 
a wonderful muscular development. The children of the 
desert exist for a long time upon a handful of dates a 
day, and travelers speak of raisins and parched corn as a 
common fare. 

The Mystic Adepts who are strong physically, men- 
tally, and who are never sick and live to great ages, all 
the time doing a tremendons amount of work, never eat 
flesh-food. They live on plant-foods exclusively. 

It is often asserted that, while a vegetarian diet 
would be good in tropical and subtropical countries it 
would be entirely unsufficient in the colder climates. 
This, however, is an entirely mistaken view. Not only 
can our body derive a far greater amount of heat and 
energy from plant-foods, such as nuts and cereals, but 
they are also more conducive to health. The extreme 

41 



cold weather may to a certain degree antagonize the ex- 
cess of meat and animal . fat which is often taken in 
northern climates, but the injurious effects of such a diet 
will appear sooner or later. Scurvy, gout and rheumatism 
are some of the many diseases which befall those who for 
a longer time subsist almost exclusively on animal food. 

"Many," writes a northern explorer, "labor under 
the impression, that they cannot keep warm during the 
winter months, especially in Alaska, unless they eat an 
abundance of meat and animal fat. This is an erroneous 
idea, as has been amply and practically demonstrated. 
Our houses are not plastered and are not made extra 
warm, yet I wear thin clothing most of the winter and 
keep comfortable. I have no difficulty in finding good, 
nourishing food. At present I am following a strict 
vegetarian diet. My health is none the less robust, and 
perhaps it is to that regime that I owe my keen sensibility 
to impressions and a hopeful, contented disposition." 

The Highland Scotch, in their rigid climate are prac- 
tically vegetarians, yet they are noted for their courage 
and hardihood. In England vegetarians now get better 
life-insurance rates than are allowed to meat-eaters, as a 
result of investigations made by a committee appointed 
by the government to determine the foods best suited to 
the soldiers of the British army. 

"It follows absolutely from my researches," says 
Dr. Haig, a well known English physician, "that a. diet 
entirely free from all animal flesh, tea, coffee and similar 
alkaloid containing vegetable substances, is far and away 
the best of all kinds for training and athletics." 

A very striking demonstration of this fact was fur- 
nished by a walking-match held in Germany a few years 
ago, where fourteen meat-eaters and eight vegetarians 
started for a seventy mile run. All the vegetarians 
reached the goal, and it is said, "in splendid condition," 
the first covering the distance in fourteen and a quarter 

42 






hours. An hour after the last vegetarian came the first 
meat-eater ; he was ' ' completely exhausted ' ' and de- 
manded brandy to " revive " him. He was also the last 
meat-eater, as all the rest had dropped off after 35 miles. 
Another conspicuous example is the recent victory of the 
vegetarian Karl Mann of Berlin, who in the walking- 
contest Berlin-Dresden (May, 1902) covered ihe distance 
of 125 miles in 26 hours, 52 minutes. 

A committee of physicians examined Mann critically 
at the close of his walk and 24 hours later and declared 
him to be in a most excellent condition. In the next four 
days he was so busy writing, lecturing, and being inter- 
viewed that he says he slept but 21 hours during this 
time. Mann proved that the highest degree of both 
physical and mental energy can at one and the same time 
be got from a diet which strictly excludes flesh, fowl, 
alcohol, coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate and every other 
stimulant. He even surpassed the feat of the celebrated 
Grecian athlete who after the defeat of the Persians in 
the battle of Marathon run the distance to Athens, about 
140 miles in 48 hours, but only to die from exhaustion 
after the proclamation of the victory. 

That also the most severe mental efforts can be per- 
formed without meat-eating, is proved by none less than 
Isaac Newton, the great astronomer, who lived on coarse 
bread and water while demonstrating the principles of 
calculus, the new mathematical method he perfected in 
application to the revolutions of the moon. 

If the world's most successful athletes find that a 
high degree of physical health is best attained by eating 
little or no meat, and such tremendous mental and physi- 
cal workers as Thomas Edison and Nicolas Tesla do not 
find meat a necessary article of diet, then we need not 
fear to experiment, a little in the same direction. 

We should become more and more impressed with 
the importance of obedience to the laws of hygiene, with 

43 



the simplicity in diet and living, with the perception 
of the prostrating and dangerous effects of stimulants and 
narcotics especially of alcohol, tobacco, coffee, tea, etc., 
and with the importance of regularity in times of eating 
and moderation in quantities. 

We have already demonstrated that devitalized cooked 
foods which are too hastily swallowed and therefore are 
never properly masticated, afford but little nourishment 
in proportion to their bulk, especially as some of their 
most valuable ingredients have been lost by excessive 
heat. People living on a cooked diet must therefore have, 
as they say, at least three square meals a day and yet the 
majority of them is dyspeptic and half -starved, otherwise 
the many manufacturers of "dyspepsia tablets and pills" 
could not spend millions of dollars for advertisements 
every year, in order to unload their nostrums upon an 
ignorant public who is still foolish enough to believe that 
health can be bought in the drug store. 

But all who will strictly adhere to the fruitarian diet, 
using principally raw foods, will soon be rid of their 
digestive troubles, while their melancholy will give way 
to a more healthy and cheerful view of this life; they will 
moreover find that two meals a day are more than 
sufficient; they can easily dispense with the breakfast, 
perhaps taking at rising only an orange or apple which 
should always be eaten with the skin;, at noon or at 
evening they may enjoy a larger meal, consisting of fruits, 
nuts, cracked cereals, vegetables in their almost endless 
varieties, as the season brings them forth. By such a 
regime the digestive organs will always have sufficient 
rest by which their power will be wonderfully strength- 
ened, so that they will be able to extract proportionately 
far more nourishment from our food than by the old 
methods of living. 

A glass of pure and unfermented fruit juice taken 
occasionally will greatly help to tone up the system, 

44 



especially the brain and nerves, being therefore most 
beneficial to all brainworkers; unlike alcohol, tea or 
coffee which are delusive stimulants, unfermented fruit- 
juices will always give real strength to the body. Fruit- 
juices are also far superior to milk, and while the latter 
is easily contaminated and always changes its quality 
with the state of health of the animal, we find in the 
fruits a most delightful and nourishing fluid, entirely free 
from the effete matter of animal life. 

• The diet question should altogether deserve far more 
interest by the average man than it does now, especially 
by a regular discourse of the problem, developing right 
methods in the selection of foods and by encouraging the 
raising of such products of the soil which will enable 
people in time to dispense with all animal foods. 



5. Diet-Reform, the Ultimate Solution of the Econom- 
ical and Social Problems. 

One of the most important problems that confront 
human society to-day is the increasing consumption of 
intoxicating liquors, as one of the principal causes of the 
mental and physical degeneration of man. Statistics show 
that the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany, 
and Russia each spend on an average one billion dollars for 
alcoholic beverages annually and the drink evil, like a 
shadow, seems to follow the march of modern civilization. 
Physiologists and hygienists who have given this matter 
careful attention agree that we must seek the deeper 
causes of these deplorable conditions in the irrational and 
irritating nourishment of the majority of people and it 
has been truly said that cooks make more drunkards 
than saloonkeepers. The relation of diet to intemperance 
is therefore well-worth most careful and earnest con- 
sideration. 

45 



Temperance reformers should bear in mind that in 
" overcivilized " man thirst is generally a morbid (patho- 
logical) condition of the organism, created by the prevail- 
ing unnatural methods of living, especially the extensive 
use of flesh-foods, condiments, salt, seasonings, etc., 
which constantly keep the blood in a feverous condition. 
The normal and perfectly healthy man living on a fruit- 
diet has very little desire for any liquids whatsoever and 
does not need prohibitive laws to restrict his appetites. 
Observations of naturalists have also established the fact 
that all the anthropoid apes who are like man f rugivorous 
take but very little water as long as they are living in 
liberty; in captivity, however, apes may be accustomed 
to a mixed or flesh-diet, tea, coffee, and consequently to 
alcoholic beverages, but the effect of such food upon them 
is the same as in the case of man. They soon die of con- 
sumption, like a great number of ' civilized ' men. 

We should therefore rather speak of a " thirst evil," 
as the inevitable consequence of our unnatural dietetic 
and hygienic habits, than of a " drink evil." 

How one-sided, then, is the movement of the pro- 
hibitionists who by their fanatic crusades against alcohol, 
without removing the real causes, induce the people to 
resort to other poisons and abominable concoctions to 
satisfy their depraved appetites ! In all the states and 
counties where prohibition holds its sway, the drugstores 
do an enormous business in all kinds of preparations, con- 
taining a ' ' nerve tonic " or ' ' catarrh-remedy ' ' in the 
form of alcohol or another narcotic. In the manufacture 
of a well-known patent-medicine 250 barrels of so-called 
cologne- spirits are used weekly and most of the nostrums, 
constantly advertised all over the country, contain from 
20 to 40 per cent, alcohol, besides the nerve-deadening 
and poisonous drugs. 

Unfortunately the truth is not yet fully realized that 
Nature's luscious gifts are the most valuable factor both 

46 



for the prevention and cure of the drink-habit, as fruit- 
eating has a natural tendency to take away the craving 
for alcoholic stimulants. Indeed, every apple, every 
orange, every grape, contains far better medicinal qual- 
ities, than the ingeniousness of man will ever be able to 
compound ! Fruits contain about three quarter parts of 
water, distilled in nature's laboratory, and are rich in 
peculiar fruit-acids which will sooth the diseased state of 
the stomach and increase the strength and activity of all 
the bodily organs. In every instance a strict fruitarian 
diet will be the best and surest remedy against inebriety, 
and every victory thus gained will make less strong each 
recurring temptation, as the cooling juices of the fruits 
will in time purify the whole system. But right here we 
have to contend with another evil; instead to enjoy the 
delicious fruits in their natural and unfermented state the 
greater portion of the world's fruit-crop is converted into 
alcoholic beverages and especially by the wine-producing 
countries an enormous quantity of food-material is thus 
devastated by fermentation ever}' year. The world's 
annual output of wine averages 4000 million gallons which 
contain from 10 to 12 per cent, alcohol. The volume 
of the latter contained in one gallon is consequently about 
one pint. In the process of fermentation 100 parts of 
sugar are converted into 48 parts of alcohol and 47 parts 
of carbonic acid, one pint of alcohol taking the place of 
about two pounds of sugar. Thus the total amount of 
sugar lost by the fermentation of wine alone is 8000 
million pounds or nearly four million tons every year. 
The world's annual output of manufactured sugar is 
now ten million tons, while nearly the same amount of 
natural fruit-sugar is turned into alcohol by the produc- 
tion of fermented and distilled liquors. How preposterous, 
then, to destroy the natural and wholesome sweets of the 
fruits by fermentation and to extract by tiresome and ex- 
pensive chemical and mechanical processes from beets and 

47 



sugar-cane an artificial product which is insufficient as 
food and injurious to health ! But there are still more 
products of the soil manufactured into alcoholic liquors; 
the destruction of cereals, in the breweries and distilleries 
is equally enormous, and the waste of food material can 
only be imagined by those who have closely studied the 
subject. 

In the grain-growing western states the whiskey 
distilleries are numerous and extensive. On the banks of 
the Illinois and Ohio rivers we see miles of distilleries 
where enough cereals are annually converted into alco- 
holic poison to supply at least three such cities as Greater 
New York with bread, and to feed and even feast every 
pauper on earth. But the evil does not stop here. 
Immense droves of swine are fed and fattened on the offal 
of these establishments, and the scrofulous pork resulting 
therefrom is sent to the cities to engender disease and 
premature death. 

In the United States alone more than 100 million 
bushels of cereals, potatoes, etc., representing a total 
value of over 100 million dollars of raw-material, are -thus 
sacrificied to the demon alcohol every year; the same is 
the case in other countries. Is this not the climax of 
perversity ? Nature prepares in the delicious fruits and 
golden grains just what we need to build up our mental 
and physical powers, and then comes man and does not 
only spoil the best products of the soil, but even converts 
them into actual poison. 

A short example will illustrate this almost criminal 
wastefulness. A bushel of corn, if it does the work it 
ought to do, sustains a man in mental and physical vigor 
for thirty da3 T s. But the distiller makes from the bushel 
of corn four gallons of whiskey, often with the aid of 
various other noxious products and harmful adulterations. 

The four gallons of whiskey retail for $16.40. 

The farmer who raised the corn gets from 25 to 50 cts. 
48 



The United States Government, through its tax on 
whiskey, gets $4.40. 

The railroad company gets $1.00. 

The manufacturer gets $4.00. 

The drayman who hauls the whiskey gets 15 cents. 

The retailer gets $7.00. 

The man who drinks the whiskey injures his body 
and mind. 

His wife and children suffer from want and endless 
trouble. 

Is there any more striking example ? Here we have 
on one side the slowly, but surely demoralizing liquor, on 
the other side the nourishing fruits in which nature has 
so wonderfully stored up sunshine and life ! And yet the 
existence of the governments of all " christian nations," 
whether republican or monarchical, largely depends on 
the perpetuation of this very evil which undermines 
health and morals; indeed, over one-half of the revenues 
of the modern states is derived from the taxes on stim- 
ulants and narcotics ! How, then, can man expect i 
betterment of his condition by the change of political 
systems, as long as he continues to live in ingnorance in 
regard to the laws of nature and health and looks for his 
ideal in the gratification of his own morbid desires ? 

There are still many who advocate the use of lighter 
alcoholic beverages in place of the stronger ones, claiming 
that civilized man must have a stimulus at any rate; but 
statistics show that the consumption of the former in- 
creases, while no decline in the production of the latter is 
perceptible. A short time ago an author went so far as 
to assert that alcohol had been a chief aid in the develop- 
ment of the human brain, and that it was the discovery 
of fermentation which gave the ape-man his first impetus 
in the career of civilization. Investigations, however, have 
shown that man had learned to cultivate the vegetable 
kingdom for food before he began to prepare and use alco- 

49 



hoi as a beverage. While the date of the origin of agri- 
culture is a matter of conjecture, yet it appears from the 
age of such ancient civilizations as those of Babylon and 
Egypt, reaching back 30,000 years, that an equally long 
time had passed during which the progenitors of these 
peoples lived as nomadic tribes cultivating the soil as they 
migrated from place to place until they became settled. 
Thus it may be assumed that the practice of agriculture, 
from its first beginnings up to the present, covers a period 
of over 60,000 years. On the other hand, disregarding 
the mythical figure of Noah, and taking in account only 
historically established facts, we have no reason to believe 
that the production of alcoholic beverages does extend 
much over 6000 years. 

The use of alcohol in any form, therefore, originated 
comparatively late in the evolutionary inarch of the 
human race. Without doubt, man's intellectual faculties 
had already been highly developed before his lips ever 
tasted that delusive and deliterious liquid which now 
causes so much misery and disease in this world. The 
human genius who first conceived the idea of systemati- 
cally tilling the soil and to sow it with the wonderful seeds 
that they might multiply hundred and thousand- fold, has 
certainly made one of the greatest acquisitions of intellect. 
The wheel may seem to us now a very simple mechanical 
device; yet the man who first constructed it made an in- 
vention upon which all our modern transportation and 
much of our civilization depends ; he has likewise per- 
formed a deed which is equal to the highest achievements 
that human mind will ever attain. The personalities of 
those master-minds are lost in the dimness and darkness 
of the ages, but they certainty did not receive the impulse 
to their glorious and beneficial attainments from an in- 
dulgence in alcoholic poison! 

To be sure, we owe much to modern civilization; 
wonderful inventions have been made and the production 

50 



of all the necessaries of life has been greatly perfected. 
But in the same time the means of modern self-destruc- 
tion in the form of stimulants and narcotics, once costly 
and expensive, have been greatly cheapened and brought 
within the reach of the masses who now by their daily 
use of these poisons benumb their senses and swell the 
fortunes of the unscrupulous manufacturers. The con- 
sumption of alcoholic beverages, which always goes hand 
in hand with the use of flesh-foods, is also the cause of I 
sexual excesses and debility, especially of the spreading 
of sexual diseases and the syphilitic poison, and only by 
a radical change of our dietetic habits we shall ever be 
able to remedy these dreadful evils which are the curse of 
our civilization. 

Another and perhaps the most important argument 
in favor of the fruitarian diet is that man can derive his 
nourishment from a much smaller area, when living on 
the products of the soil, receiving them direct from the 
hand of nature, instead of feeding them first to cattle 
and living on their meat. As the population of the earth 
steadily increases, man will have to content himself with 
a smaller space on which to raise his food than before. 
The land which now serves as hunting-ground or for 
cattle-raising will be much better utilized by the cultiva- 
tion of fruits, nuts, and cereals. 

It has been estimated that a certain area of well 
cultivated fruit-land can sustain at least twenty times as 
many people by its crops than could be nourished on the 
•meat of cattle which do but pasture on its spontaneous 
grasses; and recently it has been found in a large slaugh- 
ter-house in Cincinnati, that the oat-meal used in fatten- 
ing the pigs would have gone nearly four times as far as 
the pork produced went in feeding people. How pre- 
posterous, then, to spend time and money in raising and 
butchering animals, when nature offers us in the products 
of the soil the very best food material in the purest state 

51 



and in the greatest abundance! The chances and possi- 
bilities of agriculture and horticulture are not yet fully 
realized and understood by the majority of people who 
constantly swell the over-crowded cities of modern civili- 
zation. 

The following table shows the average amount of 
different products which are now raised on one acre 
of land. Better cultivation of the soil, combined with 
proper care and knowledge will in every instance increase 
the output in a wonderful degree. 

Wheat 900 pounds per acre 

Corn 1,500 

Oats 1,800 

Legumes 1,200 

Peanuts 1,200 



Potatoes 


10,000 


Strawber 


ries. 2,500 


Grapes. . 


. ... 7,500 


Peaches . 


. . .. 10,000 


Walnuts 


. . .. 15,000 



Apples 25,000 

Bananas 120,000 

The productiveness of the tropical soil is most mar- 
velous and gives us an idea how lavishly nature had 
supplied nourishment for premival man. But even in 
our temperate zones where the growth of vegetation 
is impeded by the cold seasons, the soil yields an abun- 
dance of nourishment. Especially the fruit trees show 
a remarkable fertility which can always be kept up, if 
sufficient manure, especially potash, is applied to the soil. 
The perfection of all hardwood fruit trees demands plenty 
of the mineral substances of the soil, which must of 
course be replaced. 

Unfortunately many plants and fruit trees often suffer 
from want of the proper minerals in the soil, a circum- 
stance which has led to poor yields. Besides insufficiently 

52 



nourished plants, like animals, fall a prey to diseases 
more quickly, than do the strong and healthy specimens. 
Exhaustion of the soil is probably the cause of more 
failures in fruit crops than all other causes combined. 

The planting of fruit trees is also of great importance 
from another point of view; they do not only give us 
ample nourishment, but are also our natural protection 
against the extreme changes of atmospheric temperature 
and pressure. It is a well known fact that trees purify 
the air and render the climate more equable, making it 
cooler in summer and warmer in winter ; thus in wooded 
districts the rainfall is more evenly distributed over the 
seasons and regions, and storms, hurricans, and tornadoes 
are less frequent and less violent. Fertility can be drawn 
from greater depths by fruit trees than by cereals and 
vegetables, so that this is equivalent to gaining a larger 
area, and less artificial drainage is necessary. The roots 
of the trees are more capable of attacking insoluble, com- 
pounds in the soil than are the smaller plants. 

Fruit trees will always be a necessary element not 
only to make our planet more habitable and to nourish 
man, but also to cultivate his love for the beauties of nature. 
The science of forestry clearly shows that we are directly 
dependent upon forests for the necessary rainfall, and their 
destruction over a great portion of the earth has been 
followed by such injurious consequences, as floods and 
tornadoes, that the attention of goverments is now every- 
where called to it. 

The western part of the United States contains mil- 
lions of acres of arable land, and many of the now rainless 
and barren districts could be transformed in blooming 
orchards which in turn would increase humidity and rain- 
fall. But instead improving the vast territory of our 
republic and make it more habitable, we carry on a dis- 
graceful and demoralizing war of conquest in the remote 
Philippines. How much better would it have been, if all 

53 



the millions which have been spent for the subjugation 
of these tropical islands, and all the sacrificed lifes of 
America's young men had been used in cultivating our 
western states and building up happy homes, instead of 
fighting a liberty-loving people ? 

The New York Evening Journal, in an editorial, very 
pointedly remarks : "For the army and navy — branches 
of the Government devoted to killing — the late Congress 
appropriated the sum of $180,075,273. 

"For the Department of Agriculture, that branch of 
the Government devoted to feeding the population, Con- 
gress appropriated $5,208,960. 

"But, if we need soldiers well equipped, we need 
farmers well equipped, surely. 

"If we need an abundant harvest of Filipinos and 
others who oppose our national growth, we need an abun- 
dant harvest of food stuffs also. 

"If we need to wipe out treason among the deadly 
Moros, we need also to wipe out the more deadly Cana- 
dian thistle at home. 

"The enormous war and navy appropriations are in- 
tended mainly to deal with a situation in our Eastern 
islands. Financially, we devote to this problem more 
than thirty times as much attention as to the problem of 
improving agriculture throughout the whole nation. 

"Think what could be done for the farmers and all 
other inhabitants of this country if the nation could spend 
on national development what it spends on war." — 

The reclaiming of millions af acres of arid land would 
give a new direction to human culture and industry. 
Agriculture and horticulture would be greatly developed. 
The expense of living would be greatly reduced, and thus 
the poorer classes would be elevated. 

All over the world agricultural and economical ques- 
tions should receive paramount attention dominating all 

54 



others, as on the rational and scientific culture of the soil 
the existence and power of nations depends. 

During the past century steam and electricity have 
greatly revolutionized human society and wonderful in- 
dustrial achievements have been made, yet it appears to 
the close observer that our progress has been one-sided in 
many respects and that throughout the civilized world 
millions still suffer from want of shelter and food. The 
great investigators and inventors were certainly striving 
for the emancipation of mankind but their hopes have 
not yet been realized. The development of industry has 
drawn many people from the country to the cities, and 
agriculture and horticulture have been neglected, much 
to the detriment of man's welfare. 

To-day, hundreds of thousands of human beings are 
huddled together like cattle in sweat-shops and factories, 
producing luxuries for foreign lands while they them- 
selves and their families are often deprived of the very 
necessities of life. Go to the industrial and mining dis- 
tricts of every country, watch how the consumptive, 
half -starved men, women, and children are staggering to 
and from their places of toil, and you will find that our 
' ' glorious ' ' industrial progress is paid for too dearly ! 
England is proudly proclaimed as 'the workshop of the 
world,' but what benefit has this epithet brought to its 
inhabitants? Degeneration and dependence on other na- 
tions for their daily bread! To-day, England in case of 
war, could be starved to death inside of a few months! 

We know in what pitiful condition the small European 
farmer is, how he is being plundered by the land-owner 
. and robbed by the state and that at the dawn of the in- 
dustrial era he was only to willing to believe that he 
would improve his cause by abandoning the soil and spend- 
ing his life in the workshops of the cities. This is the 
reason why during the whole last century of progress and 
invention agriculture has only improved from time to 

55 



time on very limited areas. Agriculture and horticulture 
are yet at their infancy and the peasant is generally 
pictured as ' ' the man with the hoe ' ' or bending over the 
plough, working from morn till night, and reaping as a 
reward a rude-bed, dry bread, and a dreary life of drudg- 
ery and toil. But in the future we will find the culti- 
vator of the soil, standing erect, enjoying ample leisure, 
and producing by a few hour's work each day sufficient 
food to nourish, not only his own family but a hundred 
men more. The agriculturist of the future will be able 
to make his own soil, defy seasons and climates, warm 
both air and earth by giving to the culture of the field no 
more time than what each can do with pleasure and ease. 
Scientific investigations have established the fact that 
by an intensive culture of the soil the valleys of the Mis- 
sissippi river and its tributaries could supply over thou- 
sand million people or almost the rest of the world with 
ample nourishment, that at least 200 million of people 
could live very well on the area of France, while that of 
Great Britain could easily sustain a hundred million in- 
habitants without importing anything! But let us see 
what is already done on a large scale by extensive agri- 
culture where the results are simply obtained by a great 
economy in manual labor, through machinery, taking the 
soil from nature without improving it, as for instance in 
the prairies of our western states. They 3 T ield com- 
paratively small two months' crops, from 10 to 15 bushels 
(600 to 900 pounds) an acre, and }^et five hundred men, 
working only during eight months, produce the annual 
food of 50,000 people and with all the modern improve- 
ments a single man's labor during 300 work days pro- 
duces, delivered in Chicago or in New York City as flour, 
the nourishment of 250 men for one 3 T ear. There are now 
in the United States 50 millions of acres planted with 
wheat, yielding about 700 million bushels (2,000,000 tons) 
annually, while altogether over 3000 million bushels 

5G 



(9,000,000 tons) of the different cereals are produced 
every year. In the production of fruits the apple is pre- 
dominant so far. The census of 1900 showed a total of 
210,000,000 trees in what are known as commercial orch- 
ards, covering an area of about five million acres which 
yield about 200 million bushels (500,000 tons) annually. 

Far better results will be attained by intensive agri- 
culture whose object is to cultivate a limited space well 
and to reap from it the largest crop possible. By such 
methods, as they are for instance practiced in northern 
France, and still better in China, from 40 to 50 bushels 
of wheat are harvested from one acre, supplying food 
enough to sustain four men for a whole year, and even 
these wonderful results don't seem to be the limit. 
The German scientist Julius Hensel has shown by his tire- 
less investigations which unfortunately are not yet fully 
understood and appreciated, how even the poorest soil 
can be wonderfully improved by mineral fertilizers, so that 
a small fraction of an acre planted with fruit trees will be 
sufficient to perfectly nourish a man. 

The cultivation of fruits has another great advan- 
tage over that of cereals. The profitable sowing and 
harvesting of grain always depends on large and ex- 
pensive machinery whose handling requires but a few 
skilled men, while the rest of the farm-laborers are 
mere tools in the hands of the land-owner; on the other 
hand, fruit culture, if carefully studied, can be success- 
fully carried on even in northern climates and on a small 
scale, with fewer and less costly implements, while it de- 
mands more individual care, bringing forth and develop- 
ing the higher intellectual and moral faculties of man. 

"The Fruit-Culture Colony Eden" in Oranienburg 
in the province Brandenburg (Prussia) furnishes a strik- 
ing example of these assertions. There, in the course of 
a few years, under the most unfavorable circumstances 
and climatic conditions, by a small number of energetic 

57 



and intelligent men a sandy desert has been converted 
into valuable fruit land which now produces enough, not 
only to furnish the colony with ample nourishment, but 
also to supply a number of stores in Berlin, while all the 
members and their families who live of course on a fruit- 
arian diet enjoy splendid health and independence. Many 
of the colonists who w T ere completely broke down mentally 
and physically by the enervating city life, recovered in 
a short time by the beneficial influence of a useful and 
animating occupation in a pure, invigorating atmosphere 
and harmonious environment. 

For health and delight the garden and the orch- 
ard is the universal and supreme ideal of man. In 
every manly heart there is the undying yearning for the 
day when he may own an acre of land and plant it with 
trees that blossom and bear fruit. This love of country 
and orchard is the one abiding memory of an almost 
forgotten paradise. How beautiful is the sight of an 
orchard with its blooming trees sending their roots deep 
down into the soil, drinking in the heavenly light with its 
millions of blossoms, bringing forth the luscious fruits in 
which the hidden treasurers of the earth and the life- 
giving forces of the sun are so wonderfully combined ! 

After all, man will cling to the land; he will see that 
it is the earth which nourishes him best, and, like the 
giant Antaeus, he will ever have need to touch it, to feel 
it beneath his feet, in order to renew his strength. The 
time will surely come when science and co-operation of 
mankind will have cultivated the earth to such a degree 
that it will bring ample nourishment, happiness, and con- 
tentment for all. Then the shadows of disease, famine, 
murder, and war w T ill disappear from our planet like the 
mists of night before the radiant rays of the rising sun. 

The coming man will exploit nature instead of his 
fellow-men; he will leave the big and over-crowded 
cities and become a student of the laws of nature; he will 

58 



seek occupations which bring him more in contact with 
fresh air and sunshine which are just as necessary as 
solid food in rebuilding the cells and tissues of his body ! 

The more we can enjoy the sunny sky and the re- 
freshing atmosphere, the more vitality we can store up in 
our system, while the living in ill ventilated houses of 
over-crowded cities is a continual menace to our health 
and morals. It is the out-door life in the cold, fresh air 
of the temperate zones which gives us a strong constitu- 
tion and increases our resistance against disease. If the 
people of the North only knew what an advantage they 
have over those in the South, in possessing such a natural 
stimulus in the cold, pure, exhilarating air in the colder 
seasons, they would seek to enjoy it far more. 

In the winter the air is denser and consequently 
richer in oxygen; thus we get a larger supply of this best 
of all nerve-tonics which makes us more active physically 
and mentally. This is the reason why the inhabitants of 
the temperate zones have more energy and are more ad- 
vanced than those of the tropics. To-day the Caucasians 
are the foremost among the races of the world, not be- 
cause they are more or less meat-eaters, as it is so often 
asserted, but because during thousands of years they pos- 
sessed, the advantage of a cold, healthy, invigorating 
climate which could develop their vigor, skill, and per- 
severance to a higher degree. 

While it is true that in some of the leading countries, 
' like England and North America, an excess of meat is 
eaten, the injurious influence of such a diet is already 
felt, and there is a striking evidence that the people of 
the larger towns at any rate are physically deteriorating. 
During the recent war w r ith the Boers it occurred that of 
11,000 men wdio volunteered at Manchester for service in 
South Africa, only 3000 were accepted as physically fit, 
and of these only 1200 came up to the standard of what 
a soldier ought to be; and Colonel Borrett, the Inspector- 

59 



General of Recruiting, in his recently published record 
intimates that of 75,750 men medically examined, as 
many as 22,286, or 29.04 per cent., were rejected for 
various ailments or want of physical development, 
adding that among the class of men from which recruits 
are drawn deterioration of the teeth appears to be rapidly 
increasing. 

As of course only men with what is regarded as a 
reasonable prospect of acceptance present themselves at 
recruiting stations, there must be among the masses, be- 
hind the dismal squad of the rejected, huge bataillons of 
patently disqualified men — mentally defective, deformed, 
crippled, scrofulous, purblind, narrow-chested — to whom 
no thought of soldiership ever occurs. The sum total of 
our physical shortcomings must be a figure that would be 
woeful to contemplate. 

The evil, however, and its principle cause begins to 
be fully realized, and diet reform is steadily progressing. 
In all the larger cities of England and Germany eating- 
houses are now established where wholesome and nourish- 
ing meals without meat are served at moderate prices that 
appeal especially to the working-classes. America is just i 
beginning to follow this example and there is certainly 
no better way to teach hygiene and rational ideas in 
regard to living than practical demonstration. 

The Physical Culture Restaurant Company, New 
York City, is now doing grand work in this respect and 
has already opened a number of restaurants in New York, 
Brooklyn, Philadelphia, and Boston, and we hope that 
other cities will soon follow. Such enterprises are doing 
more real good than all the lectures on temperance and 
prohibition. 

The foundation of all lasting reform must begin 
with the purification of the physical system which natur- 
ally leads to the improvement of the intellectual and 
moral faculties, and thus a reform commencing with the 

60 



lowest appetites and passions is carried up through all 
the faculties, and made to include the entire man. 

Our present unjust social and economic conditions 
are maintained by the degeneration, ignorance, and super- 
stition of the masses, and our salvation will therefore 
come through the physical and mental regeneration of the 
individual. Higher forms of society require better men; 
they cannot be established in a day, but demand the un- 
tiring and incessant work of generations. 

6. The Ethics of Diet- Reform. 

Plato, in his famous dialogue, "The Republic," 
written in the fourth century before Christ, represents 
Socrates as describing a model city, and prescribing for 
the inhabitants therein a dietary consisting simply of 
fruits, grains, vegetables, and nuts. Replying to an ob- 
jector who thought the fare suggested too simple, Socrates 
is represented as saying: 

"Now, it appears to me that the city which we have 
described is the genuine, and, so to speak, healthy city. 
But if you wish us also to contemplate a city that is 
suffering from inflammation, there is nothing to hinder 
us. Some people will not be satisfied, it seems, with the 
fare or the mode of life which we have described, but 
must have, in addition, couches and tables and every 
other article of furniture, as well as viands .... Swine- 
herds again are among the additions we shall require, — ■ 
a class of persons not to be found, because not wanted , 
in our former city, but needed among the rest in this. 
We shall also need great quantities of all kinds of cattle 
for those who may wish to eat them, shall we not ?" 

"Of course we shall." 

"Then shall we not experience the need of medical 

men also to a much greater extent under this than under 

the former regime ?" 

"Yes, indeed." 

61 



''The country, too, I presume, which was formerly 
adequate to the support of its then inhabitants, will be 
now too small, and adequate no longer. Shall we say so ?" 

"Certainly." 

"Then must we not cut ourselves a slice of our 
neighbors' territory, if we are to have land enough for 
both pasture and tillage; while they will do the same to 
ours if the} 7 , like us, permit themselves to overstep the 
limit of necessaries, and plunge into the unbounded 
acquisition of wealth? 1 ' 

"It must inevitably be so, Socrates." 

"Will our next step be to go to war, Glaukon, or 
how will it be?" 

"As you say." 

It is interesting to note that over two thousand years 
ago such a great spirit as Socrates already traced the 
origin of both war and disease, and all the human ills 
growing out of these gigantic evils to the use of flesh- 
food. Still how few people seem to realize to-day that 
drunkeness and depravity are nothing but the outcome 
of our perverted dietetic and hygienic habits that the 
slaughter-house is a constant source of immorality, bru- 
tality, and of all the ghastly crimes that terrify mankind 
almost incessantly ! On the other hand it is impossible for 
a man to remain a drunkard and criminal after he has 
begun to live in harmon} 7 with nature which is the only 
way to restore harmony within himself. But society, in- 
stead of trying to elevate those poor victims of a false or 
neglected education, still further degrades and debases 
them by inhuman and often cruel treatment in asylums 
and penitentiaries. Is it to be wondered, then, that 
these inevitable attributes of our "glorious" civilization 
are but breeding-places for more excesses and crimes "r 

The perverted sexual instincts of man and the dread- 
ful maladies by which they are always followed are like- 
wise but the consequences of his unnatural methods of 

62 



living. In spite of the numerous books that have been 
written on this important subject and all the well-mean- 
ing information that they may have given, thousands 
still suffer from those most fatal violations of nature's 
laws, turning not only their own life, but also that of 
their children into a hopeless right with misery and 
disease. 

Theoretical instruction in this matters may be of 
much value, but we can never lay too much stress upon 
the fact that only by the return to the purifying diet of 
nature's luscious gifts we shall ever be able to establish 
better and purer morals. Every child has a divine right 
to the best possible birth its parents can give it, and this 
fact should be more and more widely recognized espe- 
cially among the more intelligent and progressive people. 
The formation of the character of the child must begin 
long before it is born, it must begin with the self- reforma- 
tion of all who want to perpetuate their own life in that 
of their offspring. 

In her noble struggle for independence woman now 
looks for suffrage, but she will find that she is chasing 
after a phantom and she can never gain exemption from 
drudgery, as little as man, by the ballot alone. If she 
would devote the same time that she now spends for the 
follies of fashion, reading slippery novels, gossipping or 
doing unnecessary kitchen work, to the study and practice 
of the laws of nature and health, she would soon be 
able to free herself from the many tribulations which fill 
her life with suffering and sorrow. 

We can never expect liberty as long as we entrust 
our rights into the hands of others, while we constantly 
enslave ourselves by our irrational modes of life. Free- 
dom is still understood by the majority of people as 
the unrestrained gratification of their lusts and appetites, 
instead of the liberation of their own selves from debas- 
ing and enslaving habits. Only by completely subdueing 

63 



our animal passions and sensations we can attain better 
and happier conditions of life. 

To be sure, many are forced by lack of opportunity 
into a miserable struggle for existence; but it is more the 
undervaluation of his own powers, the failure to recognize 
and develop the divine spark which nature has implanted 
in every human being that keeps man from rising to the 
higher realms of life. For thousands of years he has 
been trampled and humiliated, because he looked up to 
a ' 'great unknown power' ' which should deliver him from 
all evil; he has sought his God ever)- where but in him- 
self. Every man is a part of the Supreme Intelligence 
which pervades the universe, and by constantly and per- 
severingly developing his mental and physical faculties 
he will at last come to the realization of his own almost 
unlimited powers and possibilities. 

Thousands are possessed of some higher talent by 
the right use of which they might speedily attain com- 
petence, if not affluence, instead of dragging out their 
days in a seemingly helpless struggle with poverty and 
disease. "It is not in our stars, it is in ourselves that 
we are underlings," says Shakespeare, — golden words 
that should always be remembered by those who so 
readily look for the cause of their misfortune everywhere 
except within themselves. Legislative measures may 
accomplish much in bettering our conditions, but the only 
true and lasting reform is that which is wrought within our- 
selves. 

Reforms can never be brought into effect by parlia- 
ments, prohibitive laws, and peace-commissions, they must 
begin in the home, in the school, in the office, in the 
workshop, as it is here where the false notions of human 
nature have ruled so long. 

In the present enervating struggle for existence man 
should be first of all taught how to take proper care of 
himself, how to fully develop body and mind and to live 

64 



a full and useful life, useful to himself and to others. 
The study of anatomy, physiology and hygiene should 
form an important part of every common school educa- 
tion, as we can hardly expect that people who know little 
or nothing about the mechanism of their bodies will be 
able to maintain physical and mental vigor in themselves 
and their offspring. 

"Know thyself" was the watchword of the ancient 
philosophers who were striving to ennoble themselves. 
' 'Know thyself ' was the wise maxim which was engraved 
in letters of gold upon the front of the temple of Delphi, 
and the words of the oracle: "If thou knowest thyself, 
thou shalt live happily," are equally true to-day. 

Unfortunately, much that is called education at pres- 
ent simply unfits man to successfully fight the battle of 
life. Thousands are wasting time with the study of 
things which will be of little or no value to them or 
others. 

The great need of the present time is, above all, a 
better standard of health and morals. Nature has in- 
tended that man should live at least one hundred years; 
he should increase his physical and mental powers until 
he is fifty years of age, and retain them at least for 
another score of years. Yet comparatively few instances 
are on record of vigorous men at seventy. But when 
man comes to live hygienically he will enjoy ninety 
and a hundred years of vigorous adult life, or more than 
threefold than now. 

With the increasing knowledge of our actual posi- 
tion in nature, we may hopefully, look forward to the 
time when an age of temperance, an age of sanitary re- 
form, an age of plain living and high thinking shall have 
man so regenerated that he will walk the earth a century 
and more, carrying out the great law of evolution which 
culminates in the physical and mental perfection of the 
human race. 

65 



We are still far from this ideal, and it seems we 
have hardly emerged from the age of barbarism as the 
beginning of the new century is marked by two murder- 
ous wars which are as useless as they are disastrous and 
demoralizing in their effects. As long as we resort to 
guns and battle-ships to settle our disputes, we are put- 
ting ourselves below the beasts of prey for which the 
shedding of blood is the only means of existence. All 
life should be sacred to man, and he has no right to take 
the life of any sentient creature, whether human or ani- 
mal, for the mere lust of killing or for selfish ends. In 
the treatment of the weaker and inferior lies indeed the 
true test of man's character. All those who have the 
progress and welfare of humanity really at heart should 
cease antagonizing each other, but unite their forces that 
we may at last see the inauguration of a new era in the 
evolution of mankind, characterized by the reign of human 
intellect, supreme harmony, and universal peace. 

The present time is the dawning of a new life on this 
old world. Those who are on the hill-tops of life have a 
grand view; they are thrilled, aye, illuminated with the 
radiance of the early dawn. Millions who are in the 
valley do not as 3-et see the dawning light. Let us lead 
them from the dark valleys of disease and despair up to 
the lofty heights of health and freedom that they might 
draw fresh hope and inspiration from the rising sun of a 
new and glorious day. 



6G 



A FEW DAILY DIETARIES 
FOR FRUITARIANS 

The respective food materials are best divided into two daily 
meals taken at intervals of from 6 to 8 hours. If the foods are tho- 
roughly masticated, the given quantities are fully sufficient for perfect 
nutrition of the average man. 



COST 

1) 120 grams Shelled Peanuts, (raw) 3 cents 

1000 " Apples 10 " 

500 " Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread 7 " 20 cents 

2) 120 grams Shelled Filberts 8 cents 

450 ' ' Raisins 10 " 

800 " Bananas ..10 " 28 cents 

3) 100 grams Shelled Walnuts 8 cents 

250 " Dates 5 " 

300 " Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread.. 4 " 

500 " Oranges ...5 " 22 cents 

4) 250 grams Grated Cocoanuts (about one nut) .... 5 cents 

250 " Dried Figs 5. ' 

200 ' ' Cracked Wheat (raw) 3 " 

600 " Peaches (in season) 5 " 18 cents 

5) 100 grams Shelled Almonds 8 cents 

300 " Dried Prunes 6 " 

200 " Cracked Wheat 3 " 

700 ' ' Strawberries (in season) 8 " 25 cents 

6) 100 grams Shelled Brazilnuts 6 cents 

400 " Dates 10 " 

200 «' Cracked Wheat 3 " 

500 ' ' Pears (in season) 5 " 24 cents 

7) 120 grams Shelled Pecans 9 cents 

300 " Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread. 4 " 

1000 " Grapes (in season) ...10 " 23 cents 

Total cost of the dietary for one week, $1.60 



One pound avoirdupois is equal to 453.6 grams, one ounce to 28.3 
grams (metric). The cost of the articles is figured at the regular 
market-prices. Apples should form a part of every meal during 
winter and spring. 




THE SLAUGHTER HOUSE. 



A constant source of immorality, brutality, disease, murder, and war. 




POMONA, the Goddess of Fruits. 

The harbinger of health, happiness, harmony, and universal peace. 



INDEX. 



A 

Adulteration, 48. 

Age of ice, 11, 15. 

Agriculture, 51-59. 

Agriculture, origin of, 15, 50. 

Albumen, 17, 22, 28. 

Albumen, coagulation of, 33. 

Alcohol, 43-51. 

Alcohol, consumption of, 45. 

Alcohol and flesh eating, 4G. 

Alkaloids, 42. 

Almonds, 23, 27. 

Analysis of foods, 22, 23, 25. 

Anatomy, comparative. 8, 10, 15. 

Animals, carnivorous, 9, 20. 

Animals, diseased, 20. 

Animals, vertebrate, 9 

Apes, anthropoid, 8, 9, 46, 49. 

Apples, 23, 44, 47. 

Apples, production in the U. S , 

57. 
Arid lands, 54. 

Army in the U. S., cost of, 54, 
Arteries, 19. 

Arteries, hardening of the, 33, 34. 
Arteriosclerosis, see above. 
Assimilation of food, 19. 
Asylums, 62. 
Athletes, diet for, 42, 43. 
Atmospheric pressure, 53. 



Baking, 28, 29, 30. 
Bakingpowder, 29. 
Baking soda, 29. 
Ballot, 63. 
Bananas, 12, 23, 38. 



Battleships, 60. 

Beans, 23, 27, 28. 

Beasts of prey, 15, 26, 00. 

Beef, 23, 28. 

Birds, 9. 

Bladder-diseases, 37. 

Blood, 19. 

Blood plasma, 19. 

Bloodvessels, 21. 

Boiling of food, 33, 34. 

Bones, 18, 30. 

Bowels, 22. 

Brainworkers, 43, 45. 

Brazilnuts, 23. 

Bread. 28, 29, 30, 30, 38, 41, 48 

Breadfruit, 12. 

Bread, unleavened, 29, 3C, 38. 

Breathing, importance of, 22. 

Breweries, 48. 

Brutality, the source of, 02. 

Butter, 23, 29. 

Butternuts, 23. 



Cabbage, 23, 38. 

Calcium, 17, 28. 

Calories, 22, 24. 

Candy, injuriousness of, 24, 25 

Capillaries, 19, 20, 2L 

Carbohydrates, 17, 18, 24, 27, 

30, 33. 
Carbon, 17, 28. 
Carbonic acid, 18. 
Casein, 17, 34. 
Cataclysm, 11. 
Cattle raising, 51. 
Cattle, stablefed, 26. 



Cave-deposits, 13. 

Cells, 21. 

Cereals, 18, 28, 41, 44, 48, 51, 57. 

Cereals, preparation of, 28. 

Cereals, production of, 56. 

Cerealine, 30. 

Chalky deposits in the system, 33. 

Cheerfulness, 44. 

Cheese, 23, 38. 

Cherries, 41. 

Chestnuts, 23. 

Chewing, importance of, 20, 30, 

37, 38. 
Chlorine, 28. 
Chocolate, 43. 
Chyle, 19, 20. 

Climatic conditions, 11, 53, 59. 
Coalbeds, 9. 
Cocoa, 43. 
Cocoanuts, 23. 
Cocoanut milk, 23. 
Coffee, 42, 43, 44, 45. 
Combustion, 18, 24. 
Composition of foods, 23 
Condiments, 37, 46. 
Continents, origin of, 12. 
Constipation, 29. 
Consumption, 46. 
Cooking, 28, 31, 37, 44. 
Cooking, errors in, 31, 33, 34, 45. 
Corn, 48, 52. 
Cornmeal, 23. 

Cow's milk, 23, 34, 35, 36, 38, 44. 
Creatin, 26. 
Creatinin, 26. 
Criminals, 62. 
Crops, raised on one acre, 52. 



Dates, 12, 23, 38, 41. 
Degeneration of man, 45, 59, 60. 
Dentists in the U. S., number 
of, 25. 



Dietary experiments, 40, 41. 
Digestion, 21, 22. 
Digestive juices, 19. 
Diseases, cure of, 39. 
Diseases, origin of, 8, 24, 62. 
Distilled liquors, 47. 
Drink evil, 45, 46, 47, 62. 
Dropsy, 37. 
Drugs, 44, 46. 
Drunkards, 45, 62. 
Dyspepsia, 44. 



Eatinghouses, vegetarian, 60 
Economy in food, 31, 36. 
Education of man, 64, 65. 
Effete matter, 25, 45, 
Eggs, 23, 38. 
Electricity, 32, 33. 
Electrolysis, 19. 
Endosmosis, 18. 
Epithelium, 20. 
Evacuation of the bowels, 22. 
Evolution, law of, 8, 10, 65. 
Excretory organs, 26. 
Exercise, 22. 
Exosmosis, 18. 



Factories, 55. 
Farmer, the European, 55. 
Farm laborers, 57. 
Fashion, follies of, 63. 
Fats, 17, 24, 27, 30, 41. 
Fermentation, 20, 22, 47, 49. 
Fertilizers, mineral, 52, 57. 
Figs, 23, 41. 
Filberts, 23. 
Fire, invention of, 13. 
Fish, food value of, 23, 38. 
Fishes, origin of, 9. 
Fleshfoods, 25, 27, 37, 41, 42, 
46. 



Floods, cause of, 53. 

Flour, white, 23, 24, 29, 30. 

Fluorine, 28. 

Food, purpose of, 17. 

Food materials, composition of, 

23. 
Forestry, science of, 53. 
Forests, importance of, 53. 
Fossils, 9, 10, 13. 
Fowl, 13. 
Fruits, 8, 18, 25, 28, 32, 33, 35, 

38, 39, 41, 44-48, 51, 53, 57, 

58. 
Fruit acids, 47. 
Fruitarian diet, 39-46, 51, 58, 

61, 63. 
Fruit juices, unfermented, 44, 

45. 
Fruit sugar, 25, 47. 
Fruit trees, 9, 10, 52, 53, 57, 58. 
Fruit trees, diseases of, 53. 
Fuel value of foods, 22, 23, 27. ■ 



Garden of Eden, 15, 16. 
Geological periods, 9, 10, 11, 12, 

15. 
Geology, 8. 
Germs, 22, 29, 34. 
Glacial period, 11, 12, 13, 15. 
Glands, cactiferous, 35. 
Gluten, 17, 19, 30. 
Gout, 28. 
Grapes, 23, 47. 
Grains, 17, 23, 28, 29, 32, 39, 

48, 61. 

H 

'Halibut steak, 23. 
Heat, animal, 17, 24. 
Heat producing foods, 18. 
Hickory nuts, 23. 
Horticulture, 51-59. 



Horticulture, origin of, 15. 
Humidity, 53. 
Hunter, man as a, 14. 
Hurricanes, 53. 
Hydrogen, 17, 28. 
Hygiene, 32, 38, 65. 

I 
Immorality, the source of, 51, 

62. 
Indigestion, 20. 
Industry, the development of, 54, 

55. 
Inebriety, 45, 47. 
Intemperance, the source of, 

45, 47. 
Intestines, 19, 20, 22. 
Intoxicating liquors, injuriou? 

effects of, 45-51. 
Ions, electrical, 32. 
Iron, 17, 28. 

K 

Kidneys, 26. 

Kidneys, diseases of, 37. 



Labor on the farm, 56, 57. 
Lacteals, 20, 21. 
Lard, 29. 
Lassitude, 37, 39. 
Legumes, 52. 
Legumin, 17, 27. 
Lentils, 23, 27, 28. 
Leukomain, 26. 
Life, origin of, 8. 
Life, sacredness of, 66. 
Life insurance rates for vege- 
tarians, 42. 
Liver, 26. 
Lymph, 19, 20. 
Lymphatics, 19, 20, 21. 
Lymph corpuscles, 21. 



M 

Machinery, agricultural 56, 57. 

Magnesium, 28. 

Mammals, 8, 9, 34, 35. 

Man, natural diet of, 8, 11, 15. 

Manure, 52. 

Mastication, importance of, 20, 

36, 37, 38. 

Meat, confiscation of, 26. 
Meat, degenerating influence of, 

46, 51, 59-62. 
Meat lessens endurance, 42, 43. 
Meat, nutritive value of, 25, 27, 

37, 41, 42, 56. 
Meat, poisons in, 26. 

Meat eating, origin of, 10, 13. 
Melancholy, 44. 
Membranes, 18, 19. 
Mental energy, 43. 
Microbes, 22. 
Migrations of man, 11, 13. 
Milk, 17, 23, 34, 35, 36, 38, 44. 
Mineral fertilizers, 52, 57. 
Mineral salts, 17, 18, 19, 24, 25, 
29, 30, 31, 33. 
' Morbid matter, 39. 
Mother's milk, 34. 
Muscles, 22, 
Muscle fibres, 21. 
Muscular energy, 17, 18, 41. 



N 
Narcotics, 44, 46, 49, 51. 
Natural diet of man, 8, 11, 15, 

46. 
Navy in the U. S., cost of, 54 
Nervousness, 26. 
Nitrogenous foods, 28. 
Nostrums, 29, 44. 
Nutrition, laws of, 16-19 
Nuts, 8, 12, 18, 18,27,33,38,39, 

41, 44, 59, 61. 



O 

Oatmeal, 23, 51. 

Oats, 52. 

Obesity, 37. 

Olives, 22. 

Oranges, 22, 44, 47. 

Orchards, importance of, 53, 58. 

Osmose, 19. 

Osteomalacia, 25. 

Outdoor life, 52. 

Overeating, 37. 

Oxydation, 22. 

Oxygen, 17, 28, 59. 



Parliaments, 64. 
Passions, animal, 64. 
Pasteurization of milk, 34. 
Patent medicines, 27, 33, 44, 46. 
Peace commissions, 64. 
Peace, universal, 66. 
Peaches, 23. 
Peanuts, 23. 
Pears, 23. 
Pears, dried, 23. 
Pecans, 23. 
Penitentiaries, 62. 
Petrifactions, 9. 
Phosphorus, 17, 28, 30. 
Physical culture restaurants, 60. 
Pine nuts, (Pignolias), 23. 
Plants, flower bearing, 10. 
Pork, 38, 48, 51. 
Potassium, 17, 28, 30. 
Potatoes, 23, 38, 48. 
Prehistoric man, 11, 13. 
Prohibition, 46, 64. 
Protein, 17, 18, 24, 27, 30, 31, 

36, 37. 
Protoplasma, 21. 
Prunes, dried, 23. 
Pulses, 17, 27, 52. 
Pulses, preparation of, 28. 



Pure air, importance of, 22, 59. 
Putrefaction, 22. 



Races, origin of, 11. 
Rachitis, 25. 
Rainfall, |53. 
Rainless districts, 53. 
Raisins, 23. 
Raspberries, 23. 
Rawfood, 32, 38, 44. 
Reptiles, 9. 
Rheumatism, 28, 37, 
Rice, 23. 
Rice, polishing of, 23. 

5 

Saliva, 19, 36. 

Saloonkeepers, 45. 

Salt, 46. 

Salts, inorganic, 9, 22, 33, 49 

Salts, organic, 19, 24, 25, 20, 30, 

31, 33. 
Sea plants, 9. 
Seasonings, 46. 
Self-reformation, 40, 63, 64. 
Sexual diseases, 51, 62. 
Silicon, 28. 

Simplicity in diet, 38, 44, 61. 
Skin of fruits, 44. 
Slaughterhouse, 51, 62. 
Sodium, 17, 28. 
Soil, cultivation of the, 52, 56. 
Soil, exhaustion of the, 53. 
Soil, extensive culture of the, 56. 
Soil, fertility of the, 53 
Soil, intensive culture ofthe, 56. 
Spinach, 23. 

Starch, 18, 22, 27, 28, 30, 33, 36. 
Stimulants, 44, 49, 51. 
Stomach, 19. 
Storms, 53. 

Strata of the earth's surface, 8, 9. 
Strawberries, 23. 



Struggle for existence 13. 
Succulent plants. 25. 
Suffrage, 63. 
Sugar, 18, 22, 23, 24, 47. 
Sugar, annual consumption in 

the U. S., 24. 
Sugar, annual out-put of the 

world, 47. 
Sugar cane, 48. 
Sulphur, 17, 28. 
Sunlight, importance of, 59, 
Sweat-shops, 55. 
Sweets, artificial, 25. 
Sweets, natural 25. 
Syphilitic, poison, 51. 



Tea, 42, 43, 44, 45. 

Teeth, elements of the, 18, 30. 

Teeth, premature decay of, 25, 

29, 60. 
Temperance reform, 46, 60, 65. 
Temperature, atmospheric, 11, 

12, 13. 
Temperature of the body, 18. 
Thirst, 46. 
Thoracic duct, 20. 
Tissues, 18, 20, 21. 
Tobacco, 44. 
Tomatoes, 23. 
Topographical changes, 13. 
Tornadoes, 53. 



U 



Urea, 26. 
Uric acid, 2( 



Vegetables, 28, ?1, 44, 61. 
Vegetables, preparation of, 31 
Vegetarians, 40, 42. 
Vegetarianism, 40. 
Vegetarian restaurants, 60. 



Villi, 20. 

Vital energy, 32, 37, 59. 

Vitality, electrical, 33. 

W 

Walking match, 43. 
Walnuts, 23. 
War, 53, 54, 58, 66. 
War, origin of, 14, 62. 
Wastefulness, 48. 
Water, importance of, 17, 46. 
Water in fruits, 46, 47. 
Watermelons, 23. 
Weapons, invention of, 13 
Wheat, 17, 23, 28, 29, 38, 52, 
56, 57. 



Wheat in the U. S., production 

of, 56. 
Wheel, invention of, 50. ' 
Whiskey, 48, 49. 
Wine, annual output of, 47. 
Woman, the emancipation of, 

37. 
Woman's suffrage, 63. 

Y 

Yeast, 29. 
Yeast germs, 29. 



Zones, climatic, 12, 52. 49. 



"The Foundation of All Reform" 
will be sent prepaid to any address on receipt of 



50 Cents 

in the United States and Canada 



2 Shillings 

in Great Britain 



KOSMOS PUBLISHING CO. 
765 N. Clark Street, Chicago, 111., U. S. A. 

L. N. FOWLER CO. 

7 Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus, London, England. 



OTC?X?XOT3C?3OTOT 



cp 



Fruit Paper Free ! 

Keeps 3*ou posted on 
Horticulture, Crop 
Conditions, Prices of 
Fruit Products in the 
different Markets, 
Fruit Trade Matters, 
Diseases of Trees and 
Plants and Treatment 
of same. It deals with 
every phase of the 
fruit industry from the 
field to the market, in- 
cluding varieties, cultivation, transportation, and 
the final sale in the market, and gives just the in- 
formation the grower needs, whether he be an 
amateur or professional. Free sample copy of the 
best Horticultural paper published, fully illustra- 
ted, valuable and interesting to any one growing 
tree, bush or vine, can be secured by addressing 
The National Fruit Grower, St.Joseph, Michigan 




$3 



c!ipcMi^^^^^[p[p^[t]cpr^[^t3^c!x!3 



In Preparation: 



"THE DRINK PROBLEM IN THE LIGHT 
OE MODERN SCIENCE" 

By Otto Carque. 

The principal chapters of this highly interesting and instructive 
treatise are: 



The Origin of Alcohol. 

Has Alcohol any Food Value? 

The Waste of the World. 

The Evils of Moderate Drinking. 

Effect of Alcohol upon the Various Parts 

and Organs of the Body. 
Alcohol in Medicines. 



The Crime of Adulteration. 

The Nations' Drinkbill. 

Alcohol, a constant source of Mental 

and Physical Degeneration. 
How shall we solve the Problem of the 

Drink Evil? 



Containing in all about 150 pages. Price $1.00 ; bound in cloth. 

If you wish to secure a copy, we advise you to send your name 
and address NOW, as there will be a great demand for this book. 



K0SM0S PUBLISHING CO., 765 North Clark Street, Chicago, 111. 




Another 
Declaration of 
Independence 



In his long and laborious struggle for 
mental and physical freedom, man will 
cheerfully welcome a book that is written 
to free him from the fetters which, as the 
remains of a dark and barbarous age, still 
firmly grasp his body and mind. 

This book, "The Diagnosis from the 
Eye," deals with a wonderful discovery by 
which everybody with but little gift of ob- 
servation will become able to diagnose from 
the iris of the eye alone his inherited and 
acquired tendencies towards health and disease, the effects 
which accidents, operations, poisonous drugs and medicines, 
stimulants and narcotics have had on his system. 

But more than this, the book teaches also how to cure dis- 
ease, to heal injuries and to keep well and vigorous by the 
simple methods which nature employs throughout the organic 
world; it brings a message of hope and health to all who suffer 
from the pernicious practices of a pseudo-science; it lighte?is 
the zvay that leads to a hafifiy and harmonious life. 

"The Diagnosis from the Eye" is written in a plain and 
popular language and contains 150 pages with 72 original illus- 
trations, fully explaining this wonderful art which will be a 
revelation to you. 

Price, bound in cloth, United States and Canada, $2.00 ; 
Great Britain, 8 sh. 



CHICAGO, ILL. 
KOSMOS PUBLISHING CO. 

765 N. CLARK STREET 



LONDON, ENGLAND 

L. N. FOWLER CO. 
7 Imperial Arcade 
Ludgate Circus 



COLORADO COOPERATIVE COMPANY 

PINON, MONTROSE CO., COLO. 

Capital Stock $200,000 



2000 Shares at Par Value of $100 Each. Company Operation of All 

Public Utilities. No Special Privileges. Individual 

Ownership and Operation of Land. 



The company has been organized in the year 1894 under the laws 
of the state of Colorado, for the objects and purposes herein specified, 
to wit: To acquire and hold lands and other property, and to preserve 
and utilize the same; to construct ditches for irrigation and other pur- 
poses; to attend production, distribution construction, sanitation, 
commerce, exchange, education, and entertainment. 

The site of the operations of the company is known as Tabe- 
guache Park, situated in the southwest part of Montrose County, 
rifty miles southwest of Montrose, and seventy-five miles south of 
Grand Junction. This Park is fifteen miles long and from three to 
four miles wide; is 300 feet above the bed of the San Miguel River, 
and at an altitude of 4,800 feet at the west end to 5,400 at the east 
end. Scenery, surroundings, climate, soil are all that could be desired. 
A canal to irrigate the land is now in construction and will probably 
be finished by May 1904; if completed, it will carry enough water to 
irrigate 30,000 acres of land, much of which is equal in fertility to 
any in the state. 

The construction of the canal, involving a cost of $200,000, by a 
few poor men, is an example of cooperation, which will not be lost in 
effect upon these people. The mountain of impossibility in future 
will vanish on the approach of a unity of effort. 

The impression in quite prevalent in the Eastern and middle 
Western States that about all the desirable agricultural land in the 
United States is privately owned, and that there is no longer an 
opportunity for the poor man. This view is erroneous. Colorado in 
general and the southwestern part in particular, contains proportion- 
ately large areas of as good land as the average hitherto occupied, 
still open to the homesteader, and to entry under the Desert Re- 
clamation act of congress. 

Various high ideals have been promulgated by our progressive 
stockholders and it is certain that some cooperative features will be 
introduced that will lend attraction to people of most moderate means, 
as well as those in the most fortunate circumstances of life. If you 
have a little money laid by, secure one or more shares of stock in the 
Company. We have no time to waste with the idler, adventurer, 
professional dead beat or speculator. More definite information, 
prospectus, etc., will be sent on receipt of stamp by F. B. LOGAN, 
Secretary, Colorado Co-Operative Company, Pinon, Montrose Co , 
Colorado or Otto Carque, 765 North Clark Street, Chicago, 111. 



Tabeguacrte Park.* 



I know of a beautiful country 

Where peaches and apricots grow, 
Where honey bees work without ceasing 

And winter is robbed of its snow. 
This land is protected by mountains, 

The scenery of which is sublime, 
While the wealth buried deep 'neath their summits 

Is sufficient to last for all time. 

The skies of this land are deep azure, 

Its breezes are laden with wealth, 
I mean for the sick and afflicted, 

As they bring an abundance of health. 
Here man is soon paid for his labor, 

For the soil is most fertile indeed, 
Producing ripe fruit of the finest, 

In only three years from the seed. 

The people who dwell in this country 

Are wonderfully happy they say, 
From the way they are making improvements, 

It's certain they have come here to stay. 
In fact there is nothing now lacking 

In this wonderful land of bright sun 
But just a few hundred people, 

To finish the plans, we've begun. 

Come NOW, 'this the chance of a lifetime, 

Which will soon be out of your reach, 
Secure a small section of fruit land, 

Grow rich on the succulent peach. 
Don't wait till life's fountain is wasted 

And the blood in your veins has grown cold, 
Come NOW, (there's no time like the present) 

And with our young country grow old. 



* Tabeguache Park is situated in Montrose Co., Western Col- 
orado, and is now irrigated and cultivated by the Colorado Co- 
operative Co., Pinon, Montrose Co., Colo. 



Farming in Colorado, 
Utah and New Mexico. 

The farmer who contemplates 

changing his location should look 

well into the subject of irrigation. 

Before making a trip of investiga- 
te ^iEif^ORV^iElL - 1 . , . , 

t \y^ t tlon "* ere ls n0 " e tter way to secure 

% advance information than by writ- 
ing to those most interested in the settlement of unoccu- 
pied lands. Several publications giving valuable infor- 
mation in regard to the agricultural, horticultural, and 
live stock interests of this great western section have 
been prepared by the Denver & Rio Grande and the Rio 
GrandeWestern R. R., which should be in the hands of all 
who desire to become acquainted with the merits of the 
various localities. Write S. K. Hooper, G. P. & T. A., 
Denver, Col. 




Burlington 



The Burlington Route 

is the only direct line to 

DENVER, COLORADO, 



from Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, St. Joseph, Omaha or 
Lincoln, Neb. 

THE BURLINGTON is the natural line to 

Yellow Stone National Park. 

Take the BURLINGTON personally conducted tourist excursions to 

California and the Pacific Coast. 

A postal card, showing your name, address and probable destination, 

will bring detailed information, if sent to any of the 

following officers of the Burlington Route: 

J. FRANCIS, General Passenger Agent, Omaha, Neb. 

L. W. WAKELEY, General Passenger Agent. St. Louis, Mo. 

W. A. LALOR, Assistant General Passenger Agent, Chicago. 

P. S. EUSTIS, Passenger Traffic Manager, Chicago. 
When writing please mention this publication. 



BECOME A VEGETARIAN 

And become stronger, healthier, happier, clearer- 
headed— and save money. Learn about Vege- 
tarianism through 77ie Vegetarian Magazine. 

The Vegetarian Magazine stands for a cleaner body, a healthier men- 
tality and a higher morality. Advocates disuse of flesh, fish and fowl 
as food; hygienic living and natural methods of obtaining health. 
Preaches humanitarianism, purity and temperance in all things. Up- 
holds all that's sensible, right and decent. Able contributors. Has 
a Household Department which tells how to prepare Healthful and 
Nutritious Dishes without the use of meats or animal fats. Gives 
valuable Tested Recipes and useful hints on Hygiene^ Selection of 
Foods, Kitchen Economy, etc. Full of timely hints on Prevention 
and Cure of Disease. Gives portraits of prominent vegetarians, 
and personal testimonials from those who have been cured of long- 
standing diseases by the adoption of a natural method of living. Tells 
kozv lo cut dozen living expenses without going without any of 
life's necessities. Explains the only way of permanently curing 
the liquor habit. Ways to increase muscle and brain power. Pub- 
lished monthly. Sent postpaid, one year, for $1.00; six months, 50 
cents; three months, 25 cents; one month, 10 cents. Send money to 

THE VEGETARIAN CO., 712, 167 Dearborn St., CHICAGO. 



THE NUT CULTURIST. 

By Andrew S. Fuller. A treatise on the propagation, planting 
and cultivation of nut-bearing trees and shrubs adapted to the climate 
of the United States. When it is considered that the latter sends 
abroad annually several millions of dollars to pay for various kinds 
of nuts imported from foreign countries the greater par of which 
could profitably be grown at home, it seems strange that so little atten- 
tion has been paid by Americans to the planting and raising of edible 
nuts. In most of the European countries as much care and atten- 
tion is given to the growing of nuts as to any kind of fruit trees, and 
the profits derived from them are, in some sections of continental 
Europe, greater than from any other class of trees. While it is not 
rare to see extensive nut orchards on plains and mountain sides, 
the principal and favored locations for them are along the public 
highways, and miles and miles of English walnuts and chestnuts line 
the roadsides. Most of our nut-bearing trees as well as the English 
walnut, are remarkably handsome in appearance, which is another 
reason why they should replace many worthless kinds that are so fre- 
quently seen along our highways. — This work its author has always 
considered as the most valuable one he has ever written, believing 
that it will develop a new and important industry for the benefit of 
the American farmers and the prosperity of our country. Over 100 
original illustrations embellish the volume. 298 pages. Cloth, $1.50. 
Sent prepaid on receipt of price. 

KOSMOS PUBLISHING CO., 765 N. Clark St., CHICAGO. 



Standard Works on Horticulture. 

The Soil. 

By Franklin H. King, Professor of Agricultural Physics, Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin. Its nature, relations, and fundamental prin- 
ciples of management. A most desirable book, not only for popular 
use, but also for students and specialists who will find many new and 
useful suggestions therein. Illustrated, 303 pages, Cloth, 75c. 

Irrigation Farming, mew edition.) 

By Lucius M. Wilcox, A handbook for the practical application 
of water in the production of crops. One strong position taken by 
the author all through the work is the importance of consistent and 
scientific cultivation in connection with all irrigation operations, as 
the one is just as essential as the other, and the two are indispensable 
in attaining the most perfect results. The volume is profusely, hand- 
somely, and practically illustrated; over 500 pages. Cloth $2.00. 

The New horticulture. 

By A'. A. Stringfellozv A minute account of the author's per- 
sonal experiences of thirty years in fruit and vegetable growing, its 
principal and most striking feature being the New Dispensation, or 
method of close root pruning. Illustrated, 21G pages, paper, 50c. 

HOW CrOpS GrOW. (New Edition.) 

By Samuel IV. Johnson. A Treatise on the Chemical Composi- 
tion, Structure, and Life of the Plant. In pleasing and convincing 
language the author shows how the plant grows, the conditions under 
which it flourishes or suffers detriment, the materials of which it is 
made, the mode of its construction and organization, how it feeds 
upon the soil and air, how it serves as food for animals and man. 
Illustrated, 416 pages. Cloth, $1.50. 

The Peanut Plant. 

By B. IV. Jones. The directions in this work are intended for 
the beginner, and are such as will enable any intelligent person who 
has followed farming to raise good crops of peanuts, although he may 
never before have seen the growing plants. Illustrated, paper, 50c. 

The Grape Culturist. 

By Andrezv S. Fuller. This is one of the very best works on 
the culture of the hardy grapes, with full directions for all depart- 
ments of propagation, culture, etc , with 150 excellent engravings, 
illustrating planting, training, grafting, etc. 2S2 pages. Cloth, $1.50. 

The Small Fruit Culturist. 

By Andrew S. Fuller. The book covers the whole ground of 
propagating small fruits, their culture, varieties, etc. It is very 
finely and thoroughly illustrated and makes an admirable companion 
to "The Grape Culturist.'' ' 287 pages. Cloth, $1.00. 



THE STRAWBERRY CULTURIST. 

By Andrew S. Fuller. Containing the history, sexuality, field 
and garden culture of strawberries; how to grow them from seed, 
hybridizing, and all information necessary to enable everybody to 
raise their own strawberries. 60 pages, cloth, 25 cents. 

PRINCIPLES OF FRUIT GROWING. 

By L. H. Bailey, Professor of Horticulture in Cornell Univer- 
sity. A complete treatise on fruit growing in general, comprising the 
inventory of fruits, the location, tillage, and fertilizing of fruit lands. 
Planting and care of fruit plantations. Diseases of fruit trees. Har- 
vesting and marketing fruits. Illustrated. 508 pages. Cloth, $1.25. 

The Horticulturist's Rule Book. 

By L. H. Bailey. A compendium of useful information in handy 
form, indispensable for fruit growers, truck gardeners, florists, and 
others. Illustrated. 302 pages. Cloth, 75 cents. 

The Evolution of Our Native Fruits. 

By L. H. Bailey. This book expounds the development and pro- 
gress of agriculture and horticulture in the United States, with par- 
ticular reference to the evolution and improvement of our native 
species of fruits. Illustrated. 472 pages. $2 00. 

Field Notes on Apple Culture. 

By L. H. Bailey. A comprehensive treatise dealing with the 
culture of the apple in its various stages from the preparing of the 
soil, setting the trees, to the picking, packing, and marketing of the 
the fruit. Illustrated. 90 pages. Cloth, 75 cents. 

THE PRUNING-BOOK. 

By L. H. Bailey. The author takes particular pains to explain 
the principles of each operation in every detail. Considerable space 
is devoted to the pruning and training of grape vines, both American 
and foreign. Every part of the subject is made so clear and plain 
that it can be readily understood by even the merest beginner. Illus- 
trated. 530 pages. Cloth, $1.50. 

Cyclopedia of American Horticulture. 

By L. H. Bailey, assisted by Wilhelm Miller and many expert 
cultivators and botanists. Containing original descriptions of all the 
species of fruits, vegetables, flowers, etc., known to be in the mar- 
kets in the United States and Canada. The horticultural capabilities 
are given of every state, territory, and province, including Hawaii, 
Puerto Rico, and the Philippines, accompanied by maps. This mon- 
umental work constitutes in itself a horticultural library indispen- 
sable to every intelligent and progressive tiller of the soil and student 
of nature. Four volumes, 500 pages each, with over 2,000 original 
engravings, handsomely bound in cloth and gold. Price, net. $20.00. 

All the above-mentioned books will be sent prepaid on receipt of price. 

KOSMOS PUBLISHING CO., 765 N. Clark St., CHICAGO. 



SEXOLOGY 

SEXOLOGY holds first place in the thought of God. Its 
glory pervades and suffuses all Nature. It is sex that 
gives the bird its song, the peacock its gorgeous plumage, 
the lion his mane, the buffalo his strength, and the horse his 
proud arch of neck and flowing tail. Aye, it is sex that causes 
the flowers to draw from dull earth those delicate perfumes 
that delight the sense of smell ; it is sex, and sex alone, that 
secures to them the dazzling galaxy of shapes and colors that 
reflect the infinite. ELBERT HUBBARD. 



Would you like to have circulars of 

CLEAN, HELPFUL BOOKS 

on this much misunderstood subject? A stamp will bring them. I never 
send them except to persons who ask for them. Postal Cards not noticed. 

A 1/1/ BinmilT 7 SAINT PAUL STREET, DEPT. B, 
/-■• ¥¥• t\l UL.\JLJ I 9 BOSTON, MASS. 



Pacific Health Journal 



A Magazine for the Home intended to give practical 
instruction on Health and Hygiene. Interesting and 
instructive articles on Health and Healthful Living are 
contributed by prominent physicians and writers. One 
valuable feature of this magazine is the Women's Realm 
Department in which appear monthly helpful articles 
and short stories for Mothers and Children. 



A 32-page Journal with cover, published 

monthly. Subscription price 50c per year. 

Sample copies upon request. 



PACIFIC HEALTH JOURNAL .... OAKLAND, CAL. 



Just How to Cook Meals Without Meat 

By Elizabeth loivne. 

The midtum i?i farvo of cook books up to date. If you 
want to know how to live without using animal food this 
book will help you. It is the result of the author's own 
actual experience in adopting a vegetarian diet. Space 
is devoted to the consideration of Soups, Salads and 
Desserts and several practical menus are given. This is 
a book for everyday people. It does not tell how to cook 
elaborate course dinners, but for everyday living it is 
just the thing. You need the book whether you are a 
vegetarian or not. A new edition with added matter 
now ready. Price, 25 Cents, 




The Nautilus 



The Nautilus spreads the contagion 
of Health, Happiness, Success and 
Eternal Youth. The Nautilus is 
alive and its readers wake up to win. 
Edited by Elizabeth Towne, who 
Does Things and inspires others to 
Do Yet Greater Things. Te\ls"Just 
Hozu" . She puts the transcendental 
things of life into plain English. 
William E. Towne is the only other 
writer for The Nautilus. He has a knack for expressing things beauti- 
fully and hitting the right nail on the head. Ella Wheeler Wilcox 
highly endorses The Nautilus, and thousands would not do without 
it at any price. Price, 50 Cents a year. 



Send in your subscription now, mention this notice and 
you shall have a FREE copy of my little "Meals zvithout 
Meat" described above. Sample copy of The Nautilus 
for a two-cent stamp. Address all orders to: 



Dept, 2, 



ELIZABETH TOWNE, 

HOLYOKE, MASS. 



The Sanitarium Pure Food Store 

AND BAKERY OF 

Bender s Unfermented Whole Wheat Bread 



FULL LINE OF REFORM FOODS: 

Entire Wheat, Cracked Wheat. Whole Wheat Flour freshly 
ground every day on our own Mill ; all kinds of Nuts, also 
Almond, Filbert and Peanut Butter; Oils, Honey, Fruit 
Preserves. Depot for 

RANDALL'S Unfermented GRAPE JUICE and POMONA 

Books and Magazines on Natural Healing and Living, 
Kneipp's Herbs, Bath Cabinets and Hygienic Supplies. 

F. H. BENOLD, Propr., 413 E. North Avenue, Near Wells Street 
Telephone 2494 Black CHICAGO, ILL. 



Important Notice! We make up COMBINATION ORDERS of 
100 lbs. at wholesale prices, a"d ship by freight to all parts of 
the United States. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 



Strength and Beauty 

Every moment of every day you can thrill and tingle and radiate 
with the unspeakable ecstasy of perfecting Health. Conscious power 
over Pain and Disease and Death, conscious superiority to Worry 
and Hurry and Fret, conscious mastery of Self and Surroundings and 
the World — these are all potentially yours. Dietotherapy, Hydro- 
therapy, Physical Culture, Mental Culture, Spirit Unfoldment, all 
the manifold phases of Naturopathy — such are the means. The Na- 
turopathic Magazine, the Naturopathic Institute, the Kneipp Health 
Store — such are the media. And through these YOU, yet unrealized 
and undiscovered, are the omnipotent arbiter of achievement. Is it 
all worth asking about? 

10 cents brings a specimen Magazine; 25 cents, a 3 months' 
subscription to "The Naturopath"; a stamp, a Prospectus; a postal, 
the "Guide to Health" and Naturopathic Catalogue; $2.00, "Return 
to Nature," the famous book on natural methods of cure for all dis- 
eases and right living; 60 cents, "The Kneipp Cure"; 50 cents, 
"Kneipp's Baby Cure." Magazine and books published in English 
and German. 

BENEDICT LUST, NA ^? S %1 T N HIC 

Dept. III. 122-124 East 59th St., NEW YORK CITY 



A WORD TO THE WISE 




Nature prepares in her luscious gifts all 
that we need to maintain mental and 
physical vigor of the body and modern 
science has now revealed the secret how 
we shall be able to enjoy the delicious 
juices of the various fruits, in their pure I 
and unfermented state, during all seasons 
of the year. 

After many years of careful invest- 
igation we have succeeded in so perfect- 
ly preserving and bottling the natural 
juice of the grape and other fruits, that 
their life-giving qualities in their purest 
condition, with all the nutrition which 
the fresh, ripe fruit contains is offered 
in our unsurpassed products. 



RANDALL'S GRAPE JUICE 

Is a most healthful and agreeable beverage, a strengthening 
tonic, and refreshing drink. Its clear, rich red color, fragrant 
aroma, and true grape flavor make it attractive to the eye and 
palatable to the most delicate taste. 

RANDALL'S POMONA 

Is a pure and unfermented juice of carefully selected fruit of 
the finest varieties. It is distinctly a natural product, absolute- 
ly free from alcohol, enabling us to partake of a most delicious 
and wholesome drink at all seasons, equally as beneficial as 
grape juice. 

Upon request, zve send FREE our illustrated treatise "Nutritive 
Value of Unfermented Fruit Juices'" . Write to-day. 



Chautauqua Fruit Co . , Ripley, NewYork 



THE 

Humanitarian Review 



A monthly 40 page Magazine, published in the interest of Liberal 

FreetJiought, Ethical Culture, Study of Comparative Religion, 

Psychology, Human Treatment of all Sentient Creatures, 

Human and Animal; and the advocacy of Modern Science 

Methods in the Study of Mind, Morals and Religion. 

Single copy 10c, one year $1 00, 

special clubbing rates. 

Singleton W. Davis, 852 E. Lee St., Los Angeles, Cal. 



The Animals' Defender 

Organ of 

The New England Anti-Vivisection Society 



Established in 1896. Contains the latest 
Anti-Vivisection and kindred news, original 
articles and criticisms ; 50 Cents per Year. 
Special Rates to Societies, News Compa- 
nies and Agents. 



1 Beacon Street, Boston, Massachusetts 




Health and Breath 

Did it ever occur to you that all HUMAN ILLS 
are the result of IMPROPER EATING (over-eating 
or feeding) and IMPROPER (insufficient) BREATH- 
ING? 

PROPER BREATHING and PROPER EATING 
are the two great factors which sustain the MIND 
and determine the PERPETUATION of the BODY. 
These great factors are fully explained in our les- 
sons, in simple and comprehensive language, show- 
ing you how to use them to retain and restore PER- 
t 1| FECT HEALTH; and attain to HIGHER AC- 

B?J COMPLISHMENTS 

=^ R - a *= J Our course of HEALTH AND BREATH CUL- 

TURE consists of twelve complete lessons, showing 
you the WAY to PERFECT HEALTH through the proper appli- 
cation of BREATH, DIET and periodical FASTING. 

We could say more, to the TRUTH of which THOUSANDS of 
our PUPILS can TESTIFY. These lessons are the eyeopener of 
the century. They are a REVELATION to the MIND, revealing 
in the simple LAWS of NATURE as never seen in print before. 

SEND FOR THE 

Mazdaznan 
Encyclopaedia of Dietetics 

and 

Home Cook Book 

WHAT TO EAT, and HOW TO EAT IT 

Cooked and Uncooked Foods. 

"Pick out what you want, Nature will do the rest." 

Price, in paper cover 75c, THIS BOOK IS FOR ALL PEOPLE 
bound $1.00 

You may think this another "advertising scheme" to coax you to 
buy one book which is only an advertisement for a second and so on 
and on. If so, all we ask is to spend a cent, send us your name and 
address and we will send you our descriptive literature free with a 
sample copy of our magazine THE MAZDAZNAN, a monthly maga- 
zine of Modern Thought for Mental and Physical development. 

Mazdaznan Health University 

Dept. I. 5016-3018 Lake Park Ave., Chicago, 111. 



"LEADS THEM ALL." 

THE VANGUARD 

A High- Class Monthly. 
An I?idefie?ident Expo?ie?it of 

Constructive Socialism 

and Rational Religion 

No matter what other periodicals you take you still need The 
Vanguard. 

It is Vigorous, Fearless, Interesting, Unique, and is doing 
splendid service in the cause of humanity. 

"Every article in it is a gem," says the Toledo Independent. 

"The warmest magazine that comes our way," says the Socialist 
Voice. 

50 Cents a Year. Try It. 

SPECIAL OFFER. 

To readers of this book we will send The Vanguard one year for 
only 25 Cents. Order at once. 

ADDRESS: 

THE VANGUARD PRESS GREI £ ? A £ wis. 



TEN GOOD REASONS 



Why 


BECAUSE IT TEACHES— 


Should 






I 


1 


How to Get Well. 


Read The 


2 


How to Keep Well. 


Health 


3 


How to Live Well. 


4 


How to Live Long. 


Messenger ? 


5 


How to Keep Strong. 


A 


6 


How to be Vigorous in Age. 


Monthly 


7 


How to Raise Strong Children. 


Medical 


' 8 


How to Train Youth. 


Magazine 


s 9 


How to Have Health for All. 


for the Home. 


10 


How to Live The Best. 



Only One Dollar per year. Subscribe now and secure the instruct 
tive articles on "Mother and Child" begun in the February number. 

HEALTH MESSENGER CO., Lamotte, Iowa. 



PHYSICAL CULTURE 
RESTAURANT CO. inc. 

Capital Stock, $200,000 20,000 Shares at $10.00 each 

MAIN OFFICE: Suite 1119, 1123 Broadway, New York City 

BERNARR MACFADDEN, Gen'l Manager 



NEW YORK RESTAURANTS 

No. 1. 487 Pearl Street No. 2. 120 Pearl Street No. 4. 220 Fulton Street 
No. 6. 106 East Twenty-Third St. No. 10. 18 Spruce Street 

No. 11. 58 Lispenard Street No. 12. 654 Broadway 

BROOKLYN RESTAURANT 

No. 3. 91 Willoughby Street Bakery, 91 Willoughby Street 

BOSTON RESTAURANTS 
No. 5. 27-29 Kingston Street No. 9. 35-37 Arch Street 

PHILADELPHIA RESTAURANTS 
NO. 7. 25-27 South Eighth St. No. 8. 32 South Sixteenth St. 

THE annual meeting of the Stockholders was held on January 11th, 
1904, and was well attended. The following is a brief outline of 
the action of the Stockholders : The By-Laws providing for the num- 
ber of Directors were amended so that the number of Directors was 
increased from three to nine. The annual report of the Treasurer 
showed among other features an increase of six restaurants in six 
months; that about $24,000.00 had been received in subscriptions to 
stock; that the outlook for the future was most encouraging, and it is 
expected that the Company will be conducting, within the next year 
or two, at least fifty restaurants. 

A conservative average of the net profit from each of these restau- 
rants would be from one to two thousand dollars annually. One is 
now paying over $1,000 profit, and another over $3,000. If each of 
these 50 restaurants should average $1,000 a year, a dividend of 25 
per cent, can be paid. 

Money invested in real estate mortgages pays from 4 to 4>£ per 
cent. Railroad bonds will not average over 5 to 6 per cent.; govern- 
ment and municipal bonds 3 to 3% per cent. Our stock is as safe as 
government bonds. 

We especially desire to dispose of the balance of the stock we have 
to those interested in advancing the Physical Culture work and hygi- 
enic living. We would prefer that those in sympathy with the work 
secure all the profit that may accrue from its advancement, and we 
believe that such stockholders would be more fully in accord with the 
policies we must follow in advancing a business of this character. 

Stock can be subscribed for to any amount. Those desiring to 
purchase a single share are welcome. 

For Further Particulars and Prospectus write to 

PHYSICAL CULTURE RESTAURANT CO. 

Suite No. 1119, 1123 Broadway, New York City 



I Human Culture. 

ffl A Monthly Journal. 



qp 
05 



Something New, More than up-to-date. QP 

Away in ADVANCE of others. HJjh 

Deals with Mental Science in a surprisingly ~>T 

original way. Qj 



Positively practical, Highly illustrated 






///tfs tf/ie #ia#7 on the head every time, [fj 

Don't take our word for it. Send 10c for a ~vrj 

Sample Copy and judge for yourself. mm 

$1.00 a year. r^-j 

Vaught's Practical Character Reader and Sc 

Human Culture for one year $1.50 Sc 

dp 

<V 130 DEARBORN ST. CHICAGO, ILL. QP 

$ C$3 



| 7/ie Liberator, g 

CS Cg3 

rX, Teaches Self-Reliance in the Care of the Body; thereby J£. 

pa^. Saves Money, Saves Suffering, Saves Life. pQ~ 

_X_ 4 Monthly Journal of Health and Freedom, Opposes the _o^ 

^"^ Vaccination Folly, Fxposes the Medical Delusion ^s-* 

C-^J that Health can be had by Means of Drugs. CJ-J 

CJ3 r£ 

rfl LORA C. LITTLE, Editor. 



50 Cents a Year. 



SB 



C?3 QP 

C?3 The Liberator,61fl Northwestern Bdg, Minneapolis, Minn, qp 

{£ (?) 



& 



A WORLD OF : 
WEAKLINGS 



e 



There is every evidence to prove that the world is the 
abode of hordes of weaklings. Anger, antagonism, personal 
or national aggrandizement, retaliatory actions, the mad 
strife for wealth, disease, and even death, are all signs 
of a low order of animal vitality. The very fact that our 
strong men and women have ever been persecuted and com- 
pelled to adorn the stake, the scaffold and the cross, is the 
clearest proof of the weakness of mankind. War is weak- 
ness, and our armies and navies are the crutches of national 
cripples. True, no individual is a personification of strength. 
Each of us has our weak points — I acknowledge a few! 

My weakest spots are Books, Billiards, Base Ball, Brass 
Bands, Circuses, and Theaters. Oh, yes, and Magazine 
making. I am the inventor of 

"SOUNDVIEW" 

exponent of the 

"Society of Evergreens," 

composed of strong people. If you're a weakling don't 
send for it, the medicine it contains would be too strong for 
your assimilation, However, I take it that very few weak 
people will read this book, or if they do they will not be so 
long if they follow its teachings, so all who read this dis- 
sertation can send a dime for two copies of " Soundviezv' 
and other trash pertaining to the society; or if you want 
"Wildzuood Philosophy" (the best book of its kind since 
Emerson's "Nature"), send $1.00 for both it and "Sound- 
view" one year. Address: 

BOSS EVERGREEN, 

Olalla, Wash.. U. S. A. 



The 
Journal of Public Health 

Is a magazine of 44 pages, published monthly to supply 
the demand for PUBLIC HEALTH LITERATURE. 
Reviews and reprints will furnish up-to-date, reliable 
information from authorized sources. The reader will 
reap the most beneficient results from a careful, patient 
investigation of the voluminous Public Health Litera- 
ture, that is published in short extracts and one or two 
leading articles each month. Subscription price of 
Journal from January 1904 to 1905— ONE DOLLAR. 
Rational Treatment of Disease, a book of 333 pages — 
free — to all subscribers and membership in Public 
Health Association. Address all communications to 



C. P. Wood, 108 Powell Ave., Evansville, Ir.d. 

Brann's Iconoclast 

Founded by W. C. Brann...l890 

Fearless... Impartial ...Independent 

Sound and progressive thought is the cardinal feature of this 
magazine. Some of the brightest writers in America contribute 
articles on topics of genuine human interest. 

Potiphar's Wife. Or the Story of Joseph, Revised. The 
greatest literary gem of the age. Sales reached over half a million 
in the United States. Price, 10 cents. 

The Brann Book Entitled "Brann, the Iconoclast," published 
in two volumes, bound in cloth only. These books contain all the 
best writings of Mr. Brann, neatly compiled, with a frontispiece of 
the author and a brief biographical sketch. Price, $1.50 per volume; 
$3 00 for both volumes. 

The Memphis Commercial- Appeal says: "Its renascence is wel- 
comed far and wide." The Texas World says : "Mr. C. A. Windle 
shows himself able to keep The Iconoclast up to the high standard 
established by its founder!" 

Ask your newsdealer for tt or send 10c for sample copy. 

The Iconoclast Publishing Co., 157 Washington St., Chicago, 111. 



THREE GREAT WORKS 

By ALICE B. STOCKHAM, M. D. 



THUni r\r^V A BOOK FOR 
L KJ JT^KJ LiKJ \3 I EVERY WOMAN 

Toho'ogy teaches possible painless pregnancy and parturition, giving full, 
plain directions for the care of a woman before and after confinement. The ail- 
ments of pregnancy can be prevented and the pains and dangers of childbirth 
avoided WITHOUT DRUGS OR MEDICINES. 

Tokology is a popular 
GUIDE TO HEALTH. 

Mrs. J. M. Davis, Sabula, Iowa, says: "I have two dear Tokology babies, 
and during the whole nine months, both times, had neither ache nor pain." 

Mrs. A. L. T. : "An hour after the labor-pain began the baby was delivered. 
If I could not get another Tokology, I would not part with mine for a thousand 
dollars " 

Mrs. J. B. McD. : "I followed Tokology and now, after fifteen years of child- 
less married life, a sweet baby boy has come as a gift from God." 

The illustrations are accurate and carefully made. Nearly 400 pages. Printed 
in English, German and Swedish. 

. Cloth, $2.25. Morocco, $2.75. 



THE LOVERS WORLD 

A WHEEL OF LIFE. 

Supplies the hunger-cry of humanity upon Vital Subjects. 

All of its teachings are based upon experience and philosophy. 

For the first time definite instructions are put in print for the training, mastery 
and transmutation of creative energy, the use and appropriation of passion. 
Through this definite training one holds the key to health, power and longevity. 

Prof. Oscar L. Triggs, University of Chicago: "I have read The Lovkrs 
World with great interest. At length there is a chance that the world will take a 
right attitude toward sex now that so many voices, such as yours and Carpenter's, 
are raised in behalf of love and a true interpretation of sex." 

Samuel M. Jones (Mayor of Toledo, Ohio) : "It is the most helpful work on 
the unity £.nd the sacredness of all life that I have seen." 

500 pages. Bound in Silk Cloth, Maroon and Gold. 
Prepaid, $2.25; in Full Morocco, $2.75. 



Kl^AlREZZ^A. ETHICS OF MARRIAGE 

Karezza is written for married men and women who have lofty aims in life, 
who aro pure in heart and who seek best conditions for offspring. 

It elucidates a theory of marital relations, which leads to individual growth 
and a closer bond of union, the practice of which at all times gives 

COMPLETE CONTROL of the CREATIVE POWER. 

Its teachings will lead individuals to purer lives, to right understanding and 
appreciation of the sex functions, to intelligent control of propagation and finally 
through right adjustment in the most sacred relations to the ideal marriage. 

Dr. Jas. A Smallie: "I have received more actual benefit from the practical 
application of Karezza than from all books or from all religious teachings. My 
gratitude knows no bounds. Every day I am stronger, happier and purer." 
Extra Levant Cloth, Prepaid, $1.00. 

STOCKHAM PUBLISHING CO. 

70 DEARBORN STREET, SUITE 78. CHICAGO, ILL. 



How to Live. 

The Greatest Magazine of Health and Literature in America. 

Hozv to Live tells about Personal Hygiene and Sanitation. 

Hozv to Live tells about Physical Culture and the proper exercise 

men, women and children should take in order to be healthy 

and well developed. 
Hovu to Live tells about the proper foods to eat and how to cook them. 
Hozv to Live gives Practical Hints of immense value in everyday 

life, such is what to do in emergencies, simple, efficient 

remedies for simple ailments, how to dress artistically and 

hygienically, etc. 
Hozv to Live tells how to be happy and to get the best things out of life. 
Hozv to Live tells truths without fear or favor. 
Hozv to Livehas good short stories and much entertaining literature 

$ 1.00 per Year. 10 Cents per Copy. 

Send for Sample Copy (free) or for four months' trial (25 cents) 

THE GEO. F. BUTLER PUBLISHING CO. 

162 MAIN STREET, ALMA, MICH. 



Success Depends 

On your ability to read the character of people with whom you come 
into contact. Would you know whom to trust and whom to shun ; 
who has ability and staying qualities ; who has a high sense of honor 
and integrity? You may gain this power by reading Dr. von Hagen's 
new book entitled 



"Reading Character from Handwriting 



99 



A practical handbook of Graphology that helps anyone from the start. 
Helps business men in selecting efficient employees ; helps ministers, 
helps doctors, helps lawyers, helps merchants, helps all who must 
judge the character of others. This book gives you a new and 
wonderful power of discernment and discrimination. 140 examples 
of handwriting carefully analyzed. 

Handsomely bound — postpaid for $1.00. 

Graphology Publishing Co., 503 Fifth Avenue 

NEW YORK CITY. 



Medical Talk For 
The Home 




A IMedical Magazine 
For The People 

Chaste Words 

Plain Facts 

New Truths 



MEDICAL TALK FOR THE HOME is a monthly med- 
ical journal,in the interest of non-medical methods of 
treatment of disease and all means of prevention of disease. 
MEDICAL TALK FOR THE HOME does not aim to op- 
pose all medicinal treatment, but seeks rather to emphasize 
non-medicinal treatment. 

There are already too many journals filled with recipes and 
formulas, coaxing and wheedling and frightening the people 
into taking more and more medicine. This medical journal 
seeks, not to tear down the practice of medicine, but on the 
contrary, to build up hygiene, sanitation, and obedience to the 
laws of nature in general. 

It is the first attempt ever made by a regular graduated 
physician to issue a magazine for the people to read concerning 
the secrets of medicine. Every month MEDICAL TALK 
FOR THE HOME will discuss these matters. The twelve 
numbers each year will contain more than 1,200 pages of inter- 
esting matter. It is the only magazine of its kind in the zvor/d. 
C. S. Carr, M. D., Editor. Monthly, 50 cents a year; 5 cents 
the copy. Sample copies sent to any one upon request. 



MEDICAL TALK FOR THE HOME 
Columbus, Ohio. 



The Good Health Clinic 

Costs only fifty cents a year. One subscriber writes: 

'One number saved me ten times more than the cost of 

The Clinic for the whole year." Without doubt it is 

the cheapest Good Health Journal in the world. 

To bring in a few thousand new subscribers we have 

decided to give it away for a year. The way we do this 

is as follows: 

SPECIAL OFFER l ^ e nave ma <^ e such arrangements 

" that we can offer you the magazine, ' 

36 pages or more each month, one year, price 50c; the Chicago Health 
Journal, price $1.00; and membership one year in the International 
Health League, price 50c; $2.00 WORTH, ALL FOR A MONEY 
ORDER FOR 70c. 

Send your order NOW, before you forget about it, and 
we will do the rest. 

Yours for health, happiness and success. 



Good Health Clinic, 



313 South Saline Street 
SYRACUSE, N. Y. 



NEVER SICK 

But always Well, Strong, Hearty, Vigorous, Goodlooking, full of Vim, 
Long-lived, Prosperous and Happy. Free from Drugs and Doctors' 
Bills. If you would be all this, use the 

NEW INTERNAL BATH 

A NEW, the BEST and ONLY SAFE method of INTERNAL cleans- 
ing, removing all the impurities and poisons from the system, curing 
Constipation and its results, Dyspepsia, Liver and Kidney troubles, 
La Grippe, etc. UNLIKE any FLUSHING SYSTEM used. No 
matter what you are doing for health, do this also. SEND AT ONCE 
for illustrated booklet, "THE ART OF BEING WELL," with full 
particulars. 

Health Culture 

is the best illustrated magazine published on bodily development and 
human culture for men, women and children, $1.00 a year, 10 cents a 
number. It will cost you but one cent (a postal card) to get a sample 
copy and list of the best health books and appliances ever made. 
Send your address now to 

THE HEALTH-CULTURE CO. 

151 W. 27th Street, NEW YORK 



SUGGESTION 

is a practical home magazine devoted to 
suggestive therapeutics, psychicresearch, 
and the application of the principles of 
the New Psychology for health, happi- 
ness and success. 

Ten Cents a Copy. $1.00 per year. Foreign, 6 shillings. 
Sample Copy sent upon receipt of postal. 

Suggestion tells how to be healthy "without medicine 

If you don't like to think, don't read this magazine. 
4020 Drexel Boulevard, CHICAGO, ILL. 



Return to Nature 

Fads come and go. New, so-called cures, mental science, phys- 
ical culture, magnetic healing, and what not spring up, have their little 
day and are no more. Truth, the essence of it all, only remains 
fixed throughout the shifting time. What you and I want then is 
Truth, more light. We have translated the German Naturopath, 
Adolph Just's lifework, Return to Nature because it contains more 
of this quality — of truth untarnished — than we have found anywhere 
else. By its aid any man or woman can work out his or her own 
salvation without recourse to doctor, master their own bodies and 
environment and regain superb health and strength — as did the 
author. More than that, it solves the social question, the sex question, 
gives rules for right living easy to follow for anyone, has a chapter on 
the care of children, and altogether it will prove the best friend that 
ever entered your house. Its price is $2.00 bound, paper cover $1.50. 
Our magazine, "The Naturopath" is the leading monthly on Health 
Cure and Right Living. $1.00 a year, 3 months for 25 cents, single 
copies 10 cents; magazine and books published in English and German. 
ORDER TO-DAY. 

Send for circulars and Naturopathic literature to 

BENEDICT LUST, 

124 E. 59th St., New York. N. Y.. Dept. III. 



Over 500,000 copies of this Book have been sold, and the last 
Edition is better than ever. 



THE NEW ILLUSTRATED 

Self-Instructor 

...IN... 

PHRENOLOGY, PHYSIOLOGY AND 
PHYSIOGNOMY 

A Complete Handbook for the People. With over One 
Hundred New Illustrations including a Chart for the Use of 
Practical Phrenologists. Revised and printed from new plates. 
12mo, 192 pp. By the RENOWNED PHRENOLOGISTS, 

Profs. L. N. and O. S. FOWLER 

This is the only work published giving full and comple'e 
instructions How To Read Heads, with rules for finding the 
organs, and explaining and illustrating each one separately; the 
Authors here lay down the rules employed by them in their 
professional work for nearly 60 years. 

It will show you how to read people as you would a book, 
and to see if they are inclined to be good, upright, honest, true, 
kind, charitable, loving, joyous, happy, and trustworthy people, 
such as you would like to know. 

A knowledge of Humar Nature would save many disap- 
pointments in social and business life. 

Cloth, $1.00 

Send for a copy at once, study the people you see, and also 
your own character. 



Phrenological Journal 10c a number, $1.00 per year. 



New York: London: 

FOWLER & WELLS CO. L. N. FOWLER & CO. 

24 E. 22nd Street 7 Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus 

Ask for Complete Catalogue and Prospectus. 



Columbia Printing Company 

719 M Hi! c<Tirr> <;t Cmrmn 



J 





V .••^L> < 




/•'i-V /^S /.-"A" 

o v - ' • »- 






,«•".. 



, \^> y\.^fe.\ o°*.^% / 





;• ** v % 



* ^ 
















, <& v . o « © . <$ 





*°* . 



O * 0w o' .0 




*► * 



•°- > 



^ " * **' 










±_L 



r-0 t'JJ> ° 










s 









I 


/, *c 




UBRABY OF CONGRESS 




014 336 1810 • 



