Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






<g^6 



?^ 






WORLD'S FAIR 

SOUVENIR 

COOK BOOK 



By MRS. S. T. RORER 

Author of Mrs. Rorer's NEW Cook Book 
Philadelphia Cook Book, Conninj^ and Preservini^, etc. 



Louisiana Purchase Exposition 

St. Louis, 1904 



Press of 

ARNOLD AND COMPANY ' 
Phllodelphfo, Po. '\ - 



-^^ 



/? 






^ 



1 



/^0 



> r f ' 






Copyright 1904 by Mrs. S T Rorsr 
All Rights Reserved 



c:^.v.^-,,, .. f r- .- ^-L> 



) 




PREFACE 

|HE object of this book is 
twofold: first, to present in a 
compact form a few of the 
choice recipes used at the Eastern 
Pavilion, at the Louisiana Purchase 
Exposition, St. Louis, 1904; and, 
secondly, to show how simply and 
easily all foods may be prepared. 
The object in teaching cookery is 
not to increase or complicate the 
work, not to make it a ceremonial, but 
to point out the simple and easy way. 

SARAH TYSON RORER 



WORLD'S FAIR 
SOUVENIR COOK BOOK 



SOUPS 



CLEAR SOUP 

For perfectly clear soup it is positively necessary for all the 
meat used to be fresh, uncooked, and free from bone. 

To each pound of lean beef allow one pint of cold 
water, chop the meat into small pieces, cover it with the 
water, bring slowly to boiling point. Skim at the first 
boil, cover and simmer gently for at least four hours. At 
the end of three hours add one bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, 
one onion browned in an ounce of butter. When the 
soup is done, strain through a colander, return it to the 
kettle, and stand it over the fire. For three quarts of soup, 
allow the white and shell of one ^g% for clarifying. Beat 
the white with a half-cup of cold water until frothy, then 
add the crushed shell, add these to the boiling soup, boil 
for ^w^ minutes. Cover and stand aside for an hour to 
settle. Strain through a double cheese cloth or a flannel 
bag. Season and heat. If too light in color add a tea- 
spoonful of caramel. 

SOUP STOCK 

Wipe one shin of beef, cut the meat from the bones, place 
the bones in the bottom of a large porcelain-lined or gran- 
ite soup kettle, lay the meat on top of them, add five 



4 SOUPS 

quarts of cold water, cover the kettle and stand it on the 
back part of the range for one hour ; then place it over a 
good fire, watch it carefully, and as soon as the scum 
gathers on the surface, begin to skim carefully. Do not 
let it boil. When all the scum has been taken off, cover 
the kettle closely, stand it over a moderate fire to simmer 
four hours, then add one onion, one small carrot, a turnip, 
two bay leaves, a sprig of parsley, twelve whole cloves, and 
a stalk of celery; cover and simmer one hour longer. 
When done strain through a fine sieve, add a tablespoonful 
of salt, and stand at once in a cold place to cool. If you 
keep soup stock in a warm place for a few hours it will not 
congeal, and will not keep so well. When cold, take all 
the grease from the surface, and it is ready for use. 



A 

CLEAR SOUP WITH CROUTONS 

I quart of stock 
}i pint of croutons 
Salt and white pepper to taste 

To make the croutons, cut stale bread into thin slices 
spread it lightly with butter on one side, then cut into 
dice. (It will take about three slices from a baker's square 
five-cent loaf) Place them on a tin pie dish, and put them 
in a moderate oven until a golden brown. 

Melt the stock gradually, bring it to boiling point, add 
salt and pepper. Serve soup in a tureen with croutons on 
a separate dish. If you put them in the soup when you 
dish it, they will become heavy and waxy before reaching 
the dming room. 

If the soup is too light, color it with caramel. (See 
recipe for making it.) 



SOUPS 5 

TURKISH SOUP (Miss Dodd) 

I quart of stock Yolks of two eggs 

yi teacupful of rice i tablespoonful of creaiu 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil together for twenty minutes the rice and stock ; then 
press them through a sieve and return them to the kettle. 
Beat the yolks well and add to them the cream. Add this 
to the stock and rice, and stir it over the fire for two min- 
utes, but do not allow it to boil. Add salt and pepper, 
and it is ready to serve. 

MACARONI SOUP 

Simply add two ounces of boiled macaroni to two quarts of 
boiling stock. Season with a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of white pepper, and serve. 

CLEAR SOUP WITH GREEN PEAS 

For each eight persons allow one pint of cooked green 
peas and one and a half quarts of stock, add the cooked 
peas to the stock, simmer gently for five minutes, season, 
and serve. 

JULIENNE SOUP 

This soup is composed of clear stock and a variety of 
cooked vegetables ; peas, beans, asparagus, turnips, carrots, 
lettuce, cabbage, and sorrel may all be cooked in water, 
and added to the clear stock. 

MARROW-BALL SOUP 

Make a nice, clear stock from a shin of beef, and stand it 
aside over night to cool ; when cold, remove the fat froiQ 



6 SOUPS 

the surface an hour before dinner-time. Make the balls as 
follows : cut a half-cup of marrow into one cup of bread- 
crumbs (not too fine) ; add a half-teaspoonful of salt and 
sufficient raw tgg to just moisten ; mix quickly with a knife, 
and stand on the ice for ten minutes. Then make them into 
small balls about the size of a marble, using as little flour 
as possible ; place them on a floured dish and stand on the 
ice until wanted. Ten minutes before dinner put as much 
stock as you require on to heat (not more than two quarts 
for the number of balls given) ; season to taste ; add the 
balls and bring quickly to boiling point. Serve at once. 

BROWN SOUP 

Make this soup when you have on hand broth, or water in 
which you have cooked beef or leg of mutton. When it 
is quite cold, free it from all surface fat. Peel and cut 
into dice one small carrot, one onion, one turnip, and if 
at hand one root of celery. Slowly fry these to a dark 
brown in two ounces of butter. If they do not brown 
quickly, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of sugar. When 
nicely browned add them to the strained broth, and simmer 
gently until they are tender. For each quart of soup mix 
one tablespoonful of corn-starch in a little cold water, stir 
it with the soup ; stir carefully until it boils. Season and 
add, if you have them, one cup of cooked peas or beans. 

POTATO SOUP FROM BROTH 

This soup should also be made when you have on hand 
liquor in which meats have been cooked. Chop two 
ounces of bacon or ham, put it in a frying-pan with one 
good-sized onion. Fry until brown, then add to them two 
quarts of broth and simmer thirty minutes. 



SOUPS 7 

Pare and slice four good-sized potatoes, add them to 
the soup and simmer forty minutes longer. Season and 
serve. 

HBRB SOUP PROM BROTH 

Wash and chop four leeks, one onion, small bunch of 
parsley, head of lettuce, and, if obtainable, a quart of 
spinach. Put all these in a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter and cook for five minutes, then add one pint of 
stale bread-crumbs and two quarts of broth. Cover and 
simmer for two hours. Season with salt and pepper, add 
juice of half a small lemon, and serve. 



CONSOMME 

Cut into dice four pounds of lean beef from the round, 
put about one ounce of suet and one small onion, sliced, 
into the soup kettle and cook until a good brown ; then 
add the meat, cook, without covering, thirty minutes ; add 
three quarts of cold water, cover the kettle and simmer 
gently for three hours ; at the end of this time add four 
cloves, one small carrot, a piece of celery, and simmer one 
hour longer. Strain and stand away to cool. When cold, 
remove all grease from the surface. Turn the consomm^ 
into a kettle ; beat the white of one egg with a half-cup of 
cold water, add it to the boiling consomm^, boil one 
minute, and strain through cheese cloth. Season and it is 
ready to serve. If not dark, add a teaspoonful of caramel. 



A PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP 

Wash the head well through several waters, scald it, wash 
again in cold water, and soak for a half-hour. Be sure 



■ 



8 SOUPS 

that the throat and nasal passages are perfectly clean and 
free from foreign matter. The brains must be taken out 
before the first washing. Put the head in a soup kettle, 
cover it with four quarts of cold water, and bring it slowly 
to simmering point. Skim it well and simmer for four 
hours. Strain and put the meat aside to cool. This part 
is best done the day before you wish to use it. Remove 
all the fat from the soup and cut the meat into dice. The 
fibrous covering must be taken off the brains; then 
parboil them for fifteen minutes ; cool and cut into dice. 

When you are ready to use the soup, put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, stir until brown, add one 
onion and a small carrot, sliced, and cook until a light 
brown. Now add four even tablespoonfuls of flour, brown 
again, add two bay leaves, and the soup, or as much as you 
may require (about two quarts for the flour used). 

Stir continually until it boils, strain and return to the 
kettle. Add the meat, brain, two tablespoonfuls of 
Worcestershire sauce, and a palatable seasoning of salt and 
pepper. Put two hard-boiled eggs and a half lemon, cut 
into slices, in the tureen ; pour over the hot soup, and serve. 



DRIED BEAN SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 

1 quart of dried white soup beans 

2 quarts of water 

I large tablespoonful of butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Wash the beans, cover them with water and soak over night. 
Next morning, drain, put them on to boil with two quarts 
of fresh cold water. As soon as they come to a boil, drain 
this water off" and throw it away, this prevents the soup from 
bein^ strong. Now cover again with two quarts of fresh 



SOUPS 9 

bo/Ung water, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of bi-carbonate 
of soda, and boil until reduced to a pulp. Now press the 
beans through a sieve, return to the soup kettle and add 
sufficient water to make the soup about the consistency of 
cream, add the salt, pepper and butter, and serve with 
crodtons. 

purb£ of vegetables 

Scrape one large carrot and cut it into slices. Pare and 
slice one turnip. Put two tablespoonfuls of melted suet 
into a frying-pan, slice into it one onion, cook until the 
onion is a golden brown, then put it with carrot, turnip, a 
bunch of pot-herbs and a quart and a pint of cold water 
into a soup kettle, add two tablespoonfuls of rice, and 
simmer gently one hour. Press through a sieve. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat remaining in the pan, mix 
until smooth, and add it to the soup ; stir until it boils, 
season with a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoon of pepper. 
Serve with crodtons. 



BARLEY BROTH 

Cover any bones or scraps of cooked meat left from roasts^ 
steaks or chops with one and a half quarts of cold water, 
add five even tablespoonfuls of pearl barley and simmer 
for one hour, then add one onion, sliced, and a bunch of 
pot-herbs. Simmer a half-hour longer, strain, season with 
salt and pepper, and serve. 

A GOOD TOMATO SOUP 

Trim the fat from a slice of ham. Put the ham away for 
another meal. Cut this fat into pieces and fry with a sliced 



10 SOUPS 

onion until nicely browned. Turn one can of tomatoes 
into a stewing-pan, add the browned pieces of ham fat and 
onion^ a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful 
of pepper, cover and simmer ten minutes. Add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour to the fat remaining in the pan, which 
should be a good tablespoonful ; if not, add butter, mix 
until smooth, add it to the tomatoes, stir until they boil, 
and then press through a sieve ; add a teaspoonful of sugar, 
and serve with squares of toasted bread. 



CREAM OP POTATO SOUP 

Fare and boil four good-sized potatoes. Put one quart of 
milk over the fire in a farina boiler with a slice of onion, 
one bay leaf, a stalk of celery, and a sprig of parsley. Rub 
smoothly together one tablespoonful of butter and two table 
spoonfuls of flour, and stir into the milk when boiling, stir 
continuously until it thickens. When the potatoes are done, 
drain free from all water, sprinkle with salt, and stand back 
a moment to dry, then mash until light and free from lumps, 
add the milk gradually to the potatoes and press the whole 
through a very fine sieve, add salt and pepper, and it is 
ready to serve. 

This soup is spoiled by being boiled after the potatoes 
and milk are mixed. To keep warm should be placed over 
boiling water. 



CREAM OF TOMATO OR MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

Put one pint can or one pint of tomatoes on to stew 
with one bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a blade of mace, 
let them stew fifteen minutes. Put one quart of milk on 



SOUPS 11 

to boil in a farina boiler. Rub one large tablespoonful 
butter and two tablespoon fuh of flour together, add to 
the milk when boiling, and $tir constantly until it thickens* 
Now press the tomatoes through a sieve, and if ready to 
use the soup, add one teaspoonful of sugar and a quarter- 
teaspoon ful of baking-soda to the tomatoes, and then the 
boiling milk ;*stir and serve immediately. It must not go 
on the fire after mixing the milk with the tomatoes, or it 
will curdle. If you are not ready, let them stand on the 
fire separately, and mix them when wanted. 



CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Wash six or eight green stalks of celery and cut them into 
small pieces, using the leaves as well, cover with a pint of 
boiling water and'^boil thirty minutes; then press through 
a colander, do not drain ; but allow the water to go 
through with the celery. Put one quart of milk in a double 
boiler, add the celery and water and a tablespoonful of 
onion juice ; rub one large tablespoonful of butter and three 
even tablespoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste, add a little 
of the soup until a liquid is formed, then turn into the 
double boiler, stir continually until it thickens, add salt 
and pepper to taste, and serve immediately. 
This is delicious if properly made. 



CREAM OP ASPARAGUS SOUP 

Boil one bunch of asparagus in a quart of salted water for 
twenty minutes, drain, save the water, and press the aspara- 
gus through a colander. Put a quart of milk in a farina 
boiler, add to it a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, and a piece 



12 SOUPS 

of onion. Rub together two ounces of butter and three 
even tablespoonfuls of flour, add a little of the milk to this 
to make it liquid, then stir it into the boiling milk, and 
stir continually until it thickens. Have the asparagus and 
the water hot, mix the two together, season, and serve, 



PUREE OF CARROTS 

Scrape and cut three large carrots into slices ; cover with 
two quarts of cold water and simmer gently three-quarters 
of an hour. Put two ounces of suet in a frying-pan, and 
when hot, add a good-sized onion, sliced ; cook until a 
light brown, and then add to the carrots. Press the whole 
through a fine sieve ; return to the fire, atid stir in two 
tablespoonfiils of corn -starch, moistened in a little cold 
water. Stir until it boils; add a palatable seasoning of 
salt and pepper, and a half-pint good milk. This is a good 
and pretty looking soup, and only costs about five cents 
for the two quarts. 



PUREE OP FRESH BEANS 

Boil until tender one pint of freshly shelled white beans in 
one quart of water, with one and a half ounces of salt 
pork, a few sprigs of parsley, a stalk of celery, a small 
onion with a clove stuck in it, and a piece of green pepper ; 
drain in a colander and save the liquor ; take out the pork, 
parsley and onion, and press the beans through a sieve, 
moistening meanwhile with the liquor to make them pass 
through more readily. Put this aside while you slice and 
parboil two medium-sized onions until very tender ; drain. 



SOUPS 13 

press out the water, and put them in a saucepan with a half- 
tablespoonful of butter, salt, pepper, and a little grated 
nutmeg ; sprinkle over a tablespoonful of flour, and add 
gradually one pint of boiling milk ; press through a sieve, 
and mix with the pur6e of beans. Return to the saucepan, 
heat without boiling, and pour into the tureen over little 
dice of fried bread. 

PUREE OP RICE 

Put a quarter of a cup of rice into a kettle with one quart of 
boiling water. Lightly brown one sliced onion in two even 
tablespoonfuls of butter, add it to the rice, add a bay leaf, 
one slice of carrot, and a half-cup of stale bread-crumbs. 
Simmer gently for thirty minutes, press through a fine sieve, 
return it to the kettle, and add sufficient milk to make the 
proper consistency. Season with salt and pepper, and serve. 

DUMPLING BROTH 

Put one knuckle of veal into a soup kettle with three quarts 
of cold water. Simmer gently for two hours, add a bay 
leaf, a sprig of parsley, a small carrot, sliced, and simmer 
one hour longer. Strain, and stand away to cool. When 
cold and ready to use take all fat from the surface, and 
turn the soup carefully into the kettle, leaving all the sedi- 
ment behind, stand it over the fire to heat. Put a half-cup 
of chopped suet into a dish, add a half-cup of flour, mix 
well together, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, and 
sufficient ice water to just moisten, make into small dump- 
lings the size of a marble, when all are finished put them 
into the soup, boil ten minutes, add a tablespoonful of 
grated onion, and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Serve at once. 



^ 



14 SOUPS 

BISQUE OP OYSTERS 

Put fifty oysters on to boil in their own liquor, boil two 
minutes, drain, saving the liquor. Chop the white part of 
the oyster very fine, and press it through a sieve, add it to 
the oyster liquor, return it to the kettle ; add a pint of 
stock, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and a bay leaf. Sim- 
mer gently for five minutes. Moisten two even tablespoon- 
fuls of corn-starch in a little cold water, stir it into the 
soup, stir until it thickens, add a pint of hot cream or 
milk, two ounces of butter, and a palatable seasoning of 
salt and pepper. Do not boil after adding the milk, or 
the bisque will curdle. 

Bisque of clams may be made precisely in the same 
way. 



FISH 



The flesh of all fish out of season is unwholesome ; to be 
eatable they should be perfectly fresh, the eyes clear, the 
gills red, the scales silvery, the flesh Arm and free from any 
unpleasant odor, and, to secure the best flavor, should be 
cooked as soon as possible after it is taken from the water. 
They should be scaled and cleaned as soon as they come 
from the market, washed quickly without soaking, removing 
the smallest atom of blood. Sprinkle salt on the inside, 
put them in a cold place until wanted. If necessary to 
keep them over night, place where the moon will not shine 
on them, as the eflect is as bad as that of the hot sunshine. 
The fat or oil of most fish is found in their livers, conse- 
quently the flesh is white. Salmon, herring, mackerel, 
sturgeon and catfish are exceptions, having the oil distrib- 
uted throughout the body, thereby giving color to the flesh. ^ 

BOILED PISH 

Wash the fish well in cold water. Wipe it carefully, and 
rub it with a little salt. Wrap it in a cloth ; cheese cloth 
will answer. Have the cloth just large enough to envelop 
the fish. Sew the edges so that there will be but one thick- 
ness of the cloth over any part of the fish. Now put it 

(>5) 



16 FISH 

into a fish kettle if you have one ; if not you may lay it 
on a platter, tie fish and platter together in a cloth and put 
them in the bottom of a large saucepan. Cover with boiling 
water, add one tablespoonful of salt and simmer very gently 
ten minutes to every pound of fish. Take the fish from the 
water the moment it is done; drain, remove the cloth care- 
fully, turn the fish on to the plate ; garnish with slices of 
lemon and parsley. Serve with either shrimp, oyster, 
Hollandaise or caper sauce, or plain drawn butter. 

All cold boiled fish left may be utilized in making 
salads, croquettes, or i la crimes. 

This is a general rule for boiling all kinds of fish. 



TO FRY FISH 

Perch, brook trout, catfish and all small fish are best fried. 
They should be cleaned, washed well in cold water and 
immediately wiped dry, inside and outside, with a clean 
towel, and then sprinkled with salt. Use oil if convenient, 
as it is very much better than either dripping or lard. Never 
use butter as it is apt to burn and has a tendency to soften 
the fish. See that the oil, lard or dripping is smoking hot, 
before putting in the fish. Throw in a crumb of bread ; if 
it browns quickly, it is hot enough and the fish will not 
absorb any grease. 

TO BROIL FISH 

This is one of the nicest ways of cooking shad, bluefish, 
mackerel, salmon and the large trout. Always use a 
double broiler. Rub it well with a piece of suet before put- 
ting in the fish. A fish weighing four pounds will take 
half an hour to cook over a clear but moderate fire. The 



FISH 17 

flesh side should first be exposed to the fire, then the skin. 
Great care must be taken not to bum the skin side. When 
the fish is done, separate it carefully from the broiler with 
a knife so as not to break the nice brown outside. Sprin- 
kle with salt and pepper, and spread it with butter, stand 
it in the oven for a moment and it is ready to serve. 



BAKED SHAD 

Scrape free from all scales, make a short opening down the 
belly, and take out the insides ; wash well inside and out 
and immediately wipe dry with a clean towel. Rub it well 
with salt. Make a dressing of one cup of stale bread- 
crumbs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, a half-teaspoonful of salt and a little 
black pepper ; mix well and stuff the body of the fish and 
sew it up with soft yarn. Now score one side of the fish 
with a sharp knife, making the scores about an inch apart, 
and put a strip of salt pork in each gash. Grease a tin 
sheet, if you have one, place it in the bottom of a baking- 
pan, put the fish on it, dredge thickly with salt, pepper 
and flour ; cover the bottom of the pan with boiling water 
and put into a hot oven. Bake fifteen minutes to every 
pound of fish, basting each ten minutes with the gravy in 
the pan. As the water evaporates, add more to again cover 
the bottom of the pan. When done , lift the tin sheet 
from the pan, and slide the fish carefully into the centre of 
the dish on which it is to be served ; garnish with slices 
of lemon, fried potato balls, and parsley; serve with 
sauce Hollandaise or roe sauce. If you have no tin sheet, 
place the fish in the bottom of a baking-pan and when 
done, loosen it carefully and slide it into the dish. Rock 
fish may be baked in exactly the same manner. 



18 FISH 

PLANKED SHAD 

This is the very best way of cooking shad : — 

The plank should be three inches thick, two feet long, 
one and a half feet wide and of well-seasoned hickory or 
oak. Pine or soft wood gives the fish a woody taste. Take 
a fine shad just from the water, scale, split it down the 
back, clean it, wash well and immediately wipe dry. Dredge 
it with salt and pepper. Place the plank before a clear fire 
to get VERY HOT. Then spread the shad open and nail it, 
skin side next to the hot plank, with four large-headed 
tacks. Put it before the fire with the large end down ; in 
a few minutes turn the board so that the other end will be 
down, and do this every few minutes until the fish is done. 
To tell when it is done pierce it with a fork ; if the flesh be 
flaky it is done. Spread with butter and serve on the 
plank or draw the tacks carefully and slide the shad on to 
a hot dish. 

The whitefish caught in the lakes are excellent when 
cooked in this manner. 



CREAMED PISH 

Pick into small pieces one pint of cold cooked fish, put one 
tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan, add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, when mixed add one pint of milk, stir 
continuously until it boils, add one teaspoon ful of salt and 
a saltspoonful of pepper. Mix the fish carefully with the 
sauce and turn into a shallow baking-dish or into individual 
dishes. Sprinkle the top with stale bread-crumbs and 
brown in the oven. 



FISH 19 

A GOOD CHOWDER 

Cut into pieces about one inch square, two pounds of 
uncooked haddock. Pare and cut into squares three good- 
sized potatoes. Cut into dice a half-pound of ham. Put a 
layer of the fish in the bottom of a kettle, then a layer of 
potatoes, then a sprinkling of ham and chopped onion, 
salt and pepper, then a layer of broken crackers, another 
layer of fish, and so continue until all the materials are 
used, jiist cover with cold water and simmer gently for 
thirty minutes. Dish and serve. 



PISH CUTLETS 

Put a half-pint of milk on to boil. Rub together one 
tablespoonful of butter and three even tablespoonfuls of 
flour, then stir them into the boiling milk, stir and cook 
until a thick paste is formed, add the yolk of one tggy a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter-nutmeg grated, 
ten drops of onion juice, mix and add two cupfuls of cold 
boiled fish, mix again and add a palatable seasoning of 
salt and cayenne, turn out to cool. When cold form into 
cutlets or croquettes. Dip first in beaten t%% then in 
bread-crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Drain on 
brown paper and serve very hot with Cream Sauce. 



POTTED PISH 

Cut uncooked fish into small pi«ces. Season with salt, 
[)epper, and very little mace, dip each piece in vinegar and 
pack them in stone or earthen jars. Tie the tops tightly 
with a piece of muslin, then cover with a paste made from 
flour and water, stand the jars in a pan of boiling water 
and bake in a moderate oven one hour. When done and 



20 FISH 

cold, remove the muslin, pound the fish to a paste, put it 
back into the jars and cover with melted butter. This can 
be used at once and will keep two or three weeks. 



CODFISH BALLS 

Pick one pound of codfish into small pieces; soak it in 
cold water for half an hour ; then drain and pour over it 
enough boiling water to cover ; let it stand on back part 
of the fire for fifteen minutes. Strain and press out all the 
water, then mix it with one pound of mashed potatoes, 
which should be well beaten. Add one tablespoonful of 
butter, one-fourth cup of cream, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
pepper, beat well. Form into balls, roll first in beaten 
egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat or 
oil. 

SALT CODFISH WITH CREAM SAUCE 

Cover two cups of picked codfish with cold water and let 
it soak two hours ; drain, cover with lukewarm water and 
stand it on the back part of the fire, where it will not 
get scalding hot, for one hour more. Then drain it free 
from all water. Put one large tablespoonful of butter in a 
frying-pan ; when melted, add two even tablespoonfuls of 
flour and mix ; then add one pint of milk, stir constantly 
until it boils, add the fish, salt and pepper to taste and stir 
until hot. Take firom the fire, add the yolk of one t%%^ 
and serve immediately with plain boiled potatoes. 



CODFISH Shaker Style 

Pick one pound of uncooked salt codfish into flakes, cover 
with boiling water, stand on the back part of the range for 



FISH 21 

fifteen minutes, drain, cover again with fresh boiling water, 
let stand again and drain. Be very careful it does not boil, 
as this ruins and toughens the fish. Put a large table- 
spoonful of butter into a saucepan, when melted, add a 
level tablespoonful of flour, mix and add a half-pint 
of boiling water, stir continuously until it thickens, 
add a saltspoonful of pepper and the codfish. Mix and 
pour into a shallow baking-dish. Drop a number of eggs 
over the top of the codfish, dust lightly with salt and pep- 
per, and place in the oven a few minutes until the whites 
are set. 



STEWED EELS 

Skin and clean six nice eels, cut off their heads and then 
cut theift into pieces about ten inches long ; put them into 
a stewing-pan, cover with boiling water, add a tablespoonful 
of vinegar and simmer ten minutes. Drain, save the liquor. 
Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour, 
then stir and melt over the fire, add the water, stir until it 
boils, add the eels, a bay leaf, slice of onion, a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Cover 
and simmer again for twenty minutes. When done, dish 
the eels, strain the sauce over, garnish with sippets fried in 
butter, and serve at once. 



SHELL FISH 



LOBSTER 

In purchasing lobster choose those heavy for their size, fully 
alive and with bright eyes. Kill by plunging them in a 
large kettle full of hot water, then bring the water rapidly 
to a boil. In this way they are smothered quickly without 
suffering. Hen lobsters are in special request for soups and 
sauces, on account of the spawn which becomes a brilliant 
red on boiling. 

A medium-sized lobster should boil a half-hour, a 
larger one three-quarters. When done and cool twist off 
the claws, and separate the tail from the body, carefully 
shake out the *' tom-alley " (this is the liver of the lobster 
and may be known by its greenish color), also the coral. 
Remove the body shell, pick all the white meat from the 
cells, rejecting the stomach which is found immediately 
under the head. Split the tail shell so that the meat may 
be taken out in one solid piece, now split this meat in the 
centre, and you will uncover a little vein running its entire 
length. This is the intestine and must be thrown away. 

The stomach or lady, the vein, and the spongy fingers 
between the body and shell are the only parts not eatable. 
The claws should be cracked and all the meat taken from 
them. 



SHELL FISH 28 

PLAIN BOILED LOBSTER 

To serve plain boiled lobster, arrange the meat, cooked as 
above, in the centre of a cold dish, garnish with parsley, 
hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and the small claws of 
the lobster. Let each person season to suit one's self. 



STEWED LOBSTER 

Boil and open the lobster as directed, cut the meat into 
dice, measure it, and to every pint allow: two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, two tablespoon fuls of flour, a half-pint 
of cream, a half-pint of stock, one teaspoonful of salt, a 
quarter-teaspoonful of white pepper. Put the lobster into 
a stewing-pan, add the stock and simmer five minutes, then 
add the cream. Rub the butter and flour together until 
smooth, then stir this in with the lobster carefully and 
continually until it thickens, add the salt and pepper, and 
serve very hot. 

A teaspoonful of curry powder may be added and it is 
then Curried Lobster. 



LOBSTER Terrapin Style 

Boil, open and cool one three-pound lobster. Cut it into 
pieces about one inch square. Put a quarter-pound of 
butter in a saucepan, when melted, add an even tablespoon - 
ful of flour, mix until smooth, add a gill of cream, stir 
continually until it boils. Take from the fire and work in 
carefully the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs, mashed fine, 
add a half-teaspoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, then add 
the lobster, stand the saucepan over a kettle of boiling 
water to re-heat. When hot and ready to serve, add two 
tablespoonfuls of sherry. 



24 SHELL FISH 

LOBSTER TIMBALE 

Chop very fine two cups of boiled lobster, then pound, to 
a pulp, with a wooden masher, adding gradually four table- 
spoonfuls of cream, then add the unbeaten white of an t%% ; 
beat into the mixture well, then add another and beat again, 
and so continue until you add three whites. Add an even 
teaspoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and stir in lightly the 
whites of two eggs, beaten to a dry froth. Garnish the 
bottoms of small moulds with chopped mushrooms, fill 
two-thirds fiill with the mixture. Stand the moulds in a 
pan of boiling water, cover and cook in the oven twenty 
minutes. When done, turn from the moulds and serve 
with Cream Mushroom Sauce. 



LOBSTER CUTLETS 

Two cups of chopped boiled lobster. Put a half-pint of 
cream or milk on to boil. Rub together two ounces of 
butter and three even tablespoonfuls of flour, stir these 
into the boiling cream, stir continually until a thick paste 
is formed, add the beaten yolks of two eggs, cook a 
moment, take from the fire, add the lobster, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, a quarter of a grated nutmeg, ten drops 
of onion juice, salt and cayenne to taste, mix carefully and 
turn out to cool. When cold, form into cutlet-shaped 
croquettes, dip first in beaten tg%^ then in bread-crumbs, 
and fry in smoking hot fat ; add a tablespoonful of hot 
water to the tgg as it makes a thinner and more delicate 
covering. It will require about two minutes for frying. 
When done, drain, arrange them on a heated dish, put the 
end of a small claw in each cutlet to represent the mutton 
bone, garnish with parsley, and serve with Cream Sauce or 
Sauce Tartare. 



SHELL FISH 25 

HOT CRABS 

Boil the crabs and pick out the meat. Put a large table- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan ; when melted, add the 
crab meaty add a grating of nutmeg, teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of cayenne, and two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. 
Serve hot with dry toast. 

DEVILED CRABS 

12 nice, heavy crabs i tablespoonful of salt 

3^ pint of cream i tablespoonful of butter 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i tablespoonful of chopped 
^ of a nutmeg, grated parsley 

Yolks of four hard-boiled eggs Salt and cayenne to taste 

Put the crabs in warm water, add the salt and put the kettle 

over a brisk fire. Boil thirty minutes. Take up and drain ; 

break off all the claws, separate the shells, remove the 

spongy fingers, and the stomach, which is found under the 

head. Pick out all the meat. Put the cream on to boil ; 

rub the butter and flour together and add to the boiling 

milk ; stir and cook for two minutes. Take from the fire 

and add the crab meat, the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs 

mashed fine, the parsley, the nutmeg, salt and cayenne. 

Clean the upper shells of the crabs, fill them with the 

mixture, brush over with beaten tgg^ cover with bread 

crumbs and put in a quick oven to brown ; or better, put 

them in a frying-basket and plunge into smoking hot fat or 

oil until a nice brown. 



SOFT-SHELL CRABS 

The soft-shell crab is nothing more than a hard-shell crab 
after shedding its shell. In about three days the new shell 
begins to harden again, which is the cause of the always 
short supply. 



26 SHELL FISH 

Lift the shell and remove the spongy substance on both 
sides, then put your thumb nail under the point of the 
" apron** and pull it off. The *' apron " is a small, loose 
shell, running to a point in the middle of the under shell. 
Now wipe the crabs dry ; if they are at all sandy, wash them 
before removing anything. Do not blanch them, as it 
entirely destroys their fine flavor. Dip them, while alive, 
in beaten Ggg, and then in bread-crumbs which have been 
well seasoned with salt and cayenne. Fry in smoking hot 
oil or lard for ten minutes ; when done, drain a moment on 
soft brown paper. Put Sauce Tartare in the centre of a 
cold, fiat dish, arrange the crabs around this, garnish with 
parsley and lemon cut into quarters, and serve. 



SHRIMPS 

Of all fish belonging to the lobster species, shrimps are the 
smallest. They are of two kinds, the gulf shrimps or 
prawns being the largest. They are sold by the quart, 
already boiled, in some markets, but in the Northern cities 
the canned goods are convenient and very nice. Those 
put up by Dunbar & Co., and White, are the best. 



TO FRY SCOLLOPS 

Scollops are always sold by measure, and only the muscular 
part of the fish is fit to use. 

Cover the scollops with boiling water and let them 
stand three minutes ; drain, and dry them with a towel ; 
season with salt and pepper ; dip first in beaten Qggy then 
in bread-crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat or oil. 



SHELL FISH 27 

MUSSELS 

Mussels arc soft-shell clams. They should be of medium 
size, heavy and perfectly fresh. They should always be 
fried and served same as oysters. 



CLAMS 

The small sand or cherry-stone clams are the better of the 
two varieties, the mud clams or quahaugs being tough and 
very salt. 

CLAM FRITTERS 

Chop and drain twenty-five small clams, add to them one 
gill of milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, the yolks of three 
eggs, and a saltspoonful of pepper. Stir in the well-beaten 
whites of the eggs and fry or saut6 in nice sweet lard or 
suet. Do not float, but cook one side at a time. Drain 
on soft paper and serve very hot. 



BISQUE OP CLAM 

Drain fifty small clams. Then chop them fine. Boil and 
skim the liquor. Add to it one quart of veal stock, a tea- 
spoon fill of onion juice and a dash of cayenne, add the 
clams and four ounces of stale bread. Boil five minutes 
and then press through a sieve. Return it to the kettle, 
add two even tablespoonfuls of arrow-root, moistened in a 
little cold water, stir until it thickens, add one pint of milk 
or cream. As soon as hot, serve. Do not boil or it will 
curdle. 



28 SHELL FISH 

CLAM CHOWDER 

Cut a half-pound of ham or bacon into dice. Pare and 
cut three medium-sized potatoes into tiny squares. Chop 
one onion fine. Cut one pound of veal into pieces about 
an inch square. Chop fifty clams. Mash six water crackers. 
Chop one tablespoonful of parsley. Now put a layer of 
potatoes in the bottom of a kettle, then a sprinkling of 
ham, a little onion and parsley, then a layer of tomatoes 
then chopped clams, and continue these alternations until 
all the materials are used, having the last layer clams. Now 
add sufficient boiling water to just cover. Closely cover 
the kettle, and simmer for a half-hour, without stirring, 
then add one pint of hot milk, and the crackers. Stir and 
serve at once, very hot. The tomatoes may be omitted, if 
not liked. 



FRIED OYSTERS Philadelphia Style 

Select for frying the finest oysters you can get. Drain 
them in a colander, and dry one by one on an old napkin 
or soft linen. Do not lift them with a fork, but carefully 
with the fingers. Season on both sides with salt and 
cayenne. Beat up an tgg in a saucer, add one tablespoon- 
ful of boiling water, and half a teaspoonful of salt. Put 
some nice stale bread-crumbs out on your baking-board, and 
season with salt and cayenne. Dip the oysters one by one 
first in the bread-crumbs, then in the tg%y and then place 
again in the crumbs, covering every part most carefully, 
pressing it lightly with the hand. Put a deep frying- 
pan over the fire, with enough oil or lard to immerse the 
oysters. Be sure the oil or lard is smoking hot (365® Fahr.); 
if you have no thermometer, drop in a crumb of bread, if 
it browns quickly, it is hot enough. Put in six of your 



SHELL FISH 29 

oysters, watch them carefully, as soon as they are of a 
golden brown, take them out with a skimmer, and drain on 
a soft piece of brown paper, and serve at once on a hot 
dish. Some kind of pickles should always be served with 
them, in a separate dish. 

Oysters are very much better fried in oil than lard or 
butter. They should never be fried until you are quite 
ready to eat them, as they are not good when kept warm, 
or warmed over. If you have a large quantity to fry, they 
may be dipped an hour or two before serving time, and 
spread on a clean cloth in a cool place. Always use bread- 
crumbs in preference to cracker-crumbs. 



FRICASSEE OP OYSTERS 

Boil twenty oysters in their own liquor; drain. Put one 
large tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, and when 
melted, add one large tablespoonful of flour ; mix until 
smooth, now add one-half pint of milk, stir until it boils ; 
add the oysters and a half-cup of the liquor, salt and cay- 
enne to taste, and stir again until it boils. Take from the 
fire, add the yolks of two eggs lightly beaten, and one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; serve at once. 



STEWED OYSTERS 

Drain fifty oysters, or one quart, and put the liquor on to 
boil ; as soon as it boils, skim all the white scum from the 
surface ; now add the oysters, bring to boiling point and 
skim again, then add a half-pint of milk, a tablespoonful 
of butter rubbed with a tablespoonful of flour ; cook one 
minute. Season with salt and pepper, and serve without 
delay. 



30 SHELL FISH 

NEW YORK BROILED OYSTERS 

Drain and season the oysters with salt and cayenne. Dip 
first in melted butter, then in bread-crumbs, and broil over 
a clear fire until a very light brown. Serve on toast, with 
Maitre d'Hdtel Butter. 

BROWN BROILED OYSTERS 

Drain and dry the oysters. Boil and skim the liquor. Put 
one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, and when very 
brown add one tablespoonful of flour, brown again, add the 
oyster liquor, boil, season with salt and pepper. Stand 
over boiling water to keep hot while you broil the oysters. 
Put a griddle or cast-iron pan over a very hot fire. Grease 
lightly with butter, throw on a few oysters at a time, when 
brown on one side turn and brown the other. When done 
put them in the sauce. Serve on buttered toast. 

CURRIED OYSTERS 

Drain twenty-five oysters and put the liquor on to boil. 
As soon as boiled, skim, and stand aside until wanted. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan to melt, 
do not brown ; add two slices of onion, and stir until the 
onion turns a golden color, then add one tablespoonful of 
flour, one teaspoonful of curry powder, mix, and add a 
half-pint of the oyster liquor, stir continually until it boils, 
add a half-teaspoon ful of salt and stand the pan over boil- 
ing water to await the oysters. Dry the oysters on a soft 
towel. Heat a large, iron frying-pan, grease it lightly 
with butter, and throw in the oysters, a few at a time, 
turning as soon as they are a golden brown. As fast as they 
are cooked throw them into the sauce. 
Serve hot with boiled rice. 



SHELL FISH » 

OYSTER PIE 

Put two cups of flour into a cold bowl, cut into it quickly 
a quarter-pound of cold, hard butter, add a teaspoonful of 
salt and sufficient ice-water to just moisten. A word of 
caution : add the water very carefully, wetting only the 
dry flour, never stirring twice in the same place. Dredge 
the baking-board lightly with flour, turn the paste out onto 
it and roll lightly and quickly from you into a long, thin 
sheet. Place over this a quarter-pound of butter, cut into 
small pieces, fold into three, turn the paste around and toU 
from you again as before. Fold and roll again ; then fold 
and stand on the ice for two hours. This paste to be very 
light must be mixed and rolled quickly, and the materials 
icy cold, with one-half this paste line a deep pie-dish. 
Drain fifty oysters free from all liquor, turn them into the 
pie-dish, add a tablespoonful of butter, cut into small 
pieces, salt and pepper. Roll out the remaining half of 
the paste for the upper cover. Bake in a quick oven thirty 
minutes. 



MEATS 



BEEF 

Good beef should be of fine grain, firm texture, a clear 
red color, and a yellowish-white, firm fat. The best pieces 
for roasting are the ribs, sirloin and pin-bone ; the latter 
containing a large piece of tenderloin, with a corresponding 
piece of sirloin, makes a delightful roast, and is entirely 
unknown to many persons. Three-fourths of the populace 
order for roasting — and fully believe they receive it — the 
middle cut of the standing ribs. When we stop to consider 
that one animal only contains two such cuts, we see how 
impossible it is for a butcher to send this to each of his two 
hundred customers, if he is fortunate enough to have that 
number. In so doing, he would have to slaughter one 
hundred animals, and many of our first-class and well-to-do 
butchers cut and sell only four or five animals per week. 
It is my intention to teach you how to make good, whole- 
some, palatable dishes, out of the so-called inferior pieces 
of meat. A pound of meat from the shoulder, costing eight 
to ten cents per pound, contains just as much nourishment 
as tenderloin at seventy-five cents per pound. 

(3«) 



ME A TS 83 



ROAST BEEP 



Meat cooked in the oven is truly baked meat, not roasted, 
and if the former be done according to scientific principles, 
it is in no way a "mean *' dish. I am convinced, from 
practical experiments, that meat cooked by dry heat in an 
open chamber will, if properly managed, produce better 
results in every respect than a tin kitchen and an open fire, 
in the hands of an untrained cook. One teacher argues 
that the vapor injures the flavor of the meat, but I cannot 
see how the vapor of beef can possibly injure the flavor ot 
beef, or the vapor of mutton be at all damaging to mutton. 
The object in baking is to seal up the pores on the surface 
as quickly and completely as possible, thus retaining the 
juices within the meat. Put your meat, then, in an iron 
baking-pan, dust it with pepper only ; sprinkling with salt 
hardens the fibrine on the outside and toughens the meat. 
Put a half-cup of water in the bottom of the pan to prevent 
scorching, and slide the whole into a very hot oven. Let 
the surface crust or brown as speedily as possible ; do not 
baste for the first fifteen minutes ; at the end of this time 
you will find sufficient dripping with which to baste. Do 
not add more water ; remember, you are baking, not brais- 
ing or stewing. If the roast is large, fifteen minutes to 
every pound will be required, and the oven should be 
slightly cooled after the first hour and salt added to the fat 
in the pan. In this way the salt is basted into the meat, 
which should be done every ten minutes. In roasting 
smaller pieces of meat a different procedure is necessary. 
The time slightly decreases, say ten minutes to every pound, 
adding salt after the first fifteen, and basting every ten 
minutes as before. I have frequently heard the heads of 
small households refuse to have roast beef, because '* small 
roasts are never good." This is an error, as I have had, 



84 ME A TS 

many times, as delicious roasts from a properly cooked four- 
pound rib, as from those weighing nine or twelve pounds. 
The continual basting with hot fat assists the communication 
of heat and checks the evaporation of the juices, but if the 
pan be partly filled with water, the meat is given a water 
bath by the basting, loses its juices, and becomes tasteless 
and dry. 

BAKED BBBP French Stjde 

Secure a nice fat middle cut .of rib or a pin-bone roast, weigh- 
ing about ten pounds. Mix together two tablespoonfiils of 
olive oil and two of lemon juice. Moisten the meat all 
over with this mixture. Cut two onions into thin slices, 
add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a saltspoon- 
ful of white pepper. Put part of this mixture on a large 
dish, place the meat on top of it then the remainder over 
the meat, cover and stand aside over night. Next day 
bake the same as plain Baked Beef. 

This preparation certainly improves the flavor of the 
meat and makes it more tender. 



PILLBT OF BBBP WITH MUSHROOM 8AUCB 

To prepare, first remove, with a sharp knife, every shred 
of the muscular covering from one side of the fillet. Cut 
larding pork (very fat salt pork) into tiny strips, and throw 
them into a bowl of ice-water to harden. Place one end 
in the slot end of a larding needle as far as it will go, 
thrust the needle into the meat, taking a stitch near the 
top and one end about one inch deep, push the needle 
through, place the finger lightly on the end of the pork 
and draw out the needle, leaving the pork exposed about 



MEATS 85 

one inch at each end of the stitch. Continue until you 
have two rows of these lardoons (the name given to these 
small strips) down the centre of the fillet. The lardoons 
should be one inch apart. In the bottom of a baking-pan 
put one small onion, sliced, one carrot, a few pieces of 
celery, four cloves, a sprig of parsley, and two bay leaves. 
Put the fillet in the pan on top of these, dredge with pep- 
per, and spread with butter, add to the pan a teaspoon ful 
of salt, and a cup of boiling water or stock. Bake in a 
quick oven for thirty minutes, basting with melted butter 
four or five times. The shape is such as to take thirty 
minutes to bake a fillet no matter what its weight. When 
done take it out and place on a heated dish, add to the 
pan one pint of stock or water, and let it simmer^ while 
you brown in another pan two ounces of butter and two 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Remember that both butter and 
flour must be a dark brown. Now add the pint of liquor 
from the other pan, stir continually until it boils, and add 
a pint of fresh mushrooms, or a can of French mushrooms, 
cook five minutes, take from the fire, add a tablespoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonfiil of tomato 
catsup, and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper, pour 
around the fillet, and serve. 

The fillet may also be served with plain tomato sauce. 

BROILED FILLET OP BEEF 

Cut the fillet into pieces about one inch thick. Mix to- 
gether two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and one of lemon 
juice. Moisten .the meat carefully with this mixture and 
stand in a cold place for one hour or longer, then place 
them in a wire broiler, and broil five minutes over a clear 
fire turning the broiler ten times. Serve with salt, pepper, 
and melted butter, or with tomato or mushroom sauce. 



86 MEATS 

BRAISINQ 

The word "braise" means to cook meats slowly, in a 
closely-covered pan in the oven, the pan containing suffi- 
cient water to keep up a goodly quantity of steam. The 
meat should be placed in the bottom of the pan, the pan 
partly filled with boiling water, a teaspoonful of salt added, 
a sliced onion, a carrot, a sprig of parsley, and a bay leaf, 
if liked. Now cover the pan closely, and place on the 
bottom of a moderately hot oven, and bake or cook fifteen 
minutes to every pound of meat, basting every half hour. 
Meat thus cooked should be of a delicate brown, juicy and 
tender. You cannot roast in a braising-pan — meat is always 
dry and tasteless. A brown sauce should be made from 
browned butter and flour and the liquor from the bottom 
of the braising-pan. 

All kinds of meats and poultry are braised in precisely 
the same manner. 

BRAISED BEEF'S TONQUB 

Wash the tongue, put it into a kettle and cover with boil- 
ing water; simmer gently for two hours. Then take out 
the tongue, skin it, trim off the rough pieces at the roots, 
and remove the bones. Now tie the tip of the tongue 
around to the side of the thicker part ; fasten it. Now put 
two tablespoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan and brown it, 
then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well; then add 
one quart of stock or the water in which the tongue was 
boiled, one onion, one carrot, one turnip, one potato, 
sliced, a sprig of parsley, two bay leaves, a tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, and a tablespoonful of mushroom 
catsup ; stir until it boils. Put the tongue in a baking or 
braising-pan, pour this sauce around it ; if in a baking-pan. 



ME A TS 87 

cover, put it in the oven, and bake two hours, basting 
every fifteen minutes. When done, dish the tongue ; 
remove the strings. Boil the sauce until reduced to one 
pint, pour it over and around the tongue, and serve. 

m 

CANNELON 

Mix one pound of uncooked beef, chopped fine, yolk of 
one tggy one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one of 
butter, one of bread-crumbs, one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice, one of salt, and three dashes of black pepper to- 
gether, then form into a roll about six inches long and 
four inches in diameter ; wrap in greased paper, put in a 
baking-pan and bake in a quick oven thirty minutes, 
basting twice with melted butter. When done, remove the 
the paper, place the roll in the centre of a hot dish, and serve 
with Mushroom or Brown Sauce poured over it. 

STUFFED STEW OF BEEF 

Take three pounds from upper side of round. Make gashes 
in the meat about two inches long and almost through it. 
Mix one-fourth of a teaspoonful of black pepper, one-fourth 
of a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of all- 
spice, one-fourth teaspoonful of cloves, and one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Mix one cup of bread-crumbs, one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one tablespoonful 
of butter (melted) together. Rub the meat on both sides 
with the spices and put the remainder in the gashes. Fill 
the gashes nearly full with the bread-crumbs. Cut one- 
fourth of a pound of larding pork into pieces the size of 
the gashes, and work them down with the crumbs. Now 
tie the meat around with a piece of twine to hold in the 
filling. Put it in a saucepan and cover with a gravy made 



88 MEATS 

as follows : Put one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan 
and let it brown, add one tablespoonful of flour and mix 
well, then add one quart of stock, stir until it boils, then 
add one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, one of tomato 
catsup, one of Worcestershire sauce, one onion, and one 
bay leaf, and pour it over the meat ; simmer gently three 
hours. Then take the meat out, put it in a baking-pan, 
pour over two tablespoonfuls of glaze or gravy, and put it 
in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes to brown. Then 
dish and strain the gravy over and around it. 



BEEP A LA MODE 

Take a piece from the round weighing about seven pounds. 
Remove the bone. Cut deep gashes into the meat about 
one inch apart, being careful not to cut all the way through. 
Mix together, one teaspoonful of salt, half teaspoonful of 
pepper, same of cinnamon, a quarter- teaspoonful of mace, 
the same of cloves, and rub them into the meat on both 
sides, sprinkling a little into the gashes. Cut fat salt pork 
into pieces the size of the gashes, put a piece into each 
gash. Make a filling from a half-cup of stale bread- 
crumbs, one snuiU onion, grated, and moisten with vinegar. 
Work a portion of this into the gashes by the side of the 
pork. Mix three tablespoonfuls of olive oil with one and 
a half of vinegar, and moisten both sides of the meat ; 
stand away over night. In the morning, bind it together 
with a piece of tape. Put it in a baking-pan with one 
onion, sliced, one carrot, a bay leaf, piece of celery and a 
sprig of parsley. Partly cover it with boiling water ; then 
cover with another pan, and cook in the oven for four hours. 
Baste every twenty minutes. When done remove the 
meat, and stand aside to cool. Strain this liquor in the pan 



ME A TS 89 

and add to it a quarter-box of soaked gelatine. Season to 
taste and put it into a square pan to cool. This should 
form an amber jelly, and may be cut in blocks and used as 
a garnish for the beef k la mode. 

BROILED STEAK 

Trim the steak free from all suet. Put the meat plate to 
heat. See that the fire is clear and free from gas. Grease 
and heat the broiler. Now put the steak in the hot broiler 
and place it over the fire ; turn constantly. It will take 
eight minutes to broil if the steak is three-quarters of an 
inch thick. When done, place it on the hot plate, dredge 
it with salt and pepper ; turn it and season the other side. 
Serve immediately. 

Never attempt to broil a toiigh steak ; if you should 
be so unfortunate as to buy one, use it for some made dish, 
as hacking or hammering bruises the meat, and allows all 
the juices to escape. 

TO PAN A BEEFSTEAK 

When there are no conveniences for broiling (and we never 
fry a steak), heat an iron pan very hot, put in the steak, 
turn it from side to side over a very hot fire for about fif- 
teen minutes. The steak should be about three-quarters of 
an inch in thickness. Serve on a hot plate, seasoned the 
same as broiled steak. 

SPANISH BEEFSTEAK 

Have cut from the upper round a steak about one inch 
thick. Put it in a baking-pan, add a half-cup of hot water 
and bake for thirty minutes. Take it frgm the oven^ coyer 



40 ME A TS 

it with a layer of Spanish onion cut into thin slices. Put 
it back in the oven and bake thirty minutes longer. Take 
it out again, dust it with salt and pepper, and cover 
it with a layer of stewed tomatoes, then a sprinkling of 
grated cheese ; put it back in the oven long enough to 
thoroughly heat and melt the cheese. Serve very hot, and 
in dishing lift the steak carefully without disturbing the 
layers. 

BRESLAU OF BEEF 

Beat the yolks of three eggs, add to them one pint of cold, 
chopped beef, one gill of stock, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, a half-cup of stale bread-crumbs, a half-pint of 
cream, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a half-teaspoonful of pepper. Brush custard 
cups well with butter, press the breslau into them. Partly 
fill a baking-pan with boiling water, stand the cups in it, 
and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. When done, 
turn them from the cups into a heated dish, pour around 
Tomato Sauce, garnish with squares of toasted bread, and 
serve hot. 



DEVILED MEAT 

Cut cold meat into dice. Put a tablespoonful of butter 
into a frying-pan, when hot, add two tablespoonfuls of 
stale bread-crumbs, fry until brown ; add the meat, a pint, 
a half-teaspoonful of dry mustard, a dash of cayenne, and 
a sprinkling of salt. When the meat is thoroughly heated, 
add the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs mashed fine, a half- 
cup of stock, or water ; let boil up once, and serve very 
hot. Buttered toast should be served with it. 



ME A TS 41 

TO CORN BEEP FOR DRYING (Grmndmother's Recipe) 

Cut a round of beef into four pieces. Rub each piece 
lightly with salt on all sides, and let it stand one day 
before corning. Make a brine from one tub of water, a 
half-pound of sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered saltpetre, 
and salt until the brine will float an egg. Put the meat 
into this brine and allow it to remain two weeks. Cover 
it carefully and look at it frequently. See that the brine 
covers the meat ; if not, make a little more from salt and 
water and add to it. At the end of the two weeks, take 
out the meat and hang it in a cool place, to dry. It may 
be smoked, but many think this destroys the flavor. 



TO BOIL CORNED BEEP 

Wash it well, and put it on to boil in cold water. Bring 
slowly to a simmer^ and simmer thirty minutes to every 
pound. 

If to be served cold, allow it to cool in the liquor in 
which it was boiled. 



FRIZZLED BBBP 

Chip dried beef very thin. To every half-pound allow a 
large tablespoonful of butter, a half-pint of milk, and one 
tablespoonful of flour. Melt the butter in a fr)dng-pan, 
then add the meat, and stir over the fire for about two min- 
utes, or until the butter begins to brown; dredge in the 
flour, stir again, then add the milk and a little pepper^ stir 
again until it boils, and serve immediately. 



42 MEATS 

BAKED BEEF'S HEART 

Soak the heart three hours in cold water, remove the mus- 
cles from the inside, and take out every atom of blood. 
Make a forcemeat as follows : One cup of bread-crumbs, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, half a teaspoonful of marjoram, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and two dashes of black pepper ; mix, and 
stuff the heart. Tie it together with twine, and wrap 
tightly in a cloth, sewing the ends together so that the stuf- 
fing cannot possibly get out. Put it into a small stewpan 
with the point of the heart down, nearly cover with boiling 
water and simmer until tender, about two and a half hours, 
then remove the cloth, place the heart in a baking-pan, 
baste with melted butter, and brown in a quick oven. 
When done, place it on a heated dish. Put one table- 
spoonful of butter in the baking-pan, arid, when brown, 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a pint of the water in 
which the heart was stewed ; stir constantly until it boils, 
add salt and pepper to taste, and four tablespoonfuls of 
sherry. Pour it over the heart and serve very hot. 

STEWED KIDNEY 

Be sure that the kidneys are perfectly fresh, split them in 
halves, wash them in cold water, and with a pointed knife 
take out all the fat and sinewy tubes. Cut the remaining 
part into thin slices, throw them into a stewpan of cold 
water, stand them over a moderate fire, and, when steaming 
hot, drain, scald, stand aside for a few minutes ; drain and 
scald again. One point must always be remembered, that 
is, that the kidney must never boil or reach the boiling 
point, or it will be hard and tough. Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a frying-pan, and when very brown, add 



ME A TS 43 

two tablespoonfuls of flour; brown again, and add one 
pint of water or stock, stir continually until it boils, add a 
palatable seasoning of salt and pepper, and the kidney, stir 
until the kidney is very hot, and then stand over boiling 
water for five minutes. If you use wine, add two tablespoon- 
fuls, or you may add Worcestershire sauce and a little 
lemon juice. 



MUTTON 

BAKED LEG OP MUTTON 

Trim the leg and wipe it with a damp cloth, place it in a 
baking-pan, dust it with pepper, put a half-cup of water in 
the pan, place it *in a hot oven, and bake twenty minutes 
to every pound, dust thickly with salt when the meat is 
half done. Serve with a brown sauce made from the fat in 
the pan. 

Mutton to be perfectly tender should be well hung in 
the open air, and thoroughly basted while baking. 

BAKED SHOULDER OP MUTTON 

A shoulder of mutton may be baked precisely the same as 
a leg of mutton, or the bone may be removed, and the 
vacancy filled with a bread stuffing. 

BOILED LEO OP MUTTON 

Wipe the leg with a damp towel, dust a piece of cheese 
cloth thickly with flour and wrap the leg in it, then place it 
in a large kettle of boiling water. The leg must be thor- 
oughly covered with the water, cover the kettle, boil for five 



44 MEATS 

minutes, then put it on the back part of the range, and 
gently simmer fifteen minutes to every pound. Add a 
teaspoonful of salt when the leg is half done. When done, 
remove the towel carefully, dish the leg, garnish with parsley, 
trim the bone with quilled paper, and serve with Caper 
Sauce in a boat. 

Save the liquor in which the mutton was boiled for 
Brown or Herb Soup. 

BRAISED LEG OP MUTTON 

Rub the outside of the leg with a mixture of the following 
spices : a half-teaspoonful of pepper, the same of cloves, 
a quarter-teaspoonful of nutmeg and a half-teaspoonful of 
curry powder. Hang it in a cool place forty-eight hours. 

Place it in a braising-pan with one onion and one 
carrot, sliced, two bay leaves, and a piece of celery, add 
one quart of good cider, cover the pan and cook in a quick 
oven one and three-quarters hours. The leg should be 
basted every ten minutes, and turned once or twice while 
cooking. 

Serve with the sauce in the pan poured around it. If 
the sauce is thin, after the leg is taken out boil it rapidly 
until reduced to the proper consistency. 

MUTTON CHOPS 

Broil precisely the same as beefsteak. 

Serve with Tomato Sauce or green peas. 

SHOULDER OP MUTTON WITH OYSTERS 

Secure a large Southdown shoulder, bone it, sprinkle it well 
with pepper and mace, and hang it in a cold place over 



MEATS 45 

night. In the morning fill the space from which the bone 
was taken with nicely seasoned oysters, sew up and tie into 
shape. Put the shoulder in a stewing-pan and cover with 
boiling water, add an onion, a dozen pepper-corns, and 
one teaspoonful of salt, cover closely and simmer gently 
twenty minutes to each pound of meat. Serve with 
OjTster Sauce. 

IRISH STEW 

Cut two necks of mutton into small pieces, put them in a 
stewing-pan, and just cover with boiling water. Bring the 
whole quickly to a boil; boil rapidly one minute, then 
push the saucepan on the back part of the range, where 
the contents will gently simmer, for three hours ; about a 
half-hour before the stew is done, add one tablespoonful of 
grated onion, four potatoes cut into dice, and a palatable 
seasoning of salt and pepper. When done, dish the meat 
carefully with a skimmer, allowing as much as possible 
of the sauce to remain in the saucepan, which take from the 
fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with two tablespoonfuls 
of cream until light, and add them hastily to the sauce ; 
pour this over the meat, and sprinkle with finely chopped 
parsley. Serve with it, stewed tomatoes and browned 
slices of turnip. 

CURRY OF MUTTON 

Chop one pint of cold cooked mutton. Put one table- 
spoonful of butter in a frying-pan j when melted, add a 
tablespoonful of flour and stir until smooth, add half-pint 
of boiling water, stir until it boils, add the meat, a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder, and a half-teaspoonful of salt ; 
stir until thoroughly heated. Then heap it in the centre 
of a meat dish, and put around it a border of nicely boiled 
rice. 



46 MEATS 

MUTTON SAUSAGES 

Chop one pint of cold cooked mutton, three ounces of 
beef suet, and six raw oysters; mix, add a half-cup of bread- 
crumbs, one tggf slightly beaten, salt, pepper, and a 
quarter-teaspoonful of mace, and, if convenient, a teaspoon- 
ful of anchovy paste ; mix all thoroughly together into 
small round cakes, and fry in butter. Serve with Tomato 
Sauce. 

HAQQIS 

Chop the uncooked heart, tongue, and half of the liver 
of a sheep, and mix with them one-half their weight in 
chopped bacon, add a half-cup of stale bread-crumbs, the 
grated rind of one lemon, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter- 
teaspoonful of black pepper, and two well-beaten eggs; 
pack this into a well-buttered mould, cover, place it in a 
kettle partly filled with boiling water, and boil slowly for 
two hours. When done, turn it on a dish, and serve it 
plain or with Sauce Bdchamel. 

CHINESE RAGOUT 

Chop one pint of cold cooked mutton. Put it in a stcwing- 
pan, and add two tablespoonfuls of butter, a half-pint of 
water, one small onion, chopped, a half-pint of green peas 
or a half-can, a small head of lettuce, torn in small pieces, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter-teaspoonful of pepper ; 
cover, and cook slowly for one hour. When done, dish, 
and serve with a border of boiled rice. 



BREAST OF LAMB WITH ASPARAGUS TOPS 

Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, and then cut It 
into square pieces; dredge these with flour. Pat two 



ME A TS 47 

ounces of butter in a stcwing-pan, and, when hot, throw in 
the pieces of lamb ; cook and shake until the meat is nicely 
browned, then add one quart of boiling water or stock, 
one Bermuda onion, cut into slices, an even teaspoonful 
of salt, and a saltspoon of white pepper. Cover the stew- 
ing-pan, and simmer gently until the meat is tender, then 
skim off the fat and add one pint of asparagus tops that 
have been cooked ten minutes in boiling water. Let the 
whole boil ten minutes longer, and serve in a border of 
nicely boiled rice. 

TO BOIL SALT OR SMOKED SHEEP8' TONGUES 

Wash one dozen sheeps' tongues, and soak them over night 
in cold water. In the morning put them in a kettle of fresh 
cold water and bring them slowly to a boil, skim all the 
scum from the top, and simmer two hours ; stand aside to 
cool in the liquor. When cold, remove the skin and trim 
off the rough parts. Lay them between two plates to 
flatten. Arrange them in a circle on a meat -dish with 
Mayonnaise in the center. Garnish with water-cress. 

SHEEPS' TONGUES IN JELLY 

Wash thoroughly six fresh sheeps' tongues. Throw them 
into boiling water, and simmer very gently for one and a 
half hours. At the end of first hour add one onion, one bay 
leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter-teaspoonful of 
pepper. When done, remove the skin and rough parts. 
Have ready some Aspic Jelly, made as follows: Put a 
quarter-pound of bacon in the bottom of a soup-kettle, let 
it brown, and add one onion, cut in slices, and stir until a 
nice brown ; then add one large tablespoonful of butter, 
and, when hot, one pound of uncooked beef, cut fine ; 



48 MEATS 

cover the kettle and let it simmer until a thick brown glaze 
is formed in the bottom of the kettle ; then add a knuckle 
of veal and two quarts of cold water ; simmer gently for 
two hours. Now add a slice of turnip, a slice of parsnip, 
a half carrot, a stalk of celery, six pepper-corns, three whole 
allspice, two cloves, a blade of mace, a chip of lemon rind, 
a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and salt to taste. 
Then simmer two hours longer. When done it should be 
reduced one-half, strain and clarify the same as Consomm^. 
Put a layer of the jelly in the bottom of a mould, stand it 
away until stiff and cold. Put the sheeps* tongues on the 
jelly and pour the remaining jelly over them. Stand the 
whole in a cold place over night or for several hours. 
When cold and firm, turn it out on a cold meat-dish. 
Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and water-cress. 



VEAL 

Veal and pork may be placed side by side as far as digesti- 
bility is concerned. Persons of weak digestive organs 
cannot afford to eat either. Veal, perhaps, has the prefer- 
ence, provided it be cut thin and cooked thoroughly. 
Veal roasted is far more unwholesome than when cooked in 
any other way. 

Use judgment and care in selecting. Choose that at 
least two months old, with firm flesh, pinkish tinge, and 
good-sized hard bones. That with small bones, soft and 
flabby flesh, with bluish tinge should be avoided as not 
only unwholesome, but dangerous. 



ME A TS 49 

VEAL CUTLET 

The usual method of dipping a thick cutlet into egg and 
crumbs, and then frying it slowly in lard is abominable. 
But if the cutlet be cut as thin as a knife blade, blanched 
by pouring over it boiling water, then dried, dipped, and 
fried quickly in nice veal suet^ it will be both palatable and 
comparatively wholesome. 



ROAST SHOULDER OP VEAL 

Have the butcher remove the bone from the shoulder, fill 
the space with a bread stuffing, seasoned only with salt, 
pepper, and parsley, pin the meat together with a skewer, 
and finish precisely the same as baked beef or mutton. 



RAGOUT OF VEAL 

Take the remains of cold roast veal and cut it into neat 
squares. To each quart of these squares allow a pint of 
sauce made as follows : Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a frying-pan and, when very brown, add two even table- 
spoonfuls of fiour, mix until smooth, and add one pint of 
stock, or water, stir continually until it boils, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and the meat. When 
thoroughly hot, stir in three hard-boiled eggs, chopped very 
fine. Serve with plain boiled rice. 

STEWED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil and carefully remove the skin without breaking the 
sweetbreads. Put them into a small stewing-pan with two 
ounces of butter, a tablespoon ful of chopped onion, a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one clove, a bay leaf, a 



50 ME A TS 

teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a half- teaspoon ful of 
salt and a half- pint of white stock. Stand the pan on a 
moderate fire and simmer for thirty minutes. Dish the 
sweetbreads. Wash a pint of French peas in cold water, 
add them to the sauce, let the whole come to a boil, skim 
all the fat from the surface, and pour the sauce and peas 
aroimd the sweetbreads. 

SWEETBREAD CUTLETS 

Parboil, skin and chop one large pair of sweetbreads. 
Chop one dozen mushrooms very fine. Put one gill of 
cream on to boil in a porcelain-lined or granite kettle. 
Rub smoothly together one tablespoonful of butter and 
two even tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir into the boiling 
cream, stirring continually until it forms a thick paste ; 
then add the yolks of two eggs, stir another minute, add 
the sweetbreads and mushrooms, a quarter-teaspoonful of 
grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, salt and white pepper to taste ; 
mix and turn out to cool ; when cold, form into cutlets, 
dip in tgg and bread-crumbs and fry in smoking-hot fat. 
Drain on brown paper, and serve with Cream Sauce. 



CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil the sweetbreads for twenty minutes, then throw 
them into cold water for five minutes to blanch. Carefully 
remove all the skin and rougher parts. Pick them to 
pieces, rejecting all the fine membranes, and chop with a 
silver knife. Cut ten mushrooms into dice. Put one 
large tablespoonful of butter into a granite or porcelain- 
lined kettle to melt ; when melted, add one tablespoonful 



MEATS 51 

of flour, mix until smooth, add a half-pint of cream, stir 
continually until it boils; add the mushrooms and sweet- 
breads and stand over the steam of the teakettle until all 
is thoroughly heated, add a half-teaspoonful of salt and a 
dash of white pepper. Serve in fancy paper cases, natural 
or silver shells. 

BROILED LIVER 

Cut the liver into slices and scald it. Then wipe it dry, 
season with salt and pepper, and broil over a clear fire, first 
on one side and then on the other ; it will take about five 
minutes. When done, spread lightly with butter, and 
serve on heated dish. 

PORK 

Pork, like veal, should be thoroughly cooked, and should 
be eaten only during the winter months. 

ROAST LOIN OP PORK 

Put the loin in a baking-pan, dust it with pepper, put a 
half-cup of water in the bottom of the pan, add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of powdered sage, and 
bake in a quick oven twenty minutes to every pound, bast- 
ing every fifteen minutes. Serve with it plain Apple Sauce. 

HAM CROQUETTES 

Put one gill of milk on to boil, add to it two tablespoonfuls 
of dried bread-crumbs ; stir over the fire until it thickens ; 
add one cup of cooked ham finely chopped, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, a dash of cayenne, and the beaten 
yolk of one Qgg ; mix well and turn out to cool. When 
cool, form into balls about the size of a hickory nut ; roll 
first in egg and then in bread-crumbs, and then plunge in- 
to smoking-hot fat for about two minutes to brown. 



62 ' MEATS 

BAKED HAM 

Soak the ham over night in sufficient cold water to cover 
it. Next morning wash and trim it neatly. Put it in a 
large kettle, cover with cold water, add a tablespoonful of 
molasses, and a quart of cider ; cover the kettle and cook 
slowly fifteen minutes to every pound of ham. When the 
ham is done, take it out, remove the skin, and place it in 
a baking-pan, fat side up, brush it over with beaten tgg^ 
sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, add a pint of cider to 
the pan, and bake in a moderate oven one hour, basting 
once or twice with the cider. Serve hot, cut in thin slices. 



POULTRY 

If care is taken in the dressing of fowls, there is no need 
of washing. In my own school it is never done^ unless 
some one is unfortunate enough to break an intestine, then 
the washing is done as delicately as possible. To get the 
best results bake poultry twenty minutes in a very hot 
oven, then cook slowly to finish. All poultry is much 
better if cooked without stuffing. An eight-pound turkey 
will take two hours ; a five-pound chicken one hour and 
a half. 

CHICKEN STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS 

Draw and clean the chicken. Roast one quart of large 

chestnuts; when done, remove the shells and mash. Put 

one-half the chestnuts in a bowl, add a tablespoonful of 

butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper, mix 

and fill the chicken the same as with bread-crumbs. Lard 

the breast thickly with salt pork ; place the chicken in a 

baking-pan, add a half-cup of water and a half-teaspoonful 

of salt; roast in a quick oven fifteen minutes to each 

pound, basting every ten minutes. When done, dish, 

remove the strings and skewers, garnish with parsley. Put 

the remaining chestnuts in the pan in which the chicken 

was roasted, mix well, add a half pint of stocky stir until it 

boils, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve in a boat. 

Chickens may also be stuffed with oyster or potato 

stuffing. 

($3) 



64 POULTRY 

BRAISED CHICKEN 

For this dish select a fowl weighing about five or five and 
a half pounds. Singe, draw, and truss without stuffing. 
Put one sliced carrot, one onion, a few celery tops, and, if 
you have it, a bay leaf, in a good-sized baking-pan ; add a 
piece of bacon or ham rind, a quart of water, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a saltspoon of pepper. Put the chicken in 
the pan, cover with another pan, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven for about two and a half hours, basting every 
ten or fifteen minutes. When the chicken is done, put 
two tablespoonfuls of suet in a frying-pan ; when very 
brown, add two level tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, and 
add the liquor from the pan in which the chicken was 
braised. This should measure one pint, stir until it boils. 
Serve in a boat. 

Boiled ham may be served with the braised chicken. 

PRIED CHICKEN WITH CREAM GRAVY 

Clean a fowl and disjoint it, wipe thoroughly with a damp 
towel, and dust each piece lightly with flour. Have ready 
a good-sized pan containing a mixture of suet and lard, or 
better still, pure olive oil. Put the chicken into the hot fat, 
cook slowly until nicely browned on one side, then turn 
and brown the other. Dish carefully and pour from the 
pan all the fat excepting two tablespoonfuls, add to this, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix and add one pint of cream 
or milk, stir continually until it boils, add a level teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a dash of pepper, pour it over the chicken, and 
serve. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN 

Draw, and cut up a nice young chicken, wipe it well with 
a damp cloth. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, 
and when hot, put in the chicken, cook quickly without 



POULTRY 56 

cover until the pieces are nicely browned, then draw them 
to one side of saucepan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour to 
the butter, mix and add one pint of hot water, stir until 
boiling, add a teaspoonful of salt, a slice of onion, a bay 
leaf, and a dash of pepper, cover and simmer gently for 
one hour. When done, dish the chicken, add the beaten 
yolk of an tg% to the sauce, pour it over the chicken, 
sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 

AN EASY CASSEROLE 

Singe and draw two pullets ; disjoint them as you would 
for a fricassee ; arrange the pieces in a large baking-dish, 
a quarter-pound of ham may be cut into dice and mixed 
through 'y dust with salt and pepper, cover with water, put 
a lid over the dish and bake in a quick oven for one and a 
quarter hours. Put a half-cup of rice in a kettle of boil- 
ing water and boil rapidly for twenty minutes. Drain, 
add a tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of pepper. Remove the 
chicken from the oven, take off the lid, and, if the water 
has evaporated, add sufficient milk to nearly cover the 
chicken, dust again with a little salt, and put the rice over 
the top to form a crust. Brush over with melted butter 
and put back in the oven to brown. Serve in the dish in 
which it was baked. 

BOUDIN8 

Chop cold cooked chicken fine, measure, and to every 
pint add a tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of dried bread-crumbs, half a cup of stock or boiling 
water, two eggs, slightly beaten, salt and pepper to 
taste. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan and 
stir over the fire for a moment until thoroughly mixed. 



56 POULTRY 

Fill custard cups two-thirds full with this mixture, stand 
them in a baking-pan half-filled with boiling water, and 
bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. When done 
turn them out carefully on a heated dish and pour around 
them cream or Bechamel Sauce. Remains of cold roast or 
boiled poultry can be used in this way. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Remove the skin, fat and sinews from cold cooked chicken, 
then chop and measure it, and to every pint allow a half- 
pint of milk, one large tablespoonful of butter, two large 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, twelve drops of onion juice, a quarter-teaspoonful 
of nutmeg, salt and cayenne to taste. Put the milk on to 
heat in a double boiler, rub the butter and flour to a 
smooth paste, then stir into the boiling milk, and stir con- 
tinually until it is very thick, take it from the fire, add the 
meat and all the seasoning ; mix thoroughly, tasting to see 
if enough salt and pepper, turn out to cool. When cold 
and stiff" form into cone-shaped croquettes (there are 
molds for this purpose) ; dip these first in egg then in 
bread-crumbs, and fry in smoking hot oil or fat. Sweet- 
breads may be parboiled, chopped and added to the meat, 
before measuring. All meat croquettes may be made 
in the same manner. 

CECILS 

Two cups of cold cooked meat chopped fine, add the 
yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of stale bread-crumbs, a half-teaspoonful of 
onion juice, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter-teaspoon- 
ful of black pepper. Put all these ingredients in a frying- 
pan, and stew over the fire until thoroughly mixed and 



POULTRY 57 

hot. Turn out to cool. When cold form into balls about 
the size of a walnut, dip first in beaten ^gg^ then in 
bread-crumbs, then fry in smoking hot oil or fat. Serve with 
sauce Bechamel. 



TURKEY 

A turkey may be stuffed with chestnuts, bread, potato, 
or oyster stuffing and cooked precisely the same as a . 
chicken. 

BOILED TURKEY 

For boiling select a young hen turkey not weighing over 
eight pounds. Clean, truss, and tie into shape, but do not 
stuff. Dredge thickly with flour, put it into a kettleful of 
boiling water, add a quarter-cup of washed rice, a bay leaf, 
and a slice of onion, cover the kettle closely, boil rapidly 
for five minutes, then put it over a moderate fire to simmer 
gently for two hours; serve with Egg or Oyster Sauce. 
The water in which it was boiled should be saved for 
soup. 

DUCK WITH OLIVES 

Clean and wipe two young ducks, tie them into 
shape, put them in a baking-pan, put thin slices of 
pork over their breasts, dust with pepper, add a half- 
cup of water to the pan, and bake in a quick oven 
for one hour. Take the ducks from the pan, and then put 
in one tablespoonful of butter and two of flour, stir and 
cook until the flour is a dark brown, then add one pint of 
stock, a tablespoonful of raw ham, chopped fine, a tea- 
spoonful of grated onion, and a palatable seasoning of salt 



58 POULTRY 

and pepper. Stir continually until it boils and add two 
dozen stoned olives. Cook gently five minutes and pour 
over and around the ducks, and serve. 

ROAST GOOSE 

Singe, draw, and wipe the goose. Put into a bowl two cups 
of stale bread-crumbs, add one onion, chopped fine, 
quarter-pound of bacon, chopped, a tablespoonful of pow- 
dered sage, a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoon of black 
pepper ; mix. Put two tablespoonfuls of this mixture in 
the space from which the crop was taken and sew it up, put 
the remainder in the body and sew up that vent also, then 
truss the goose and place it in a baking-pan, dredge with 
pepper, add a cup of warm water to the pan, and bake and 
baste for at least three hours. Two chopped apples may be 
added to the filling if liked. 

Apple sauce should be served with the goose. 



MEAT AND FISH SAUCES 



DRAWN BUTTER 

Rub together one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour, • 
and add gradually a half-pint of boiling water. Stand the 
bowl in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir for two min- 
utes, add a half teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, take 
from the fire and stir in hastily another tablespoonful of 
butter. 

This is a delightful sauce to serve with boiled fish, 
asparagus, or cauliflower, and if you add a tablespoonful 
of capers to it, you have Caper Sauce for boiled mutton. 

Again if you add two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine, 
you have £gg Sauce for boiled fish or fowl. 

CREAM SAUCE 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add a tablespoonful of 
flour, add a half-pint of cream or milk, stir continually until 
it boils, add a half-teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of 
pepper, and it is ready to use. 

This sauce may be used with boiled lobster, sweet- 
breads, chicken cutlets, potatoes, turnips, cabbage, and 
other similar dishes. 

(59) 



60 MEA T AND FISH SA UCES 

SPANISH SAUCE 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a small saucepan, add 
to it two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir until colored a 
dark brown, then add one pint of stock, a tablespoonfiil 
of chopped ham, the same of chopped onion, two whole 
cloves, a half-teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of cayenne. 
Stir continually until it boils, simmer for a moment, strain 
and use. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

Chop fine one large tablespoonful of parsley ; then rub it 
with one tablespoonful of butter, add four tablespoonfuls 
of hot cream or milk, a dash of pepper, and pour it at 
once over broiled salt fish. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

Put one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan to melt, 
mix with it a tablespoonful of flour, stir until smooth, and 
then add a half-pint of strained stewed tomatoes, stir con- 
tinually until it boils, and add a half-teaspoonful of onion 
juice, a grating of nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
dash of black pepper, and it is ready to serve. 

OYSTER SAUCE 

Boil twenty-five oysters in their own liquor for one minute, 
stirring continually ; drain, put the liquor back on the fire ; 
add one cup of cream or milk ; rub one tablespoonful of 
butter and two of flour to a smooth paste, and stir into the 
boiling liquor until it thickens. Chop the oysters into 
dice, add them to the sauce, season with salt and pepper, 
and take from the fire. This will curdle if boiled after 
adding the oysters. Serve with poultry and boiled fish. 



MEA T AND FISH SA UCES 61 

BROWN SAUCE 

Put one tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, and cook 
until a dark brown, then add a rounding tablespoonful of 
flour, and brown that also, then add quickly a half-pint of 
stock or warm water, stir continually until it boils, add a 
half-teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper, and it is ready 
to use. 

FRESH MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR STEAK 

Wash and peel one pint of fresh mushrooms, put them in 
a porcelain lined or granite saucepan with a tablespoonful 
of butter; cook fifteen minutes, stirring constantly and 
chopping with a silver spoon ; then sprinkle over an even 
tablespoonful of sifted flour, mix, add two tablespoonfuls 
of stock or cream, and a palatable seasoning of salt and 
pepper ; pour over and around the steak. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE 

Put a half-pint of milk or cream in a double boiler. Rub 
together a tablespoonful of butter, and an even tablespoon- 
ful of flour, then stir them into the boiling milk, add one 
ounce of young horse-radish, finely grated, a half-teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and a half-teaspoonfiil of sugar. 

This is exceedingly nice to serve with boiled, fresh or 
salt fish. 

SAUCE PIQUANT 

Take one tablespoonful of chopped parsley and rub it to 
a paste, then add gradually, rubbing all the while, the 
yolks of three hard-boiled eggs ; add a quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of dry mustard, and a teaspoonfiil of Worcester- 
shire sauce, mix until smooth, and add a tablespoonful of 



62 M£A T AND FISH SA UCES 

vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and a tcaspoonful 
grated onion ; then add gradually a half-pint of boiling 
stock, season with salt and pepper, and serve at once. 



HOT MINT SAUCE 

Put a half-pint of vinegar in a small porcelain sauce pan, 
and evaporate it over the fire until reduced one-half; then 
add a tablespoonful of brown sugar, a gill of water, and 
a heaping tablespoonful of finely chopped young mint 
leaves ; bring to boiling point and serve. 

COLD MINT SAUCE 

Rub together three tablespoonfuls of finely chopped young 
mint leaves and three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar ; when 
thoroughly mixed, add gradually a gill of good vinegar, 
and it is ready to use. 



BREAD 



The name ** Bread'* is not only applied to the flour of 
wheat, but to that of other grains, when mixed with milk 
or water, and made light by the action of carbonic acid 
gas, and the cells thus formed, fixed by baking. Home- 
made bread should consist only of flour, water or milk, 
yeast and salt, and if properly and carefully made will be 
nutritious, palatable, light and very different from ordi- 
nary bakers* bread. It is necessary and very important 
that bread should be light and porous, to allow the juices 
of the stomach to have access to every part, and that 
digestion in all parts may be commenced at the same time. 
Before giving you a bread lesson, allow me to teach you 
something about flour. Dealers will kindly close their ears. 
The different brands and fancy names given to flour do not 
in any way impair its quality, even if they are striking and 
inappropriate. Each dealer has his own brand, and as 
there are several hundred grocerymen in Philadelphia alone, 
it cannot be supposed that each runs his own separate mill. 
Directly the contrary — one mill fills many barrels, and 
marks them according to the "tastes and fancies" of its 
patrons, and they come to our and other markets, under 
various names — such as the "Blue Rose," "Pond Lily," 

** Golden Seal," and other similar names. It is better 

(63) 



64 BREAD 

that each housekeeper should learn to test and judge flour 
before purchasing. At present nearly all the flour in the 
market is granulated — a good, wholesome, strong and 
economical flour for bread, but I cannot say I like it for 
cake and pies. You have to learn to use and handle, as 
you cannot follow recipes given for other flours. One- 
third less of granulated flour, is a rule worth remembering. 
Good flour should be smooth, with a decided yellow 
cast, and thicken quickly when made into a paste with water. 
This paste should be elastic and tough. Our common 
white flour contains a large amount of starch, with a 
smaller amount of muscle-making material. Whole wheat 
bread, that is, bread made from the entire wheat grain, 
constitutes in itself a complete life sustainer, conse- 
quently bread-making is the most important of the cookery 
of grain food. After selecting the flour, the next impor- 
tant point is good yeast. Potato yeast is best, as the 
potato starch is particularly adapted to the yeast fermenta- 
tion. The compressed yeast cakes, however, are very good 
and convenient, one cake being equal to one cup of good 
yeast. Let me tell you that yeast is a plant, and a very 
delicate one, that does not flourish under extreme heat or 
cold ; consequently you must be very careful in your selec- 
tion of a place where your bread shall stand to ferment. 
If chilled it requires double time to become light ; if 
scalded, it is killed, nothing can restore it. An even 
temperature, from 65® to 70® Fahr., is best. Like other 
plants, yeast requires transplanting, you first sponge, then 
knead, then mould, each time using extra flour. In warm 
weather the liquid for the sponge should be cool ; in winter 
blood heat, 98® Fahr. Many are the ways of making 
bread ; some persons use milk, others water. But sweet- 
ness and lightness are always the chief considerations. 



BREAD 65 

WHITE BREAD 

Scald a pint of milk as before ; add one pint of water, a 
level teaspoon ful of salt, and one compressed yeast cake 
dissolved ; then add a quart of flour. Beat for five 
minutes; then continue adding flour until you have a 
dough sufficiently thick for kneading. Knead thoroughly 
until it is soft and elastic. The grain will be finer and 
the dough whiter if you pound it for at least five minutes 
with a good strong potato masher ; or you may lift it in 
your hand and throw it on the board. Put it into a bowl 
or pan ; cover it and stand it in a warm place, 75° Fahr., 
for three hours. Divide into four loaves, and put each 
into a greased pan. Cover and stand aside for one hour; 
if in a square pan, bake in a moderately quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour; if in a long French pan, in a quick 
oven thirty minutes. 

NINETEENTH CENTURY BREAD 

Scald one pint of milk (180^ Fahr.), being careful not to 
allow it to boil ; add one pint of water. When this mix- 
ture is lukewarm, add one cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in four tablespoonfuls of cool water, a level tea- 
spoonful of salt, and sufficient whole wheat flour (about 
one quart) to make a stiff* batter. Beat continuously for 
five minutes ; cover and stand in a warm place ; in 
winter, three hours, in summer two and a half hours will 
be sufficient. Then stir in slowly sufficient flour to make 
a dough. Turn this out on the baking board ; knead 
continuously until you have a soft, elastic loaf. Divide 
into four ; mould each portion into a loaf; put into greased 
pans ; cover, and stand in a warm place one hour, or until 
it has doubled its bulk, and feels very light when you pick 



•■s 



66 BREAD 

it up in the hand. Brush the top with water, and bake in 
a moderately quick oven three-quarters of an hour. Turn 
from the pans ; rest the loaf so that the air will pass 
around it ; and allow it to cool. Keep in a clean tin box. 
If homemade yeast is used add a half cupful, make the 
same, but allow the sponge to stand over night. 

BREAD STICKS 

Bread sticks may be made either from the nineteenth 
century or white bread dough. Roll a portion of the 
dough out in the hands, making it the size of a lead 
pencil. Cut it the length of the bread stick pan, and 
put each one in its own compartment. Let them stand 
thirty minutes; brush with water, and bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

Put into a large bowl two cups of Yankee rye meal (not 
rye flour), two cups of coarse Indian meal, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Dissolve a teaspoonful of soda in two table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water, and then add it to one and 
a half pints of sour milk ; add one cup of molasses and 
pour it on the meal. Beat continuously for about ten 
minutes, or until all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. 
Pour into well-greased moulds, put on the lid and steam for 
five hours. Then remove the lid, and bake in a moderately 
quick oven for thirty minutes. 

COARSE MEAL BREAD 

Make a milk sponge, just as you would for ordinary bread, 
about ten o'clock at night, using one pint of milk. Early 



BREAD 67 

in the morning, put a half-pint of Indian meal into a bowl 
and pour over it just enough boiling water to scald it, but 
not enough to make it soft. Moist, but dry, if you can 
understand that. Add to the sponge one cup of the oat- 
meal cooked for breakfast, then the scalded meal, two 
ounces of melted butter, and sufficient flour to make a 
soft dough. Beat and work for five minutes. Do not 
make as stiff as ordinary bread. After well kneaded, form 
into loaves, put into greased pans, cover, put in a warm 
place, and when very light, bake in a moderately quick 
oven for one hour. 

TEA BISCUIT 

Scald one pint of milk, and when cool, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, and three cups of flour, 
beat well, add a half-cup of yeast, or half a compressed 
cake, dissolved in a half-cup of lukewarm water, cover 
and stand in a warm place for three hours. If you want 
them for six o'clock tea, they should be sponged about ten 
o'clock in the morning. When light, add two ounces of 
butter or lard, and sufficient flour to make a dough. 
Knead thoroughly, put back in the bowl, cover, stand in a 
warm place until they double their bulk, then make them 
carefully into small biscuits, place in greased pans, cover, 
stand aside for three-quarters of an hour, and bake in a 
quick oven fifteen minutes. 

FRENCH BREAKFAST ROLLS 

Scald one pint of milk, cut into it three ounces of butter, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, and when cool, sift in one pound 
of flour, add one ^gg well beaten, and a half yeast cake 
dissolved, or a halfrcup of yeast, beat well, and stand in 



68 BREAD 

a warm place over night. In the morning form into little 
rolls, handling as little as possible, adding very little 
flour. Place each roll in a French roll pan, stand in a 
warm place three-quarters of an hour, and bake in a quick 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

MILK BISCUIT 

Put one quart of sifted flour into a bowl, add to it a heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter or lard, rub well together with 
the hands until the flour is thoroughly greased, add two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and sufficient milk to make a soft dough, about a half- pint ; 
mix and knead quickly. Roll out about a half-inch thick, 
cut with a small cutter, place two inches apart in greased 
pans, and bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 
These biscuits should be a delicate brown top and bottom, 
light on the sides, and snowy white when broken open. 

PLAIN WAFFLES 

Rub three ounces of butter into one quart of sifted flour. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs, add to them one and a half pints 
of milk, then stir them into the flour. Beat until smooth, 
add one teaspoonful of salt, and then stir in carefully the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs, and two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder. 

In baking waffles use a small paint brush to grease the 
iron, and a pitcher to pour out* the batter. Waffles 
made by filling the iron MAjdk^ spoon are always uneven 
and ragged. If yeast is ustdj s6Bd the milk and when luke- 
warm, add the yeast, and then the salt and buttered flour. 
After beating, cover and stand in a warm place for three 
hours, then add the eggs beaten separately, and bake. 



PLAIN MUFFINS 

Separate three eggs, beat tlie yolks, add to them one pint 
of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, two and a half cups of 
sifted flour, beat well, add two ounces of melted butter, 
the whites of the eggs beaten to a stifl' froth and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, mix, and bake in greased gem 
pans or muffin rings in a quick oven for about twenty-five 
minutes. 

RICE MUFFINS 
Make same as preceding recipe, omitting a half-cup of 
flour and adding a cup of boiled rice, 

POP OVERS 
Beat two eggs, without separating, until thoroughly mixed, 
add a half-pint of milk, and a quarter- teaspoonful of salt. 
Put a half-pint of flour into a bowl, add gradually the milk 
and egg, stirring all the while, then put the whole through 
a fine strainer. Have ready iron gem pans, greased and 
very hot, fill them half-full of the mixture, and bake in a 
moderately quick oven for about thirty minutes. They 
should pop to four times their original bulk. These are 
nice served as a breakfast cake, or with Lemon Sauce as a 
dessert. 

WHEAT GRANULE GEMS 
Beat the yolks of thre one pint of 

sweet milk, one and a hi ine-half cup of 

wheat granules, a half-c J, a teaspoon- 

ful of salt and two oi ;r. Beat all 

well together and then ;^poonfuls of 

baking-powder and the Sake in gem 

pans in a moderately . ,-fiye or forty 

minutes, 



70 BREAD 

JOHNNY CAKE 

Stir into one pint of buttermilk sufficient corn meal to 
make a thin batter ; add a teaspoonful of salt and one ^g%y 
well-beaten. Dissolve a level teaspoonful of soda in two 
tablespoon fuls of boiling water ; stir this into the batter ; 
mix well and pour into shallow greased baking-pans. Bake 
in a moderately quick oven for forty minutes. 

RICE CRUMPETS 

Put one pint of milk in a farina boiler to scald. Boil a 
half-cup of rice until tender, about twenty minutes. Stand 
the milk aside until lukewarm, then add to it a half-cup of 
yeast, or half a compressed yeast cake dissolved in a half- 
cup of lukewarm water. Drain the rice, and press it 
through a colander, then add it to milk ; add four ounces 
of melted butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and three cupfuls 
of flour. Now beat vigorously for about two or three min- 
utes, cover, and stand in a warm place until very light, 
which will take about two hours. Grease large muffin rings 
and place them on a hot griddle, fill each ring half-full of 
the batter, bake slowly until brown on one side, then turn 
and brown the other. When done, butter them nicely, 
and serve quickly on a hot plate. 

OAT MEAL WAFERS 

One pint of sifted Bethlehem oat meal. Rub into it one 
ounce of butter ; add one large teaspoonful of salt, the 
well-beaten white of one t%%, with sufficient water to 
moisten the meal. Knead for five minutes. Roll into a 
very thin sheet and cut into wafers about two inches square. 
B^ke carefully in a slow oven for thirty minutes, 



BREAD V 

SCOTCH OAT CAKES 

Put a half-pint o^ fine oat meal into a bowl, add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and pour over it a half-pint of boiling 
water, and add two ounces of butter ; beat all well together 
with a spoon for ten minutes. Divide into three pieces, 
and flatten each out into a thin cake with the hands. 
These cakes must be very^ very thin, or they are not good. 
Grease a cake griddle lightly with suet, put on the cakes, 
and bake on the back part of the stove very slowly for one 
hour. 



EGGS AND OMELETS 



If it were my privilege to examine all the cooks in the 

universe, I should first ask them to make a plain omelet. 

Nothing so shows their ignorance or so perfectly displays 

their skill. To make a good plain omelet one must 

have a perfectly smooth sheet-iron pan, about eight inches 

in diameter. It should be as smooth in the bottom as 

glass. If it is not make it so by scouring with common 

salt, after which do not wash. Break four or six eggs into 

a bowl, and with a fork give twelve or fifteen vigorous 

beats ; they should be well mixed but not light. Beating 

either together or separately robs the eggs of their flavor. 

Do not add salt or pepper until the omelet is nearly done, 

as the salt toughens the eggs. Add one tablespoonful of 

boiling water to each egg, beat an instant to mix, and at 

last add a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut. Now 

put about one ounce or one tablespoonful of butter into 

your smooth frying-pan, and as soon as the it is melted, not 

browned, pour in the eggs, shake them over the fire, and 

with a limber knife separate the setting part from the 

frying-pan, and let the more liquid part go underneath. 

The omelet must not stick. Continue this lifting until the 

omelet is set, not hard ; dust quickly with salt and pepper, 

slip your knife under the omelet, roll it over, and slide it 
(7") 



EGGS AND OMELETS 73 

gently on a hot dish. Serve at once. It is better that you 
should wait five minutes for an omelet, than an omelet wait 
one minute for you. Never use milk, as it always makes a 
tough, heavy omelet. Neither should you use flour or 
corn-starch. It is a great error to think an omelet should 
be a dark brown ; it ruins the flavor and toughens the 
omelet. It should simply be a light golden brown. 

OYSTER OMELET 

Drain and chop one dozen oysters. Break six eggs in a 
bowl, beat as directed above, add the oysters, six table- 
spoonfuls of hot water, and finish the same as plain omelet. 
This is most delicious, and I am sure after trying these 
French omelets, you will never again eat those "fluffy,** 
tough and leathery ones of Bridget's. 

SPANISH OMELET 

Cut a quarter-pound of bacon into very small pieces and 
fry until brown, then add three tablespoon fuls of stewed 
tomatoes, a tablespoonful of finely chopped onion ; stand 
the whole on the back of the range and cook gently for 
ten minutes. In the meantime break six eggs in a bowl, 
add six tablespoonfuls of boiling water, mix, and fry the 
same as plain omelet. When the omelet is set, but not 
hard, dust with pepper, and pour the mixture from the 
other frying-pan over it. Now fold the omelet once and 
turn out in the center of a heated plate and serve immedi- 
ately. 

FRIAR'S OMBLET 

Put one pint of plain apple sauce through a colander ; add 
to it while hot, two ounces of buttery sweeten to taste, and 



74 EGGS AND OMELETS 

stand away until cold. Beat separately two eggs; then 
add the yolks to the whites, and stir them into the cold 
apple sauce. Butter a baking-dish and then dust it thickly 
with bread-crumbs, both bottom and sides. Put in the 
omelet. Sprinkle the top thickly with crumbs and bake 
thirty minutes in a quick oven. Serve hot with powdered 
sugar. 

CORN OMELET 

Score down the center of the grains of four nice young ears 
of com, and with the back of the knife press out the pulp. 
Beat four eggs without separating just enough to mix the 
whites and yolks, add the com, a saltspoon of pepper, and 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Put another piece in 
an omelet pan, and when melted and hot turn in the omelet, 
and shake over a good fire until well * 'set. ' ' lift one side now 
and then and drain the liquid part under that already 
cooked. When nearly done, dust with salt. When done, 
but not solid in the center, begin to roll and then turn it 
out on a hot meat-dish. This is a delicious omelet if well 
made; a little practice will enable you to make it with 
ease. 

RICE OMELET 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of rice flour in a half-pint of milk, 
add four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and cook in a 
double boiler for five minutes, stirring constantly. Beat 
the yolks of three eggs, an ounce of butter, and a tablespoon- 
ful of water together until very light, add^ this to the hot 
rice mixture, beat until all is very smooth, and stand aside 
to keep warm. Beat the whites of six eggs until light and 
dry, put them around the bottom and sides of a baking- 
dish, fill the first mixture in the center, place in the oven a 
few moments to lightly color. Serve with Vanilla Sauce, 



r 



EGGS AND OMELETS 76 

BOILED EGGS 

I presume every housekeeper would be indignant at the 
very thought whispered that they could not boil an tgg. 
The fact, however, remains, that many cannot produce the 
best results. First, have a good-sized kettle of boiling 
water ; allow the eggs to remain an hour in the room before 
boiling, or the shell will crack when immersed in the boil- 
ing water. The sudden expansion of the contents, pro- 
duced by the excessive heat, causes the shell to give way. 
Stale eggs are less likely to break on account of the air, 
which has replaced the evaporated liquid. After you have 
dropped the eggs into the boiling water, closely cover the 
kettle, and stand it on the back part of the range, where 
it cannot boil. Allow them to stand in this position for 
about five minutes, at which time the white of the tgg will 
be found thoroughly cooked, but liquid, and the tgg will 
be, in every sense of the word, soft-boiled, and easily 
digested. 

To those persons who like hard-boiled eggs, we would 
recommend gentle boiling for at least twenty minutes, when 
the yolks will be well done and mealy. 

BEAUREGARD EGGS 

Boil five eggs for twenty minutes. Remove the shells, 
chop the whites as fine as possible, and rub the yolks 
through a sieve. Do not mix them. Put a half-pint of 
milk in a double boiler to scald. Rub together one even 
tablespoonful of corn-starch and one of butter ; now add 
gradually the scalded milk, return it to the double boiler 
and stir constantly until it thickens; add the chopped 
whites and a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper. 
Have ready squares of toasted bread ; cover them with this 



76 EGGS AND OMELETS 

white sauce, sprinkle over the sifted yolks, dust the tops 
with salt and pepper, stand in the oven a moment, and 
serve. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Drop fresh eggs into little individual dishes, dust with salt 
and pepper, place a small bit of butter on the top of 
each yolk, stand the dishes in a baking-pan, and bake in a 
quick oven until the whites are set. Serve in the dishes in 
which they were cooked. 

EGGS a la TRIPE 

Peel and chop very fine six Bermuda onions, put them in a 
saucepan with two ounces of butter, a half-teaspoonful of 
salt, and a quarter-teaspoonful of black pepper, simmer 
gently one hour, then add gradually one tablespoonful of 
flour ; mix well, and add a half-pint of milk, stir con- 
stantly until it boils, and press the whole through a fine sieve. 
Have ready six hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, cover them 
with this sauce, and serve very hot. 

TIMBALE OF EGGS 

Break six eggs into a bowl, add one gill of thick cream, a 
half-teaspoonful of salt, a quarter-teaspoonful of pepper, 
and beat until creamy. Pour into greased custard cups, 
stand these in a pan containing water, place in a quick 
oven and bake until the eggs are '*set*' in the centers. 
When done remove them carefully from the mould and 
serve very hot with sauce Bechamel poured around them. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Break four eggs into a bowl, beat them with a wire spoon, 
if you have one, if not, a fork, until thoroughly mixed, 



EGGS AND OMELETS 77 

then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, one tablespoonful 
of stock or beef juice, two ounces of butter, and a quarter- 
teaspoon ful of white pepper, mix a moment, and turn the 
whole into an ungreased small saucepan. Cook over the 
fire until the eggs are set, beating vigorously all the while ; 
add a half- teaspoon ful of salt and turn into a heated dish. 
Serve immediately with squares of buttered toast. 



CHEESE 



WELSH RAREBIT 

Toast carefully six squares of baker's bread ; butter them 
while hot, and then plunge them quickly into a bowl of 
hot water. Have ready for their reception a heated meat 
dish, which you may keep warm by placing over hot water. 
In a porcelain-lined or granite saucepan put a half-cup of 
milk, two cups of rich cheese, grated, a quarter-teaspoonful 
of bi-carbonate of soda and a dash of cayenne. Stand 
this over a moderate fire and stir rapidly and continuously 
until the cheese is melted. Do not allow it to boil or it 
will curdle. Take from the fire and add a half-teaspoon ful 
of salt and the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Pour this 
over the toasted bread and serve. 

CHEESE SOUFPL^ 

Put two ounces of bread, without crust, and one gill of milk 
on to boil, stir, and cook a moment until smooth, then add 
four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese and two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, stir again until the cheese is melted, take from 
the fire, add the yolks of two eggs slightly beaten, a half- 
teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of cayenne ; mix, and stir 
in carefully the well-beaten whites of three eggs, pour into 

(7«) 



CHEESE 79 

a greased baking-dish and bake in a quick oven fifteen 
minutes. Serve at once, or it will collapse. This may be 
served as a cheese course at dinner or as a luncheon dish. 
Wafers should accompany it. 

CHEESE STRAWS 

Two ounces of flour, three ounces of grated cheese, a little 
cayenne, a little salt, yolk of one egg, and sufficient ice- 
water to make a dough. Mix the flour, cayenne, salt and 
cheese together, moisten with the ^%% first, then with what 
water is needed ; work all into a smooth paste. Roll out 
on a board, one-eighth of an inch thick, five inches long, 
and five inches wide. Cut some of the paste in small rings, 
and some in strips of one-eighth of an inch wide. Place 
both on greased sheets and bake ten minutes in an oven 
(240® Fahr.) till a light brown. Put the straws through 
the rings like a bundle of faggots. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Chop a hair-pound of English cheese quite fine, add to it 
one tablespoonful of French mustard, and work the whole 
to a smooth paste, spread on very thin slices of bread, 
which have been buttered, trim off" the crusts, put two slices 
together and cut into neat squares. 

BAKED MACARONI 

Break six ounces of macaroni into pieces six inches long, 
put them into a large kettle of boiling water, and boil 
rapidly for twenty minutes, drain, and throw into cold 
water for fifteen minutes. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in a small saucepan, when melted add two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, and a pint of milk, stir continually until it boils, 



80 CHEESE 

take from the fire, and add four ounces of grated or chop- 
ped cheese and a quarter-teaspoon ful of bi-carbonate of 
soda. Put the macaroni in a baking-dish, sprinkle over it 
a teaspoon ful of salt and a little pepper, mix, pour over the 
cheese dressing, sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, place 
here and there a few bits of butter, and bake in a quick 
oven till a light brown. 

SPIGHETTI k r ITALIBNNE 

Boil as preceding recipe a half-pound of spighetti. Peel 
one onion and cut it into slices ; put it with two ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, when lightly colored add a table- 
spoonful of flour and a half-pint of strained tomatoes; stir 
until it boils, and add two ounces of Parmesan cheese, two 
ounces Gruy^re, a saltspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, 
and an eighth of a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix 
all thoroughly together, add the spighetti, and when very 
hot, serve. 

Macaroni may always be substituted for spighetti, or 
vice versa, 

SPIGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Fill a three-quart kettle nearly full with boiling water. 
Weigh a half-pound of spighetti ; take about six lengths 
in your hand, stand them in the boiling water ; in a moment 
they will soften so that you can slightly bend them around 
the kettle ; so continue until you have all the spighetti in. 
Whirl it around with the fork to thoroughly separate \ then 
boil rapidly twenty minutes; drain in colander, then 
throw it in cold water for fifteen minutes to blanch. Make 
a Tomato Sauce, add the spighetti to it, bring all gently to 
a boil, and serve. 



CHEESE 81 

SPIGHETTI WITH BROWN SAUCE 

Boil as directed a half pound of spighetti, using stock in 
place of water ; a smaller quantity will, however, answer. 
When done, drain, but do not blanch. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of butter in a frying-pan, and, when very brown, 
add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix and brown, and then 
add a pint of stock in which the spighetti was boiled, stir 
constantly until it thickens ; add a tablespoonful of mush- 
room catsup, or six chopped mushrooms, two tablespoon- 
fuls of Parmesan, a half-teaspoonful of salt, a dash of 
pepper, then the spighetti; bring quickly to a boil, and 
serve very hot. 

TOASTED CHEESE 

Have ready some nicely toasted squares of bread. Take 
the desired quantity of cheese, chop it fine, put it in a 
small saucepan, and to each cupful, add a half-teaspoonful 
of made mustard, a dash of black pepper and two table- 
spoonfuls of milk; stir this over the fire until soft and 
stringy, then pour it over the toast, stand it in a hot oven 
about two minutes, and serve. 



VEGETABLES 



TO BOIL POTATOES 

Peel the potatoes carefully, throw them into cold water for 
fifteen minutes, drain, put them into a kettle, cover with 
boiling water ; do not give them a tremendous bath, but 
simply cover them, put on the lid, and boil slowly until the 
potatoes are soft enough to admit a fork. This will take 
about thirty minutes. If you allow the potatoes to remain 
one moment in the water after they are done they will 
become waxy and heavy, and nothing that you can do 
will restore them to their mealy condition. The moment 
they are tender drain off every drop of water, sprinkle the 
the potatoes with salt, and stand them to dry uncovered 
on the back part of the range, giving them an occasional 
shake. If the directions are carefully followed, the result 
will be a dry, mealy potato, with the outside starch grains 
shining like silver. 

BERMUDA POTATOES WITH PARSLEY SAUCE 

Scrape and boil the potatoes carefully; while they are 
boiling, prepare the sauce as follows : Put two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter in a saucepan to melt, add to it two even table- 
spoonfuls of flour, mix until smooth, and add one pint of 
(82) 



f 



VEGETABLES 83 

milk, stir continually until it boils, add a teaspoon ful of 
salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and a tablespoonful of finely- 
chopped parsley, pour it over the potatoes, and serve with- 
out delay. 

STEWED POTATOES 

Pare six potatoes, cut them into dice; throw them into 
cold water for fifteen minutes, drain, and cover with boil- 
ing water and boil until tender; then drain off every drop 
of water ; dredge them with a tablespoonful of flour, adil 
a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a half-pint of milk, 
a half-teaspoonful of salt, and a little black pepper ; stir 
carefully until they boil, and serve in a heated dish. 

POTATO PUFF 

Put two cups of cold mashed potatoes into a frying-pan, 
add the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, three 
tablespoonfuls of cream, one teaspoonful of salt, and a 
saltspoon of pepper. Stir until very hot. Take from the 
fire and stir in carefiilly the well-beaten whites of the eggs. 
Put into a baking-dish and brown in a quick oven. 

POTATOES iL la BECHAMEL 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into thick slices. Put them in a 
shallow baking-dish, and pour over a Sauce Bechamel, 
sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and put in the oven a few 
minutes to brown. 

DELMONICO HASHED POTATOES 

Pare and chop fine four good-sized raw potatoes. Season 
them with a teaspoonful of salt and a saltspoon ful of pepper. 
Put them into a baking-dish, just cover with milk, and 
bake in a quick oven for forty minutes. Serve in the dish 
in which they were baked. 



^ 



84 VEGETABLES 

FRIED POTATOES (French) 

Pare potatoes, and soak in cold water for one hour. Cut 
them either with a vegetable scoop or into squares. Have 
ready a pan of very hot lard ; dry the potatoes on a towel. 
Drop them into the lard and cook until tender and brown. 
Take out with a skimmer, drain on brown paper, and stand 
in the oven a few minutes. When all are done, sprinkle 
with salt, and serve hot. 

POTATO PUDDINQ 

Boil and mash six good-sized potatoes, add to them one 
^%%i salt and pepper to taste ; beat well and line a baking- 
dish (bottom and sides) about one inch thick. Chop any 
cold cooked meat, season it with salt, pepper and a piece 
of butter size of a walnut ; put it in the centre of the dish, 
cover it over with the remainder of the potato, and bake 
in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Turn out to serve. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Put two cups of hot or cold mashed potatoes into a small 
saucepan, add the yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of 
butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a teaspoonful of salt, a 
dash of cayenne, and a half-teaspoonful of onion juice. 
Stir, and mix over the fire until smoking hot, take from the 
fire, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, mix, and form 
into cylinder-shape croquettes. Dip first in ^^% and then 
in bread-crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

POTATO FARCI 

Cut large potatoes into halves. Scoop out the centres, 
leaving enough of the potato with the skin to form a case 
or cup. Mince cold cooked meat, add to it salt, pepper, 



VEGETABLES 85 

and a palatable amount of butter ; put into these potato 
cups, brush over the tops with beaten ^gg^ and bake in a 
moderate oven until the potatoes are done. The portion 
scooped out may be used for mashed potatoes or potato 
croquettes. These, if nicely made, are very palatable. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Bake six good-sized potatoes. When done, cut off the tops, 
and with a spoon scoop out the potato into a hot bowl. 
Mash fine, and add one tablespoonful of butter, a quarter- 
cup of hot milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and pepper to taste. 
Beat imtil very light, then add the well-beaten whites of 
two eggs ; stir gently. Fill the skins with this mixture, 
heaping it on the top ; brush over with the yolk of the 
eggs, put in the oven to brown. 

They may also be cut into halves and stuffed. 

POTATO ROLL 

Put one cup of cold mashed potatoes into a bowl, add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream, half a teaspoonful of salt, mix 
well and add three eggs well beaten. Put a tablespoonful 
of butter in a smooth frying-pan, when hot put in the 
potatoes, and flatten them perfectly even, all over the pan. 
Cook slowly until the potatoes are hot, smooth and a nice 
brown ; then turn one half over the other and turn out on 
a heated dish. 

SARATOGA POTATOES 

• 

Pare perfectly sound potatoes, cut them into thin slices, 
soak in cold water for thirty minutes. Dry them on a 
towel, and fry them a few pieces at a time in smoking 
hot lard. Cook carefully until a light brown and very 



86 VEGETABLES 

crisp. Drain, put them in a colander on a soft piece of 
brown paper, dust with salt and place at the oven door a 
moment to dry. 

PUREE OF SWEET POTATOES 

Bake four good-sized red sweet potatoes. When done take 
out the centers, and press through a colander. Put one 
quart of milk on to heat in a double boiler. Rub together 
one tablespoonful of butter and two even tablespoonfuls 
of flour, stir these into the hot milk, stir until it thickens, 
add a palatable seasoning of salt and pepper, a grating 
of nutmeg, a few drops of onion juice, and then pour it 
gradually over the potatoes. Press the whole through a 
very fine sieve, reheat, and serve. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

Boil four good-sized sweet potatoes. When done, peel and 
mash them through a colander, add one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, and 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Beat until light, form into 
croquettes. Dip first into beaten tgg and then in bread- 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Select large, smooth tomatoes. Cut a slice off the stem 
end, and with your finger press out the seeds. For six 
tomatoes, mix a half-cup of finely-chopped cold meat, two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of stale bread-crumbs, a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley, half-teaspoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoon of pepper and two tablespoonfiils of melted butter. 
When these are well mixed, fill the tomatoes, heaping it up 
in the centre. Place them in a granite baking-pan, and 



VEGETABLES 87 

bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes, basting fre- 
quently with melted butter. When done, lift carefully 
with a cake turner, place in a heated dish, and serve. 



PLAIN BAKED TOMATOES 

Select the desired number of sound, solid tomatoes, rinse, 
and place in a granite or porcelain baking-pan. Put them 
in a moderate oven and bake for forty minutes. When 
done, lift carefully without breaking the skins, and slide 
each one on a piece of buttered toast. Serve whole. Let 
each one season to suit one's self. 



STEWED TOMATOES 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes and then remove the 
skins. Cut the tomatoes into pieces, rejecting any hard or 
green parts, put them in a porcelain-lined or granite pan, 
add one slice of onion, and simmer gently for thirty min- 
utes, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When 
done add three ounces of butter to every quart of toma- 
toes, season with salt and pepper. 



TOMATOES ON THE HALF-SHELL 

Choose good, solid, not over-ripe, tomatoes. Rinse and 
cut into halves, put them on a wire broiler, skin-side down, 
and broil about five minutes. Have ready a dish of but- 
tered toast ; lift each piece of tomato carefully and slide it 
on a square of toast. Season lightly with salt and pepper, 
put a small piece of butter on each piece and serve at 
once, or use Cream Sauce. 



88 VEGETABLES 

TOMATOES WITH CREAM SAUCE 

Having rinsed the tomatoes, cut them into halves, place in 
a baking-pan, dust with salt and pepper, put a small piece 
of butter on each half. Place in a moderate oven and 
bake about one hour or until tender. When done lift 
carefully and slide on to a heated dish. Remove the skins 
from two or three of the softest pieces and mix the tomato 
with the butter in the pan, add one pint of milk or cream. 
While this is heating slowly, mix until smooth two even 
tablespoonfuls of flour with a little cold milk, add it 
quickly to the pan, stir continually until it comes to boil- 
ing point. Do not boil or it will curdle. Take from fire, 
add salt and pepper, and pour it over tomatoes. 

BREADED TOMATOES 

The white-apple tomato is the best for breading on ac- 
count of its fruity flavor. Rinse and wipe dry, cut into 
slices about a quarter-inch thick, dust with salt and pep- 
per. Add a tablespoonful of water to a well-beaten ^gg. 
Turn some nice, dried bread-crumbs into a large dinner 
plate, dip the tomatoes quickly in the ^%g and then into the 
bread-crumbs, cover them carefully all over and lay them 
out on a board a few moments to dry. Put about two 
tablespoonfuls of lard or dripping (not butter) into an iron 
saut'e pan, when hot put in enough slices to cover the 
bottom. Brown quickly on one side, then turn and brown 
the other. Lift carefully, and serve without delay. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Put a layer of stewed tomatoes in the bottom of a baking- 
dish, then a thick layer of stale bread-crumbs, a sprinkling 
of salt and pepper, a few bits of butter, then another layer 
of tomatoes, and so on until the dish is full, having the last 



VEGETABLES 89 

layer crumbs dotted with bits of butter. Bake in a quick 
oven for thirty minutes. Serve in the dish in which it 
was baked. 

SPINACH WITH EGG SAUCE 

Wash and remove the roots and stems from a half-peck 
of spinach. Now wash the leaves through several waters to 
remove the grit and sand. Drain the spinach and put it into 
a kettle with a pint of boiling water, sprinkle over one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and boil rapidly twenty minutes, and not 
one moment longer, or it will destroy its color. Drain, and 
then press the spinach through a colander. Put it into a 
saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of cream, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Have ready 
six hard-boiled eggs, cut them into halves crosswise ; 
remove the yolks and take a little clipping from the bottom 
of each to make them stand. Fill the spinach into the 
cavities from which the yolks were taken, heap it up, making 
each one hold a tablespoonful, stand them on a pretty dish 
in a warm place while you make the sauce. Melt a table- 
spoonful of butter, add to it an even tablespoonful of flour, 
mix until smooth, and add a half-pint of boiling water ; 
stir rapidly until the sauce is smooth and velvety, take from 
the fire, add a tablespoonful of butter cut into bits, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, a half-teaspoonful of salt, and 
a dash of white pepper, mix until the butter is melted, and 
add the yolks of the eggs that have been pressed through 
a sieve, bring the sauce to boiling point, pour it around 
the spinach, and serve. 

SOUTHERN CORN PUDDING 

Score twelve ears of corn, and with a dull knife press out 
the pulp, add a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper and a 



90 VEGETABLES 

pint of milk. Beat four eggs separately until very light, 
add first the yolks and then the whites, turn the mixture 
into a baking-dish, and bake in a quick oven until a nice 
brown. 



CORN FRITTERS 

Score twelve ears of sweet com and press out the pulp. 
Add to it a half-cup of milk, the same quantity of flour, 
and three eggs well-beaten. Season with salt and pepper. 
Fry in smoking hot lard or drippings. Brown on one side, 
then turn and brown the other. Drain on brown paper, 
and serve very hot. 



LADY'S CABBAGE 

Put one quart of chopped white cabbage in a kettle of boil- 
ing water, add a teaspoonful of salt, and boil twenty min- 
utes, drain, turn into a heated dish, pour over Cream Sauce, 
and serve. Delicious. More delicate than cauliflower. 



COLD SLAW 

Put one quart of finely cut cabbage into a bowl. Put two 
Lablespoonfuls of vinegar in a saucepan to boil. Beat two 
eggs until light, add to them a half-cup of sour cream and 
an ounce of butter. Stir this into the vinegar and cook 
until boiling hot and slightly thickened, add salt and 
pepper, pour over the cabbage, mix, dish and stand aside 
until cold. Sweet milk may be used in the place of the 
sour cream, but the dressing is not so rich. 



VEGETABLES 91 

TO BOIL SWEET CORN 

Husk the corn just before the time of boiling. Have a 
large kettle full of boiling water, throw in the corn and 
boil five minutes after it begins to boil, and serve immedi- 
ately on a corn cloth. Do not salt the water in which it 
is boiled. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Trim off the outside leaves of a nice fresh cauliflower, tie 
it in a piece of cheese-cloth, and put it into well salted 
boiling water; boil for twenty or thirty minutes. Be 
careful to take it out as soon as tender, or it will fall into 
pieces Serve either with Drawn Butter or Cream Sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER au GRATIN 

Boil as in preceding recipe. Drain and separate the head 
into the little flowerets. Put these in a baking-dish, pour 
over Cream Sauce, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, and 
brown in a quick oven. 

ASPARAGUS 

Trim the stalks and tie them in bundles, the heads all one 
way. Put into well salted boiling water, and boil for 
twenty-five minutes. Lift carefully, drain, and arrange 
neatly upon slices of nicely browned buttered toast. Pour 
over it Drawn Butter or Sauce Hollandaise, 

PEAS 

Throw freshly shelled peas into a kettle of well salted 
boiling water and boil ten minutes, drain, add a good 
piece of butter and a little pepper. Serve hot. 

If the peas are old they must boil about twenty minutes. 
Long boiling destroys both flavor and color of green peas. 



- I 



92 VEGETABLES 

CANNED PEAS 

Canned peas should simply be well rinsed in cold water, 
and then heated, seasoned and served. 

STRING BEANS 

String the beans and then cut each bean into about three 
pieces. Put them into a kettle of boiling water, add a piece 
of butter, and when partly done add one teaspoonful of 
salt. Boil thirty-five minutes. Drain, add to each quart 
two ounces of butter, dust over them one tablespoonful of 
flour, add one gill of cream or milk, bring to boiling point, 
add salt and pepper and serve. The first butter is to 
soften the beans while boiling. 

LIMA BEANS 

All kind of shelled beans may be cooked in the same man- 
ner as string beans, and may be served with cream or simply 
with butter, salt and pepper. 

EGG PLANT (Fried) 

Cut the plant into slices about* an eighth of an inch 
thick, dust them with salt, dip each slice in beaten ^gg^ 
then in bread-crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Fry 
one side at a time. Drain carefully on brown paper. 
Serve with tomato catsup. 

STEWED TURNIPS 

Cut the turnips into dice, put them in boiling water, and 
boil twenty minutes. Salt when half done. When done, 
drain, dish and pour over them Cream Sauce. This is the 
very nicest way of cooking all kinds of turnips. 



VEGETABLES 93 

STEWED CARROTS 

Cut the carrots either into dice or long, narrow strips. 
Boil forty minutes in water, adding salt just before they 
are done. When done, drain, and pour over them Cream 
Sauce. 

BEETS 

If winter beets, soak over night, then boil until tender, 
which sometimes takes at least four hours, but usually about 
two. Be careful not to cut or prick the skin, or the beets 
will lose both flavor and color. Serve cut into thin slices, 
with a little melted butter, salt and pepper. 

New beets boil in about thirty or forty minutes. 



PARSNIPS 



Scrape and cut the parsnips into halves lengthwise. Boil 
them thirty minutes, drain, dust with sugar, and brown in 
smoking hot fat. 

Or — they may be served boiled with Drawn Butter. 



OYSTER-PLANT FRITTERS 

Scrape the oyster-plant or salsify, and as fast as you do so 
throw the pieces into cold water to prevent discoloration. 
When all are done, cut them into slices and boil thirty 
minutes. Drain, and mash through a colander, add to 
each dozen roots, one tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a saltspoon of pepper, and two eggs well beaten. 
Mix, form the mixture into oyster-shaped cakes. Fry in 
smoking hot fat, on both sides. 



94 VEGETABLES 

RICE AS A VEGETABLE 

Wash one cup of good rice, and sprinkle it carefully into 
a kettle full of boiling water, cover and boil rapidly, with- 
out stirring, for twenty minutes. Drain, throw into a bowl 
of cold water to blanch for ten minutes. Drain again, 
and stand in the colander over boiling water to steam, or 
stand it in the oven, leaving the door open. Sprinkle with 
salt, and serve. 



SALADS 



MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Put the uncooked yolks of two eggs into a clean, cold 
soup-dish, beat them well with a silver or wooden fork about 
one minute ; then add a half- teaspoon ful of salt, a dash of 
cayenne, and, if you like it, a half-teaspoonful of mustard. 
Work these well together, and then add, drop by drop, a 
half-pint or more of olive oil. You must stir rapidly and 
steadily while adding the oil. Do not reverse the motion, 
or it may curdle. After adding one gill of oil, alternate 
occasionally with a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. 
The more oil you use, the thicker the dressing. If too 
thick, add a half-tablespoonful or more of vinegar, until the 
proper consistency. More or less oil may be added, ac- 
cording to the quantity of dressing wanted. With care a 
quart bottle of oil may be stirred into the yolks of two 
eggs, alternating with a few drops of lemon juice or vine- 
gar, after adding the first gill of oil. It is easier, however, 
to start with three yolks when making a quart of dressing. 
In case the dressing should curdle, /. ^., the egg and oil 
separate, which makes the dressing liquid, begin anew at 
once with the yolks of two eggs in another plate, and after 
stirring them well, add by teaspoonfuls the curdled mayon- 
naise, stirring all the while, and then finish by adding more 
oil as directed. 

(95) 






96 SALADS 

In warm weather, it will take only one-half the time^ 
if you put the dish in which you make the mayonnaise 
on a piece of ice, or in a pan of ice-water ; the oil and 
eggs should also be cold. 

This dressing, if covered closely in a jar or tumbler, 
will keep ih a cool place for one week. 



FRENCH DRESSING 

Put a half-teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter-teaspoonful of 
pepper in a bowl, and add gradually six tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, and then stir in, a little at a time, two tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, stir continually for one minute until the 
dressing begins to thicken, and form an emulsion, and it is 
ready for use. 

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL 

Boil three eggs for fifteen miputes, take out the yolks, 
mash them fine, and add to them two raw yolks, then add 
gradually four tablespoonfuls of melted butter and four 
tablespoonfuls of thick sweet cream, add a half-teaspoonful 
of mustard ; salt and pepper to taste. Mix and work until 
perfectly smooth, and then add one tablespoonful of 
vinegar. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

Draw, singe, and gently boil a chicken until tender. When 
done, and perfectly cold, remove the skin and cut the meat 
into dice. If you want it very nice, use only the white 
meat, save the dark for croquettes. After you have cut it, 
stand it away in a cold place until wanted. Wash and cut 
the white parts of celery into pieces about a half-inch long, 
throw them into a bowl of cold water and stand them 



SALADS 97 

away until wanted. To every pint of chicken allow two- 
thirds of a pint of celery, and a cup and a half of mayon- 
naise dressing. When ready to serve, dry the celery and 
mix with the chicken, dust lightly with salt, white pepper 
or cayenne, then mix with it the mayonnaise. Serve on a 
cold dish garnished with the white celery tips. 



MAYONNAISE OP SALMON 

One pint of cold boiled or canned salmon, freed from all 
bones and skin, and a half-pint of mayonnaise, may be 
mixed together and served on a bed of crisp lettuce leaves. 



OYSTER SALAD 

Boil twenty oysters in their own liquor five minutes, drain, 
wash in cold water, then dry and stand away until very 
cold. When cold, mix with a half-cup of mayonnaise, 
and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 



LOBSTER SALAD 

Boil, open and cut into neat pieces one large or two small 
lobsters, and stand aside to get very cold. When ready to 
serve, mix with it a half-pint of cold mayonnaise. Garnish 
a salad dish with crisp lettuce leaves, put the salad in the 
centre, and serve. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Cut a slice from the stem end of a small, smooth tomato, 
take out a few of the seeds, fill the cavities with mayon- 
naise or other thick salad dressing, stand the tomatoes on 
lettuce leaves, and serve. 



98 SALADS 

VEGETABLE SALADS 

Any or all vegetables may be made into salads. Lettuce, 
sorrel, corn-salad, water-cress and pepper-grass are best 
served with French dressing. Tomatoes, asparagus, string 
beans and potatoes are best with thick dressings. 



AMERICAN SALAD 

Prepare the dressing as follows, and stand it aside to cool 
while you mix the salad. Boil one good-sized potato until 
dry and mealy. Press it through a fine sieve, add two 
ounces of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a teaspoonful of mustard, a dash of cayenne, 
and the yolks of three eggs. Beat until perfectly smooth 
and light, and stand aside to cool. Cut into small pieces 
the remains of cold roast veal or chicken, add to it a dozen 
olives cut into small pieces, one cold boiled carrot cut into 
thin slices, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a 
teaspoonful of onion juice. Mix the dressing with this, 
and serve on lettuce leaves. 



CARDINAL SALAD 

Wash and dry two heads of lettuce and a bunch of water- 
cress ; cut two boiled red beets into thin slices ; cut a half- 
dozen small red radishes into slices ; chop six hard-boiled 
eggs rather fine. Arrange the lettuce leaves nicely in a 
salad bowl; mix the cress, radishes, beets, eggs, and one 
sliced cucumber together, and mix with the whole a half- 
pint of cardinal mayonnaise, which is made by adding beet 
juice to plain mayonnaise. Put in the salad bowl on the 
lettuce leaves, and serve at once. 



SALADS 99 

SWEDISH SALAD 

Wash, trim and soak in cold water for one hour a good- 
sized mackerel, then cover it with boiling water, and simmer 
twenty minutes. Drain and cut into dice. Cut into small 
blocks sufficient cold roast beef to make a pint. Cut two 
boiled potatoes into dice. Mix one tablespoonful of capers, 
one tablespoonful of chopped gherkins, the same of chop- 
ped onion, the same of chopped parsley, ten good-sized 
olives, stoned, and two hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine; 
add to this the beef, potato and mackerel. Mix carefully, 
and pour over it a half-pint of French salad dressing; 
season highly with salt and cayenne. Put the whole in a 
salad bowl, and lay over the top two dozen cold raw 
oysters. 



STEWED FRUIT 



STEWED CRANBERRIES 



Wash the cranberries, put them in a porcelain-lined or 
granite saucepan, add to each quart of berries one pint of 
water, cover and cook ten minutes, add one pound of 
sugar, mix, and turn out to cool. 



PRESERVED CRANBERRIES 

Put one pound of granulated sugar and a half-pint of water 
on to boil. Boil two minutes, skim, add one quart of whole 
cranberries, cover the saucepan and stand it on the back 
part of the range to heat slowly for two hours. They must 
not boil or the skins will break. These are very nice to 
serve with roasted fowl or turkey. 



STEWED DRIED PEACHES 

If the peaches are clean do not wash them, but if they look 
dusty wash quickly in cold water, then cover with fresh 
cold water, soak over night, and cook in the same water until 
they are tender. Sweeten to taste. All kinds of dried 
fruit may be cooked in the same manner, 

(loo) 



STEWED FRUIT 101 

STEWED RHUBARB 

Cut, without peeling, the rhubarb into pieces about one 
inch long. To each quart of these pieces, add a half-pound 
of sugar, cook the two together slowly without water for 
ten minutes. Turn out carefully to prevent breaking. Serve 
very cold. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter, and core tart apples, put them in a porcelain- 
lined or granite saucepan with just enough water to keep 
them from scorching, cook until tender, press through a 
sieve, and to each quarter add a piece of butter the size of 
a walnut, and sugar to taste. 

COMPOTE OF APPLES 

Pare and core nice tart apples, place sufficient in a pre- 
serving kettle to just cover the bottom, add a very little 
water, cover the kettle, and steam until the apples are 
tender, but not soft ; then dust them heavily with sugar ; 
lift them carefully with a skimmer ; place them on a pretty, 
flat glass dish. Add to the water remaining in the kettle 
sufficient sugar to thoroughly sweeten, add a few pieces 
of the. yellow rind of lemon, boil a moment, pour it over 
the apples and stand aside to get very cold. 



PASTRY 



Paste, if properly made should be so light and delicate 
that the slightest pressure will crush it, and should also be 
perfectly free from grease. Under such conditions, paste 
is not indigestible. The heavy greasy short paste that 
crumbles under pressure is difficult of digestion, and takes 
just as much time and material as the better puff paste. It 
requires practice to make puff paste well, but it is worth all 
the necessary labor. It should always be made in a cool 
place, and of cold materials. A marble pastry slab is best, but 
perfect paste can, with care, be made on an ordinary meat 
platter, and rolled on a board. A glass roller is convenient, 
but not necessary ; one made from hard wood with mov- 
able handles will answer the purpose perfectly well. The 
best of butter should be used, and a smooth old process 
flour, the new patent flour being too granulated to make a 
perfectly light paste. 

PUFF PASTE 

Scald a large bowl, and then fill it with cold water and 
stand aside for a few moments. Wash your hands in soap 
suds as hot as can be borne, rinse, but do not dry them. 
This is to prevent the butter from sticking to the hands and 

(loa) 



FASTR Y 108 

bowl. Turn the water out of the bowl and nearly fill it 
with ice water ; put a pound of butter into it and work 
with the hands under the water, until the butter becomes 
soft and elastic, then pat it into a thin cake, and stand on 
the ice until wanted. Now put one pound of flour on a 
marble slab, or a very large meat plate ; make a well in the 
centre and put into it four ounces of the washed butter, 
the white of an tgg, a, teaspoonful of salt, and a teaspoon - 
ful of sugar; now work this together, adding gradually 
sufficient water to moisten the flour — about three-quarters 
of a cup. Use the tips of the fingers only for this work- 
ing. Now knead the paste on the slab or board until it 
loses its stickiness, and becomes light and elastic. About 
five minutes will be required for this portion of the work, 
but you can scarcely overknead it unless you add too much 
flour. This is done to toughen this dough or foundation, 
as it is called, so that the butter will not break through in 
the after manipulations. Cut the paste into halves, and 
roll each half into a sheet. Quickly break the butter into 
large pieces and lay them over one sheet ; dredge thickly 
with flour, cover with the other sheet, roll out gently and 
evenly from you into a long thin sheet ; now fold in the 
sides, then the ends ; turn the paste around so that the fold 
will run to and from you ; roll from you again into a long 
narrow sheet, fold into three and stand on the ice for fifteen 
minutes, then roll and fold as before, and so continue until 
you have rolled it eight times, standing it on the ice fifteen 
minutes between every other rolling. Remember to fold 
the paste into three thicknesses lengthwise after the first 
fold, and always keep the rolling-pin perfectly straight, 
with the motion directly from you. This will insure per- 
fectly even paste in the baking. Let it stand in the ice chest 
over night, and it is ready for use. If then rolled in ^ 



104 PASTRY 

napkin, and put in a cold dry place, it will keep nicely for 
three or four days. 

And now comes the most important part of all, the 
baking. If the best of materials have been used, and the 
directions for mixing carefully followed, and the paste put 
in an oven not properly heated, materials and labor will 
be lost. The paste should be icy cold and the oven a 
moderate heat for about five minutes, then quickly raised 
to a temperature of 400** Fahrenheit. If the oven is too 
hot at first, the air cells will not have a chance to expand, 
and the paste will be heavy. 

PLAIN PASTE WITH BUTTER 

It is quite as important to have everything very cold for 
plain paste as for puff. Sift three cups of flour, put it in 
a large mixing bowl, add a teaspoon ful of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Mix, and place in the centre a half- 
pound or one cupful of butter, then with a sharp knife cut 
it quickly into small pieces, at the same time mixing it with 
the flour ; now add the ice-water gradually, lifting with the 
knife that portion which you have moistened first, and 
pushing it to one side of the bowl, wet another portion, 
and so continue until all is moistened. Then cut and mix 
it together until you can lift it from the bowl with the knife. 
(A word of caution : add the water very carefully, wetting 
only the dry flour, never stirring twice in the same place.) 
Dredge the baking-board lightly with flour, turn the paste 
out on this, dredge with flour, and roll lightly and quickly 
from you into a long, thin sheet. Fold first the sides and 
then the ends, turn the paste around and roll from you 
again, as before ; fold and roll again ; then fold and stand 
on the ice until wanted. About one cup of water will 
be required. 



PASTE Y 105 

To have this paste a perfect success, the materials should 
be very cold, mixed and rolled quickly, using as little 
flour as possible in finishing. 

Many housekeepers use lard instead of butter for 
pastry, simply because it is cheaper j but as it makes a 
greasy, brittle crust, there is no doubt that it is more indi- 
gestible than the light, tender crust made from good, 
sweet butter. 

Lard, however, may be substituted in this recipe for 
butter, or a good crust is made by using half and half. 

SUET PASTE 

Remove the fibre from six ounces of beef's suet, and then 
chop it fine, add gradually one pound of sifted flour, a 
teaspoonful of salt, mix, and add a little at a time, about 
one cup of ice-water — more or less, as the flour requires — 
roll out, and it is ready for use. 

This paste is especially nice for apple dumplings and 
meat pies. 

The few recipes that follow, if properly made, will 
act as a keystone to the more expensive pastry dishes. A 
little practice and considerable common sense will remedy 
all the little difficulties that one may have in pastry dishes. 

OYSTER PATTIES 

Roll out puff paste into a thin sheet, then with a round, 
sharps tin cutter, cut the paste into cakes. Now take a 
cutter two sizes smaller, and cut the centers out of two- 
thirds of the cakes. With a soft paste brush moisten just 
inside the edge of the solid cakes, place one of the rings 
on top of this, moisten this ring, and place another on it, 
then lift this carefully and place in a baking- pan. Under- 



106 PASTR y^ 

stand two rings go on top of each solid cake. After they 
are made stand the baking-pans in an ice-chest for at least 
a half-hour, and then bake in a moderately quick oven for 
twenty-five or thirty minutes. Bake a few of the small 
cakes from the centers of the rings for the lids. 

While the patties are baking put twenty-five small fat 
oysters on to boil in their own liquor, for one minute, 
drain. Put one pint of milk in a double boiler to heat. 
Rub together two ounces of butter and two even table- 
spoonfuls of corn-starch, and add to the hot milk, stir, 
and cook about five minutes, then add a teaspoonful of salt, 
a dash of cayenne, and the oysters. When scalding hot 
they are ready to use. Put two oysters and a little sauce 
in each patty, put on the lid, and serve. 

PATTIES OP CHICKEN AND OLIVES 

The patty case may either be made of puff paste or quite as 
pretty, the little paper cases, which, by the way, grow 
prettier and prettier every year. 

For the filling take the white meat from a four-pound 
chicken (cooked) ; cut it into dice. Scald and remove 
the stones from a dozen olives. This can be done by par- 
ing around and around, as you would an apple. Throw 
the olives into scalding water while you make the sauce. 
Put one tablespoonful of butter into a very clean saucepan, 
add to it one even tablespoonful of flour, mix until per- 
fectly smooth, and add a half-pint of cream ; stir continu- 
ally until it boils, add a half-teaspoonful of salt, a quarter- 
teaspoonful of white pepper ; now add the chicken and the 
olives, which must be drained and dried on a soft napkin 
before adding. Stand the whole over boiling water until 
thoroughly heated. Do not fill the patty cases until serving 
time. 



PASTE Y 107 

BETHLEHEM APPLE PIE 

Line a Washington pie plate (a pie plate with a wide brim) 
with puff paste, and put an extra strip around the edge. 
Pare some nice tart apples, cut them into halves, and 
remove the cores. Arrange these halves rounding side up 
in the pie dish, sprinkle over four tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, a half-teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one tablespoon- 
ful of butter cut into small bits. Bake in a moderately 
quick oven until the apples are done. . Serve warm with 
cream. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Line a pie dish with plain paste, then fill it with uncooked 
cranberries; add a half-cup of molasses and four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, cover with an upper crust, and bake in 
a quick oven for thirty minutes. Good. 

QREEN GOOSEBERRY PIE 

Top and tail the gooseberries. For one quart of goose- 
berries, line two deep pie dishes with good plain paste; fill 
with the gooseberries, add nearly one cup of sugar to each 
pie, cover with an upper crust, and bake in a quick oven 
forty minutes. 

MOCK MINCE PIE 

Seed and chop one cup of raisins. Roll two round water- 
crackers until rather fine. Chip two ounces of citron, and 
wash and dry a half-cup of currants. Mix all these ingre- 
dients together, and add a quarter-teaspoon ful of salt, juice 
and rind of one lemon, a half-cup of sugar, a half-cup of 
cider, two-thirds cup of molasses, one tgg, well beaten, a 
teaspoonfiil of cinnamon, a quarter-teaspoon ful of cloves, 
and a grating of nutmeg. Mix all well together, and bake 
the same as mince pie. 



108 . PASTRY 

RHUBARB PIE 

Line deep pie dishes with good plain paste. Wash the 
tender stalks of rhubarb, but do not peel ; cut them into 
thin slices, fill the dishes even full, and to each pie add five 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar. Cover the pie with an 
upper crust, press the edges tightly together, and pick the 
upper crust here and there with a fork to allow the escape 
of steam. Bake in a moderately quick oven for forty 
minutes. 

MINCE MEAT 

Cover two pounds of beef, sticking piece oest, with boiling 
water, and simmer gently about three hours, or until tender. 
Do this the day before you are going to make the mince 
meat. The citron, raisins, and currants may also be gotten 
ready the day before. The currants must be washed, 
picked, and dried, and the raisins scalded and stoned. 
Seedless raisins must be stemmed. Two pounds of each 
kind of raisins, and two pounds of currants will be neces- 
sary. Next day when the meat is cold, chop it rather fine, 
but do not grind it. Shred one pound of beef's suet, chop 
it, add it to the meat. Pare, core and chop four pounds of 
apples. Cut one pound of citron into the thinnest slices, 
then add the apples, currants, raisins and citron to the 
meat, and mix thoroughly. Put two pounds of sugar into 
a bowl, add to it two grated nutmegs, two teaspoonfuls of 
ground cloves, one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, a 
teaspoonful of ground mace, a teaspoonful of salt and two 
teaspoonfuls of ground allspice ; mix all together and add 
to the other ingredients. Add the grated rinds and juice 
of two oranges and two lemons. Now mix all the ingre- 
dients very thoroughly together, then pack in a stone jar, 



PASTR y 109 

and pour over one quart of the best brandy, cover closely, 
and stand in a cool place to keep until wanted. 

When ready to use dip out the quantity desired, and 
thin to the proper consistency with cider. 

LEMON CUSTARD 

Beat one cup of sugar, juice and rind of one lemon and 
the yolks of three eggs together. Put a half-pint of milk 
on the fire to heat, moisten and add to it an even table- 
spoonful of flour. When thick and smooth take from the 
fire, and when cold stir it into the eggs and sugar. Line a 
deep pie plate with paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in 
a quick oven for thirty minutes. Beat the whites of the 
three eggs until light but not stiff, then add three table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat until the mixture 
will stand alone. Place this over the top of the custard by 
spoonfuls, put back in the oven a few minutes to brown. 

POTATO CUSTARD 

Beat six eggs without separating until light, then add one 
pound of sugar and one ounce of butter; beat again. 
Pare two good-sized potatoes and grate them into a pint 
of milk, add the other ingredients and the juice and 
grated rinds of two lemons. Line pie dishes with good 
paste, turn in the mixture, and bake in a moderately quick 
oven thirty minutes. 

PINEAPPLE PIE 

Pare, remove the eyes, and grate one large perfectly ripe 
pineapple. Measure, and to each pint allow three-quarters 
pound of sugar, a quarter-pound of butter, five eggs, and 
a half-pint of cream. Beat the butter, sugar and yolks 



4V* 



110 PASTRY 

of the eggs together until light, then add gradually the 
cream ; add the grated pineapple and the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Line two ordinary-sized pie 
tins with puff paste, fill them with this mixture, bake in a 
moderately quick oven for about thirty minutes. Serve 
very cold. 

PUMPKIN CUSTARD 

Pare and cut a Kershaw pumpkin into pieces about an inch 
square; put these into a porcelain-lined saucepan, with 
just enough water to prevent burning. Stew slowly until 
tender, about a half-hour, then press through a colander. 
To every half-pint of pumpkin, add a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, and a quarter-teaspoonful of salt. Mix 
and stand aside until cold. When cold, put one pint of 
this pumpkin into a large bowl, add one pint of good milk, 
a half-teaspoonful of ground mace, the same of ground 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, one cup of 
sugar and four well-beaten eggs. This quantity will make 
three large or four medium-sized pies. 



RICE CUSTARDS 

Wash a half-cupful of rice, and boil rapidly for thirty min- 
utes ; drain, and add to it one quart of milk, a cupful of 
sugar, five well-beaten eggs, and half a nutmeg, grated ; 
scald a half-pound of raisins, and let them stand fifteen 
minutes, drain, and stand aside to cool. Line deep pie 
dishes with puff paste, sprinkle over the bottom a few of 
the raisins, fill with the rice mixture, and bake in a moder- 
ately quick oven for about thirty minutes, or until the 
custard is set. Serve very cold. 



PASTE Y 111 

CHICKEN PIE 

Singe, clean and disjoint a large pair of tender chickens ; 
put them in a ste wing-pan. Put two tablespoon fuls of 
butter in a saucepan ; when melted, add two tablespoon - 
fuls of flour; mix, add a pint and a half of water; stir 
continuously until it boils, season lightly with salt, pepper, 
and a little cayenne, pour this over the chicken, cover, 
and simmer gently three-quarters of an hour ; then line a 
baking-dish with good, plain paste, arrange the pieces of 
chicken neatly in the dish, roll out the top crust, make a 
square opening in the centre, and bake in a quick oven 
three ^quarters of an hour. When the pie is done, heat 
the gravy and pour it carefully into the pie through the 
opening in the crust. 

CREAM CAKE PIE 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, 
and three ounces of butter together until light ; then add 
one cup (a half-pint) of lukewarm water ; mix, and add two 
and a half cups of flour. Beat until very smooth ; then 
add the well-beaten whites of two eggs and two large tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
an oblong pan in a moderate oven for about forty-five 
minutes. When cold, split into two layers and pour 
between and around them a soft custard, flavored with 
vanilla. 



CAKE MAKING 



First, have all your utensils ready, clean and bright. Read 
carefully the recipes before beginning, that you may not 
lack at the last moment some indispensable article. Weigh 
and measure carefully all materials before beginning to 
work any of them. Sift the flour before you measure it, 
unless the recipe states otherwise. If your flour is heavy, 
rich and granulated, allow one-third less than recipes call 
for. Use your judgment as to the quantity. The batter 
should be rather thin, except when otherwise directed. 
Beat the yolks and whites separately. Be sure your beater 
is perfectly clean and dry before beating the whites of 
eggs, or it will prevent them from becoming light and dry. 
Never beat cake in a tin vessel, as the working of the 
sugar acts as a scouring machine — ^brightening the tin, but 
darkening the sugar. Cake pans should as a rule be lined 
with buttered or oiled paper. Suet or lard is a better greas- 
ing material than butter, unless the butter be clarified. 
Never use stale or rancid butter for cake, as the heating in- 
tensifies the objectionable odor and flavor, and it is worse 
than when first put in. Never beat cake batter with the 
hand, as the hand warms and melts the butter, causing it 
to become oily. The baking-powder and the whites of 

the eggs should be added the last thing, unless otherwise 
(112) 



CAKE MAKING 118 

directed. When the baking-powder is sifted with the flour, 
fermentation often takes place long before the cake reaches 
the oven. The baking is the all-important part. Cakes 
containing a large quantity of butter require a very 
moderate oven. Cakes without butter, quick oven. The 
intermediate cakes, a moderate oven. Practice alone 
makes one perfect in cake baking. After the cake enters the 
oven, open the door, carefully in about five minutes. If 
the cake is doing all right, don't touch it, but close the 
door quickly and quietly. If it is beginning to brown, 
open drafts and cool the oven slightly. Never remove a 
cake from the oven to try it, neither should you move it 
unless you are satisfied it is " set *' in the centre. When the 
cake is done (this can be determined by listening to it ; if 
it does not tick, it is done, or you may thrust a clean broom 
splint down the centre ; if it comes out clean, it is done), 
turn it out of the pan and stand it on a sieve or cloth in a 
slightly warm place to cool gradually. Cakes made with 
yeast should be eaten while warm. 



BERWICK SPONGE CAKE 

Beat six eggs, without separating, and nine ounces of gran- 
ulated sugar until light and creamy. Weigh twelve ounces 
of flour ; sift one-half lightly into the eggs and sugar, mix- 
ing it in carefully. Dissolve two even teaspoon fuls of 
cream of tartar in a gill of water, add this to the cake, 
beat one minute, then add the remaining flour, the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon and a quarter-teaspoonful 
of salt ; mix them thoroughly, and add a level teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in four tablespoonfuls of hot water; 
beat the whole to a smooth mass, and bake in long, square 
pans in a quick oven. 



114 CAKE MAKING 

BREAD CAKE 

When the bread sponge is light and ready to mould, put 
aside one pint of the dough. Put this dough into a bowl ; 
add three ounces of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs, 
and the grated rind of half a lemon. Now beat until the 
ingredients are thoroughly mixed ; then give a few strong 
beats until the mixture is light. Now add carefully one 
cup of currants that have been washed, dried and thor- 
oughly floured. Mix them in gently, and pour the cake 
into a greased pan to the depth of an inch. Put four 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, two ounces of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, and a teaspoonful of cinnamon into 
another bowl, and beat until light ; then stir in gently two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of stale bread-crumbs; put this 
mixture here and there over the top of the cake, pressing 
it down with the finger ; stand in a warm place to rise, and 
when light, bake in a moderately quick oven, protecting the 
top that it may not get too brown. 



NEW ENGLAND LOAF CAKE 

Prepare one pound of currants ; stone one pound of rai- 
sins ; this is more easily done if you scald the raisins first. 
Cut into thin slices a quarter-pound of citron. Mix these 
fruits together; dust with flour, turning them over and 
over, until every piece is completely coated. About ten 
o'clock in the morning, work a half-pound of butter into 
one and a half pounds of flour ; then mix with it a half- 
pound of sugar ; now add a half-pint of scalded milk that 
has been placed aside to cool, and two eggs well beaten. 
Now beat the whole until light and creamy ; add one gill 
of good yeast or a half of a compressed cake dissolved in 
a half-cup of lukewarm water ; mix carefully and stand in 



CAKE MAKING 115 

a cool place to rise. It should not be light until six or 
seven o'clock in the evening. At this time, beat until 
light another half-pound of butter, a half-pound of sugar, 
and one tg% (without separating) ; mix them into the light 
sponge and stand again to rise until next morning. In the 
morning, mix together a half-teaspoonful of cinnamon and 
two grated nutmegs; add this to the cake with the flavored 
fruit. This fruit, remember, has been flavored a day and 
a night and should be perfectly dry. Stand it aside now 
for the third time to rise two hours; when light, grease 
a large square baking- pan ; line it with paper ; pour in the 
batter carefully and put at once into a very hot oven. 
Take off the drafts and cool the oven quickly, and bake 
slowly for about one or one and a half hours. The first 
quick heat fixes the cells and prevents the cake from being 
spongy. 

NEW YORK COOKIES 

Put three pounds of flour into a bowl ; add one pound of 
butter cut into bits, and beat until the butter and flour are 
thoroughly amalgamated. Stir a half-pound of granulated 
sugar with a half-pint of cold water, until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Add one teaspoonful of cinnamon to the butter 
and flour, and one grated nutmeg ; work in gradually the 
sweetened water, thus making a stiff" dough ; if the flour is 
heavy and thickens quickly, it may be necessary to add 
more water; add one teaspoonful of baking-powder, and 
work the dough until quite light. When light, roll it out 
into a sheet ; sprinkle it with currants ; fold it over, and 
roll down to the thickness of a half-inch. Cut into round 
cakes and bake in a moderate oven until a light golden 
color. 



116 CAKE MAKING 

SPONGE FINGERS 

First of all, you should have the pans that come for bak- 
ing these fingers, but in their absence you may put them in 
shape in a large baking-pan. 

Beat, without separating, ten eggs until creamy, then 
add one pound of powdered sugar, and beat again until 
thick and light, then sift in lightly three-quarters of a 
pound of fine flour. Arrange them in shape on white 
paper in a baking-pan, dust them with powdered sugar, 
and as soon as it begins to melt, put them in a quick oven, 
and bake till a delicate fawn color. When done, remove 
them from the paper using a very limber knife and put 
two smooth sides together to cool. Keep in a tin box or 
a stone crock. 



STRAWBERRY CREAM CAKE 

Make a very light sponge cake from six eggs, and bake it 
in three jelly cake tins. While it is baking and cooling, 
cover a quarter-box of gelatine with a half-cup of cold 
water, and soak a half-hour. Whip one pint of cream, 
and put it in a tin or granite pan ; stand this pan in 
another containing cracked ice, add to the cream a half- 
cup of powdered sugar and a teaspoonful of vanilla sugar. 
Stir the gelatine over boiling water until it dissolves, add it 
to the cream and stir at once, and continue stirring until 
the cream begins to thicken. When the cakes are cold put 
over one a thick layer of this cream ; then stand straw- 
berries evenly all over it ; put on another layer of the cake, 
cover it with cream and berries, and so continue, having the 
top layer cream and berries. Serve very cold. 



CAKE MAKING 117 

DOVER CAKE 

Beat three eggs, without separating, until very light; 
beat a quarter-pound of butter to a cream, stir in gradually 
a half-pound of granulated sugar, then add the eggs, beat 
until very light, add a gill of milk, a teaspoonful of cin- 
namon, two teaspoonfuls of rose water, and a half-pound 
of sifted flour \ beat until smooth. Put a half-teaspoonful 
of baking-soda into two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, and stir it 
rapidly into the cake. Turn into a greased pan and bake 
in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

MOLASSES WEDDING CAKE 

Melt five ounces of butter, and add to it a half-pint of New 
Orleans molasses. Dissolve a half-teaspoonful of baking- 
soda in a tablespoonful of boiling water, stir it into the 
molasses and butter, and add about two and a half cups of 
flour, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half-teaspoonful of 
cloves, and half a grated nutmeg; beat until smooth. 
Have ready a half-pound of currants, washed and dried, 
a quarter-pound of citron, shredded, a quarter-pound of 
raisins, stoned. Mix the fruit together, dust it thickly with 
flour, stir it lightly into the cake, turn into a greased pan, 
and bake in a very moderate oven one hour. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE 

Separate four eggs. Beat the yolks until creamy and add 
gradually a half-pint of powdered sugar, beat until very, 
very light, then stir in carefully the well-beaten whites and 
one cup of sifted flour, add two tablespoonfuls of boiling 
water and a teaspoonfiil of baking-powder. Bake in thin 
sheets in large baking-pans about ten minutes in a quick 
oven. When done turn out, spread quickly with jelly and roll. 



118 CAKE MAKING 

LADY CAKE 

Beat one pound of butter to a cream, add one pound of 
sugar, beat until very light, then add carefully the well- 
beaten whites of ten eggs, then stir in one pound of flour 
mixed with two ounces of corn-starch, add a teaspoonful 
of baking-powder and a teaspoonful of bitter almond or 
rose water. Bake in a moderate oven about one hour. 

SOFT QINQBRBRBAD 

Heat a pint of molasses, add to it a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, pour this 
while hot over a quarter of a pound of butter, add a gill 
of boiling water and sufficient flour (about three cups) 
to make a soft batter. Beat until smooth, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of ginger. Line square baking-pans with 
buttered paper, pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate 
oven thirty-five or forty minutes. 

COMMON QINQERBRBAD 

Put two pounds of flour into a bowl, rub into it a half- 
pound of butter, add two tablespoonfuls of ginger and a 
teaspoonful of soda, sifted, mix well and add sufficient 
molasses to make a dough. Knead as you would bread. 
Roll out in a thin sheet, cut with a round cutter, and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

SUGAR BISCUIT 

Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of sifted 
flour, then add two-thirds of a cup of sugar, now stir into 
this nearly one pint of bread sponge, adding as much milk 
as will make a soft dough ; mix well, cover, and stand 



I 



CAKE MAKING 119 

away until light. When light make into small biscuits 
about the size of a silver half-dollar, handling as lightly as 
possible, stand them in a greased pan, cover, and when 
very light, bake in a quick oven. 

These sugar cakes or biscuits are exceedingly nice if 
split into halves and toasted in the oven. 



BLACK CAKB 

Beat one and a quarter pounds of butter to a cream, add 
a pound of powdered sugar, beat until light, and then stir 
in a quarter of a pound of flour. Beat twelve good-sized 
eggs, without separating, until light, then add them alter- 
nately with three-quarters of a pound of flour ; beat welb 
add a gill of brandy, a gill of wine, a grated nutmeg, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, a half- teaspoon ful of mace, 
and a half-teaspoonful of cloves. Have ready one pound 
of finely chopped citron, two pounds of currants, washed, 
dried and picked, three pounds of raisins, seeded and 
chopped; mix the fruit and flour it well, then add it a 
third at a time. Line two fruit-cake pans with buttered 
paper, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven 
four hours. 

APSES 

Put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a bowl, rub 
into it a half-pound of butter ; then add a half-pound of 
granulated sugar and two tablespoonfuls of milk ; work 
until a smooth dough is formed. This will require about 
fifteen minutes. Roll out into thin sheets, cut with a 
round cutter, place on greased tins, and bake in a cool 
oven. Do not add any more milk. 



120 CAKE MAKING 

SEED CAKES 

Rub a quarter-pound of butter into a pound of flour ; then 
add a half-pound of granulated sugar, one tablespoonful 
of caraway seeds and a teaspoonful of baking-powder ; 
mix, and add sufficient milk to make a dough. Klnead 
well, roll out into thin sheets, cut in cakes, place on but- 
tered tins, and bake in a quick oven. 

ENGLISH PLUM CAKE 

Beat a half-pound of butter and a half-pound of sugar to 
a cream ; then add five eggs, well beaten. Beat in a half- 
pound of sifted flour, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and a 
grated nutmeg; add four tablespoonfuls of brandy and 
two tablespoonfuls of orange juice ; then add one and a 
half pounds of raisins, seeded, chopped and floured. Line 
your pan with buttered paper, and bake in a very moder- 
ate oven two hours. 

MARVELS 

Beat one cup of butter and one cup of sugar together 
until light; then add three eggs, 'well beaten, a half-tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, two tablespoonfuls of milk, and 
sufficient flour to make a dough ; roll .into a thin sheet, 
cut into narrow strips, twist or braid them, drop into 
smoking hot fat, and cook until a golden brown. Serve 
dusted with powdered sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Scald one pint of milk ; when lukewarm, add six ounces 
of butter, melted, four eggs, well beaten, a cup of sugar, 
half-cup of yeast, and sufficient flour to make a sponge. 
Beat well and stand in a warm place for about three hours. 



CAKE MAKING 121 

It is best to make this sponge about five o'clock in the 
afternoon, so that it can be kneaded before going to bed. 
When the sponge is light, add sufficient flour to make a 
dough. Knead lightly, put back in the bowl, cover, and 
stand in a moderately warm place over night. In the 
morning roll this dough out carefully, without kneading, 
cut into doughnuts, place them carefully on a floured 
cloth. Let stand one hour, and fry in smoking hot fat. 
Always drop the doughnut so that the side exposed to the 
air while on the cloth will be downwards when in the fat. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Cream a half-pound of butter, and then add gradually a 
pound of powdered sugar. Beat the whites of five eggs to 
a stiff froth. Beat the yolks of three, add them to the 
whites, and stir both carefully into the butter and sugar. 
Sift one pound of flour, add it alternately a litttle at a time 
with a half-pint of milk, then add two teaspoonfuls of 
baking-powder, mix and bake in jelly-cake pans in a quick 
oven. 

While these are baking make the 

FILLING 

Put two tablespoonfuls of cocoa, one tablespoonful of 
vanilla sugar, and a cup of powdered sugar into a saucepan, 
add two tablespoonfuls of milk, and stir over boiling water 
until the whole is melted and hot, then stir in quickly the 
well-beaten whites of three eggs. Put this mixture between 
the sheets. Dust the top layer with powdered sugar. 

HARD ICING 

Separate two eggs. Put the whites in a shallow platter, 
whisk them until they foam, not stiff, and sift in quite 



122 CAKE MAKING 

ft 

slowly a half-pound of powdered sugar, beating thoroughly 
and steadily until the mixture is fine, white and stiff enough 
to be cut with a knife. 



BOILED ICINQ 

Put a cup of sugar and a cup of water in a saucepan to 
boil. Boil until it spins a light thread from a spoon, 
take it at once from fire, and add it gradually to the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs, beating all the while. Beat 
until cold, and it is ready to use. 

This is a soft icing, and especially adapted to sponge 
cake, or other light and dry cakes. 



ORANQB ICING 

Put one cup of powdered sugar into a bowl, add the grated 
rind of one orange. Rub this with the sugar until the 
whole is of a yellowish color, add a tablespoon ful of boil- 
ing water and sufficient orange juice to make the sugar 
slightly liquid. 

CHOCOLATE ICINQ 

Boil one cup of sugar and a half-cup of water together 
until it forms a syrup that will spin a thread, add two 
ounces of piure cocoa, or three ounces of chocolate, and a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. 



DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 



Plain Bavarian Creams make the most delicious summer 
tlesserts. They are easily made if directions are carefully 
followed. All kinds of fruit may be used, adding more or 
less sugar, as the acid requires. 

ORANGE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Cover a half-box of gelatine with a half-cup of cold water, 
and soak a half-hour. Thoroughly chill a pint of cream 
and whip it to a froth. A tin cylinder churn or an egg- 
beater will do the work, and the froth may be skimmed 
off and placed on a sieve as fast as it comes to the surface. 
Add a cup of sugar to a pint of orange juice, stir until the 
sugar is dissolved. Place the gelatine over boiling water, 
and when it is dissolved add it to the orange juice, then 
add the whipped cream, stand the basin in a pan of cracked 
ice, and stir carefully but constantly until the ingredients 
are thoroughly mixed and chilled, then turn in a mould 
and stand away to harden. 

COFFEE BAVARIAN CREAM 

Make precisely the same as Orange Bavarian Cream, using 
one cup of coffee and one cup of milk. 



124 DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 

All Bavarian creams are made in precisely the same 
way. The quantity of liquid, however, must always be 
the same ; that is, if you make Strawberry Bavarian Cream, 
use a pint of strawberry juice ; if chocolate, dissolve two 
ounces of chocolate in a pint of scalded milk ; if peach, 
take a pint of peach pulp, etc. 

IMPERIAL RICE 

Boil a half-cup of rice for twenty minutes, drain, and cool. 
Cover a half-box of gelatine with a half-cup of cold water, 
and soak a half-hour. Whip a pint of cream, place it in a 
tin pan, and stand it in another of cracked ice. Sprinkle 
over the cream a half-cup of powdered sugar, the boiled 
rice, a teaspoonful of vanilla. Dissolve the gelatine, stir 
it into the cream and stir continually from the sides and 
bottom of the pan until the mixture thickens. Turn in 
a mould, and stand away to cool and harden. Serve with 
a border of preserved pineapple around it. 

RICE PUDDING WITH CANNED PEACHES 

Put a half-cup of rice into a pint of milk, and cook in a 
farina boiler until the milk is entirely absorbed. Butter 
a plain pudding mould, strew it thickly with bread- 
crumbs, then put in the bottom a layer of the cooked rice, 
then a layer of canned peaches, another layer of rice, and 
continue these layers until the mould is full. Bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. When done turn from the 
mould and serve hot with soft custard or plain cream. 

COFFEE JELLY 

Cover a half-box of gelatine with a cup of cold water and 
soak a half-hour, then pour over it a pint of freshly made 



DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 125 

hot coffee, add a half-cup of sugar, stir until the sugar is 
dissolved, strain, turn into a mould, and stand away to 
harden. When ready to serve, turn from the mould, and 
heap whipped cream around it. 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolks of two eggs 
and one cup of sugar until light, then add two ounces of 
melted chocolate, beat again, add a gill of milk, and one 
and a half cups of sifted flour. Beat until smooth, add 
the well-beaten whites and one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking-powder. Bake in a moderate oven for about forty 
minutes. Serve warm with a Foamy Sauce. 



PLAIN PLUM PUDDING 

Beat a quarter-pound of butter and a half-pound of sugar to 
a cream, then add a gill of cream, a gill of rum, a half-pound 
of chopped suet, a cup of stoned raisins, a cup of washed and 
dried currants, a quarter-pound of citron, shredded. The fruit 
must be well floured. Then beat six eggs without separating 
until very light, add them to the mixture, and a grated 
nutmeg, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, a quarter- teaspoonful 
of ground cloves, and sufficient bread-crumbs to make a 
stiff batter. Turn into a greased mould and boil continu- 
ously for five hours. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler to scald. Moisten 
four tablespoonfuls of corn-starch with a little cold milk, add 
to the scalded milk, stir until it thickens, add a half-cup 
of sugar, take from the fire, and add hastily the well-beaten 



126 DESSERTS AND PUDDINUS 

whites of four eggs, then add a teaspoonful of vanilla, and 
two cups of grated cocoanut, turn in a mould and stand 
away to harden. 

Make a soft custard sauce from a pint of milk and the 
yolks of the eggs sweetened and flavored. 



JERUSALEM PUDDING 

Cover a half-box of gelatine with a half-cup of water, and 
let soak for a half-hour. Whip one pint of cream, turn it 
into a basin, and put the basin in a pan of cracked ice. 
Add gradually to it a half-cup of pulverized sugar, one 
cup of cold boiled rice, three figs, chopped fine, and three 
pieces of preserved ginger, cut into small slices. Now 
stand the gelatine over a kettle of boiling water, and when 
it is melted, add to it three tablespoonfuls of cream. Take 
from the fire, cool, and stir carefully into the cream. Now 
add a half-cup of sherry, mix well and turn into a mould 
to harden. 

FIRMITY 

Add two or three tablespoonfuls of wheat granules to one 
pint of boiling water in a double boiler ; stir and cook 
until it thickens ; then add by degrees one quart of new 
milk ; then add a quarter-pound of chopped raisins, and 
cook for a half-hour. Beat the yolks of four eggs until 
light ; add them and one cup of sugar to the other ingre- 
dients ; flavor to taste, and turn out to cool. Serve icy 
cold with cream. 

COFFEE CREAM 

Soak a half-box of gelatine in a half-pint of cold water for 
a half-hour ; then pour over it a half-pint of strong coffee 
(hot) ; stir until the gelatine is dissolved \ add a half-cup 



DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 127 

of sugar and a half-pint of good cream, strain and turn 
into a mould to harden. Serve cold with cream. Put more 
or less sugar, according to taste. 



PLUM TRIFLE 

Cut damsons into halves ; remove the stones and press the 
pulp through a colander — they may be slightly heated 
first, if desired. Add to half-pint of the pulp the well- 
beaten whites of four eggs. Fill a glass dish with sweetened 
cream, and put the trifle over it by spoonfuls, heaping it 
up. Serve cold. 

A RICE SOUFFLE WITH APPLES 

Wash one half-cup of rice ; put in double boiler with one 
pint of milk ; add a piece of cinnamon and a small piece 
of lemon rind. Boil until the rice is tender, and has 
absorbed all the milk; then cool, and form it in a border 
around a baking-dish. Now brush the rice all over with 
beaten eggs. Fill the centre of the dish with stewed apples. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a light froth ; add four 
tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, and beat again until light and 
dry. Heap this over the apples, dust the whole thickly 
with powdered sugar, and stand it in a quick oven until a 
nice brown. 

HOT PEACH PUDDING 

Beat two eggs without separating until light ; add to them 
a half-pint of milk and one and a half cups of flour, a half- 
teaspoonful of salt, beat well, and then stir in two ounces 
of melted butter. Pare, stone and divide into quarters 
four solid peaches ; dust them well with flour ; add them 
and one teaspoonful of baking-powder to the batter. Mix 



128 DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 

lightly, and pour into a greased mould ; put on the lid ; 
Btand it in a kettle containing just sufficient boiling water 
to keep up a good volume of steam. Too much water will 
boil over into the pudding. Boil continually for two 
hours. Serve hot with Peach Sauce. 



FRUIT CROQUETTES 

Soak half a baker's five-cent loaf, freed from crust, in a 
pint and a gill of milk for fifteen minutes, then stir it over 
the fire until it boils and thickens, add the yolks of two 
eggs, and stir and cook a half-minute longer. Take from 
the fire, add a quarter-teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, a grating of nutmeg, and one cupful of mixed 
fruit, chopped very fine, raisins, citron and currants. Mix 
and turn out to cool. When cool, form into cone-shaped 
croquettes, dip first into beaten ^gg^ and then in bread- 
crumbs, and plunge into smoking fat until a golden brown. 
Dust with powdered sugar, and serve very hot. 

A rich pudding sauce should be served with them. 



FAIRIES 

Put one quart of flour into a bowl, rub into it two ounces 
of butter and one teaspoonful of salt ; now add sufficient 
cold water to make ^ rather stiff dough, and knead and 
work continuously until the dough becomes soft, elastic, 
and is free from stickiness. Now roll it out on a board, 
and roll it out as thin as a sheet of paper ; cut with a 
round cutter, prick here and there with a fork, and bake 
about two or three minutes in a moderately hot oven. 



DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 129 

SWEET POTATO PUDDINGS 

Bake six good -sized sweet potatoes. When done and 
mealy, scoop out the centres, and beat until very light. 
Add two ounces of butter, four tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and four tablespoonfuls of cream; beat gently until 
thoroughly mixed. Beat three eggs without separating 
until very, very light ; mix these carefully into the potatoes, 
and drop by spoonfuls into smoking hot fat. Serve hot, 
dusted with powdered sugar. 

GRANDMOTHER'S RICE PUDDING 

Add two tablespoonfuls of washed rice to a quart of milk, 
add twenty-five raisins, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a 
quarter of a nutmeg, grated. Stand the basin on the back 
part of the stove or range, where there is no danger of the 
milk boiling, and cook slowly for one hour, stirring every 
ten minutes. By this time the rice should be swollen and 
tender. Now stand it in the oven and bake until a nice 
brown crust is formed. Serve icy cold. 

CEREALINE BLOCKS WITH JELLY 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler, add sufficient 
cerealine — ^about a cup and a half — to make a thick batter, 
add a teaspoonful of salt, and stir the mixtui:e until smooth 
and light ; turn into a square tin pan to cool. When cold 
turn out and cut into blocks. Drop quickly into smoking 
hot fat, and cook until a golden brown. Drain on soft 
brown paper, dust with powdered sugar, and serve. 

PLAIN STEAMED DUMPLINGS 

Put one quart of sifled flour into a bowl, add one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two heaping ones of baking-powder, and then 



130 DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 

rub into it three ounces of butter. Beat one tggy without 
separating, add to it a half-pint of milk and then stir them 
into the flour. Mix quickly and roll out in a sheet about 
one inch thick. The dough must be quite moist, add a little 
more milk if necessary, cut the dough with a small, round 
biscuit cutter, place them in a steamer and steam thirty 
minutes, or they may be thrown into a pot of boiling water, 
and boiled for twenty minutes. Serve hot with Fruit Sauce. 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

Cover a quarter-box of gelatine with a half-cup of. cold 
water and soak a half-hour. Then put a half-cup of granu- 
lated sugar into a granite kettle and stir over the Are until 
reduced to caramel, then add four tablespoonfuls of hot 
water, boil a minute, and place over hot water while you 
beat to a dry froth the whites of eight eggs. Add the eggs 
to the caramel, take from the fire, mix well. Stand the 
gelatine over hot water to melt, add it to the eggs and stir 
them over ice until quite firm and cold- Turn into a 
mould and stand awav to harden. Serve cold with Cara- 
mel Sauce. 

FAIRY TOAST 

Toast slices of stale sponge cake and cut them into pieces 
two inches square. Beat a half-tumbler of apple jelly until 
light, then stir into it the well-beaten whites of two eggs. 
Spread this over the toast and place a large canned cherry 
in the center of each square. Serve cold with plain cream. 



ROYAL FRITTERS 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler to heat, when hot 
add the juice of one lemon, take from the fire and stand 



DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 131 

aside for five minutes. Beat three eggs, without separating, 
until light. Drain the curd from the milk, add to it the 
eggs, a quarter-teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and sufficient flour, about a 
half-cup, to form a smooth batter. Give the whole a good 
beating. Have ready a deep pan of hot fat, drop the batter 
by spoonfuls into it, and fry quickly until a light brown. 
When done, place on a sieve to drain. Serve hot, dusted 
with powdered sugar. 

QUEEN FRITTERS 

Put a half-pint of water and two ounces of butter in a 
saucepan to boil. When boiling throw in four ounces 
of flour, stir rapidly and continually until it sticks together 
and forms a ball; take from the fire, give a thorough 
beating and stand aside to cool. When cold, add one tgg 
without beating, and beat until the mixture is thoroughly 
amalgamated, then add another tgg, beat again, and so on 
until you have added four eggs. Now give the whole a 
beating for about a minute. Have ready a kettle of hot 
lard and drop the mixture by spoonfuls into it, allowing 
plenty of room as they swell four times their original bulk. 
They will turn themselves, and must be cooked until they 
stop popping. Serve hot, dusted with sugar and cinnamon. 



BANANA FRITTERS 

Cut eight bananas into halves, through their length, or 
they may be cut the other way. Make a French fritter 
batter as follows: Put one cup of flour (a half-pint) into a 
bowl. Beat the yolks of two eggs, add to them two-thirds 
of a cup of cold water ; then add this gradually to the 
flour, stirring all the while. It should form a smooth but 



132 DESSERTS AND PUDDINGS 

rather liquid paste, but at the same time have sufficient 
consistency to adhere to the bananas, add a tablespoonful 
of olive oil, the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and a level 
teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix carefully. Cover the 
bananas with this paste, and drop them into smoking hot 
fat, and when a bright golden color, sprinkle with pow- 
dered sugar, and serve. 

Vanilla or Banana Sauce may accompany them. 



PUDDING SAUCES 



APPLE PUDDING SAUCE 

Pare, core and stew four tart apples. When done, press 
them through a sieve, add to them the grated yellow 
rind and juice of one lemon and sufficient sugar to make 
them palatable. Add one ounce of butter and the well- 
beaten whites of two eggs. Serve cold, with dumplings or 
bread pudding. 

BANANA SAUCE 

Put four tablespoonfuls of sugar and one gill of water in a 
saucepan, and stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved ; 
then add four grated or mashed bananas ; cook one minute, 
press through a sieve, add one tablespoonful of maraschino, 
or one dessertspoonful of sherbet, and it is ready to serve. 



CARAMEL SAUCE 

Put one cup of granulated sugar in a granite or copper 
saucepan, place it over a good fire, stir continuously until 
the sugar melts and turns a light yellow color, then add a 
gill of boiling water, boil one minute, stirring all the while, 
and it is ready to use. If you use wine, add two table- 
spoonfuls after taking from the fire. 

<>33) 



184 PUDDING SAUCES 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Beat a half-tumbler of currant jelly until very light ; then 
stir into it carefully the well-beaten white of one t%g \ stand 
in a cold place until wanted. 

HARD SAUCE 

Make precisely the same as Foamy Sauce, only do not 
add wine or water. Simply beat butter, sugar and eggs. 
Add a quarter of grated nutmeg, and if you use liquor, 
one tablespoonfiil of brandy. Harden on the ice. 



PLAIN LEMON SAUCE 

Beat together one whole ^%g^ one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, one of butter, and a half cup of sugar ; then add 
gradually one and a half cups of boiling water. Stir over 
the fire just an instant until it thickens. Take from the 
fire, and add the juice and yellow rind of one lemon. 



CREAM SAUCE 

Beat a half-cup of butter to a cream, add gradually one 
cup of powdered sugar, beating all the while. When light 
and creamy, add, a little at a time, one gill of cream ; 
beat well, add the grated yellow rind of one lemon or 
orange. Put on the ice to harden. 

FOAMY SAUCE 
Beat to a cream a quarter-cup of butter ; add gradually one 
cup of powdered sugar, beating all the while. Then add 
the unbeaten white of one ^g%^ beat until smooth, then add 
another white, and give a thorough beating. When ready 



PUDDING SAUCES 185 

to serve, add one gill of sherry and one gill of boiling 
water. Put it in a farina boiler and stir over the fire until 
frothy — no longer. Serve immediately, or it will lose its 
lightness. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE, No. x 

Stem one quart box of nice, ripe berries. Press them 
through a sieve, add sufficient sugar to make the juice pala- 
table. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and then add 
quickly the well-beaten whites of two eggs. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE, No. a 

Beat to a cream two ounces of butter, add gradually one 
cup of powdered sugar, beating all the while. Mash twelve 
or more nice, ripe berries, add one at a time to the mixture. 
Beat thoroughly, then add one unbeaten white of an egg, 
beat well, add another white, beat again, put into a pretty 
little dish and stand on the ice till wanted. Raspberry 
Sauce may be made precisely the same. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

Put one pint of milk on to boil in a farina boiler. Beat 
the yolks of four eggs and two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
together until light, then add them to the boiling milk; 
stir over the fire for two minutes. Take off, add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and put away to cool. 

PEACH SAUCE 

Pare and stone four large, mellow peaches ; put them in a 
saucepan with one half-cup of water and one half-cup of 
sugar, stew until tender, then press them through a colan- 



lae PUDDING SAUCES 

4er. Put one cup of cream on to boil in a farina boiler, 
moisten one even tablespoonful of corn-starch in a little 
cold w&ter> and stir into the boiling cream ; stir until it 
thickens, then beat into it the peaches and the whites 
of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth; stand in a cold place 
until very cold. 

Apricot Sauce may be made in the same manner, 
using canned apricots. 



ICE CREAMS 



To make good Philadelphia ice cream, use only the best 
materials. Avoid gelatine, arrow root, or any other thick- 
ening substance. Good pure cream, ripe fruit, or the best 
canned in winter, and granulated sugar, make a perfect ice 
cream. 

Fruit, and fruit flavorings, should be added after the 
cream is frozen. The best ice cream is made by first scald- 
ing the cream and dissolving in it while hot the sugar. 
When raw cream is frozen, the flavoring is not so prominent, 
and the cream has a frozen, snowy taste, and is never per- 
fectly smooth and velvety. Cheaper ice creams are usually 
made in this way, as they swell to double their original bulk. 

Before turning the mixture into the freezing-can, see 
that the point of the dasher is properly adjusted into the 
little socket in the bottom of the can, then pour in the 
mixture, put on the cover, adjust the crank, and give it a 
turn to see that all is right. Now shave the ice with a 
chipper, or pound it in a coarse bag, then turn it into a 
tub or pan, and with each ten pounds of ice mix one quart 
of rock salt ; pack this around the can, almost to the top. 
Now tiun the crank slowly and steadily until it goes pretty 
hard. If properly packed, it will take twenty to twenty- 
five minutes to freeze. It is not well to freeze loo quickly. 
Water ices require a longer time than ice creams. When 



138 ICE CREAMS 

frozen, remove the crank, wipe the lid of the can and 
take it off, being careful not to allow any salt to fall into 
the can ; remove the dasher and scrape it off; take a large^ 
wooden spatula or mush stick, and scrape the cream from 
the sides of the can, and beat and work steadily for ten 
minutes ; this makes the cream smooth. Now put the lid 
on the can, put a cork in the hole where the dasher was 
taken out, drain off the water from the tub, repack with 
salt and ice, cover the tub with a piece of carpet, and stand 
away in a cold place for one or two hours to ripen. When 
the cream is fresh, in tasting, you taste each ingredient 
separately, but after standing one or two hours they blend 
and form a pleasant whole. This is called ripening. When 
ready to serve, dip the can in cold water quickly and wipe 
it, then turn the cream out on a dish. If you wish to serve 
the cream in forms, after you are done working it with a 
wooden spatula, fill the mould or form with the cream, 
press it down with a spoon, being careful to fill every part 
of the mould. Bind the edge of the mould with a piece 
of letter paper, put on the lid and press it down. Dip a 
strip of muslin in melted paraffin and cover the joint. Pack 
the mould in salt and ice for one or two hours until wanted. 
If you have no freezer, an impromptu one may be made by 
using a tin pail for the can and a bucket or cask for the 
tub. In this case it will have to- be stirred occasionally, 
while freezing, with a wooden spoon or flat stick, replacing 
the lid of the kettle after each stirring, and give the pail a 
rotary motion in the ice. 

To freeze puddings follow the ss^me directions. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Put a pint of cream on to scald, add two ounces of sweet 
chocolate, a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, seven ounces 



ICE CREAMS 189 

of granulated sugar, a quarter-teaspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon, stir until perfectly smooth, and until the choco- 
late is thoroughly melted. Strain while hot through a fine 
muslin, stand aside to cool. When cold add another pint 
of cream. Turn into the freezer, and freeze. 



PEACH ICE CREAM 

Put a pint of cream on to boil in a farina boiler ; when 
hot add ten ounces of sugar, and stir until dissolved. Take 
from the fire, add another pint of cream and when cold, 
freeze. Pare and mash a quart of peaches and stir them 
quickly into the frozen cream. Turn the crank rapidly for 
five minutes, then remove the dasher, repack the tub, 
cover, and stand away two hours to ripen. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

Put one pint of cream and a half-pound of sugar on to boil 
in a farina boiler, when the sugar is dissolved, stand aside 
to cool. Add another half-pound of sugar and the juice 
of one lemon to one quart of strawberries, mash and stand 
aside one hour, then strain through a fine muslin. Add 
another pint of cream to the sweetened cream, and freeze. 
When frozen stir in the fruit juice, freeze again and finish as 
before. Or the berries may be added without straining. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

Put one pint of cream and a half-pound of sugar, and one 
vanilla bean split in halves, or two tablespoonfuls of the 
sugar, on to boil in a farina boiler ; stir constantly for ten 
minutes. Take from the fire, take out the bean, if you use 
it| and with a blunt knife scrape out the seeds, and the 



140 ICE CREAMS 

soft part from the inside of the bean, being careful not to 
waste one seed. Mix the seeds thoroughly with the cream, 
and stand away to cool. When cold add another pint of 
cream, and freeze. Finish as in preceding recipe. 

FROZEN CUSTARD 

Put one quart of milk on to heat in a farina boiler. Beat 
together four whole eggs, and a half-pound of sugar ; stir 
this into the milk and cook one minute. Strain, cool, add 
a tablespoonful of vanilla, and freeze as directed. 



FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 



MACEDOINE DE FRUITS GLACES 

Shell a quarter-pound of paper-shell almonds, blanch by 
pouring over them boiling water, then chop very fine, and 
pound to a paste. Cut into tiny pieces a quarter of a 
pound of candied cherries, same quantity of apricots, and 
the same of pineapple. Make a syrup the same as for 
Orange Sherbet. After boiling and skimming, add the 
fruit and almonds and stand aside to cool. When cool, 
add sufficient lemon juice to make it pleasant (about six 
lemons). Freeze and finish the same as other sherbets. 



ORANGE GRANITE 

Peel four oranges and separate them in carpels, removing 
all the white skin and seeds. Boil one-half pound of sugar 
and one and one-half quarts of water together five minutes, 
take it from the fire, add the juice of two oranges, throw 
in the carpels, and let stand until cool. When cold, 
remove the oranges, turn the syrup into the freezer, and 
freeze. When frozen, stir in the pieces of oranges care- 
fully, cover, and stand aside for twenty minutes only. 
Serve in glasses. 



142 FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 

CHESTERFIELD CREAM 

Put one and one-half pints of cream in a farina boiler with 
one stick of cinnamon and the rind of one lemon, chipped. 
Beat twelve ounces of sugar and the yolks of three eggs 
together, and stir into the boiling cream, cook one minute, 
strain, and when cold, freeze. When frozen, remove the 
dasher and stir in an extra pint of cream, whipped ; stand 
aside for two hours. Sei-ve with one pint of preserved 
damsons over and around it. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE (FROZEN) 

Cover one-half box of gelatine with a half-cup of cold 
water, and soak one hour, then add a half-cup of boiling 
water to dissolve. Mix one pint of orange juice and one 
pound of sugar together. Whip one quart of cream. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs until light, add them to the 
orange juice and sugar, then add the gelatine, strained, 
and freeze. When frozen, remove dasher, stir in the 
whipped cream, and stand aside two hours to ripen. 

PUR^E OF APRICOTS (FROZEN) 

Beat one-quart can of apricots until thoroughly mashed 
and smooth. Beat the yolks of six eggs and one-half pound 
of sugar together until light, then add them with one pint 
of cream to the apricots, turn the whole into a farina boiler, 
and stir over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken, strain 
through a fine sieve and whip until cold and the consis- 
tency of sponge-cake batter, add three tablespoonfuls of 
maraschino, and freeze. 

PLUMBIISRE 

Blanch and pound one-half pound of Jordan almonds to a 
paste. Scald one quart of cream in a farina boiler, add the 



FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 143 

almonds, then the yolks of seven eggs and one-half pound 
of sugar beaten to a cream, and stir over the fire until they 
begin to thicken, take from the fire, and beat continuously 
for three minutes ; strain through a fine sieve and freeze. 
When frozen, remove the dasher, make a small well in the 
centre, fill it with apricot jam, cover, and stand aside for 
two hours. When ready to serve, dip the can quickly into 
warm water, and turn the plumbi^re on a dish. 

ICED RICE PUDDING WITH A COMPOTE OP 

ORANGES 

Rub one-half cup of rice well in a clean towel, put it on 
to boil in one pint of cold water, boil a half-hour ; drain, 
cover with one pint of milk, and boil a half-hour longer. 
While this is boiling, whip one quart of cream. After you 
have whipped all you can, add the remainder, and what 
has drained from the other, to the rice and milk. Stand 
the whipped cream in a cold place until wanted. Now 
press the rice through a wire sieve, and return it to the 
farina boiler in which it was boiled. Beat the yolks of six 
eggs and one and a half cups of sugar together until light, 
then pour over the boiled rice, stir well, return again to the 
fire and cook two minutes, or until it begins to thicken. 
Take from the fire, add one tablespoonful of vanilla, and turn 
out to cool. When cool, put into the freezer and freeze. 
When frozen, stir in the whipped cream, remove the dasher 
and smooth down the pudding, and let stand for two hours. 

FOR THE COMPOTE 

Put one pound of sugar and one gill of water on to boil ; 
boil five minutes, skim, and add the juice of a quarter 
lemon. Peel one dozen sweet oranges, cut them in halves 



144 FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 

crosswise, cut out the cores with a square knife ; put a few 
pieces at a time in the hot syrup, and lay them out singly 
on a flat dish \ pour over them the remaining syrup, and 
stand on the ice to cool. To dish the pudding, lift the can 
out of the ice and wipe it off, so that the salt will not get 
into the pudding; then wipe the bottom with a towel 
dipped in boiling water, put a dish over the top of it, turn 
it upside down and remove the can ; if it should stick, wipe 
again with the hot towel. Heap the oranges on top and 
around the base of the pudding, and pour the syrup over 
them. 

SICILIAN SHERBET 

Pare one dozen large mellow peaches, remove the stones, 
and cut or chop the peaches with a silver spoon, then add 
to them one pint of orange juice and one pound of granu- 
lated sugar ; stir until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, 
then turn into the freezer, and finish the same as Orange 
Sherbet. 

Being made entirely without water, it is heavy, rich 
and delicious. 

Grated apple or pear may be substituted for peaches ; 
any fruits that blend nicely together, such as pineapple and 
orange, raspberry and currant, grape and plum, may be 
used, and all sherbet may be made according to these 
recipes. 

ORANGE SHERBET 

Squeeze the juice from one dozen good-sized oranges, and 
one good-sized lemon, the juice should measure one and a 
half pints, after it is strained. Add one pound of sugar to 
one quart of water, and boil five minutes ; skim and strain 
through a fine muslin and stand aside to cool. When cool 



FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 146 

add the orange juice and a tablespoonful of gelatine, that 
has been soaked and dissolved. Turn the whole into the 
freezer, and pack with salt and cracked ice, allowing a 
quart of salt to ten pounds of ice. Cover and fasten the 
can, and turn the crank slowly and steadily until it is 
frozen pretty stiff. Then beat the white of one ^gg until 
light, add an even tablespoonful of powdered sugar and 
beat again. Remove the dasher from the can, and, with 
a paddle stir into the sherbet this beaten ^gg. Scrape down 
the sides of the can and work the sherbet for about three 
minutes, until perfectly smooth. Draw off the water, repack 
the can, cover with an old piece of carpet and stand aside 
for about two hours to ripen. 

STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE 

Cover a half-box gelatine with a half-cup of cold water and 
soak a half-hour, then add a half-cup of boiling water and 
stir until the gelatine is dissolved. Mix one pint of straw- 
berry juice with three-quarters pound of sugar, until 
they form a syrup. Beat the yolks of six eggs to a cream, 
add them to the syrup, beat until thoroughly mixed. 
Whip one quart of cream. Strain the gelatine into the 
syrup and eggs, turn into a freezer and freeze. When 
frozen, stir in lightly and hastily the whipped cream. Re- 
pack the freezer and stand aside for two hours. This 
recipe will serve fifteen people. 

LEMON FRAPPE 

Add one pound of sugar to one quart of water ; boil three 
minutes and skim. When cool, add the juice of four large 
lemons and the grated yellow rind of two, turn into a 
freezer, pack with salt and ice, allowing one quart of salt 



146 FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 

to ten pounds of ice. Turn the crank slowly and contin- 
uously until the mixture is half-frozen and looks like wet 
snow. Serve in lemonade glasses. 

Frapp6 may be made and frozen in an ordinary tin 
kettle, packed in a bucket with salt and ice, as they do not 
require much stirring, it can be easily done with a 
paddle. Nothing is more refreshing on a warm day, for 
lunch, than a nicely prepared frapp^. 

LEMON WATER-ICE 

Chip the yellow rind from two lemons and one orange ; 
then add these chips, and one and a quarter pounds of 
granulated sugar to one quart of water, stir over the fire 
xmtil the sugar is dissolved, and then boil, after it begins 
to boil, five minutes, skim and strain through a hair sieve 
or a piece of cheese cloth, and stand aside to cool. When 
cold, add the strained juice of four juicy lemons and 
one orange. Pour this into the freezer, pack with salt and 
ice, about ten pounds of ice and one quart of salt will be 
required. Turn the crank slowly for a few minutes, then 
rest for about five, and then turn very slowly again, and so 
continue until it is frozen. A much longer time is required 
for freezing water-ice than ice cream. When frozen hard, 
remove the dasher, scrape down the sides of the can, and, 
with a wooden paddle, beat thoroughly. Put a cork in 
the lid, draw the water from the tub, repack with salt and 
ice. Dip an old piece of carpet in the brine, cover it over 
the tub, and stand in a cold place for about two hours. 

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler to scald. Melt 
three ounces of chocolate (not sweet), add it to the 



FROZEN PUDDINGS AND ICES 147 

milk; stir until perfectly smooth, add seven ounces of 
sugar and a tablespoonful of vanilla, take from the fire, 
stir until the sugar is dissolved, turn into the freezer, 
pack with salt and ice, and freeze the same as ice cream. 
Then stir in one pint of cream, whipped, repack, and 
stand aside for two hours. 



ICED CHOCOLATE 

Put six ounces of sweet chocolate in a boiler and stand 
it over boiling water to melt. Boil « one-half cup of sugar 
and one-half pint of water until it forms a thick syrup. 
Scald one and one-half quarts of cream in a farina boiler, 
add it to the melted chocolate, then the syrup, mix thor- 
oughly, and when cold, strain and freeze. 



ICED COFFEE 

Boil twelve oimces of sugar and one pint of water until it 
forms a thickish syrup, then add one pint of strong coffee, 
which should be made from a blended coffee of Mocha and 
Java. Scald one quart of cream in a farina boiler, then 
add it to the syrup and coffee, and when cold, freeze. 
Serve in glasses. 

FROZEN COFFEE CUSTARD 

Put one pint of milk in a double boiler to scald. Beat 
four eggs and one-half pound of sugar together until very 
light, add them to the hot milk, cook an instant, take from 
the fire, add one-half pint of cream and one-half pint of 
strong coffee. When cold, freeze. 



BEVERAGES 



COFFEE 

As there is nothing easier than coffee makings it is a 

wonder how marvelously bad it is usually done. A little 

pains, good coffee, and freshly boiled water, is all that is 

necessary. There is a decided difference in coffee pots, 

but the best one I have ever seen, in the hands of a careless 

cook, will produce the worst decoction one needs to 

drink. The first and most important point is the knowing 

how to select coffee. The best results are usually obtained 

from a mixture of two-thirds Java, and one-third Mocha, 

at the same time I have tasted many a good cup of coffee 

made from Rio. A Frenchman would tell you- that his 

mixture of three-fourths Mocha, one-fourth Martinique, 

was the only sensible or luscious one ; he would also tell 

you that to make perfect coffee you should use chicory, 

but I beg to differ with him, as the former blending is quite 

perfect. Chicory is largely consumed on the continent, 

not as a mere adulteration of coffee, or as a matter of 

economy, but upon its own merits. In Belgium, it is said 

that five pounds per head are used in the year, counting 

the entire population. In certain parts of Germany women 

become chicory topers. It does not contain any of the 
(148) 



BEVERAGES 149 

elements of coffee, but forms a drink closely allied in color 
and flavor. 

Having settled the choice of coffee, the second import- 
ant point is the water, which should be freshly boiled soft 
water. Not water drawn from the hot spigot into the 
kettle the night before, and placed on the range to simmer 
all night, to lose its gases and become flat ; such water, 
no matter what sort of a pot or coffee you use, will produce 
simply *' slush.'* The tea kettle should be rinsed out every 
morning, flUed with fresh, cold water, brought quickly to 
a boil, and used at once. This is a matter of a few 
moments, and will boil while the remainder of the break- 
fest is being prepared. 

Boiled or not boiled, is an ever-recurring question. 
As boiling leads to a loss of aroma, a decoction involves a 
waste. If economy is not an object, a surplus of coffee 
may be used to overcome this, but economy should be an 
object, and an infusion rather than a decoction made, there- 
fore the old-fashioned biggin, or some of the new steam 
coffee pots, make the more economical coffee. 



COFFEE (BOILED) 

Take six heaping tablespoonfuls of finely ground coffee, 
moisten it with a half-cup of cold water, add one tgg shell, 
crushed, or a teaspoonful of the white of egg, too much 
weakens the coffee, turn this mixture into an ordinary tin 
pot, pour over it one quart of freshly boiled water, put the 
lid on the pot and bring quickly to a boil ; boil one minute, 
remove the lid, stir down the grounds, add a half-cup of 
cold water, and stand it on the back part of the range to 
settle. Have your table coffee pot filled with boiling water 
to heat. If it be a cold morning, have also your coffee 



150 BEVERAGES 

cups heated. Rack the coffee into the table pot, and serve 
immediately. 

COFFEE BY PERCOLATION 

Put four tablespoonfuls of finely ground coffee in the top 
of your percolator, press it down, cover it with the upper 
sieve, and pour through a little at a time one quart of 
freshly boiled water, covering the pot closely each time, 
while the water is dripping through. Serve immediately. 
This coffee must not be boiled, and is not good if kept 
waiting. It is more healthful, more economical, and has a 
finer flavor than boiled coffee. 



TEA 

Tea, like coffee, should not be boiled, but made from 
freshly boiled water, allowing one teaspoonful to each per- 
son, and one to the pot. First scald the pot, and allow it to 
stand on the back part of the stove about ten minutes ; 
then turn out the water, put the tea into the hot pot, and 
pour over it one-half the boiling water (that is, if you are 
going to make one quart of tea, pour over it, at this stage, 
one pint), cover the pot, and stand on the back part of the 
stove five minutes to draw ; then add the remainder of the 
boiling water, and serve at once. 

Never use a metal teapot. 

Russian tea is made by putting a slice of lemon in the 
bottom of each cup, and pouring over it the boiling tea. 



CHOCOLATE 

Put four ounces of chocolate into a farina boiler, stand it 
over the fire to melt. When melted, add one quart of new 
milk slightly warmed, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



BEVERAGES 161 

Cover the farina boiler and boil five minutes, then with a 
whip chum, or an tgg beater, beat the chocolate until 
smooth £did creamy. Serve with whipped cream. 



COCOA 

Put one quart of milk to boil in a farina boiler. Moisten 
four tablespoonfuls of cocoa with a little cold milk, pour it 
into the boiling milk, stirring all the while. Stir until it 
comes to boiling point, cover the farina boiler, and boil five 
minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 

Broma, alkathrepta, and racahout are all made pre- 
cisely the same as cocoa. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Put two quarts of raspberries into a stone jar, and pour 
over them one quart of good cider vinegar. Cover and 
stand aside for two days, then drain off the liquid without 
mashing the berries, pour it over a quart of fresh fruit, and 
stand as before. Do this once more, the last time strain- 
ing through a muslin bag. Now add one pound of sugar 
to every pint of this liquid. Boil slowly five minutes, 
skim, let stand fifteen. minutes, bottle, and seal. 

Strawberry and blackberry vinegars are made in pre- 
cisely the same manner. 



CANNING 



The manner of canning different kinds of fruit varies but 
little. Perfectly sound fruit only should be used, and all 
fruits may be canned with or without sugar, as it takes no 
part in their preservation. 

Com is the most difficult of all vegetables to keep, 
but by mixing with it an equal quantity of tomatoes no 
difficulty will be found. 

All fruits should be cooked but little, as long cooking 
destroys their natural flavor, but they must go scalding hot 
into air-tight glass jars, filled to overflowing to exclude 
every particle of air, then quickly sealed. Thoroughly 
heat the jars before filling, then stand them while filling 
on a damp towel to reduce the danger of breakage. After 
the jars are well filled, the tops, which should be glass or 
porcelain, must be screwed on quickly and tightly, and 
the jars placed where the air will not strike them, to stand 
over night. In the morning you will be able to give the 
tops another turn, then wipe the jars and put them away 
in a dark, cool (not cold), dry closet. In a week examine 
them carefully. If the liquor has settled and there are no 
visible air-bubbles, you may be sure the fruit is keeping. 
If you find the opposites, empty the jars at once, or they 
will burst. 



CANNING 153 

Small fruits are best sugared one or two hours before 
cooking. 

Large fruits should be thrown into cold water as soon 
as they are pared to prevent discoloration. 

It is the safest plan to cook only fruit enough to fill 
one or two jars at a time. Have the jars hot and every- 
thing ready; as soon as the fruit is done fill the jars quickly, 
run a silver spoon-handle around the jar to break any air 
bubbles that may be there and then screw on the tops 
without delay. 

PEACHES 

Pare and throw them into cold water. When you have 
enough to fill one or two jars, take them from the water, 
put them in a porcelain-lined kettle, cover them with 
boiling water, and stand on the back part of the fire where 
they will scarcely simmer until tender. While they are 
cooking, make a syrup from one pound of sugar and one 
quart of water, stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, 
and then boil for three minutes. Lift the peaches carefully 
from the water, put them in the syrup, bring to boiling 
point, and can as directed. 



PEARS 

Proceed precisely the same as for peaches. 



PINEAPPLE 



The large sugar loaf are best for canning. They should 
be pared, the eyes removed, and the flesh carefully picked 
into pieces with a silver fork. To every pound allow three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar. Put the pineapple into a 



154 CANNING 

porcelain -lined kettle, sprinkle over the sugar, and cook 
over a moderate fire for ten minutes. Can as directed. 
Pineapple may also be grated. 



QUINCES 

Pare, core, and cut the quinces into rings, and proceed 
exactly the same as for peaches, using a half-pound of sugar 
to every pound of quinces. 

The skin and rough pieces may be used for jelly. 

BLACKBERRIES 

To every pound of blackberries allow a quarter of a pound 
of sugar. Put into a porcelain-lined kettle, sufficient 
berries to fill two jars, cover them with the sugar and 
stand aside for two hours, then bring to boiling point. 
Can as directed. 

When large quantities of berries are being canned they 
may be sugared on meat plates or in large basins. 

CHERRIES 

Stone the cherries , and if sour, allow a half-pound of 
sugar to every pound of cherries. If sweet a quarter of a 
pound will be quite sufficient. Proceed the same as for 
blackberries. 

CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES 

To each quart of large red raspberries, allow a half-pint 
of currant juice and a half-pound of sugar. Put the 
berries in a porcelain -lined kettle, add the juice and sugar, 
bring to boiling point and can. 



^ 



CANNING 155 

BLUE PLUMS 

Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound 
of plums. Proceed as for blackberries. 

Gages may be canned in the same manner, first prick- 
ing the skins to prevent cracking. 

To every five pounds of damsons allow three pounds 
of sugar. 

STRAWBERRIES 

These are canned precisely the same as blackberries, using 
a half-pound of sugar to each pound of berries. 



CORN 

Fill the cans full of fresli uncooked corn, cut from the cob, 
and seal them lightly. Cover the bottom of a wash boiler 
with straw or hay, stand the cans on this and pour over 
sufficient cold water to nearly cover. Cover the boiler 
and heat the water gradually to boiling point. Boil for 
two hours. If the cans are tin, puncture the top to allow 
the escape of gas. If they are glass simply unscrew the 
lids and quickly fasten them again. Now boil two hours 
longer. 

APPLE JELLY 

''Lady's Blush" or "Fall Pippins" make the best 
jelly. 

Wipe the fruit, cut it into pieces without paring or 
removing the seeds. Put into a porcelain -lined kettle, and 
just cover with cold water, cover and cook for a few min- 
utes until the apples are very tender. Drain through a 




^w 



156 CANNING 

s 

flannel bag — do not press or squeeze or the jelly will be 
muddled or cloudy. To each pint of this juice allow one 
pound of granulated sugar. Put the juice in the kettle, bring 
to a boil and skim ; add the sugar, stir until it is dissolved, 
then boil rapidly and continuously until it jellies, skimming 
the scum as it comes to the surface. Twenty minutes 
is usually sufficient. It is wise to commence testing 
after fifteen minutes boiling, by taking just a spoonful in a 
saucer and standing it for a moment in a cold place, if it 
jellies on the surface quickly it is done, but if liquid when 
cold, continue boiling. When done, roll the tumblers 
quickly in hot water, then fill them with the boiling liquid, 
stand aside without covering for twenty-four hours. Then 
cover the tops with two thicknesses of tissue paper, care- 
fully pasting the edges down on the tumblers. Moisten 
the top of the paper with cold water. This moistening 
stretches the paper, which shrinks when dry, forming an 
excellent cover, much better than tin or other tops. Keep 

r 

in a C00I9 dark closet. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY 

Make precisely the same as Apple Jelly. 



BLACKBERRY JELLY 

The under-ripe cultivated or the wild blackberries are best 
for jelly Put the berries into a stone jar, stand it in a kettle 
of water, cover the top of the jar, and boil slowly for one 
hour, or until the berries are quite soft. Now put a small 
quantity at a time into your jelly-bag, and squeeze out all 
the juice. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow one 
pound of granulated sugar. Turn the juice into a porce- 
lain-lined kettle, and stand over a brisk fire. Put the 




CANNING 157 

sugar into earthen dishes and stand them in the oven to 
heat. Boil the juice rapidly and continuously for twenty 
minutes, then turn in the sugar, hastily stirring all the 
while until the sugar is dissolved. Dip your tumblers 
quickly into hot water, watch the liquid carefully, and, as 
soon as it comes again to a boil, take it from the fire and 
fill the tumblers. 

If the fruit is over-ripe, your jelly will never be firm, 
no matter how long you boil it. 

Follow these directions carefully, and you will never 
fail. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

I quart of cranberries i pound of sugar 

J^ pint of water 
Wash the cranberries and put them on with the water to 
boil for ten minutes, then mash and squeeze through a 
flannel bag. Return the juice to the kettle, add the sugar, 
boil rapidly and continuously for about fifteen minutes, or 
until it jellies, and turn out to cool. 



CURRANT JELLY 

Select currants that have been freshly picked and are not 
too ripe. If they are sandy, wash them, but do not stem. 
Mash a small quantity at a time in a stone jar, with a 
potato-masher, squeeze through a flannel bag, then strain 
again without squeezing, that the liquor may be perfectly 
clear. Turn the liquid into a porcelain-lined kettle, stand 
over a brisk fire. Put the sugar into earthen basins, and 
put in the oven to heat. Boil the juice twenty minutes 
after it begins to boil, then stir in hastily the hot sugar, 
and stir until the sugar is dissolved — no longer. Skim 



<-*< 




168 CANNING 

thoroughly, bring it quickly to a boil again, and boil two 
minutes. Dip the tumblers into hot water, fill them with 
the boiling liquid, and stand away for twenty-four hours to 
jelly. If it is not then sufficiently jellied, cover the 
tumblers with common window-glass and stand in the sun 
several days. Then cover with tissue paper as directed 
for Blackberry Jelly. 



PRESERVED PUMPKIN CHIPS 

Late pumpkins are best for this purpose, and in fact the 
preserves may be made in winter as pumpkins will keep 
perfectly well during the year. 

Select a fine, ripe one of a deep yellow color, cut it 
into halves, then into narrow strips, pare off the outer rind 
and remove the seeds. Now cut the strips into thin shav- 
ings, weigh these shavings, and allow to each pound one 
pound of granulated sugar. Secure several dozen of nice, 
ripe lemons, as it will require one gill of lemon juice to 
each pound of fruit. Pare the lemons and squeeze out the 
juice. If you use a glass lemon squeezer it is not necessary 
to pare them. Spread the pumpkin chips on large platters, 
sprinkle the sugar over them, then the lemon juice, stand 
in a cool place over night. In the morning put them into 
a porcelain-lined kettle, and cook slowly for an hour and a 
quarter, or until the pumpkin becomes tender, crisp and 
transparent. Stir carefully and cook slowly, as the pieces 
must not break or lose their form. Skim frequently as the 
scum comes to the surface. When the chips are done, lift 
them carefully with a skimmer, and put them in tumblers 
or jars ; strain the syrup through a flannel bag that has been 
wrung from boiling water, and pour it over the chips. 
When cold tie up the same as jelly. 



CANNING 159 

If these are made nicely they form a most delicious 
sweetmeat. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Cut one dozen of the finest oranges into the thinnest slices, 
put them in a porcelain kettle, and pour over them six 
quarts of cold water, cover, and stand in a cool place 
twenty-four hours, then put them on to boil in the same 
water ; boil slowly for three hours, then add seven pounds 
of granulated sugar, and boil again until clear and reduced 
one-half. In cutting, carefully keep out all seeds and cote. 
Put up in tumblers the same as jelly. 

TOMATO HONEY 

Select ripe yellow tomatoes, weigh them, cut them into 
pieces, and put in a porcelain kettle, and for each pound 
add the grated yellow rind of one lemon ; simmer gently 
for thirty minutes, then drain, and press gently through a 
cheese cloth. Measure the liquor and return it to the 
kettle, and for each pint add one pound of granulated 
sugar and four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Boil twenty 
or thirty minutes until a jelly-like syrup is formed. Put in 
bottles or tumblers for keeping. 

CARROT MARMALADE 

Wash and boil until tender four pounds of young carrots, 
drain, and peel, then press them through a colander, put 
them into a porcelain-lined kettle with two pounds of sugar 
and a pint of water, add a few pieces of chipped lemon 
peel, the grated yellow rind of two oranges, a small piece 
o^ ginger root cut into pieces, and two bay leaves ; simmer 
gently until the proper consbtency, and put away in 
tumblers. 



160 CANNING 

NEW ENGLAND APPLE MARMALADE 

Pare, core, and cut into thin slices ripe tart apples, weigh 
them, and to each pound allow one pound of granulated 
sugar and a gill of water. Put the sugar and water into a 
porcelain-lined kettle, and when melted add the apples, 
and for each two pounds of apples add the grated yellow 
rind and juice of one lemon ; simmer gently until the apples 
look clear. Cook over a very slow fire, watching carefully 
and stirring frequently to prevent scorching, put into glass 
jars and hermetically seal. 

CURRANT JAM 

Select large, ripe currants ; stem and weigh them, and to 
each pound allow a pound of sugar, put both in a porcelain- 
lined kettle and stand over a very moderate fire, stirring 
occasionally until the sugar melts, then draw it over a 
hotter part of the fire and stir until the jam begins to boil. 
Boil ten minutes from the first boil. Put in tumblers 
or jars, and when cold fasten the same as jelly. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM 

Top and stem six pounds of ripe gooseberries, put them 
over the fire in a porcelain-lined kettle, and heat slowly, 
stirring carefully to prevent scorching. When the berries 
begin to pop add six pounds of granulated sugar, and con- 
tinue boiling and stirring for a half-hour. Put up in jars 
or tumblers, and when cold fasten the same as jelly. 

SHADDOCK MARMALADE 

Cut six good-sized shaddocks into halves, and with a spoon 
scoop all the pulp, carefully rejecting the bitter white skin. 



CANNING IGI 

When all are finished, measure and put the pulp in a 
porcelain-lined kettle; to each pint add one pound of 
granulated sugar and a half-pint of water ; simmer gently 
until a thick marmalade is formed. Put into tumblers, and 
when cold fasten the same as jelly. 

This marmalade is nice to serve with game. 



GRAPE JELLY 

This and all small fruit jellies are made precisely the same 
as Blackberry Jelly. 



'^ 



MISCELLANEOUS 



CEREALS 

All rolled cereals — oats, wheat, barley, com, rice — cook 
thoroughly in less time than the whole grains. With the 
exception of rice, all these should be cooked one hour. 
Allow two measures of water, slightly salted, to one of 
rolled cereals. Cook in a double boiler without stirring, 
until each grain is tender and swollen double its bulk. 

HOW TO COOK CRACKED WHEAT 

Add a half-teaspoonful of salt to a pint and a gill of 
water, pour into a double boiler, and, when boiling hot, 
add a half-pint of cracked wheat, and let it simmer^ 
without cover, on the top of the range for one hour. The 
water will be almost evaporated ; then add a pint and a 
gill of hot milk, and let it cook one hour longer. When 
done, stir it carefully, as it will be thin and the grains 
liable to sink ; pour it into cups previously wet with cold 
water. Stand them aside until cold and solid. Serve 
with cream and powdered sugar. 

OATMEAL MUSH 

Add four heaping tablespoonfuls of Irish or Akron oat- 
meal to one quart of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of 
salt, mix, and put the whole in a double boiler. Fill the 

(i6a) 



I 

i grains 



MISCELLANEOUS 163 

lower boiler with boiling water, stand the inside boiler in 
this and boil rapidly twenty minutes, then push the boiler 
to one side of the range, and cook slowly over night. The 
oatmeal must not be stirred after the first mixing, it cannot 
burn in a double boiler unless the under boiler becomes 
dry — ^the stirring makes the mush starchy and waxy, and 
also spoils its flavor. Oatmeal made after this recipe will 
be light, each grain separate, but swollen three times its 
original size, and will have a delicious flavor. Turn it out 
carefully into the dish, without stirring or breaking the 



TO OLACE FRUITS 

Have the fruit perfectly dry. If oranges, separate care- 
fully each carpel without breaking the inner skin. Stand 
them in a warm place to dry. Put one pound of granu- 
lated sugar in a granite kettle, add to it a half-cup of 
water and stand over the fire to boil. Do not stir after 
the sugar is dissolved. After the mixture has been boiling 
about ten minutes, hold the forefinger and thumb in ice- 
water for a minute, then quickly dip up a little of the boil- 
ing syrup with them ; press the thumb and finger tightly 
together, then draw them apart ; if the syrup forms a thread 
it is at the second degree. Boil gently about three or four 
minutes longer until it reaches the sixth degree. This may 
be known by taking a small portion on the end of a spoon, 
then dipping it into cold water, and breaking it off* quickly, 
if it is brittle, without being at all sticky, it is just right. 
The syrup must never be stirred, or it will cause granula- 
tion. Now take it quickly from the fire, add a tablespoonful 
of lemon juice, stand in a basin of boiling water, to keep 
the syrup from candying. Take the fruit on the point of a 
large skewer or with the sugar tongs, dip into the syrup, 



164 MISCELLANEOUS 

lay it on a piece of buttered paper, and stand in a warm dry 
place to dry. 

English walnuts and almonds are glac^d in the same 
manner. 

STEWED DRIED APPLES 

If the apples have been carefully dried they will not require 
washing. Cover with cold water and soak over night. In 
the morning cook them slowly in the same water until per- 
fectly tender. When tender, sweeten, flavor with a few bits 
of lemon peel and juice of a half-lemon, to each quart of 
apples. The apples may be left whole or pressed through 
a colander. 

CLARIFYING FAT 

Save every scrap of fat, be it mutton or beef, alsos kimmings 
from com -beef and soups, and the most tainted of these 
fats may be deprived of their bad odors and flavors by 
simply reheating. Put the fat into a large frying-pan, let it 
heat gradually to about 212® Fahr., then cautiously pour 
in a half-cup of hot water (to every three pounds of fat). 
The steam produced by the water carries off" the volatile, 
fatty acids which produce the rancidity and also removes 
the offensive matters that are decomposable by heat. This 
clarifying must be done carefully, as there is danger of the 
bubbles of steam bursting and throwing the fat over the 
fire, consequently, cook slowly and continuously until all 
the water has evaporated, leaving a clear, golden oil, which 
will harden when placed on the cold. 

TO EXTRACT SALT FROM LARD 

It is frequently necessary, for medicinal purposes, to extract 
every particle of salt from the lard. To do this, put a 



MISCELLANEOUS 165 

half-cup of lard in a two-quart tin kettle, pour over it a 
quart and pint of boiling water, stir it around and stand 
in a cold place. The lard, when cold, will form a cake on 
the surface of the water, the salt remaining in the water. 

TO PREPARE DRIED CHERRIES FOR PIES 

Look them over, and if they are dusty, wash them. Then 
just cover them with boiling water, and soak over night. 
In the morning, bring them to boiling point in the same 
water in which they were soaked, sweeten, and they are 
ready to use. 

TO CLEAN DRIED CURRANTS 

First, put them into a pan and dust them lightly with flour, 
rub them between the hands to remove the stems, then 
wash them well through several cold waters, put them in a 
colander, and pour over several quarts of boiling water, 
drain them until perfectly free from water, spread them 
out on large dishes, and put in a warm place to dry. It is 
best to prepare a quantity and keep them in tin or wooden 
boxes to be ready when needed. 

ICED FRUITS FOR BREAKFAST 

Take fine bunches of currants, dip them in the unbeaten 
white of t%g^ them sift them thickly with powdered sugar, 
and lay them on a sieve to dry. 

Bunches of grapes, cherries, plums or strawberries, 
may be done in the same manner. 

A GOOD TABLE MUSTARD 

Moisten two tablespoonfuls of corn starch with a little cold 
water, then add to it a half-pint of boiling water, stir until 



166 MISCELLANEOUS 

it boils, take it from the fire, and add two tablespoonfuls 
of tarragon vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of ground mustard, a 
level teaspoon ful of salt, a dash of cayenne, a half-tea- 
spoonful of cloves, and a level teaspoonful of cinnamon ; 
keep closely covered. 

POTATO YEAST 

Grate four good-sized potatoes into a quart of hot water, cook 
and stir over a very moderate fire for five minutes, take 
from the fire, add a half-cup of sugar and two tablespoon- 
fuls of salt ; mix, and turn into a stone jar and stand aside 
until lukewarm, then add one cupful of good yeast, cover, 
and ferment three or four hours, stirring it down each time 
it comes to the top of the vessel. When the fermentation 
is over cover it tightly and keep in a cold, but not freezing, 
place. This will keep two weeks, and is the best and 
simplest yeast that can be made. 



CARRAGEEN BLANC MANGE 

Wash three good-sized pieces of carrageen through several 
cold waters, then throw them in a pint of milk and soak 
for thirty minutes, then cook in a farina boiler until the 
carrageen is reduced to a pulp, strain into a mould and 
stand away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. 



EGG LEMONADE 

Separate one t%%y beat the white and yolk until light, then 
add the yolk to the white and mix carefully. Take the 
juice of one lemon, add one gill of ice water and sufficient 
sugar to sweeten, now add this quickly to the beaten ^^^'^y 
add a little cracked ice, and serve at once. 



MISCELLANEOUS 167 

PLAIN LEMONADE 

Pare two lemons and remove all the white skin, then cut 
them into very thin slices, pour over them a pint of boiling 
water, and stand aside to cool. When cool, press the 
lemons, sweeten, and serve with cracked ice. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL 

Select the largest and ripest blackberries, mash them and 
strain them through a flannel. To each quart of this juice 
allow one pound of granulated sugar, put them in a granite 
boiler, add a half-ounce of whole cloves, and a quarter of 
an ounce of stick cinnamon, boil the whole for a few 
moments until it forms a thin jelly. Take it from the fire, 
and stand aside to cool. When cold, to each quart add a 
half-pint of good brandy. Bottle and seal for use. 

MOCK CREAM 

When one cannot procure cream for coffee, a mock .cream 
may be quickly made but must be used carefully. 

Put a half-pint of milk in a farina boiler. Beat the 
yolks of two eggs until light and creamy, stir them into 
the scalding milk and cook about one minute, take from 
the fire, and with an ^g% beater beat continuously for 
five minutes, and stand away to cool. 

TRIPE Terrapin Style 

Boil three pounds of honeycomb tripe in plenty of water 
for eight hours. When done and cold cut it into neat 
pieces one inch square, put it in a stewing-pan, and add 
a half-pint of good cream. Mix a quarter-pound of butter 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir it in with the 



168 MISCELLANEOUS 

tripe, stir continuously until it boils, then add the yolks 
of two eggs, cook an instant, take from the fire add a pala- 
table seasoning of salt and pepper, and four tablespoonfuls 
of sherry. 

UNFERMENTED WINE 

Weigh nice ripe grapes, pick them from the stem, put them 
into a porcelain-lined kettle with sufficient water to just 
cover the bottom of the kettle. Simmer slowly until the seeds 
easily separate from the pulp, then press the whole through 
a colander, then strain it through two thicknesses of cheese- 
cloth, then return the juice to the kettle, to each five 
pounds of fruit, add one and a half pounds of granulated 
sugar, bring to simmering point, and while hot, bottle, cork 
and seal. 

HOW TO COOK WHEAT GRANULES 

Add a teaspoonful of salt to one quart of boiling water, 
then sift in slowly, stirring all the while, a half-pint of wheat 
granules, cook over a very moderate fire for twenty minutes. 
Serve warm with sugar and cream. 

These granules make an exceedingly wholesome break- 
fast dish, being less heating than oatmeal, they are espe- 
cially adapted to spring and summer breakfasts. 



GLAZE 

Glaze is simply reduced stock, and to make stock we 
usually take a shin or part of a shin as necessity requires ; 
wipe it with a damp towel, and cut all the meat from the 
bone. Place the bones in the bottom of a porcelain-lined 
or granite soup kettle, put the meat on top of them, add 
one quart of water to every pound of the shin, and stand 



MISCELLANEOUS 169 

the kettle over a moderate fire for one hour. We use a 
granite or porcelain-lined kettle to protect the flavor, which 
would become impaired in using iron. The juices of the 
meat are always acid, acting quickly on a metallic kettle. 
Cover the kettle closely to keep in the steam and pre- 
vent too rapid evaporation, and also to keep the dust and 
smoke out. After the kettle has been standing thus for 
one hour, push it over a quicker fire. In about thirty 
minutes, a scum will begin to gather on the surface, and 
the water will begin to steam. Now push it back over the 
moderate fire again, add one cup of cold water and skim 
off the scum. Cover the kettle and let it simmer^ not boil, 
for five hours, then strain through a fine sieve and stand at 
once in a cold place to cool. If it does not cool quickly, 
it will not form a firm jelly. When cold, take all the 
grease from the surface, remove the stock from the dish, 
rejecting all the brown sediment in the bottom. Now 
return the stock to a porcelain-lined or granite kettle, 
stand it over a good fire, and do not cover it, boil gently 
until reduced two-thirds or one-half, then turn out to cool. 

WAX FOR SEALING FRUIT 

Melt one pound of resin over a slow fire, when hot, add 
one ounce of beeswax and two ounces of beef's tallow, stir 
continuously until thoroughly mixed, then stand away to 
cool. When wanted for use, simply heat. 

DIFFERENT WAYS OF PREPARING ALMONDS 

HOW TO BLANCH 

Throw the shelled almonds into a saucepan containing 
boiling water, allow them to remain in this on the back 



170 MISCELLANEOUS 

part of the fire until the skin will easily push off, then drain 
them, throw them into cold water for a moment, and drain 
again, then you can rub off the skins with your hands or 
a towel. 

TO SHRED ALMONDS 

After they have been skinned, cut them with a thin-bladed 
knife lengthwise, into shreds, dividing each almond into 
six shreds. 

TO POUND ALMONDS 

After the skins have been removed, let them soak in cold 
water for an hour, this is to prevent them from becoming 
so oily while being pounded. Put them in a mortar, a few 
at a time, pound, and rub them to a softish pulp, adding 
occasionally a few drops of rose water to keep them moist. 

HOW TO SALT ALMONDS 

After they are blanched, spread them over the bottom of 
a baking-pan, add the smallest amount of butter to lightly 
grease them, put them in a very moderate oven, and bake 
slowly until thoroughly dried and a golden brown, take 
them from the fire, dust them thickly with fine salt, turn 
them on a cool dish, and stand in a cold place. 



BILLS OF FARE 

It is frequently a great convenience to housekeepers to 
have arranged for them a few simple and elaborate bills of 
fare. The first to act as guides for the family table, the 
second to assist in arranging company luncheons and 
dinners. 

An appropriate and healthful bill of fare implies both 
taste and discrimination. A heavy soup should never be 
served where a large dinner is to follow. A clear, light 
soup should always precede a heavy course dinner. This 
may be preceded by raw oysters or grape fruit and followed 
by fish. Potatoes of some kind should always accom- 
pany the fish. Radishes, gherkins, salted almonds, olives 
and those dishes considered appetizers should be placed on 
the table immediately after the fish dishes are removed. 
Light entries, such as sweetbreads, croquettes, or meat 
patties, may follow fish, then the substantial dish, such as 
beef, veal, mutton, poultry, etc. , with two accompanying 
vegetables. A service of an acid sherbet or punch now 
prepares the palate for a more perfect enjoyment of the 
game course. Blackbirds, reedbirds or any small birds 
may be served with the salad, but duck, woodcock, snipe 
or partridge should be served as a course with baked 
macaroni. Then the salad, a plain lettuce with French 
dressing, a water cracker, and a small bit of old cheese. 
Now the desserts, puddings or ice cream, then the fruit, 
nuts, raisins, candies, and last the coffee, which should be 

very strong and served in small cups. 

(171) 



172 BILLS OF FARE 

The following simple bills of fare are arranged from 
dishes the recipes of which are given in the body of the 
book ; each day contains both a luncheon and a supper in 
order to accommodate those persons who dine in the 
middle of the day and those who dine in the evening. 

Spring Bills of Fare 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges 

Oatmeal, Sugar and Cream 

Fried Brook Trout Stewed Potatoes 

Muffins Coffee 

LUNCH 

Broiled Lamb Chops, Tomato Sauce 

Parker House Rolls 

Preserved Ginger Wine Biscuit 

Tea 

DINNER 

Cream of Asparagus Soup 

Braised Beef's Tongue Potato Puff 

Spinach, Egg Sauce 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Orange Bavarian Cream 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Thin Slices of Cold Tongue Water-cress 

Milk Biscuit Honey 

Gingerbread Tea 



BILLS OF FARE 173 

Spring Bills of FoLre— Continued 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Bananas 

Hominy, Sugar and Milk 

Shirred Eggs Plain Muffins 

Coffee 



LUNCH 

Fish Cutlets, Cream Sauce 
Sliced Cucumbers Brown Bread 

Coffee 



DINNER 

Herb Soup 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, Caper Sauce 

Boiled Rice Stewed Tomatoes 

Salad of Water-cress 

Wafers Cheese 

Caramel Pudding 



SUPPER 

Thin Slices of Cold Mutton Mint Sauce 

Preserved Cranberries Apees 

Russian Tea 



174 BILLS OF FARE 

Spring Bills of Fare-^Continued 

BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb 

Wheat Granules, Sugar and Cream 

Beauregard Eggs Rice Muffins 

Coffee 



LUNCH 

Fried Oysters Water-cress 

Cold Slaw 

Lemon Jelly New York Cookies 



DINNER 

Clear Soup with Green Peas 

Roasted Chicken Giblet Sauce 

Cranbery Jelly 

Bermuda Potatoes, Parsley Sauce Cauliflower 

Asparagus Salad 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



SUPPER 
Chicken Salad Milk Biscuit 

Preserves Rolled Jelly Cake 

Tea 



BILLS OF FARE 175 

Spring Bills of Fare—Continued 
BREAKFAST 

Shaddocks 

Moulded Farina, Whipped Cream 

Spanish Omelet 
Pop-overs Coffee 



LUNCH 

Creamed Fish Milk Biscuit 

Lettuce Salad 
Crackers Cheese 

Coffee 



DINNER 

Pur^ of Vegetables 
Irish Stew Boiled Rice 

Oyster Salad 
Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



SUPPER 

Fricassee of Oysters Tea Rolls 

Canned Peaches Water Crackers 



176 BILLS OF FARE 

Summer Bills of Fare 

BREAKFAST 

Cantaloupes 

Oak Flakes, Whipped Cream 

Broiled Tomatoes, Cream Sauce 
Toast Coffee 

LUNCH 

Deviled Crabs Brown Bread 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Coffee 



DINNER 

Julienne Soup 

Panned Spring Chicken, Cream Sauce 

New Potatoes Asparagus 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 
Wafers Cheese 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

Coffee 



SUPPER 

Lobster, Terrapin Style Milk Biscuit 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



BILLS OF FARE 177 

Summer Bills of Fare — Continued 
BREAKFAST 

Strawberries 

Wheat Granules, Cream 

Parsley Omelet, Plain Muffins 

Coffee 

LUNCH 
Creamed Sweetbreads Stuffed Potatoes 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Sugared Raspberries 

Lemonade 

DINNER 

Sand Clams on the Half Shell 

Spring Lamb, Mint Sauce 

New Potatoes Peas 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Frozen Fruit 

Coffee 

SUPPER 
Sheep's Tongues in Jelly Water-cress 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Fruit 

Iced Tea 



178 BILLS OF FARE 

Summer Bills of Fare — Continued 

BREAKFAST 

Currants 

Boiled Rice, Cream 

Broiled Tomatoes Pop-Overs 

Coffee 

LUNCH 

Mayonnaise of Peas on Lettuce Leaves 

Brown Bread and Butter 

Fruit 

DINNER 

Cantaloupes 

Breaded Cutlets, Tomato Sauce 

Peas String Beans 

Mayonnaise of Cauliflower 

Wafers Cheese 

Raspberry Water-ice 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Corn Oysters Sliced Tomatoes 

Fruit Sponge Fingers 

Tea 



BILLS OF FARE 179 

Summer Bills of Fare — Continued 
BREAKFAST 

Blackberry Mush 

Broiled Chicken Sliced Tomatoes 

Rice Muffins Coffee 

LUNCH 

Panned Tomatoes, Cream Sauce 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Cantaloupes 

DINNER 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Broiled Steak 
Stewed Cucumbers Mashed Potatoes 

Corn on Cob 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 
Wafers Cheese 

Frozen Strawberries 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Cold Boiled Tongue, Tomato Salad 

Parker House Rolls 
Fruit Wafers 



180 



BILLS OF FARE 



A\itumn Bills of Fare 



BREAKFAST 



Cantaloupes 
Oatmeal, Cream 



Broiled Birds 



Sliced Tomatoes 
Coffee 



LUNCH 



Welsh Rarebit 



Toast 



Toast 



Coffee 

DINNER 

Cream of Potato Soup 

Baked Fish, Egg Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



SUPPER 

Com Pudding Milk Biscuit 

Peaches, Cream 



BILLS OF FARE 181 

Autumn Bills of FaLre — Continued 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Peaches 

Wheat Granules, Cream 

Broiled Calf s Liver Coarse Meal Bread 

Coffee 

LUNCH 

Breaded Tomatoes Fried Egg Plant 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Cantaloupes 

DINNER 

Pur6e of Carrots 

Roast Duck, Olive Sauce 

New Turnips, Browned 

Boiled Rice Corn Pudding 

Mayonnaise of Tomatoes 

Wafers Cheese 

Peach Short Cake 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Stewed Oysters Hot Com Bread 

Cold Slaw 
Fruit Berwick Sponge Cake 



\ 

i 



182 BILLS OF FARE 

Autumn Bills off Folfo — Continued 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apples 

Moulded Farina, Whipped Cream 

Omelet 
Johnny Cake Coffee 

LUNCH 
Beef Croquettes Peas 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Peaches 

Tea 

DINNER 

Marrow Ball Soup 

Roasted Shoulder of Veal, Brown Sauce 

Squash Scalloped Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Ice Cream 

Coffee 

8UPt>ER 

Sardines on Toast, Slices of Lemon 

Tomato Salad 
Fruit Marvel 



BILLS OF FARE 183 

Autvmn Bills of FoLre — Continued 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Pears 

Oatmeal, Cream 

Broiled Chops, Tomato Sauce 

Boston Brown Bread Coffee 

LUNCH 

Sweetbread Cutlets, Cream Sauce 

French Breakfast Rolls 

Cucumber Salad 

Cantaloupes 

DINNER 

Bisque of Oyster 

Larded Fillet of Beef, Mushroom Sauce 

Potato Croquettes Baked Tomatoes 

Sorrel Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Frozen Peaches 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Thin Slices of Cold Meat, Sauce Tartare 

Potato Salad 
Fruit New England Loaf Cake 

Tea 



184 BILLS OF FARE 

Winter Bills of Fare 

BREAKFAST 

Baked Apples 

Oatmeal, Cream 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, Parsley Sauce 

Fried Indian Mush 

Coffee 

LUNCH 
Oyster Omelet Peas 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Molasses Wedding Cake Coffee 

DINNER 

Pur^e of Celery 

Roasted Rib of Beef Yorkshire Pudding 

Baked Potatoes Buttered Beets 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Apple Tart 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Fried Oysters Mayonnaise of Cabbage 

Compote of Apples Sponge Fingers 

Coffefe 



BILLS OF FARE 

Winter Bills of Fctre—Continued 
BREAKFAST 

Baked Pears 

Wheat Granules, Cream 

Broiled Chops 

Creamed Potatoes 

Rice Crumpets Coffee 



185 



LUNCH 
Creamed Fish 

Preserved Ginger 

Russian Tea 



Potato Puff 
Wafers 



DINNER 

Clear Soup with Crotitons 

Roasted Loin of Mutton, Currant Jelly 

Boiled Rice Browned Turnips 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



SUPPER 

Macaroni Croquettes, Tomato Sauce 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Stewed Fruit Oatmeal Wafers 

Tea 



186 BILLS OF FARE 

Winter Bills of Fetre— Continued 

BREAKFAST 



Stewed Apples 




Oatmeal, Cream 




Broiled Sheep's Kidneys 


Bacon 


Johnny Cake 


Co£fee 


LUNCH 




Beauregard Eggs 


Toast 


Parker House Rolls 




Stewed Prunes 




Tea 




DINNER 





Calfs Head Soup 

Roasted Turkey, Giblet Sauce 

Stewed Cranberries 

Oyster Plant Fritters Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Mayonnaise of Celery and Apple Wafers 

Plain Plum Pudding 

Coffee 

SUPPER 

Panned Chicken, Cream Gravy 

Waffles 

Canned Peaches Lady Cake 

Coffee 



BILLS OF FARE 187 

Winter Bills of Fo.ro— Continued 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit 

Oatmeal, Cream 

Shirred Eggs Rice Muffins 

Coffee 

LUNCH 
Boudins, Cream Sauce 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Hot Gingerbread Cocoa 

DINNER 
Dried Bean Soup without Meat 

Baked Rock, Egg Sauce 

Potatoes 

Oyster Plant, Cream Sauce 

Mayonnaise of Cabbage 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee' 

SUPPER 

Chicken Salad Milk Biscuit 

Canned Fruit Crackers 

Coffee 



188 BILLS OF FARE 

Wedding Breakfasts 

SPRING 

Baked Bananas 

Broiled Shad, Roe Sauce 

Parisienne Potatoes 

Breaded Lamb Chops, Tomato Sauce 

French Rolls 

or 

Sweetbread Cutlets, Cream Sauce 

French Peas 

Mufiins Coffee 

SUMMER 

Melons 

Fried Brook Trout, Sauce Tartare 

Stewed Potatoes 

Broiled Spring Chickens, Cream Gravy 

Peas 

Mayonnaise of Tomatoes 

Frozen Peaches 

Coffee 

AUTUMN 

Sliced Peaches 

Fried OjTsters, Sauce Tartare 

Olives Gherkins Chow Chow 

Broiled Tenderloin of Beef, Mushroom Sauce 

Potato Croquettes 
Mayonnaise of Cucumbers and Tomatoes 
French Rolls Coffee 



BILLS OF FARE 189 

Wedding Bree^kfoLSts— Continued 

WINTER 

Bouillon 

Broiled Sardines on Toast Garnished with Water-cress and 

Slices of Lemon 
Baked Sweatbreads Peas 



French Rolls 

Venison in Chafing-dish 

Waffles 

Coffee 



Currant Jelly 
Honey 



Wedding Luncheons 

SPRING 

Grape Fruit 

Bouillon in Cups 

Cusk i la Cr^me 

French Rolls 

Sweetbread Patties 

Small Chicken Croquettes 

Water Biscuits 

Orange Souffle, frozen 

Coffee 



Potato Puff 



Lettuce Salad 



190 BILLS OF FARE 

Wedding Lvncheons— Continued 

SUMMER 

Orange Sherbet in Orange Baskets 

Frogs* Legs French Peas 

Olives Salted Almonds 

Broiled Spring Chicken, Sauce Tartare 

Potatoes with Cream Sauce 

Tomato Salad Garnished with Radishes and 

Nasturtium Blossoms 

Toasted Cheese 

Frozen Strawberries 

Coffee 

AUTUMN 

Bouillon 

Baked Sweetbreads, Tomato Sauce 

Parker House Rolls 

Chicken Croquettes French Peas 

Tomato Salad Cheese Fingers 

Frozen Peaches 

Coffee 

WINTER 

Bouillon 

Gherkins Olives Salted Almonds 

Broiled Fillet of Beef, Mushroom Sauce 

Peas 

Shaddock Sherbet 

Quail on Toast, Brown Sauce 

Baked Macaroni 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Neufchatel 

Coffee Jelly Whipped Cream 

Fruit Bonbons 

Coffee 



BILLS OF FARE 191 

An Oyster Supper 

Raw Oysters on the Half Shell 

Oyster Soup 

Fried Oysters Garnished with Cress and Slices of Lemon 

Cold Slaw 
Chicken Salad Water Crackers 

Toasted Cheese 

Coffee 

A Gei\tlefneLn*s Fish Supper 

Raw Oysters in a Block of Ice 

Planked Fish 

Stewed Potatoes Cucumbers 

Tea Biscuits 

Crackers Cheese 

Coffee 



An Emergency Dinner of Canned Goods 

Cream of Tomato Soup 

Broiled Salt Mackerel, Parsley Sauce 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Timbale of Macaroni, Cream Sauce 

French Omelet with Peas 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

' Canned Fruit 

Coffee 



192 BILLS OF FARE 

Thanksgiving Dinner 

Oysters on Half Shell 

Consomm^ 

Boiled Striped Bass, Spanish Sauce 

Stewed Potatoes with Parsley Sauce 

Roasted Turkey, Oyster Sauce 

Cranberry Jelly 

Dry Boiled Rice Browned Sweet Potatoes 

Lemon Water-Ice 

Broiled Quail on Toast 

Currant Jelly 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Water Biscuits Cheese 

Mince Pie Pumpkin Custard 

Nuts Fruits Raisins 

Coffee 

A Simple TheLnksgiving Dinner 

Tomato Soup 

Boiled Haddock, Drawn Butter 

French Fried Potatoes 

Roasted Chicken, Giblet Sauce 

Cranberries 
Boiled Rice Peas 

Mayonnaise of Celery 

Wafers Cheese 

Mince Pie Pumpkin Custard 

Coffee 



BILLS OF FARE 193 

Christmots Dinner 

Oyster Soup 
Fried Smelts, Sauce Piquant 

Potato Balls 

Roasted Turkey, Oyster Sauce 

Cranberry Sauce 

Boiled Rice Creamed Onions 

Orange Sherbet 

or 

Roasted Goose, Apple Sauce 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Mayonnaise of Celery 

Water Biscuits Edam Cheese 

Plum Pudding, Hard Sauce 

Nuts Fruits Raisins 

Coffee 

A Simple ChristmeLS Dinner 

Cream of Celery Soup 

Creamed Fish Potato Puff 

Roasted Turkey, Bread Stuffing 

Cranberry Sauce 

. Mashed Potatoes Creamed Onions 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Water Crackers Cheese 

Plain Plum Pudding, Hard Sauce 

Coffee 



194 BILLS OF FARE 

Lunch for Tennis PoLi-ty 

Tongue Sandwiches Olives Almonds 

Deviled Eggs Sardines 

Water Crackers 

Lemonade 



Pressed Chicken Thin Bread and Butter 

Olives 

Lettuce Salad Wafers 

Frozen Coffee 



Five O'clock TedL 

Chicken Sandwiches Tomato Salad 

Olives 
Ices Coffee 



Refreshments for Card Parties 

Thin Slices of Cold Roasted Chicken 

Oyster Salad 

Coffee Thin Bread and Butter 



Sardine Sandwiches Chicken Salad 

Olives Salted Almonds 

Coffee 



BILLS OF FARE 195 

Lenten Dinners 

Bisque of Oysters 

Fish Cutlets, Cream Sauce 

Boiled Cod, Shrimp Sauce 

Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad, French Dressing 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



Cream of Celery Soup 

Fricassee of Oysters Rolls 

Baked Rock, Drawn Butter 

Potato Roll 

Mayonnaise of Celery 

Wafers Cheese 

Coffee 



196 TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



TABLE OF 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 



4 teaspoonfiils of liquid . . 
4 tablespoonfiils of liquid 

I tablespoonful of liquid 

1 pint of liquid 

2 gills of liquid 
I kitchen cup . 
I quart of sifted flour 
4 cups of flour 
I rounded tablespoonful of flour 

3 cups of com meal 
i^ pints of com meal . 
I cup of butter 
I pint of butter 
I tablespoonful of butter 
Butter the size of an egg 
Butter the size of a w^dnut 

1 solid pint of chopped meat 
lo eg^s .... 
A dash of pepper . 

2 cups of granulated sugar 
I pint of granulated sugar 
I pint of brown sugar 
2^ cups of powdered sugar 



= I tablespoonful 

I wineglassful 

= y^ ounce 

= I pound 

= I cup or y^ pint 

= % pint 

= I pound 

= I quart or I pound 

= y^ ounce 

= I pound 

= I pound 

= % pound 

= I pound 

= I ounce 

= 2 ounces 

= I ounce 

^ I pound 

= I pound 

= y^ teaspoonful, 

or 3 gooc shakes 
= I pound 
= I pound 
= 13 ounces 
^ I pound 



All measurements must be level, not heaping. 



INDEX 



Alkathrepta 151 

Almonds,Diflferent Ways 

of Preparing 1G9 

To Blanch 169 

To Pound 170 

To Salt 170 

To Shred 170 

American Salad 98 

Apees 119 

Apple Jelly 155 

Marmalade 160 

Pudding Sauce 183 

Sauce 101 

Apples, Compote of 101 

Apricot Sauce 186 

Apricots, Pur6e of, 

Frozen 142 

Asparagus 91 

Baked Rock 17 

Shad 17 

Banana Fritters 131 

Sauce 183 

Barley Broth 9 
Bavarian Cream, 

Chocolate 124 

Coffee 123 

Orange 123 

Peach 124 

Strawberry 124 

Beans, Lima 92 

String 92 

Pur^e of 12 

Beauregard Eggs 75 

Beef 32 

BaJced, French style 84 

Beef, Breslau of 40 

To Com a 



Beef, Corned, to Boil 41 

Croquettes 56 

Fillet of. Broiled 85 

Fillet of. Roasted 84 
Fillet of. Tomato 

Sauce 85 

Frizzled 41 

&laMode 88 

Roasted 88 

Stew of 87 

Beefs Heart, Baked 42 

Tongue, Braised 36 

Beefsteak, Broiled 89 

Panned 39 

Spanish 89 

Beets ^ 

Bermuda Potatoes 82 

Berwick Sponge Cake 113 
Bethlehem Apple Pie 107 
Beverages 148 

Bills of Fare 171 

Autumn 180-188 
Spring 172-176 

Summer 176-17 
Winter 184-187 
Card Parties 194 
Christmas Din- 
ner 198 
Christmas Din- 
ner, simple 193 
Emergency Din- 
ner 191 
Gentlemen's 

Fish Supper 199 
Lenten Dinners 195 
Lunch for Ten- 
uis Party 194 



Bills of Fare, Wed- 
ding Luncheons, 

Autumn 190 

Wedding Lunch- 
eons, Spring 189 
Wedding Lunch- 
eons, Sum me r 190 

Wedding Lunch- 
eons, Winter 190 
Oyster Supper 191 
Five o'clock Tea 194 

Thanksgiving 
Dinner 192 

Thanksgiving 
Dinner ,simple 192 

Wedding Break- 
fasts, Autumn 188 
Wedding Break- 
fasts, Spring 188 
Wedding Break- 
fasts, Summer 188 
Wedding Break- 
fasts, Winter 189 
Biscuits, Milk 68 

Sugar lis 

Tea 67 

Bisque of Clams 14 , 27 

Oysters 14 

Black Cake 119 

Blackberries, Canned 154 
Blackberry Cordial 167 
Jelly 156 

Vinegar 151 
Blanc Mange,Carrageenl66 
Blue Plums, Canned 155 
Boiled Fish 15 

Icing 122 

Lobster 22, 23 

Rice 94 

(»97) 



198 



INDEX 



Botton Brown Bxeftd 


66 


Boudins 


55 


Braising 


86 


Bread 


63 


Boston Brown 


66 


CoaneMeal 


66 


Nineteen th Century 65 


Sticks 


65 


White 


65 


Bread Cake 


114 


Brealau of Beef 


40 


Broiled Fish 


16 


Oysters 


SO 


Broma 


151 


Brook Tront, to Fry 


16 


Broth, Barley 


9 


Dumpling 


13 


Brown Sauce 


61 


Soup 


6 


Cabbage, Lady's 


90 


Cake, Apees 


119 


Biscuit, Sugar 


118 


Black 


119 


Bread 


114 


Chocolate 


121 



Mew York Cookies U5 
Doughnuts 120 

Doyer 117 

Gingerbread, 

Common IIB 

Gingerbread, Soft 118 

RoUedJeUy 117 

Johnny 70 

Lady 118 

New England Loaf 114 

Marvels 120 

English Plum 120 

Sponge, Berwick 113 

Sponge Fingers 116 

Strawberry Cream 116 

Molasses, Wedding 117 

Making 112 

Cakes, Scotch Oat 71 

Seed 120 

Calf's Head Soup 7 

Liver, Broiled 61 

Canned Blackberries 154 

Cherries 154 

Com 155 



Canned Currants and 

Raspberries 15i 

Damsons 155 

Gages 155 

Peaches 153 

Pears 1S3 

Pineapple 153 

Blue Plums 155 

Quinces 154 

Strawberries 155 

Tomatoes 155 

Cannelon 37 

Canning 152 

Caper Sauce 59 

Caramel Pudding 130 

Sauce 133 

Cardinal Salad 98 

Carrageen Blanc Mange 166 

Carrot Marmalade 159 

Carrots, Pur6e of . 12 

Stewed 93 

Casserole 65 

Cauliflower 91 

an Gratin 91 

Cecils 66 

Cereallne Blocks 129 

Cheese 78 

Cheese Sandwiches 79 

Souffl6 78 

Straws 79 

Toasted 81 

Cherries, Canned 154 

Dried for Pies 165 

Iced 165 

Chesterfield Cream 142 

Chicken, Boudins of 55 

Braised 54 

Easy Casserole of 55 

Croquettes 56 

Fricassee of 54 

Fried 54 

Patties 106 

Pie 111 

Salad 96 

Stuffed with 

Chestnuts 53 
Stuffed with 

Potatoes 53 



Chicken, Stuifed with 

Oysters 53 

Chinese Ragout 46 

Chocolate 150 

Iced 147 

Cake 121 

Bavarian Cream 124 

Icecream 138 

Icing 122 

Mousse 14G 

Pudding 125 

Chowder, Clam 28 

Fish 19 

Clam Chowder 28 

Fritters 27 

Clams 27 

Bisque of 14, 27 

Clear Soup with Crotltons 4 

with Green Peas 5 

Stock 3 

Coarse Meal Bread 66 

Cocoa 151 

Coooanut Pudding 125 

Codfish Balls 20 

Salt, Cream Sauce 20 

Shaker Style 20 

CoiSse 148 

To Blend 148 

Boiled 149 

Iced 147 

Percolated 160 

Coffee Cream 126 

Bavarian Cream 123 

Jelly 124 

Cold Slaw 90 

Compote of Apples 101 

Oranges 143 

Consomm6 7 

Cookies. New York 115 

Cordial, Blackberry 167 

Com, to Boll, Sweet 91 

Canned 155 

Fritters 90 

Omelet 74 

Pudding 89 

Corn-Salad 98 

Cpmed Beef 41 

Crab Apple Jelly 156 

Crabs, Deviled . 25 



INDEX 



199 



Crabs, Hot 25 

Soft-shell 25 

CrackedWheat,ToCook 162 

Cranberries, Preserved 100 

Stewed 100 

Cranberry Jelly 157 

Pie 107 

Cream Cake Pie 111 

Cream, Chesterfield 142 

Coffee 126 

Mock 167 

Cream Sauce 59 

Pudding Sauce 134 

Creamed Fish 18 

Sweetbreads 50 

Croquettes, Chicken 56 

Fruit 128 

Ham 51 

Potato 84 

Sweet Potato 86 

Crumpets, Rice 70 

Currant, Jam 160 

Jelly 157 

Currant Jelly Sauce 184 

Currants,Drled,to Clean 165 

Currants and Raspber- 

berries, Canned 154 

Curried Lobster 23 

Oysters 80 

Curry of Mutton 45 

Custard, Frozen Coffee 147 

Frozen 140 

Lemon 109 

Potato 109 

Pumpkin 110 

Rice 110 

Cutlet, Veal 49 

' Cutlets, Fish 19 

Lobster 24 

Sweetbreads 50 

Damsons, Canned 155 
Delmonico Hashed Pota- 
toes 83 
Desserts and Puddings 123 
Deviled Crabs 25 
Meat 40 
Doughnuts 120 
Dover Cake 117 



Dried Cherries, for Pies 165 
Dried Currant6,to Clean 165 
Dried Peaches, Stewed 100 
Duck with Olives 57 

Dumpling Broth 13 

Dumplings, Plain 

Steamed 129 



Eels, Stewed 


21 


Egg Lemonade 


166 


Sauce 


59 


Egg Plant, Fried 


92 


Eggs and Omelets 


72 


Eggs, Beauregard 


75 


Boiled 


75 


Scrambled 


76 


Shirred 


76 


Timbale of 


76 


& la Tripe 


76 


English Plmn Cake 


120 


Fairies 


128 


Fairy Toast 


ISO 


Fat, to Clarify 


164 


Fillet of Beef 


84 


Firmlty 


126 


Fish 


15 


Baked 


17 


Boiled 


15 


To Broil 


16 


Creamed 


18 


Cutlets 


19 


To Fry 


16 


Potted 


19 


Fish Chowder 


19 


Fish, Shell 


22 


Foamy Sauce 


184 


Frapp<S 


145 



French Breakfast Rolls 67 

Fried Potatoes 84 

Salad Dressing 96 

Friar's Omelet 73 

Fricassee of Chicken 54 

Oysters 29 

Fried Oysters 28 

Fritters, Banana 131 

Clam 27 

Com 90 

Oyster Plant 93 



Fritters, Queen 131 

Royal 130 

Frizzled Beef 41 

Frozen Coffee Custard 147 

Frozen Custard 140 
Frozen Puddings and 

Ices 141 

Fruit Croquettes 128 

Stewed 100 

Fruits, to GIac6 163 

Iced, for Breakfast 165 

Mac6dolne of 141 

Gtages, Canned 155 

Gems, Wheat Granule 69 

Gingerbread, oommon 118 

Soft 118 

Glaze 168 

Goose, Roasted 68 

Gooseberry Jam 160 

Grape Jelly 161 

Grapes, Iced 165 

Green Gooseberry Pie 107 

Haggfs 46 

Ham, Baked 62 

Croquettes 61 

Hard Icing 121 

Herb Soup from Broth 7 

Honey, Tomato 159 

Horse-radish Sauce 61 

Hot Crabs 25 

Ice Cream, Chocolate 138 

Peach 139 

Strawberry 139 

VanUla 139 

Ice Creams 137 

Iced Chocolate 147 

Coffee 147 

Rice Pudding with 

a Compote of 

Oranges 143 

Cherries 165 

Grapes 165 

Plums 165 

Strawberries 165 

Fruits for Breakfast 165 



200 



INDEX 



Ices and Fiosen Pad* 

dings 141 

Icing. BoUed 122 

Chocolate 122 

Hard 121 

Orange 122 

Imperial lUoe 121 

Irisli Stew 45 



Jam, Currant 


160 


QooBeberry 


160 


Jelly, Apple 


166 


Blackberry 


166 


■ Ctoffee 


124 


Crab Apple 


156 


Cranberry 


167 


Currant 


157 


Grape 


161 


Jerusalem Pudding 


126 


Johnny Cake 


70 


Julienne Soup 


5 


Kidney, Stewed 


42 



Lady Cake 118 

Lady's Cabbage 90 

Lamb« Breast of 46 
Lard, To Extract Salt 

from ■ 164 

Lemon Custard 109 

Frapp6 145 

Sauce 184 

Water-ice 146 

Lemonade 167 

I^ 166 

Lima Beans 92 

Lobster 22 

Boiled 22, 23 

Curried 23 

Cutlets 24 

Salads 97 

Stewed 23 

Terrapin Style 23 

Timbale 24 

Macaroni, Baked 79 

iiritallenne 80 

Soup 5 

Mac^doine of Fruit 

Glac6 141 



Marmalade, Apple, New 

England 160 
Carrot 159 
Orange 169 
Shaddock 160 
Marrow Ball Soup 6 

Marvels 120 

Mayonnaise Dressing 96 
of Salmon 9" 
Meat and Fish Sauces 69 
Meats 82 

Milk Biscuit 68 

Mince Meat 108 

Mint Sauce, Cold 62 

Hot 62 

Miscellaneous 162 

Mock Cream 167 

Mince Pie 107 

Bisque Soup 10 

Molasses Wedding Cake 117 
Muffins 69 

Mush, Oatmeal 162 

Mushroom Sauce, Fresh 61 
Mussels 27 

Mustard, Table 166 

Mutton 43 

Chops, Broiled 44 
Chops with To- 
mato Sauce 44 
Curry of 46 
Leg of. Baked 43 
Leg of, Boiled 43 
Leg of. Braised 44 
Sausages 46 
Shoulder of. Baked 43 
Shoulder of, with 
Oysters 44 



Nuts, to Qlace 

Oatmeal Mush 

Wafers 
Omelet, Com 
Friar's 
Oyster 
Plain 
Rice 
Spanish 



163 

162 
70 
74 
73 
73 
72 
74 
73 



Orange Bavarian Cream 123 



Orange Granite 


m 


Icing 


122 


Marmalade 


169 


Sherbet 


144 


Souffle (Frozen) 142 


Oranges, Compote of 


148 


Oyster Omelet 


73 


Patties 


105 


Pie 


81 


Salad 


97 


Sauce 


60 


Oyster Plant Fritters 


98 


Oysters, Bisque of 


14 


Broiled 


SO 


Brown Broiled 30 


Curried 


80 


Fricassee of 


29 


Fried 


28 


Stewed 


29 


Parsley Sauce 


60 


Parsnips 


93 


Paste, Plain 


104 


Piiif 


102 


Suet 


105 


Pastry 


102 



Patties of Chicken and 

OUves 106 

Oysters 106 

Peach Bavarian Cream 124 

Ice Cream 139 

Pudding, Hot 127 

Sauce 136 

Peaches, canned 163 

Pears, canned 163 

Peas 91 

Canned 92 

Pie, Bethlehem Apple 107 

Chicken 111 

Cranberry 107 

Cream Cake 111 

Green Gooseberry 107 

Lemon Custard 109 

Mock Mince 107 

Oyster 31 

Pineapple 109 

Pumpkin 110 

Rhubarb 108 

Pineapple, Canned 163 



INDEX 



201 



Pineapple Pie 109 

Piqaant Sauce 61 

Planked Shad 18 

Whiteflsh 18 

Plum Pudding 125 

Trifle 127 

Plumbiere 142 

Plums, Iced 165 

Pop Overs 69 

Pork 61 

Roasted Loin of 51 

Potato Croquettes 84 

Custard 109 

Fare! 84 

Pudding 84 

Puflf 83 

Roll 86 

Salad 98 

Soup from Broth 6 

Yeast 166 

Potatoes, d, la Bechamel 83 

Bermuda 82 

To Boil 82 

Delmonlco Hashed 83 

French Fried 84 

Saratoga 85 

Stewed 83 

Stuffed 85 

Potted Fish 19 

Poultry 63 

Braised 36 
Preserved Pumpkin 

Chips 158 

Pudding, Caramel 130 

Chocolate 125 

Cocoanut 125 

Southern Com 89 

Jerusalem 126 

Hot Peach 127 

Plain Plum 125 

Potato 84 

Sweet Potato 129 

Grandmother's Rice 129 

Iced Rice 143 

Rice with Peaches 124 

Pudding Sauces 133 

Puddings and Desserts 123 

Puff Past© 102 



Pumpkin Chips, 

Preserved 158 

Custard 110 

Pur6e of Apricots, 

Frozen 142 

Fresh Beans 12 

Carrots 12 
Sweet Potatoes 86 

Rice 18 

Vegetables 9 



Queen Fritters 
Quinces, Canned 



131 
154 



Racahout 151 
Ragout of Veal 49 
Raspberries and Cur- 
rants, Canned 154 
Raspberry Vinegar 151 
Rhubarb Pie 108 
Stewed 101 
Rice, Boiled 94 
Crumpets 70 
Custard 110 
Imperial 124 
Muffins 69 
Omelet 74 
Pudding 129 
Pudding with 

Canned Peaches 124 

Pur6e of 13 
Souffle withApples 127 

RoUed Jelly Cake 117 
RoUs, French Breakfast 67 

Rock Fish, Baked 17 

Royal Fritters 130 

Russian Tea 160 

Salad, American 98 

Cardinal 98 

Chicken 96 

Corn-Salad 98 

Lobster 97 

Oyster 97 

Pepper Grass 98 

Potato 98 

Sorrel 98 

Swedish 99 

Tomato 97 

Water-Cress 98 



Salad Dressing, French 96 

Mayonnaise 95 

without Oil 96 

Salads 95 

Vegetable 98 

Salt Codfish with Cream 

Sauce 20 

Sandwiches, Cheese 79 

Saratoga Potatoes 85 
Sauces, 

Meat and Fish 

Apple 101 

Brown 61 

Caper 59 

Cream 69 

Drawn Butter 59 

Egg 59 

Horse-radish 61 

Cold Mint 62 

Hot Mint 62 
Fresh Mushroom 61 

Oyster 60 

Paisley 60 

Piquant 61 

Spanish 60 

Tomato 60 
Sauces, 
Pudding 

Apricot 136 

Apple Pudding 133 

Banana 133 

Caramel 133 

Cream 134 

Currant Jelly 134 

Foamy 134 

Hard 134 

Lemon 134 

Peach 135 

Strawberry No. 1 135 

Strawberry No. 2 135 

Vanilla 135 

Sausages, Mutton 46 

Scalloped Tomatoes 88 

Scollops, to Fry 26 

Scotch Oat Cakes 71 

Scrambled Eggs 76 

Sealing Wax 169 

Seed Cakes 120 

Shad, Baked Xi 



202 



INDEX 



Shad, Planked 18 

Shaddock Marmalade 160 
Sheep's Tongues, To Boil 47 
in Jelly 47 
SheU Fish 22 

Sherbet, Orange 144 

Sicilian 144 

Shirred Eggs 76 

Shrimps 26 

Sicilian Sherbet 144 

Soft Shell Crabs 25 

Souffle, Orange (Frozen) 142 
Strawberry 145 
Soup, Barley Broth 9 

Bean, Dried, with- 
out Meat 8 
Pur^e of BeanSf 

Green 12 

Brown 6 

Calf's Head, Plain 7 
Pur6e of Carrots 12 
Clam, Bisque of 14,27 
Clear 4 

Clear, with Green 

Peas 5 

Consomme 7 

Dumpling, Broth 13 

Herb, from Broth 7 

Julienne 5 

Macaroni 5 

Marrow-ball 5 

Mock Bisque 10 

Oyster, Bisque of 14 

Potato, from Broth 6 

Pur6e of Rice 13 

Tomato 9 

Turkish 5 

Pur6e of Vegetables 9 

Cream of Asparagus 11 

Cream of Celery 11 

Cream of Potato 10 

Cream of Tomato 10 

Soup Stock ^. 8 

Clear 3 

Soups 3 

Southern Com Pudding 89 

Spanish Bee&teak 39 

Omelet 73 



Spanish Sauce 60 

Spighetti, Brown Sauce 81 

&l'Italienne 80 

Tomato Sauce 80 

Spinach, Egg Sauce 89 

Sponge Fingers 116 

Steamed Dumplings 129 

Stewed Eels 21 

Fruit 100 

Lobster 23 

Oysters 29 

Stock, Soup 3 

Strawberries, Canned 155 

Iced 165 

Strawberry Bavarian 

Cream 124 

Cream Cake 116 

Ice Cream 139 

Sauce No. 1 135 

Sauce No. 2 185 

Souffle 145 

Vinegar 161 

Straws, Cheese 79 

String Beans 92 

Stuffed Pototoes 85 

Suet Paste 105 

Sugar Biscuit 119 

Swedish Salad 99 

Sweetbread Cutlets 50 

Sweetbreads, Creamed 50 

Stewed 49 

Sweet Com, to Boil 91 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 86 

Pudding 129 

Pur6e of 86 

Table Mustard 165 
Table of Weights and 

Measures 196 

Tea 150 

Russian 150 

Tea Biscuit 67 

Timbale of Eggs 76 

Lobster 24 

Toast, Fairy 130 

Toasted Cheese 81 

Tomato Honey 159 

Salad 97 



Tomato Sauce 


60 


Soup 


9 


Tomatoes, Baked 


86 


Breaded 


88 


Canned 


155 


Cream Sauce 


8S 


On Half Shell 87 


Scalloped 


88 


Stewed 


87 


Tongues, Sheep's, To 




Boil 


47 


Sheep's, in Jelly 47 


Trifle, Plum 


127 


Tripe, Terrapin Style 


167 


Turkey 


57 


Boiled 


57 


Turkish Soup 


5 


Tumips, Stewed 


92 



Unfermented Wine 168 

Vanilla Ice Cream 139 

Sauce 135 

Veal 48 

Cutlet 49 

Ragout of 49 

Shoulder of. Roasted 49 

Vegetables 82 

Pur6eof 9 

Vegetable Salads 98 

Vinegar, Blackberry 151 

Raspberry 151 

Strawberry 151 

Wafers, Oatmeal 70 

Waffles 68 
Walnuts, English, To 

Glac6 164 

Water Ice, Lemon 146 

Wax for Sealing Fruit 169 

Welsh Rarebit 78 

Wheat Granule Gems 69 
Wheat Granules, To 

Cook 168 

Whitefish, Planked 18 

Wine, Unfermented 168 



Yeast, Potato 



166 





/9 

vO I jibn 



'SYSTEM ^ 



Made In Italy 




■■ 



