
\ 
\ 



THE FOUNDERS OF VIAVI 



VIAV! HYGIENE 

FOR 

WOMEN, MEN AND CHILDREN 



BY 

HARTLAND LAW, M.D. 

HERBERT E. LAW, F.C.S. 




EASTERN VIAVI COMPANY. 9 ^ 
1101-5 Trude Bldg., 912918 Colorado Bldg., 

(67 Wabash Ave.) (i 4 th and G St., N. W.) 

CHICAGO, ILL. WASHINGTON, D. C. 

THE VIAVI COMPANY. 

2304-6-8 Van Ness Botd., 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 

1904 



COPYRIGHT, 1899 
BY H. & H. E. LAW 

In c:;~li. 
D, of C. Pub. 




M. A. DONOHUE t COMPANY 
PRINTERS AND BINDERS 



CHICAGO 



To THE WOMEN 

WHO HAVE SECURED HEALTH BY MEANS OF 
THE VIAVI TREATMENT 

AND TO 

THOSE WHO DEVOTE THEIR LIVES 
To ITS PROMULGATION 



Is RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED. 



CONTENTS. 

Chapter Page 

I. LIFE'S RESPONSIBILITIES ..... 11 

II. THE LAW OF HEREDITY .... 15 

III. ENVIRONMENT ....... 20 

IV. EDUCATION NEEDED ...... 24 

V. DISEASES OF WOMEN ...... 

VI. THE VIAVI TREATMENT ...... 31 

VII. THE PELVIC BONES ...... 36 

VIII. EXTERNAL ORGANS . . . . *0 

IX. INTERNAL ORGANS ...... 42 

X. PROTECTION FOR THE ORGANS ..... 60 

XI. DEVELOPMENT OF GIRLS , 57 
XII. PRE-NATAL INFLUENCES . . . . .61 

XIII. A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE ..... 70 

XIV. A TALK WITH MEN . . ... .79 

XV. THE CIRCULATION ...... 94 

XVI. ABSORPTION . 102 

XVII. WOMANLY BEAUTY ...... 106 

XVIII. CONJUGAL RELATIONS ..*... 118 

XIX. ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP .... 127 

XX. REGULAR HABITS ; 138 

XXI. SUNSHINE AND AIR ...... 144 

XXII. MENTAL STATES ....... 148 

XXIII. SIMPLE KNOWLEDGE ...... 152 

XXIV. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM . . . . .155 
XXV. THE BACK 101 



CONTENTS 

Chapter Page 

XXVI. MENSTRUATION ...... 167 

XXVII. ABSENT MENSTRUATION (Amenorrhea) . . . 174 

XXVIII. PAINFUL MENSTRUATION (Dysmenorrhea) . . 181 

XXIX. VICARIOUS MENSTRUATION . . . 199 

XXX. NON-DEVELOPMENT . ... 201 

XXXI. CONGESTION, INFLAMMATION, ULCERATION . 211 

XXXII. INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB (Metritis, Subin volution) 215 

XXXIII. ENLARGEMENT OE THE WOMB . . c .222 

XXXIV. ADHESIONS . . . . . . . 227 

XXXV. CURETTING . . . . . . .231 

XXXVI. LEUCORRHEA ...... 234 

XXXVII. DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB .... 242 

XXXVIII. PESSARIES ....... 259 

XXXIX. PERITONITIS . . . . . . .261 

XL. INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES (Ovaritis) . . 264 

XLI. INFLAMMATION OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES (Salpingitis) . 280 

XLII. DISEASES oF THE VAGINA .... 283 

XLHI. INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER (Cystitis) . . 290 

XLIV. INFLAMMATION OF THE URETHRA (Urethritis) . 294 

XLV. PREGNANCY ....... 296 

XLVI. THE ABDOMINAL WALLS . . . . 316 

XLVII. NOURISHING THE INFANT (Lactation) . . .321 

XLVIII. INFLAMMATION OF THE BREASTS (Mastitis) . . 330 

XLIX. MISCARRIAGE ....... 332 

L. STERILITY (Barrenness) ..... 337 

LI. A WOMAN'S REST PERIOD . . . -344 

LI I. LACERATION ...... 348 

LUI. THE CHANGE OF LIFE . . , . .356 

LIV. CANCER ....... 363 

LV. CANCER OF THE BREAST (Carcinoma) . . . 369 



CONTENTS 

Chapter Page 

LVI. TUMORS .... 372 

LVII. DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN .... 383 

LVIII. NERVOUS DEBIUTY .... 387 

LIX. INSOMNIA ....... 399 

LX. HEADACHES ...... 406 

LXI. OBESITY ..*... > no 

LXII. AN OFFENSIVE BREATH . . . . , 417 

LXIII. VARICOSE VEINS AND ULCERS . ... 420 

LXIV. CATARRHAIV CONDITIONS (Colds, Nasal Polypi, Deafness, 

Hay Fever) ....... 424 

LXV. DISEASES OF THE LUNGS (Bronchitis, Pneumonia, 

Consumption) ...... 436 

LXVI. DISEASES OF THE STOMACH (Dyspepsia, Gastritis) 445 

LXVII. DISEASES OF THE BOWELS (Constipation, Diarrhea, 

Catarrh) ..... -452 

LXVII I. DISEASES OF THE LIVER ..... 459 

LXIX. DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS . . . ' . 462 

LXX. DISEASES OF THE RECTUM (Piles, Abscess, Fistula, etc.) 465 

LXXI. RHEUMATISM ....... 476 

LXXII. WOUNDS, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. .... 480 

LXXIII. THE FORMS OF VIAVI ..... 490 

LXXIV. HYGIENIC AIDS . . . . . . 512 

LXXV. FROM THOSE WHO KNOW (Testimonials) . . 532 



VIAVI HYGIENE 

CHAPTER i. 




LIFE'S RESPONSIBILITIES 



cannot make of life all that we should, nor get from it all the happi- 
ness that we might, unless we understand its purpose; and we cannot 
acquire this understanding unless we sit down quietly and with brain 
and conscience study life and its opportunities and obligations with all 

reverence. Those who waste their lives, who neglect their opportunities, 

have not the first conception of its meaning. 

The first thing we must realize is that life is not a 
The Golden Role burden to be torne, nor living a task to be done. We 
oupreme must understand that life belongs not to us alone, to be 

wasted or improved as may best suit our inclinations, tastes or appetites. We 
are unquestionably designed by Nature to be what scientists call gregarious 
creatures that is, creatures that flock together, that have the social instinct 
strongly developed, and that must therefore have duties to others as well as to 
themselves. This law of our being is one of the fundamental principles of 
Christianity and of all the other great religions. The Golden Rule, expressed 
in one form or another, is as old as human intelligence; it underlies all civil 
law and is the foundation of governments. 

The obligations of life divide themselves into two parts 
Life Has a Dual _ t i lose w hich we owe to ourselves, and those which 

we owe to others. Let us take a glance at each of these 
separately, and see how closely they are dependent upon each other. 

We cannot discharge our duty to others unless we first discharge our 
duty to ourselves. We cannot be useful members of the home, of society, of 
the government unless we make of ourselves all that it is our duty to make. 
The responsible person who is negligent of his health, wasteful of his powers 
and careless of the habits that build or destroy body and character, is not only 
useless as a member of society, but beyond a certain limit becomes a pernicious 
influence. Therefore the very first principle of right living concerns our 
private and personal conduct. We cannot be true to ourselves without being 
true to others. 



M VIAVI HYGIENE 

Then the first lesson in life is right personal living. 
Reverence for Life's This is by no means a complicated task. The prime 

essential to its understanding is reverence for the 

natural laws of our being. We can acquire this by realizing that life is a 
wonderful, mysterious and beautiful thing, representing the most exquisite 
skill and intelligence which Nature exercises. No human being has any right 
to regard life lightly unless he can show that he is capable of imitating 
Nature's matchless skill in producing it. The fact that its origin, develop- 
ment and decay are so far beyond human comprehension, to say nothing of 
the human power of imitation, gives us the starting point for its reverential 
treatment. From this one consideration alone we must realize that life pro- 
ceeds from a source to which our feeble perception cannot penetrate in this 
life. With most of us it naturally is regarded as the source so marvelously 
great, so incomparably masterful and wonderful, so splendidly wise and just, 
so majestic in breadth of design and infinity of details, so infallibly accurate 
in its adj ustments and processes, that we instinctively turn to it as the great 
unseen Father, the beneficent Ruler of all things, and with love and awe in our 
hearts we approach it with bared heads and on bended knees, and worship it 
as God. The higher our intelligence, the more we have pondered these 
mysteries, the stronger is this spirit of reverence within us. Were it not that 
we instinctively, as well as by reasoning, recognize the necessary existence of 
this overshadowing power, in whose hands even the greatest of men are but 
puny atoms which the slightest breath from this overwhelming force would 
dastroy, there would be no religions, and none of the refining and ennobling 
influences to which they give rise. 

The great danger with those of us who have not risen to 
A High Conception the n i g k est pinnacle of reverence is that we are apt to 

revere this unseen and unknowable power itself to the 

exclusion of its works; we are more apt to have reverence for God than for His 
works. This is merely because we have not thought deeply enough, have not 
grasped the elementary principles of life. It is a lamentable fact that there 
are those who think they are cherishing the profoundest love and reverence 
for God by praying, by fasting, by singing His praises, while at the same time 
wasting irotnents which He has given them for their own improvement and the 
doing of good to others, and living so unwisely as to undermine their health 
and strength. 

This is the result of cultivating a religion of the heart while neglecting 
that of the mind. Religion that is purely emotional is not intelligent it is 
not true religion. We cannot love and reverence God without loving and 
reverencing Nature, and we cannot love and reverence Nature unless we un- 
derstand so much of it as is essential to intelligent living, and we cannot ac- 
quire tills intelligence without study and contemplation. When a friend 



LIFE'S RESPONSIBILITIES 13 

whom we love dearly gives us a present, merely for the purpose of showing 
his affection for us, and not for the purpose of enriching us, it is the giving 
that we appreciate more than the gift; but when a friend presents us with a 
gift of great value to us or to him, or to both of us jointly, then it ceases to be 
a simple gift, and becomes a trust. Then, while we are grateful to the giver, 
we turn assiduous attention to the gift, and develop its possibilities, making it 
produce all the benefits for which it was intended and of which it is capable. 

It is so with life; it is more than a gift it is a trust. If 
Possibilities of the it were a tr i vial present, of no particular use to us, our 

feeling would naturally be limited to gratitude for the 

giver's expression of affection in presenting us with it; but life is the greatest 
of all possible gifts; it is all that we are. And besides that, it is a most won- 
derful and complex thing, dazzling in its capabilities, brilliant in its posss 
bilities, and constituting the greatest of the forces through which Nature, or 
God, or whatever other term we may use to designate the giver, makes its 
presence and purpose manifest. Therefore it is the greatest of all conceivable 
trusts; and hence, while loving and venerating the source from which it came, 
we cannot show loyalty and gratitude unless we put our hearts and minds into 
the task of developing the possibilities of the trust. This idea is beautifully 
illustrated in the parable of the talents. The one who buried his talents im- 
agined that he was showing the highest form of gratitude to his master by 
placing the gift in a safe place; but the master condemned him, and praised the 
one who invested his talents. The first one regarded his talents as a gift, the 
second regarded his as a trust. That difference reaches to the very foundation 
of life. 

The amazing ignorance of the great masses of humanity 
Nature's Laws Must concer ning the simplest natural laws of their being is 
be Obeyed painful evidence that they have not been properly 

taught. It is in youth that the seed of disease is sown; it is in middle life and 
old age that the harvest of suffering is reaped. It is in youth that the sins are 
committed; it is in middle life and old age that the punishment is imposed. 
If violation of natural laws brought immediate penalties, they would be 
avoided. In many cases such is the fact An infant will never be satisfied un- 
til it puts its finger in the candle, but the punishment for the indiscretion is 
so immediate that one experience is sufficient for a lifetime. But for many of 
the diseases that shorten life or fill it with uneasiness and anguish, the slow 
punishment comes after the lapse of years. Because the young and those in 
vigorous health see no immediate bad results from their deliberate violations 
of natural laws, they conclude that their acts are proper and natural and that 
no punishment will accrue. It is thus easy to fall into the way of repeating 
the offense, in ignorance of the fact that every one of them will be punished 
in the years to come. 



14 VIA VI HYGIENE 

One -who has acquired an understanding of right living 

Wholesome Re itilts of is not only strong and w holesome and clean for the dis- 
Jvnowleoge charge of those duties which make one a useful member 

of the family and society, but his or her example is an instruction and an in- 
spiration to all others. Example is one of the most powerful factors in life. 
This is because we are social and imitative creatures. There is none so ob- 
scure or humble but that his example is a directing force in the lives of others. 
Hence theie is none free from responsibility to others. A good example in- 
spires to right action, and a bad example suggests the expediency of evil. 

Everything that we do is either right or wrong. There 
The Great J'ower of is no middle grou nd. Nothing that we do has a nega- 
tive value. If we are not doing right we are doing 

wrong. If we are not setting a good example we are setting a bad one. If 
we are not useful we are injurious. Those who live clean, intelligent, upright 
lives induce others to do likewise. Those who show that they have knowledge 
lead others to seek it. Those who exhibit wisdom are relied on and appealed 
to, and their influence is the greatest that human beings can exercise. It is 
one's duty to be as useful as possible, and this duty cannot be discharged un- 
less the intelligence is cultivated. It is not hard to learn it is never really 
hard to do one's duty, and it is one's duty to learn. The more one knows, the 
more intelligently one can live, the happier and more useful one can become. 
Then, to sum it all up, it is necessary, first, for us to regard life as a 
trust rather than as a gift; to revere it as the handiwork of the Creator; to 
study natural laws in order that our understanding of them may lead us to 
have reverence for them as the foundation of intelligent obedience to them; 
to cherish our strength, powers and capabilities, and make the utmost that is 
possible of ourselves; and finally to do good by example and positive effort. 




CHAPTER u. 



THE LAW OF HEREDITY 



of the most familiar facts in Nature is that like produces like. Rose 
bushes are never propagated from fig trees. Human beings produce 
human beings, and nothing else produces them or can be produced by 
them. That fact establishes the law of heredity. In its stricter appli- 
cation the law means the transmission of special qualities. In this sense it 
does not mean alone that black parents will produce black children, brown 
parents brown children, and white parents white children. It means, in the 
more restricted sense, that special qualities in the parents will be represented 
in the children by tendencies to the development of those qualities. It is very 
difficult to draw the line between broad and restricted tendencies thus trans- 
missible and transmitted. But the fact that broad characteristics, both physi- 
cal and mental, are transmitted, to our certain knowledge, creates the pre- 
sumption that a child will be born with a tendency to develop any strength 
or weakness that one or both of its parents may possess. 

, This tendency appears in the most unexpected and 
rikmg .Lesson in cur j ous forms. Thus, one or two or more generations 
rlcreoity may be skipped, when a child will be born with the 

characteristics of a grandparent, a great-grandparent or even a remoter an- 
cestor. This means that the peculiar characteristic handed down to it has ex- 
isted but lain dormant in its parents or other intervening progenitors. Again, 
a child may be born with a characteristic that was really foreign to the blood 
of its progenitors, but was instilled in it by their occupation. For illustration, 
it was discovered in the case /f Jesse Pomeroy, the boy murderer, that although 
his parents were excellent persons, his father was a butcher and his mother 
was in the habit of visiting the shambles for several months before the child 
was born. 'Neither of these parents had ever developed a homicidal tendency, 
and yet they were both so inured to the taking of lower lives and the shedding 
of blood that it is conceivable that this habit was translated in the child into a 
homicidal tendency. 



16 VIA VI HYGIENE 

There is no fact more patent to Viavi advocates than 
As Mothers, so tliat an ailing, peevish mother will likely produce a 

child that has a similar disposition, aud that is made the 

victim of outrageous drugging for physical ailments that never existed. We 
cannot expect blood from turnips nor figs from thistles. 

A farmer, in selecting plants from which to save seed for the next year's 
planting, never makes the mistake of choosing them indiscriminately, nor 
does he defiantly select the weakest on the theory that it makes no difference. 
If he has good common sense he will select the finest, largest and strongest 
plants to furnish seed. It is by pursuing this method that improved varieties 
are constantly being brought out. This law runs through Nature in all its 
most familiar aspects, and there is no gainsaying it. 

t Hence we are compelled to believe that the strongest 

Their Influence Is &nd finest parents will pro duce the strongest and finest 

Strongest children. Indeed, it is an old aphorism that "the 

mothers of great men have themselves been great." This is in recognition of 
the fact that mothers have much more to do witn the transmitted qualities of 
children than fathers have. The reason for this seems clear. The child is a 
part of the mother's body during the whole nine months of gestation, and as 
such part it receives the nourishment which she chooses for herself, has the 
same blood in its veins that fills hers, and is subject to all the nervous condi- 
tions that affect her. After the birth the physical relation is maintained to a 
slighter degree in the fact that the child draws its nourishment from her 
breasts. Even after all that comes to an end, she is the natural and constant 
custodian of the child, and as imitation is an essential part of our natures, its 
character will be moulded in a large measure by hers. 

So we see that, important as heredity is, it is not the only influence that 
the parents have on the welfare of the child guidance, association and ex- 
ample are very important considerations. A fuller discussion of that, how- 
ever, may be left for a separate chapter. 

It being an evident fact that heredity plays a vital part 
Source of Manly - n the character o f t ^ e child, let us inquire what its 

manifestations may be. 

The first and most evident truth is that physical qualities are transmitted. 
Thus, blond parents have fair children. As a rule, large parents have large 
children, or children who grow to be large. Parents descended from a line of 
hard manual workers will have children with large, strong bones, even though 
tue parents or grandparents or great-grandparents may never have performed 
any hard manual labor. We all know that the ranks of the achievers in life 
Lbose who rise to the heads of great enterprises and movements are recruited 
from the ranks of people who have lived for generations under simple primi- 



TIIU I, AW OF HEREDITY 17 

live and wholesome conditions. Most of the statesmen 'aiid "great generals of 
the world's history came from what may be termed the yeomanry. It requires 
a superior order of character and intelligence to live wisely among the dis- 
tractions and dissipations of cities, and that is why so small a proportion cf 
great men come from parents who are descended from a line of city-living 
people. 

People who live natural, intelligent lives are likely to be 
Natural Effort Is i iea lthy, no matter what weaknesses they may have in- 
Upward herited, for the reason that Nature's efforts are always 
bent to correct errors and produce a higher type. A good deal of bad living is 
required to overcome this natural tendency, but most people live a good deal 
worse than they think. These remarks are deemed timely for the reason that 
if people come to rely too much on heredity they will rely too little on them- 
selves. Some people exhibit the weakness of assuming that as they are the 
product of their ancestors' way of living, it is useless for them to try to be any- 
thing else. The illogical nature of the position which they take is evident 
from their premises: if they are the product of their ancestors' way of living, 
their ancestors themselves were; therefore in a measure every one is the 
product of one's own way of living. This is eminently true. And as our an- 
cestors have handed down certain tendencies to us, and we realize that those 
tendencies are bad, that places us under the strongest kind of an obligation to 
live in such a way as to transmit only good tendencies to our offspring. So it 
is evident that no matter from what point of view we regard this subject of 
heredity, the manner of living is an essential part of it. 

While size is an element of no value in the ordinary 
Vital Force . the struggles of life, strength is. By strength is meant not 
Foundation onlv good bone aud musc i e) k ut that deeper strength 

which is found in the ability to resist the evil influence of conditions which 
militate against strength. If one takes cold easily one is not strong, though 
one may be able to fell an ox. Men of apparently splendid physical develop- 
ment are seen to succumb under conditions which seemingly much weaker 
men resist. It is so with women. Hence by strength is meant vital energy. 
A turtle's head may be severed and the heart taken out, but the heart will con- 
tinue to beat for a long time; this shows tremendous vital force, infinitely 
greater than a human being's. At the same time, we often see in human beings 
so powerful a vital force that it holds death at bay for hours or days longer 
than a weaker person could possibly live. It is not merely a question of will 
force; it is one principally of vital energy that which is born in us, which 
was handed down to us, and which we in turn may transmit. . 

-Now it must be clear that this abundance of vital energy is one of th : " 
most useful qualities that it is possible for us to possess. If we have the 21;- 
herent power to resist death and keep it at bay, we have the power to resist 



18 VIAVI HYGIENE 

disease. Disease may be described as a condition of partial disorganization of 
the vital functions. There would not be such a partial disorganization if the 
organism were perfect. In that event we should never die of disease, but, 
like the one-hoss shay, should be so perfectly constructed, so admirably fitted 
and adjusted, that all the parts would last the same time, and the end would 
be just as it was with the shay. During all the long years of its arduous and 
useful life it never needed repairing; it always attended to its work; it was 
never cranky. But there must be an end to all things. The time came when 
the faithful shay was completely worn out, but instead of lingering and being 
patched up against the inevitable day, it went to pieces all at once, every part 
and member of it. That was an ideal death, and it is the death that Nature 
intended us all to have. But how many people go out of the world so splen- 
didly as that? Most old people die of some disease, after much suffering, and 
that is a sad commentary on human intelligence. 

By living aright we can inculcate within ourselves the natural power to 
resist disease, and by cultivating it in ourselves we can transmit the tendency 
to others. There is no other way in which we can accomplish either of these 
things. 

, But heredity reaches much further than that. If one set 

un ness Q f q ua nti es can b e transmitted another can. Our mental 

qualities are in a large measure limited by our physical. 

There are a great many exceedingly bright persons with weak and ailing 
bodies, but we can well imagine that their minds would be a great deal 
stronger and brighter if they had great physical stamina. And the worst of it 
is, that although some of the brightest geniuses of the world have had weak 
and sickly bodies, the work which they did with their heads rarely has had an 
ennobling and refining influence, it has been largely misanthropic, or dis- 
torted, or lacking in balance. It will be noticed that a great majority of the 
best workers for mankind have had splendid bodies. 

t There seems to be a distinction between mental qualities 

The Mind Hampered and emot i ona i ones> an d the rule seems to be that par- 
by Disease ticular emotional qualities are oftener transmitted than 

particular mental ones. This may be because the emotions are more primitive. 
But as the emotions are a powerful factor in determining the value and char- 
acter of the mental qualities, it is evident that in order to secure the transmis- 
sion of the best mentality, the soundest emotional natures must be cultivated. 
Now, the emotions have a strict relation to the physical condition. A woman 
with a very strong, bright mind may become hysterical from some disease 
peculiar to her sex, and if so all her mental qualities go for naught. The 
nervousness which so generally afflicts women is not associated with mental 
powers, but has the effect of hampering them and preventing their develop- 
ment. 



THE LAW OF HEREDITY I9 

If we violate natural laws, knowing our acts to be vio- 

How Parents Affect i a ti ns, we transmit to our children the tendency to do 
Children likewise. Doubtless much of the suicide among chil- 

dren, and particularly girls, is due to the fact that their mothers practice 
methods to evade maternity. Abortion is the deliberate taking of human life, 
and its practice tends to the transmission of a disregard for the sacredness of 
human life. 

As a sound mind goes with a sound body, it is essential that we cultivate 
sound bodies if we desire to bear children with sound, level, competent minds. 

There is still another phase of the subject, and that is 
Morality Ruled by the transmission of moral qualities. This goes so closely 
Heredity with all else tliat we transmit that it seems hardly worth 

while to make a special point of it it must be evident to all thinking persons 
that immoral habits of thought and conduct produce a like tendency in off- 
spring. It is much easier for the morals to go wrong if the body and mind 
are weakened by disease, and if they go wrong in us we may expect them to 
do likewise in our children. There are deformities of the mind and morals as 
well as of the bodies, and they are much more easily transmitted. If we try 
to do right and to think right, our children will inherit the tendency to strive 
for the same ends. Every one of us stands between two eternities the past 
and the future. In each of us is implanted the natural tendency to be better 
than our progenitors. It is our duty to recognize this tendency, to cultivate it, 
to make the utmost out of it. In ourselves, in the short span of life allotted 
to us, we can begin a tendency which will turn aside all the evil tendencies 
which we have inherited, and in so doing we can be starting a new line of good 
tendencies stretching throughout the eternity before us. Our lives are not for 
a day, not for the few poor years allowed us. The influence of each stretches 
forward forever. 



CHAPTER in. 



ENVIRONMENT. 



'HE two factors determining what we are and what we make of ourselves 
are heredity and environment. Heredity is the essential part of our 
nature that comes to us with our birth; environment is the external cir- 
cumstances of our lives. The traits and tendencies which we inherit 
have been transmitted to us by our progenitors our parents, grandparents, 
great-grandparents, and so on back indefinitely. The nature of these traits 
and tendencies has been determined for us, without our volition or consent, by 
the lives which our progenitors led. Many of these traits and tendencies are 
good, many others are Dad; but it is a wonderful law of Nature that the good 
tends to overcome the bad, whether physical, mental or spiritual. It is a 
knowledge of this fact that makes us responsible creatures, for we know that 
by cultivating the good and suppressing the bad we can constantly grow bet- 
ter and steadily tend to arrive at human perfection. If we did not have a 
knowledge of this natural tendency we should not be responsible creatures, 
should not be endowed with a conscience, and should have no incentive to be 
good other than a fear of the consequences of being bad. But as habit is a 
powerful factor in determining the development of character, we may easily 
fall into the habit of ignoring what is good in our heritage, cultivating what 
is bad, drowning the conscience within us, and thus drift into evil which leads 
to ruin. 

Heredity both affects and is affected by environment. 

Two Forces Operate A strong inherited character has the ability to bend and 
iogether shape the circumstances of life to suit its own wishes 

and demands. Many of the greatest achievements of men have been accom- 
plished under the most disadvantageous circumstances. Burnham, the brilliant 
American astronomer, was a hard-working court stenographer, having time to 
study astronomy only at night, and with the aid of a small telescope which he 
himself mounted in the crudest fashion; yet with this equipment of time and 
apparatus he became the greatest discoveref of double stars that the world has 
produced. History is full of such cases. The stronger the inherited traits, 



ENVIRONMENT 21 

the greater the ability to overcome disadvantageous circumstances. Hence 
the truth is put before us in all its tremendous force that if we wish our chil- 
dren and children's children to be great in the struggle of life, we must con- 
trive by every exercise of brains and conscience to see that they inherit from 
us all the strength and health and will that it is possible for us to transmit to 
them by intelligent living. 

On the other hand, a nature born with a feeble will and 
How Will Power Is no ambition nor pride will yield most rea dily to the in- 

fluence of its environment. It frequently happens that 

this environment is wholesome and uplifting, but this is opposed to the gen- 
eral scheme of Nature and to facts as we know them. We all know that to be 
born with a silver spoon in the mouth is oftener a curse than a blessing. All 
religions understand the value upon character of the practice of self-denial 
and the performance of hard and ceaseless labor. All the saints in all the 
calendars led lives of the severest austerity, activity and self-abnegation. To 
be born to a life of ease means generally to be born to a life of idleness, and 
we all know that idleness is the father of most of the evil in the world. If it 
does nothing worse it prevents a development of the good within us, which 
needs exercise for its growth and strength. It is common to the knowledge of 
all that a large proportion of the sons of millionaires are little more than 
social outcasts, and that many of them die in youth or early manhood. 

It is a law of Nature that every living thing must be put 
Strength Needed for upon & strain> If it is not sufficient i v str ong to bear the 

.existence strain, it must break and give room to something that 

is. Nature is a swarming beehive of tremendous and ceaseless activities. 
Idleness is a disease within its economy, and it will leave nothing untried to 
thrust it out. The stress and strain are constant and severe. Social and busi- 
ness usage naturally acquires the same characteristic. Competition is as 
strenuous in every department of life as among the shrubs and trees of the 
forest. From this competition come strength, agility and courage. If the 
strain is greater than can be borne, we go down and are lost and forgotten. 

Habit comes largely from environment. As we are 
A Fault in Modern SQcial creat ures, we are imitative. The son, instinctively 
rducation longing to be a man like his father, will imitate his 

father's vices as readily as his virtues. Young men thrown together in cities 
and colleges drift into a common way of thinking, talking and acting. A 
curious determining factor here introduces itself. A thing becomes a tempta- 
tion because it is forbidden. The fault with the general system of instruction 
is that it pays more attention to prohibiting a thing than to explaining why it 
is pernicious. The natural spirit of enterprise and discovery in the young 
urges them to see and touch forbidden things. There is, besides, inherent in 



a* VIA VI HYGIENE 

all a certain impatience under personal restraint which is as easily translated 
into a love of license as a love of liberty. Added to all this is a spirit oi 
adventure inherent in the blood. So, taking all things together, the general 
effect of instruction to make evil a temptation instead of a warning is bad. 

This renders the environment of the young a very important matter. 
The more fascinating it is, for any reason, the stronger it acts as an element 
in determining character and the development of life. If its nature is whole- 
some, its effects will be wholesome, for good comes out of good; but also, evil 
comes out of evil. 

A F F" Heredity and environment are constantly reacting one 

Ji ^ e r upon the other. Each is striving to gain the advantage 

in molding character. They are not essentially antago- 
nistic elements, but as a matter of fact they are generally opposed. In a 
natural wild state, plants, animals and human races are exactly suited to their 
environment. This adaptation has come about by a very slow and painful 
process of adjustment and the survival of the fittest. But even then, a con- 
stant warfare is in progress among the different orders that inhabit a specified 
wild locality. Men kill animals and rob fruit trees to secure food, animals 
kill smaller animals and rob birds of their eggs, birds eat worms and insects 
and seeds, and plants of one order struggle ceaselessly for possession of the 
ground with plants of another order. Only the strongest or the most ingeni- 
ous survive. Some animals take on a coat or color which makes it difficult 
for their enemies to find them. Many are armed with weapons of defense as 
well as offense. Killing goes on ruthlessly, and the animals which cannot 
fight in defense of their lives must have something to compensate for their 
lack of strength and size they must be agile, swift or cunning. 

t Civilized man is under the operation of the same great 

Man Easily Adapts Jaw ^ ^ugh jt s operation is complicated by numerous 
** imse " circumstances. If he is not naturally fitted to his en- 

vironment, he fits himself to it by resort to artificial measures. In cold cli- 
mates he wears clothes to compensate for the lack of a coating of hair. If he 
does not find all the foods that suit him, he cultivates them, often under the 
most artificial conditions. This shows most splendidly his innate power to 
bend extraneous conditions to his will. If he fails to do so, it is generally not 
from a lack of strength for the purpose, but from a weakness to yield rather 
than a willingness to fight. Being gregarious by instinct, he must conform in 
a large measure to ways and customs which he finds; it is his natural tendency 
to do so. This is the origin and this the danger of the imitative faculty. 

_, Those who imitate least are those who have the strongest 

i Natur< Great wills If we were solely imitat ive beings, none of us 

Achievers WO uld think of making those great departures which in- 



ENVIRONMENT 23 

dicate distinctive individualities, and out of which all great individual achieve- 
ment arises. It is the men and women of distinctive individualities who do the 
thinking for the world, who make the discoveries, who build railroads, who 
paint great pictures and write great books, who probe into the secrets of 
Nature and drag them forth for the benefit of mankind, and who do all 
the other noble and inspiring things that make of the world an eternal spec- 
tacle and delight. The more easily people adapt themselves to the conditions 
about them the less they care for something different, and yet something dif- 
ferent might be something better. 

No matter how comfortably one may be established in 
Be Prepared for a j^ no mat ter how snugly one may have fitted ones- 
Catastrophe ge j j nto one ' s environment and found the nicest possi- 
ble balance between the urging of one's inherited tendencies and the pressure 
of one's environment, it should be remembered that there is nothing stable in 
life or the world. At any time a catastrophe may befall us. It may come as 
war, or pestilence, or severe financial stringency, or great labor strikes, or 
devastating storms, or sickness, or an accident that transforms us into cripples. 
There are many ways in which the established order of things may be upset. 
The man or the woman who can best and most readily change front and effect 
a new adaptation has a tremendous advantage. The qualities required for 
this evidently do not come from a peaceful environment, and therefore must 
be inherited. But they cannot be inherited unless those responsible for our 
being have lived so that this exceedingly useful power of adaptation, this 
ability to rise after we fall, will descend to us, and if it can descend to us we 
can transmit it to our children. 

The deductions which we can draw from this brief 

What We Should Get glance at heredity and environment as determining 
with Lite factors in our lives are that we may inherit from our 

parents and remoter progenitors, and transmit to our children and their 
progeny, essential qualities which are determined by the manner of thinking 
and living; that the more intelligently we think and live, the greater will be 
the benefit to our offspring; that we can live so as to make them or break 
them to a large extent; that heredity and environment react upon each other, 
each modifying the force of the other to the extent that one has a preponder- 
ance over the other; that the stronger the inherited qualities, the greater the 
power to bend circumstances to the purposes of life; that the weaker the in- 
herited qualities, the greater the danger that the influences of the environment 
will be evil, and that every sense of right and duty urges us to live so that our 
offspring shall come into the world equipped for its severe struggles and trials 
with all the ability that it is possible for us to hand down. 



CHAPTER iv. 



EDUCATION NEEDED. 



'WO great principles lie at the foundation of the Viavi Health Movement 
One is that as ignorance is the most prolific cause of disease, the people 
should be taught. The other is that as women are the greatest sufferers, 
and as their diseases have the most far-reaching effect, their needs should 
receive first consideration. 

Those engaged in this movement have learned from 
Prong to Keep Women amp i e observation the wrong of assuming that women 

should be kept in ignorance of matters so vital to their 

happiness and welfare. It has been invariably found by Viavi advocates that, 
contrary to the old belief, women readily grasp the laws of their being, are 
eager to understand them, and apply them intelligently when found. By rea- 
son of this understanding they know not only how to avoid suffering, but how 
to bring up their daughters wisely, keeping them from the errors which lay 
the foundation for so much misery in after life. For centuries it has been the 
custom to keep women in ignorance regarding their physical natures, and par- 
ticularly the most important of all their sexual natures. It is a most un- 
wholesome sign to find that this subject, the most vital that concerns women 
and the race at large, should have been regarded so long as one which should 
be debarred from the category of things to be understood, or as something 
of which it was right to be ashamed. This discloses an unhealthy state of the 
public mind, and one that has given rise to incredible suffering through the 
ignorance that was thus enjoined. We believe that it is both a woman's right 
and her duty to understand these things, and that when she does, her native 
goodness and conscience may be depended en for the discharge of her duty. 

Evidence of the evils arising from this ignorance is seen 
Some Results of ou every hand> often at the time of life when a young 

Ignorance girl mosfc nee< j s t ^ e kindly guidance of her mother she 

is wholly neglected, with the result that, frightened or filled with shame at the 
wonderful change that leads her from childhood to womanhood, she commits 



EDUCATION NEEDED 25 

some irrational act that fills her whole after life with suffering. 

Young women enter matrimony while physically unfitted to do so, and 
while ignorant of the simplest philosophy of the marriage relation, and as a 
consequence lead lives varying from ordinary pain to unendurable anguish, 
thus ignorantly casting a cloud upon their homes, loading their husbands with 
mental and financial burdens, and, if they bear children, starting a new gener- 
ation of ignorance and suffering. 

Even to healthy parents children are born under improper circum- 
stances, thus poison ing their own lives and depriving parenthood of its richest 
blessings. 

At all ages irrational practices are indulged in without any knowledge of 
the harm that they will produce, and the seeds of disease sown that will tor- 
ture the victims throughout their lives. 

It is taken for granted by nearly all women that suffering must be their 
lot, that women were created to suffer. This is the very worst of all the 
phases of the evil. 

The false, artificial and unwholesome sense of modesty that has been 
imposed upon women acts with even greater force upon men where women are 
concerned, and yet there is no duty more binding upon a married man or the 
father of daughters than to understand the physical natures of the frail, deli- 
cate, sensitive and highly organized beings entrusted to his care and appeal- 
ing to every sentiment of manhood, kindness and generosity within him. 
Viavi advocates have as earnest a desire that men should understand these 
subjects as women, and there is no fact more thoroughly demonstrated than 
that when the matter is comprehended, it is invariably treated with the 
reverence which it so much deserves. 

There is a vast difference between prudishness and true 
The Need ^ of Better mo j esty> xiie woman who is ashamed to contemplate 

and understand the wonders of her reproductive nature, 

and who deems it womanly to avoid a study of the subject as a basis for intel- 
ligent living, shows that she lacks true reverence for the most sacred of the 
Creator's works and designs. The Viavi movement aimo to widen her vision, 
to enlarge her understanding, and to show her the consequences of ignorance 
and the blessings and purity and wholesomeness of knowledge. 

In doing this throughout these pages we shall employ sufficient direct- 
ness to leave no doubt, and at the same time the subject will be treated with 
that delicacy and reverence which a matter so beautiful and vital should 
receive at the hands of the intelligent. Such a treatment of the subject will 
be as refining, as ennobling and as instructive in the case of young girls as in 
that of married women, for the mission of this work would be incomplete did 
it fail to meet the needs of women and girls of all ages and stations. With 
this book in hand a mother can point out to her daughter the beautiful truths 



26 VIAVI HYGIENE 

of life, and thus avert the wretchedness that ignorance so often entails. There 
is no confidence so holy as that between mother and daughter, and it should 
be cherished by the mother with unfailing solicitude. This volume should be 
employed by mothers to cement that relation and to secure for both the knowl- 
edge.so necessary to them. The reverence felt by those engaged in the Viavi 
work for the matters with which it deals reacts upon those with whom they 
come in contact, to the end that women who investigate the treatment not 
only invariably become imbued with the same sentiment, but form life-long 
attachments for the Viavi representatives. In all the range of moral forces 
none exists that has a more purifying and uplifting influence, or that reaches 
deeper into the true womanliness of women. It is in such a spirit that this 
book is written. 

Under the influence of the irrational teaching that has 

How to Teach the been lhe custom for all time> many even of the w i ses t 
Daughters flnd best mothers fi nd it .difficult to discuss with their 

young daughters a subject that has been so long tabooed. To such mothers 
we would suggest that the difficulties are ouly apparent, not real. Long before 
the child approaches puberty she should be gradually taught the beautiful mys- 
tery of reproduction of species. Every living thing has its origin in sex. ,-,The 
blossoms that we love so much contain the sexual organs of the plants'that 
bear them. Both sexes are represented in sonic plants, while in others some 
are male and others female. By a mingling of their pollen, carried by insects 
or the wind, fertilization takes place on the same principle as in human beings. 
In the female flower are ovules corresponding exactly to the eggs, or ova, in 
the ovaries of a woman, and when they are fertilized by taking in the male 
principle, the pollen, they develop into seeds ; these, when they are ripe, will 
produce after their kind. Is there any cause for shame in that knowledge ? 
Thus Nature will be found to abound in illustrations of the sex functions in 
human beings, and a child at a very early age should be gradually brought to 
understand the beautiful principle. It is a mother's duty to inform herself on 
these subjects, in order that she may impart her knowledge to her young 
daughter. 

Tk TUT ct. Every mother should keep this awful truth in mind: If 

L^ Sh herself does not instruct her daughter, the knowl- 

edge will be acquired in some other way, and we may be 

sure that it will not be the best way. The child will naturally reason that as 
her mother did not inform her, the subject was a forbidden one. This will 
have the tendency to awaken unhealthy thoughts in the budding mind. The 
mother, and the mother only, should be the one to teach the daughter, and in 
teaching her she should inculcate reverence and an idea of the sacredness of 
the subject. Evil is not natural to the mind of the child. It is only in the 



EDUCATION NEEDED 27 

way in which knowledge comes that there is danger of an evil conception of 
the beautiful truth. 

The description of the female organs of generation, their functions and 
diseases, will be given herein in all purity and truth, and we are confident 
that the earnest reader will study this work in the same spirit. We know that 
no one who reverently searches for the truth concerning the wonderful mas- 
terpiece of the Creator's handiwork, the human body, can do so without 
being better for it. 




CHAPTER v. 



DISEASES OF WOMEN. 



T is a fact familiar to all persons informed upon the subject that at least 
nine-tenths of all women are afflicted to a greater or less degree with 
some disease of the generative organs. This condition of affairs is 
sad enough, but it is not so discouraging as the cognate fact that women 
generally accept their sufferings as a matter of course, as something inevitable 
and incurable, and as net worthy of serious consideration. They should reflect 
that all natural processes are designed to be painless, and that if they are not, a 
condition of disease must necessarily be present. Any one who takes it for 
granted that a beneficent Providence created human beings for a life of suffer- 
ing cannot have a high opinion of the Creator's wisdom and goodness. The 
solemn truth is that human suffering is purely a human invention, and that it 
lies within our power to banish it from the world. No duty could be more 
binding than the search of means for doing so. 

Why is it that there is so striking a difference between 
Why Men are Rarely the general health of men and that of women ? It is 

not natural that this should be so, and when we ascer- 
tain why it is, we have taken the first step in wisdom. Upon examining the 
subject we find that men as a rule lead more rational which means to say 
more natural lives than women. Men do not constrict their bodies in a way 
to interfere with their vital functions. They generally lead a more active life, 
and thus keep their nervous systems keyed up to a healthy tone. They are 
likely to be regular in their work and habits, and regularity is absolutely es- 
sential to health. They eat heartily of wholesome food, knowing instinctively 
that sweetmeats, dainties and similar things cannot keep the system in good 
condition. /When pain or distress is experienced they do not submissively ac- 
cept these abnormal conditions as the natural lot of men, but speedily seek 
relief and if possible remove the aggravating cause. They may not do a great 
deal of reasoning in all these matters, but they have much common sense. 
They realize that if they live irrationally they will suffer, and that if they have 
pain or distress their efficiency as workers and achievers is crippled. A great 



DISEASES OF WOMEN 29 

many women will be heard saying with a sort of poor pride that women can 
bear a great deal more suffering than men. It would be the height of folly 
for a man to bear more than he does. It is far more to one's credit to abolish 
pain than to bear it. It is a reproach to any one, man or woman, to suffer 
when suffering is unnecessary. For women to accept suffering as their natural 
lot is for them to confess a lack of intelligence or pride to overcome it. 

A distressing feature of the condition of women is the 
The Great Value of poor sort of pride that many of them take in their ail . 

ments. The profoundest pity is due them for holding 

such an attitude toward disease, for a perfectly sound person knows too much 
of the joys of health to envy those who do not posses? it. If all women could 
understand that suffering is a reproach and disease anything but a charm, they 
would seek to exchange the sympathy that suffering invokes for the admira- 
tion that health commands. Disease is not a part of the scheme of Nature. A 
diseased person is not designed by Nature to assist in the grand procession of 
natural events. 

It is lamentable that women as a rule do not fully appreciate the evi- 
dences and effects of disease. Not knowing why they suffer, they do not seek 
means of relief. Among primitive races there is no necessity for a knowledge 
of organs, functions and diseases, any more than there is among the lower an- 
imals. Creatures that live close to Nature do not suffer. As civilization has 
taken us far away from those primitive conditions in which health is enjoyed, 
it becomes absolutely incumbent upon us to make reason take the place of 
instinct'. Now, we cannot reason if we are ignorant. Seeing civilization plant 
within us diseases unknown to the primitive condition, it is necessary that we 
know why and how civilization implants disease and how disease may be 
avoided. We cannot do this if we are as ignorant as savages. The fact that 
we do suffer proves that we are ignorant. We could recover health by re- 
turning to a savage condition, but not only is that impossible, but we should 
thereby lose all the beauties and benefits that civilization has brought us. We 
must therefore acquire the intelligence needed to enable us to live as whole- 
somely as savages. The most striking anomaly of civilization is the fact that 
we have not kept our intelligence up with our progress. We know that civil- 
ization produces disease, and yet so many of us are content not to strive 
through knowledge to be healthy even though we are civilized! 

How many women are aware of the fact that so sim- 

S ff ^ Ple and P revalent a disease as l eu corrhea represents a 
drain on the system almost equal to the constant drip- 
ping of blood from an open wound? How many of them realize that its 
neglect inevitably leads to serious disorders eventually imperiling life itself? 
How many of them are aware of its effects upon the nervous system and the 



30 VIAVI HYGIENE 

mind? How many are there who are acquainted with the details of the 
wonderful process that each woman in her child-bearing age experiences from 
twelve to sixteen times a year ? How many are familiar with the numerous 
kinds and causes of the pains that nearly all of them suffer on each occasion? 
How many have even the crudest idea of the anatomy and arrangement of the 
organs, as a basis for an understanding of the causes and nature of disease and 
rational means for treating it? How many mothers are there who under- 
stand the reason for their having suffered laceration in childbirth? How 
many are aware that every violation of a natural law will inevitably be pun- 
ished sooner or later, and that there is no escape whatever ? How many re- 
alize that when the change of life arrives Nature brings to bear all the punish- 
ments due for all the errors of past life ? How many know that disease is a 
condition of uncleanliness, and that pain is an evidence of disease ? 

The burdens resulting from the infirmities of women are 
Effect of Disease not borne by them alone, for as woman's part in the 
Far Reaching perpetuation of the race is so much larger than man's 
part, both the destiny of the offspring and the happiness and integrity of the 
home are dependent upon her condition. The long list of men whom the 
feebleness or wretchedness of their wives has served as an excuse for trans- 
gressing sacred moral obligations should be sufficient to rouse every woman to 
the great responsibility that rests upon her. The appalling list of women who 
have been unsexed by the surgeon's knife should serve as a frightful warning 
to strive for better things. The ghastly records of women who in despondency 
or temporary insanity from diseases of the generative system have slain their 
children should be heard as a cry in the remotest corner of every woman's 
heart. Who is there that dares inquire into all the causes that fill the peni- 
tentiaries ? 

The overshadowing moral force of the world is that 
The Power of Women exercised by women . They, more than all the other 

influences that exist, determine the character of the 

home and the nation. The most of all the good that we see originates with 
them, expresses what is best in their composition and aspirations. They are 
the bulwark of domestic and national purity. They are the chief upholders 
and enforcers of the moral restraints of religion. Love of them is the chief 
inspiration to the hopes and efforts of men. Do they know their wonderful 
power, their immeasurable influence ? Do they realize that all that is best in 
them, the power that makes them the ruling force of the world, rests upon that 
ineffable soundness, sweetness and purity which receive their force and 
vitality from perfect health ? We in the Viavi movement know more of wo- 
men than perhaps any others, and it is this knowledge that fills us with a 
bright hope for the future. We want women to know themselves, to appreciate 
their power, to stand forth in full consciousness of their might. 



CHAPTER vi. 



THE VIAVI TREATMENT. 



jSfe HE advent of the Viavi treatment was the intelligent result of observing 

^O existing conditions. It was seen that the knowledge which women must 

^P have in order to be well was persistently withheld from them, and that 

they were taught to shun it as a thing to be ashamed of. It was observed 
that existing methods of treatment, instead of holding up the sublime law 
that Nature is the great physician and that no cures can be effected except by 
her, taught people to rely upon medicine and surgery. It was noted that 
the generative organs of men were treated with a deference and consideration 
in nowise accorded to those of women. It was found that women were taught 
to hold their generative natures in low esteem, and that they were ruthlessly 
deprived of their divine dower of womanhood by resort to the knife. It was 
seen that they were frequently cut open on a wrong diagnosis, many a woman 
having been operated on for a tumor when in fact she was only pregnant. 

It was noted that about the only resort in certain menstrual anomalies 
and inflammatory processes was curetting, an operation that produces numer- 
ous evils, and which the Viavi treatment has rendered entirely unnecessary. 
It was observed that leucorrhea was frequently checked by the use of astrin- 
gent douches, while it was for the time being Nature's safety valve, thus caus- 
ing serious troubles to arise in remote parts of the body by checking it 
instead of removing the cause. It was found that the only known means for 
the removal of tumors was by cutting, from which terrible operation many 
women were losing their lives or going crippled and suffering to the end. 
These and many other utterly irrational features of existing methods of treat- 
ment showed upon their face the necessity for a scientific treatment that 
would accomplish results impossible to the old methods, while leaving no ill 
effects, but on the contrary building the sufferer anew from the very founda- 
tion of her existence. 

H TVT A w In P ursu ^ ^ tne investigations leading to the Viavi 

>w e >& Was treatment many questions were asked and profoundly 

studied. What are the peculiarities of the uterine 



3? VIAVI HYGIENE 

organs which prohibit their natural tendency to heal themselves of disease in 
the absence of assistance ? What is the nature of the leucorrheal discharge, 
and what are the causes that produce it ? Why does the cervix (neck of the 
womb) so often tear in childbirth, and after it has torn, -why does it not have 
a tendency to heal of its own accord, as do other injuries of the body ? Why 
do uterine diseases produce pains in the head, back and legs, why do they give 
rise to indigestion, and why do they so seriously affect the nervous system and 
so often the mind itself? Why are the uterus and ovaries so easily inflamed, 
and why is the inflammation so painful? Why is there so strong a tendency 
to the formation of tumors, and why is cancer so prevalent, especially at 
change of life? Why do the tissues of the abdominal walls so often separate 
in pregnancy, leaving the body scarred and misshapen for the rest of the 
sufferer's life ? Why do lumps, tumors and cancers so frequently appear in 
the breasts, and why should the first thing to be thought of be the disfiguring 
of a woman for life by removing her breasts ? Why does marriage give rise 
to so much suffering ? Why is menstruation ever painful, when it is evidently 
designed by Nature to be as painless as any other function of the body ? Why 
is pregnancy so full of terrors for many women, and why do so many resort to 
unnatural and hurtful means for avoiding it? Why should childbirth, the 
sublimest event in the life of a human being, be regarded with so much terror, 
and why does it so often bring dreadful results ? Why is, it that intelligent 
human beings are led away from the grand truth that the cure of all disease 
must be by natural means? Why was the general method of practice in the 
diseases of women a failure ? 

It was realized that the existing methods were altogether irrational, 
opposed to natural laws, and hence necessarily unsuccessful. That alone 
would be sufficient to proclaim so many cases incurable cases which have 
yielded to the Viavi treatment. In the first place, it was essential that women 
should be taught, in order that they should know the causes and nature of 
their ailments, have an understanding of natural laws, learn how cures are 
effected, and be able thereafter to keep well. Instead of cutting and 
maiming them, they should be supplied with a treatment which would enable 
their systems to throw off disease by natural means, leaving them not only 
cured, but whole, and able thereafter to avoid and resist disease. There 'was 
no reason why they should be subjected to the humiliation of examinations. 
With their native intelligence they would be able, under proper instruction, to 
employ a treatment in the privacy of their own homes, thus saving themselves 
injury and humiliation and their pockets a great deal of money. .- In learning 
themselves they would accomplish something equally important the intelli- 
gent care of their daughters. Their systems would not be tortured and weak- 
ened by introducing powerful medicines into their already weakened stomachs. 
They would be led away from the absurd idea that disease can be cured quickly 
or by violent means. At the same time their entire conception of the obliga- 



THE VIAVI TREATMENT 33 

tions and opportunities of womanhood would be raised, to the end that they 
could secure their own happiness and that of all about them, and stand forth 
as the founders of a pure, wholesome and vigorous race. 

. It was reasoned that as Nature has wisely provided a 

Nature Provides a cure for every tuman a ii men t, it was only a matter of 

my time and scientific study and experiment to discover a 

remedy for the diseases that afflict women. One of the first things decided 
upon was that the remedy should contain no minerals, no hurtful ingredients 
of any kind, no opiates nor sedatives nor anodynes to deaden the pain and 
lower the vitality. There should be nothing in the treatment that would 
impose cruelty or torture there had been enough of those in the old methods. 
It was thus that a remedy was discovered, composed wholly of vegetable in- 
gredients. The question of its preparation was a very important one. Every 
scientific safeguard, including the highest purity and efficiency of the materials, 
the utmost care on the score of antiseptic precautions, and many other details 
had to be worked out. All this was finally accomplished, and thus was pro- 
duced Viavi. It was prepared in two forms a capsule, for use at the seat of 
the disease, and a cerate (salve) for rubbing into the skin over the affected 
region. Thus medication was wholly avoided, no task was imposed upon the 
stomach, and as the remedy was predigested in the manufacture, and was 
specially prepared to take advantage of the absorptive properties of the skin, 
mucous membrane and tissues, it was at once taken up by the system. Still 
better, instead of being a medicine it was a food for the nerves and tissues, 
thus building and strengthening them, and enabling them to throw off disease. 
While all this was being accomplished the effect of the remedy upon the cir- 
culation was such as not only to supply the blood with nutriment furnished 
by the remedy, but to cause it to circulate freely and fully, removing the im- 
purities and poisons which accumulate in disease, and sending them out of the 
system through the organs of elimination, such as the skin, kidneys, bowels, 
etc. And finally, an intelligent system of hygiene was made to complete 
the plan. 

There is no need to discuss the wisdom of the method. 

What Experience Has The forces engaged in the dissemination of the Viavi 
Established treatment number many thousands of women distrib- 

uted throughout all the civilized countries of the world. In their earnestness, 
their devotion, their fondness for the work, an intelligent observer may read 
the whole story of the Viavi movement. When women from all walks of life, 
and numbering many thousands, step out, many of them, from lives of ease 
.nd devote their hearts, mind and energies to the dissemination of the truths 
and benefits which the Viavi treatment embodies and secures; when they do 
this principally for the good that it accomplishes, for the happiness that it 



34 VIA VI HYGIENE 

orings and for the dangers that it averts ; when they find themselves strength- 
ened and upheld by the touching gratitude of the millions of women whom 
their ministrations have led out of despair and darkness to happiness and 
Jight; when they are inspired by seeing maternity brought to those who had 
hopelessly yearned for it; when they see children born wich the strength to 
make the battle of life successfully when all these and numberless other 
triumphs of their labors are observed, there is no need to wonder that this 
simple and rational philosophy, with earnest and faithful effort to promulgate 
it, is so widely accepted and so eagerly sought. The Viavi movement repre- 
sents a revolution the most momentous that ever was witnessed in the science 
of cure. It is a complete overturning of the dangers and fallacies of the 
past, the most brilliant achievement of science that modern times have 
witnessed. Besides that, it is backed by an irresistible moral force repre- 
sented by the vast army of its active advocates and the millions of women 
whose experience enables them to speak with conviction of its power. 

The subject of Viavi is too important, too full of living 
)ther Fcatu: the interest| to con tain a single dull passage. Let us 

inquire a little further into its original features. The 

first great desideratum is to cure. In order to secure this result, the sufferer is 
invited to avail herself of the services of the Viavi Hygienic Department, 
presided over by trained specialists in the diseases of women. No charge is 
made for this service. 

Another interesting feature is the talks of health given by trained rep- 
resentatives of the treatment in all the cities, generally at the Viavi head- 
quarters, where visitors are always welcome. In addition to these lecturers 
are traveling representatives who perform the same service. No woman can 
fail to learn something of the greatest value from these talks. The need of 
the information thus gained is by no means confined to women who are 
afflicted. It is equally important that sound women should know themselves. 
Some of the pleasantest relations established in the work have been 
with the husbands of women who have adopted the treatment. The common- 
sense philosophy of the treatment appeals with special force to men, whose 
practical side has been fully developed by a freer contact with the world. It is 
particularly advisable that husbands take an interest in the subject, for it has 
been observed that when they do their wives invariably adhere to the regime 
with that unfailing fidelity so essential to the best results. There is nothing 
more beautiful, nothing more becoming to manhood, than an intelligent and 
sympathetic interest on the part of the husband in the desire and efforts of the 
wife to become a wife in the fullest sense of the term. It is equally incumbent 
npon the father of daughters to acquire such an understanding of the dan- 
gers besetting girls as will enable him, '.hrough the wife, to assist in starting 
them aright. " Such knowledge softens aid broadens a man. 






THE VIA VI TREATMENT 35 

As we advance more deeply into the subject of women, 
Vital Truths To Be their ailments and treatment, through the pages of this 

volume, we shall find a vast and steadily increasing 

volume of practical, common-sense, easily understood knowledge. The fore- 
going outline of the principal features of the treatment is inadequate to its 
complete understanding; the subject is too large for perfect treatment in one 
chapter. Many mysteries that cloud the lives of women will be explained 
The book is written for earnest, serious women, who are not afraid of the truth 
and who wish to lead wholesome and happy lives. From the remarkable 
progress that the movement has made it is easily seen that women are rapidly 
becoming the leaders of the fundamental intelligence necessary to the welfare 
of the race; they are the students and teachers of the things that must be 
known before right living can be followed. 





CHAPTER vn. 
THE PELVIC BONES. 



we stand before the masterpiece of a great painter or sculptor we 
feel our own inferiority while admiring the splendid creation of the 
artist. If we have cherished ambitions, we experience an overwhelm- 
ing sense of the superior genius of the one whose work confronts us- 
The distance between the beginner and-the finished master seems dishearten- 
ingly great. But as we carefully study the work day by day, new beauties 
begin to reveal themselves, and the feeling of helplessness for our own infe- 
riority merges insensibly into one of adoration. The spirit of emulation 
begins to arise within us, and hope and strength follow apace. We reflect 
that the great artist had a beginning, that his first efforts were crude and 
uncertain, and that by great labor perfection was finally attained. We can 
picture the early struggles, the steady progress from straight lines to those 
gracefully curved, and the steady application (often under the most discour- 
aging circumstances) that day by day developed the budding powers of the 
artist. 

If we regard the human body, that masterpiece of the Creator, as a 
whole, we feel tempted to abandon the study so marvelously intricate its many 
parts, so exquisite its adjustments, so beautiful its lines. As we study it more 
closely, and unravel its mysteries one by one, we arrive at a truer understand- 
ing of its complexities and come to reverence the master mind that conceived 
and built so wonderful a creation, this splendid mechanism that constitutes 
the temporary hom^ of an immortal spirit. 

, , o j T A Let us then begin with a study of the foundation of the 
The Study and Its , 

, . ' . body its bony structure. When we acquire an under- 

standing of the position, shape and purposes of the 

bones, we can then proceed to build about them those less substantial parts of 
the body which they are designed to support and protect. As we are interested 
in the diseases aud functions of the generative organs of women, we shall con- 
fine this study to the bones of the pelvis. Wherever it is shown elsewhere in this 



THE PELVIC BONES 37 

volume that the Viavi treatment is to be applied to other parts of the body, a 
similar study will then be given to those parts. 

At the lower end of the trunk, or body, there is a bony 
The Pelvis and Its structure, called the pelvis, meaning a basin. As it is 
Purposes found throughout the body that the most delicate organs 

enjoy the best protection, so we find that this basin has remarkable strength, 
for not only must it protect the delicate organs of generation, but it must bear 
the weight of the spine and whole upper part of the body, and receive the 
bones of the thighs. Closely surrounded and guarded by the powerful pelvic 
bones, which, though numbering several pieces, are rigidly welded into one 
strong structure, are the organs which constitute the cradle of all human life. 
The brain likewise, the most delicate part of the human system, is encased in 
a bony box composed of several pieces curiously fastened together. 

We can get an excellent idea of the pelvis by studying the one in our 
own body by means of external indications. The body is usually studied in 
the standing position, the median line being an imaginary plane passing 
lengthwise through the center of the body, from the middle of the front sur- 
face to the middle of the back. The region of the body toward the head is 
spoken of as above or upward, and that toward the lower part of the body as 
below or downward. In speaking of something within the body from an 
exterior point of view, we say, "from without, inward,'* and in discussing 
something without the body from an interior point of view we say, "from 
within, outward." In going from front to back we say, "from before," etc. 
These explanations will enable the reader to understand some anatomical 
statements that might otherwise be difficult. 

The pelvic basin, as we have said, is composed of sev- 
Their eral bones. We can feel them from the outside by 
Arrangement pressure with the hands. Put the hands upon the hip 

bones, and they will rest upon the ossa innominata ("no-name bones"), so 
called because of the difficulty of likening them to any familiar shape or ob- 
ject. There are two of these, one on each side. Originally each was devel- 
oped from three distinct bone centers, but they have grown together, though 
each has a name. The hip bone is broad and flat, extending, like the sides of 
a basin, downward and inward, and is called the ilium. Its lower projection, 
upon which we sit, and which is covered with the thick muscles of the but- 
tocks, is each called the ischium; we can easily feel it through the flesh. The 
front ends of the ossa innominata curve around and meet in front, the upper 
edge of the meeting point being about three inches below the upper projection 
of the hip bone, thus forming the pubic bones, or pubis, or pubic arch; it may 
be felt in the front and at the extreme lower end of the abdomen, and may be 
traced around underneath to the protuberances, or tuberosities, of the ischia. 



38 VIA VI HYGIENE 

It will thus be seen that the ossa innominata form the sides and front of the 
basin. Between the posterior borders of the ossa innominata, and joined to 
them, is a section of the spine, called the sacrum; it is triangular, or wedge- 
shaped, the broadest part being at the top, and to its lower, or narrower, end 
is attached the coccyx, which is the termination of the spine, so called 
because it resembles the bill of the cuckoo. The sacrum and the coccyx con- 
sist of nine bones, five of them being in the sacrum and four in the coccyx. 
The foregoing are the bones of the pelvi? . The space enclosed by them is 
called the pelvic cavity. 

There are spaces in the walls of this basin that are not 
15 completed by bone, but are filled up with muscular 



tissue. For instance, the space between the hip bones 
in front is completed by the abdominal walls. The floor of the pelvic cavity 
is formed by tissue which fills the space between the tip of the coccyx and the 
pubic bones in front, and between the tuberosities of the ischia. These bony 
landmarks can all be felt. The tissue between them, speaking generally, is 
called the perineum, or the floor of the pelvis. 

, The bones of the pelvis are so firmly bound together by ligaments at 
their lines of juncture that movement is almost impossible. There is an ex. 
ception, however, and that is at the juncture of the coccyx with the sacrum. 
This joint is movable, so thr.t the coccyx can bend back an inch or more at the 
birth of a child, thus giving more room for the child to pass. It is a common 
error to suppose that the pubic bones, forming the front of the basin, separate 
at the birth of a child, as they are too firmly bound together for that to be 
possible. 

The bony pelvis as a whole gives support to the entire 

ork of Bony body It rests upon the thigh> or f emor al, bones, being 

Support joined to them by a ball-and-socket joint, so closely fitted 

and so thoroughly bound by ligaments that in a healthy body it is impossible 

to pull this joint apart without permitting some air to enter. The spinal col- 

umn, supporting the head, arms, ribs and all the tissues and organs above the 

pelvis, rests its entire weight upon the sacrum. The surfaces of the ossa inno. 

rninata, both inside and outside, present broad areas to which are attached the 

strong muscles from the thighs which move the legs, and from the lower part 

of the body, including the abdominal muscles. 

The pelvic bones of men are larger and stronger than those of wo- 
men, but the pelvis is wider in women. Greater breadth of hips, as among 
women, is said to be a sign of greater ability to bear children. The span of the 
pubic arch in women is greater than in men. If the pelvis of women were no 
larger than that of men it would be impossible for them to bear children. The 
distance between the thigh joints is greater in women than in men, by reason 



BONES 



of the pelvis being broader. In order to preserve the equilibrium in standing, 
it is necessary that the knees of women should be closer together than those 
of men, and as a consequence, women cannot run as well as men. 

In women the pelvic cavity measures only four and a 
The Contents of the half to fiye and a half { nc ^ B [ n diameter, yet it is 

P elvis sufficiently large to hold comfortably and compactly 

the vagina, womb, Fallopian tubes, ovaries, bladder and rectum, together 
with the ligaments which support them and the muscular tissues which are 
attached to the inner surfaces of the pelvic bones. It will be readily seen that 
the displacement of any of these organs, or their enlargement from inflamma- 
tion, is bound to create a serious disturbance. The bowels have a tendency to 
crowd down upon the contents of the pelvis, and especially is this so if a wo- 
man pushes down the bowels by lacing, or wears clothing tight around the 
waist, or in a sitting posture rests her weight largely upon the end of the spine 
instead of the ischia. 

In addition to the organs above mentioned, the blood supply and nerves 
of the pelvic organs and the legs pass in and out of the pelvic cavity. 

Having now an understanding of the bony substructure of the genera- 
tive system, we shall next proceed to a description of the external organs of 
generation, and then to the internal. 




CHAPTER vin. 



EXTERNAL ORGANS 



,N the last chapter we mentioned the fact that the intervals in the pelvic 
basin lacking in bone were filled in with muscular tissue. We described 
the perineum in general terms as extending from the tip of the coccyx 
behind to the bottom of the pubic arch in front, and connecting the 
tuberosities, or knobs, of the ischia on each side. This area of tissue is 
called the floor of the pelvis. It is penetrated by the rectum and vagina, and 
upon its external surface are the external genital organs and the anus, or rectal 
opening. The external genital organs are known by the general term of 
vulva, or pudendum. These are the mons veneris, the labia majora and 
minora, the orifice of the vagina, and the clitoris. There is also the meatus 
urinarius, or opening of the urethra, which is the tube leading from the 
bladder outward. 

The mons veneris is the rounded eminence under the 
Description of the skin at the lowef end of the abdomen> j ust above the 

vulva, and overlying the pubic arch, for which it serves 

as a cushion. It is composed of fatty tissue. As the age of puberty arrives, 
when the child merges into a woman, a growth of hair appears upon the 
mons. It is a common saying that when this growth is very scant, sterility is 
indicated. After the change of life it becomes gray or white, and often 
disappears. 

The labia majora (large lips) begin just below the mons veneris, and, 
diverging a little, again converge and meet, and terminate in the perineum 
proper, which is the tissue between the vagina and the anus. These large 
lips are the outer lips of the vulva. They are covered on the outside with 
skin, and beginning at their outer line of juncture they are covered with 
mucous membrane continuous with that lining the vagina. 

Just within the labia majora is a pair of smaller folds of tissue, called 
the labia minora, or small lips ; they are covered with mucous membrane. 

At the upper point of juncture of these small lips is the clitoris, the 
organ of sexual excitement, which is analogous to the chief copulative organ in 



I 



EXTERNAL ORGANS 41 

the male. About an inch below the clitoris, and near the upper margin of the 
vaginal opening, is the meatus urinarius, or the external orifice of the 
urethra, which is the passageway to the bladder. The urethra is about one 
and a half inch inches in length, and when normal has an external diameter 
about equal to that of a pencil, but in a diseased condition it may become 
much thicker. It is lined with mucous membrane, continuous with that of 
the vulva and the bladder, and being very elastic, is easily distended. 

Imbedded in the labia majora and labia minora are nu- 

Labial Glands and merous sma n g i an d s and follicles, which secrete and 

Their Function mo i sten t b e par ts with a bland mucus, thus lubricating 

them and preventing irritation as the parts rub against each other from the 

movements of the body, or from coition. In disease the secretion of these 

glands and follicles may become acrid and irritating, producing an unbearable 

itching, which is known as pruritus. Sometimes these glands become inflamed 

and enlarged, producing exceedingly painful abscesses. 

The tissues surrounding the orifice cf the vagina are 
rJasticity c highly elastic and capable of great distension, to prevent 

Tissues injury from childbirth. When healthy they stretch 

without harm and readily return to their normal condition ; but when un- 
healthy and therefore inelastic, they often tear at the birth of a child. The 
principal point of rupture at this time is the tissue between the vagina and 
the anus. This tissue, the perineum proper, may be easily felt by placing the 
thumb in the vagina and the finger in the rectum. Often this external lacera- 
tion is so extensive as entirely to destroy the muscular wall separating the 
lower part of the vagina from the rectum. 

In the virgin there is a membranous fold, or curtain, 

Nature and Form of called the hymen> which par tialty closes the vaginal 
the Hymen orifice. Through this small opening the menstrual 

flow passes, but in rare instances the hymen is imperforate that is, it has no 
opening and the menstrual flow cannot escape. In such cases the hymen 
should be perforated by a physician. 

Usually the natural opening is crescentic in shape, or there may be a 
number of small openings. The presence of the hymen does not necessarily 
indicate virginity, as is commonly supposed, for married women have borne 
children without suffering a rupture of the membrane. On the other hand, a 
fragile hymen may be ruptured in childhood or later by numerous innocent 
causes, skipping the rope being among them. It may also be ruptured by a 
physician in making an examination. 

While much technical matter might be added to this description of the 
external organs, we believe that sufficient has been said to give an intelligent 
idea of their names, relation and position. 



CHAPTER ix. 



INTERNAL ORGANS. 



fHB pelvis is divided into the upper and larger, or false pelvis, and the 
louver and smaller, or true pelvis. The line of division is drawn from 
the top and center of the symphysis pubis to the most prominent part 
of the sacrum, known as the promontory of the sacrum. All above this 
line is known as the false pelvis, all below the true pelvis, in which are situ- 
ated the internal generative organs, the uterus, vagina, Fallopian tubes 
and ovaries, together with the bladder and rectum. 

The bowels fill the false pelvis and rest upon the. con- 
* nd tents of the true pelvis. Thus we see how the bowels 
may be made to crowd down upon the internal genera- 
tive organs and do harm by tight lacing, heavy clothing suspended about the 
waist, or by an improper position of the body while sitting. The only firm 
support for the bowels at this point is a forward projecting of the upper end 
of the sacrum (the promontory of the sacrum), which partially overhangs the 
uterus, or womb. The muscular walls of the abdomen also serve to hold the 
contents of both cavities in proper position; hence the great harm that is 
wrought the whole body by weakening the muscular walls of the abdomen by 
surgical incisions or improper treatment during pregnancies, which leave the 
walls flabby, weak and without tone. 

t In front of the vagina and uterus is the bladder, while 

True Pelvis and j ust behind them is ^ e rec tum, all of these organs being 

Its Contents supplied with numerous blood vessels and nerves. In 

addition there are large blood vessels and nerves running through the pelvis 

to the legs. For this reason we shall see later on how diseases of these organs 

affect the legs, causing lameness, partial paralysis, etc. 

The vagina is a highly elastic tube extending from the 
The Nature of the vulya to the uterus . It i s flattened from before back- 
Vagina ward- its front and back walls lying in contact, and they 



INTERNAL ORGANS 43 

curve backward, following the course of the rectum, the posterior wall of the 
vagina forming the anterior wall of the rectum. The vagina, like other 
organs, varies in size and length in different individuals. Being curved, the 
front wall is shorter than the back, the length of the front wall being about 
three and one-half to four inches, while the posterior wall is from five and 
one-half to six inches in length. The upper end of the vagina does not open 
directly into the abdomen, but is firmly attached to the neck of the uterus, 
which organ protrudes into the vagina about three-fourths of an inch. The 
vagina is lined with mucous membrane and is supplied with numerous little 
mucous glands, which in health pour out a sufficient amount of mucus to 
lubricate the parts. In some abnormal conditions of this tract great quanti- 
ties of secretions are poured forth, which will be more fully discussed when 
we come to the subject of leucorrhea. 

The little pocket or blind sac which is formed by the attachment of the 
anterior wall of the vagina to the cervix or neck of the womb is known as the 
anterior cul-de-sac, while the pocket formed by the attachment of the posterior 
wall of the vagina to the cervix is called the posterior cul-de-sac. It is in 
these little cul-de-sacs that the contents of the Viavi capsules are held. By 
absorption they are carried to the surrounding tissues. 

The uterus, or womb, is attached to the vagina as we 

Description of the haye described . It is pea r-shaped, the larger end, or 

fundus, being at the top, and the lower end, or cervix, 

at the bottom. The whole length, including the cervix, is about three inches. 
In the virgin it weighs about one and a half ounces; in those who have borne 
children it weighs from three to four ounces. Its walls are composed of mus- 
cles curiously and ingeniously crossed and overlapped, permitting of great 
distension in pregnancy. It is flattened front and back, the thickness being 
about an inch and the breadth about two inches. It is lined with a mucous 
membrane called the eudometrium. The cavity, extending from the cervix to 
the fundus, is very small, widening slightly toward the fundus. The shape of th<* 
cavity is triangular. Toward the top it broadens out into the shape of a 
triangle, and at the upper points of this triangle are the openings of the 
Fallopian tubes, one on each side. / The uterus is situated in the median line, 
in an antero-postcrior position, lying at an angle of about forty-five degrees. 
This inclination varies considerably with the relative amount of contents of 
the bladder and rectum. If the bladder is full and the rectum empty, the 
uterus leans further back, and vice versa. Its position in the body can be 
fixed by imagining a line drawn from the tip of the coccyx to the navel; it will 
pass through the uterus. The outside of the body of the uterus is covered 
with the peritoneum, which lines the entire abdomen and envelops its 
contents. 

The uterus is the cradle of the human race. It is here that we all lived 



44 VIA VI HYGIENE 

nine months and that every member of all coming generations must live for the 
same length of time. Its condition, and that of its possessor, determine in a 
very large measure what we shall be and how we shall be able to cope with 
the conditions of life as we find them. 

The cervix is kept closed by two constrictions, the inner and outer. It 
is provided with a number of minute glands which pour out a colorless secre- 
tion. Inside the cervix there is a curious marking called the arbor vitse, or 
tree of life. The anterior and posterior cul-de-sacs are formed by the uniting 
of the vaginal walls with the cervix. 



F X hr* Fall P ian tubes are about four inches in length, ex- 

tending from the top of the uterus to the ovaries. Their 
purpose is to carry the eggs (ova) from the ovaries to the 

uterus. Their walls are muscular, the tissues being continuous with those of 
the uterus. They open into the uterus with a trumpet-shaped mouth ; then 
for a distance have an opening so small as barely to take a bristle, and at the 
ovarian ends terminate in a fringe, or a number of slender fingers, overhang- 
ing the ovaries. The purpose of these is to seize the ovum when it bursts out 
of the ovary, and convey it to the uterus. To facilitate this operation the 
mucous membrane lining the tubes is provided with a large number of minute 
cilia, or hair-like processes, which possess the power of pushing the ovum 
along toward the uterus 

The ovaries! What a wonderful nest! With what mar- 

rhe wonders ot the ve i ous care an( j ingenuity they have been constructed, 

(Jvaries an ^ now carefully they are held and guarded! As the 

uterus is the cradle in which the egg after impregnation is developed into 

a human life, so the ovaries are the nest in which the eggs are created. 

These two little organs (the ovaries) are about the size and shape of an almond; 

they are the central influence of a woman's organization; they determine her 

sex, her womanliness. Without them, a woman is deprived of her most pre- 

cious gift; within them lies the foundation of all the generations to come. 

The ovaries are about an inch and a half long, about three-quarters of 
an inch in breadth and about a third of an inch thick. Before the female 
child is born the rudiments of the eggs contained in the ovaries are discernible. 
Each egg (and they number many thousands) occupies a little cavity, or 
follicle, of its own in the ovary, and each little follicle has its bountiful blood 
supply separate from that of the others, besides its own set of nerves. Through 
babyhood and childhood and into youth the brain is developing, the bones 
are growing, the muscles are becoming stronger and larger the entire body 
is involved in the process of growth and development. "There is one ex- 
ception, and that is the ovaries. From the eleventh or twelfth to the four- 
teenth or fifteenth year, varying with individuals, races, countries and ell- 



INTERNAL ORGANS 45 

mates, the age of puberty, or pubescence arrives, and not till then do the 
ovaries take on the activity that they v/ill retain during the whole child- 
bearing period of the woman's life. At every monthly period, or menstruation, 
an egg ripens in one of the ovaries, bursts through the thin covering of the 
ovary, is caught up by the fingers of the Fallopian tube, and is then sent 
through the tube to the uterus. Jf it becomes impregnated it remains quietly 
in the ovary for a few days while a nest is being prepared for it from the lining 
membrane, of the womb within that organ, and in which it lodges upon es- 
caping from the Fallopian tube, and there grows and develops into a child. If 
not, it passes away. It is supposed that the ovaries alternate with each other 
in ripening an egg at every menstruation. The ripening and liberation of each 
egg leaves a little scar on the surface of the ovary. Many of the rudimentary 
eggs never develop, but naturally perish in their follicles. When all that 
Nature designs to be used have been ripened and cast out, the climacteric 
(change of life), together with a cessation of the menses, occurs, and the 
child-bearing period of the woman is at an end. 

The uterus, Fallopian tubes and ovaries would lie 
s Suppor the helpless U p OU the floor of the pelvis were it not for a 

Organs very j n g eri i ous arrangement of ligaments to hold them 

in place and give them the freedom and ease that they require, and here again 
we see the wonderful provision that Nature has made for the care of these 
organs. 

As we have said, the peritoneum, or lining of the abdomen, covers the 
abdominal and pelvic organs. It is pearl-colored, glistening, smooth and 
slippery, and it, with its prolongations, assists in holding the generative or- 
gans in place and presenting them with a smooth surface, which prevents 
friction from the rubbing together of the various parts. It lines the walls of 
the abdomen, and dips down into the true pelvis, covering the upper part of the 
uterus and the Fallopian tubes and ovaries, completely enveloping them. As 
it dips down in front and back of these organs it forms two folds, enveloping 
the organs and forming the ligaments which hold them in place. These sup- 
ports are so arranged that two ligaments run from the uterus to the bladder, 
and from the bladder to the walls of the abdomen. One fold envelops the 
uterus. Fallopian tubes and ovary on each side, thence passing to the walls of 
the pelvis and upward. Two folds from the uterus pass backward, and, en- 
circling the rectum, pass upward, lining the part known as the small of the 
back. Hence if we could look down upon the true pelvis from above, we 
should see the uterus, Fallopian tubes and ovaries suspended in a swing and 
held in place with guy ropes. The organs are thus enabled to move forward, 
backwaid or sideways a little, but we must remember that the space in which 
they are held is small, and that the movement is limited. We notice, looking 
down upon the top of the uterus, that the peritoneum dips down between the 



46 VIA VI HYGIENE 

ligaments which we have described as supporting the uterus, and forms, 
between the rectum and uterus, a cul-de-sac, or blind pouch. This extends 
down the rectum, and for about a quarter the length of the vagina. Below 
that point the back wall of the vagina and the front wall of the rectum are 
practically one. 

In front of the uterus, between the vagina and the bladder, there is 
another dipping down of the peritoneum for a distance, but below that point 
the front wall of the vagina and the posterior walls of the bladder and urethra 
are practically one. It is not easy to impress this arrangement of the parts on 
the mind, and as the reader may not have an opportunity to study a manikin 
or illustrative plates, it will be necessary to read this description several times. 

The rectum, the lower end of the large bowel, begins a 
The Position of the Uttle behind the left ovary> To understand this better, 

it is well to know that the part of the abdomen sur- 
rounding the navel is occupied chiefly by the small intestines, which enter the 
large intestine (colon) in the region of the right groin. The colon here turns 
upward to the short ribs, forming what is called the ascending colon; then, 
making a sharp turn, passes entirely across the body j ust below the navel, 
thus forming the transverse colon; it then makes another turn, passing down- 
ward to the left groin, thus forming the descending colon. In the left groin 
it makes an S-like turn, going toward the center of the body and fitting itself 
to the curve of the sacrum, and thus forms the rectum, which descends behind 
the uterus and vagina and terminates in a backward turn at the anus. This 
brings the S-like turn of the colon immediately behind the left ovary. This 
will explain to many sufferers from inflammation or tenderness of the ovaries 
why a movement of the bowels or an accumulation of gas in them causes pres- 
sure on the tender left ovary and produces pain. 

The function of the bladder is to receive the urine 
The Function of the from the k ; dney s. This it does through a small duct 

from each of the two kidneys. These ducts are called 

the ureters. The kidneys are constantly sending down urine in small quantities 
to the bladder, which, when it becomes full, is discharged through the urethra. 
The bladder is a strong bag with muscular walls. It is situated in front of the 
uterus, and when fully distended it rises a little above the pubic bone. It is 
lined with a mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the urethra 
to its orifice, the meatus urinarius, and there it unites with the mucous mem- 
brane covering the labia majora and labia minora. 

The intimate relation and connection of the uterus, the vagina and the 
bladder explains the many symptoms arising from displacements of the 
uterus. When the uterus tips forward, it rests upon the bladder and irritates- 
it, provoking inflammation. If it rests upon the ureters, it stops the free 



INTERNAL ORGANS 47 

passage of the urine from the kidneys to the bladder, and thus, by bucking ij 
up in tne kidneys, produces disease. If it tips back, it must press upon and 
partially close the rectum, producing constipation, hemorrhoids, tumors, etc., 
and injuring the system by retaining the matter of which it is trying to rid 
itself. 

The blood supply of the generative organs is an exceed- 
Blood Supply of ingl interesting subject, for we find here conditions 
the Organs existing nowhere else in the body and explaining the 

nature of the diseases with which we are confronted and the peculiar action 
of Viavi in curing them. It may be said in general terms that an artery is a 
vessel which carries the purified blood from the heart to the various parts of 
the body. Being pure, it is a bright red.t The veins are the vessels which 
carry the blood from all parts of the body to the heart, to be sent thence to the 
lungs for purification, and being filled with impurities, it is of a muddy, dark 
blue color. Technically, there are exceptions to these definitions of arteries 
and veins, but they will serve our present purpose. The circulation will be 
more fully treated in a subsequent chapter. The generative organs have a 
bountiful supply of blood vessels, and they are so connected with one another 
that the blood will find its level from one organ to another. This is somewhat 
different from the arrangement observed in other parts of the body, especially 
with reference to the veins. In the limbs, for instance, the veins are furnished 
with valves, which, by closing, prevent the return flow of the venous blood ; 
but in the generative organs there are no such valves ; as a consequence, the 
blood of one organ freely mingles with that of another. In the muscular 
tissue of the nterus the blood vessels are exceedingly tortuous, so that when 
the uterus increases in size during pregnancy the blood vessels are stretched 
out, and if they were not crooked they would rupture. Therefore in the un- 
impregnated uterus we find large spaces occupied by arteries, which are small 
lakes of blood. Hence the liability to an undue gathering of blood there, and 
this is what is called congestion. 

The high organization and supreme value and useful- 
The Nerves of ness of the g enera ti ve organs mean a most elaborate 
the Organs system of nerves for them. Behind the uterus, covering 

the face of the sacrum, is a most exquisite network of nerves, outrivaling in 
its intricacy the most elaborate design in lace. There are nerve centers every- 
where throughout the generative region, and nerve fibers running in every 
direction, and these unite with great branches entering the spinal cord and 
thus running to the brain. There are also chains of nerves intimately con- 
necting the organs with the great nerve centers cf the abdomen. So the 
nerves of these organs not only communicate with the brain directly, but 
also with the motor, sensory and sympathetic nerve systems of the entire 
organism. 



48 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The base of the brain has the government of these particular organs. 
This explains in a measure the origin of those headaches at the base of the 
brain with which women are so liable to suffer, and which may radiate to 
various other parts of the head. 

, As we study the position of the external organs of gen- 

W Se eration we are impressed with the security which their 

sheltered position affords them. We find the same fact 

true with regard to the internal organs. We see that they are held in a bony basin 
of great strength, and that they are bound together by the strongest ligaments; 
we see how ingeniously they are swung, so that they may have the requisite 
freedom of motion, a matter great importance of which we shall see when 
we come to a discussion of pregnancy; we note the wisdom displayed in plac- 
ing the organs in that part of the body; we note the wonderful character of 
the blood supply, for furnishing large quantities of pure blood and removing the 
impure blood; we observe the intimate nervous connection between these parts 
and the brain and the entire nervous system. Upon seeing all these things it is 
impossible for us to believe that it is all a work of chance, but must admit the 
handiwork of an all-wise and beneficent Creator. From all this care, this 
protection, this elaboration, this perfect and highly developed organization, 
we can infer the importance which the Creator sets upon the generative func- 
tion, and the jealousy with which the means for perpetuating the human family 
are guarded. 

.^ Nothing is 'clearer than that it is a most binding duty 

fby Knowledge Is rest i ng upon us to k now a n that we can of this important 
Necessary Qur natureS) to g uar d our health and capacity in 



that regard with the highest intelligence and the most earnest conscience, and 
to be as sedulous in avoiding disease as in curing it. If we learn what the 
natural laws are that govern us in this respect, we shall know how to avoid 
and cure disease. If we do not know what is right, we are most apt to do in- 
nocently what is wrong, and if we violate the smallest of Nature's laws we 
shall surely suffer the penalty. Nearly all suffering comes from violation of 
natural laws as a result of ignorance concerning them. Not living in a state 
of nature, we must make intelligence take the place of instinct. We are so 
far removed from our natural primitive condition that it is impossible for us 
to live properly unless we learn by study how to do so. 

There is another matter still more serious, and this is 
Effect on Coming that the sins of the parents are visited upon the children 

unto the third and fourth generations. None of the 

evil effects of an unhealthy heredity is more noticeable than those which arise 
from an unintelligent care of the organs of generation. We may philosophic- 
ally bear punishment which is the result of our own misconduct, but there is 



INTERNAL ORGANS 49 

no way tinder heaven by which we may atone for the evils that we transmit 
to the innocent and helpless sufferers for our misdeeds. And we must remem- 
ber that we are bound to commit misdeeds, however innocently, unless we ac- 
quire the knowledge that enables us to avoid them. Chance cannot be de- 
pended on to carry us safely through. Experience shows that it rarely does. 
It is too late for us to repent and learn after our children have come into the 
world burdened with the weakness and suffering that we have thrust upon 
them. We have sown the wind and must reap the whirlwind. There remain 
before us, as accusing witnesses, our own offspring, unconsciously charging us 
with sins of omission the gravity of which cannot be exaggerated. We start 
a new line of the marked and maimed. From every sufferer thus brought 
into the world and their name is Legion there conies a silent plea for a host 
of noble men and women who can feel the responsibility resting upon them 
and appreciate the power which they could exercise by reversing existing 
conditions. There is gratifying evidence that such a force is steadily making 
its way to the front, and those engaged in the Viavi movement will see for 
their own part that their whole duty is done. 



CHAPTER x. 



PROTECTION FOR THE ORGANS. 



iE have already said something about the jealous care which Nature has 
taken for the protection of the organs of generation. The subject is 
so interesting and important, and so many valuable truths may be 
drawn from it, that we shall now inquire further into the subject. 
The generative organs are not a series of semi-independent mechanisms, 
but they constitute a wonderful and perfect system, the Integrity of each de- 
pending on that of the others, and all working together harmoniously for the 
grand purpose of perpetuating the race. In order that this purpose may be 
served to the best advantage, Nature has not only provided for the greatest 
possible security, but has invested the function with inherent charms, graces, 
pleasures and blessings whose enjoyment is necessary to the comple'eness 
of life. 

The human body is made up of a wonderful series of 
Great Diversity in systems w i t hin systems. When we come to a study of 
Harmony ^ blood and its c i rcu i at i on we shall see how complete 

is the system therein represented. We shall find an equally marvelous system 
when we reach the alimentary tract. We shall see another when we probe 
the mysteries of the nervous system. So it is with the generative system. 
All of these systems are composed of numerous organs, each of which, 
while having its special work to do, is in the closest sympathy 
with the other organs of the partnership, and in a condition of health 
they all work together with unfailing intelligence and harmony. Each 
depends upon the others for doing their share properly and faithfully. 
In discussing the circulation we shall see how the blood is formed ; how, 
charged with nutriment which it has taken from its neighbor, the alimentary 
tract, it bavels to every part of the body, repairing waste and removing refuse; 
how the heart, the arteries, the veins and the lungs, all separate organs, work 
harmoniously together for the common good. We shall see how the blood 
depends upon the alimentary tract for its nutriment. We shall see how this in 
turn depends upon the nervous system, and so on through a wonderfully complex 



PROTECTION FOR THE ORGANS 51 

but perfectly harmonious scheme, in which the various systems have organs 
with special functions, but all working together, and how the various systems 
depend upon each other, forming a community of interests and labors 
of a still higher order. No army was ever so intelligently organized as this 
marvelous body of ours. No discipline was ever so strict, no division of labor 
ever so perfect, no punishment for infractions of the laws of government 
so severe. 

The generative system is one of the most important. 
The Importance of Indeed> whi i e j t j s not t^g most essential to the immedi- 
ate needs of our personal lives, it is the only one that 

has that infinitely higher purpose, the projection of our lives upon the screen 
of the endless future. It is the one whose study and contemplation lift us 
out of the sordid selfishness which the other systems of our being tend to en- 
courage. It is the one that brings us the highest and finest and most enno- 
bling pleasures of which life is capable. And let it be said to our everlasting 
reproach that it is the only one that some of us are inclined to look at askance, 
to be ashamed ol, and to refrain from understanding. A realization of this 
distorted and unwholesome view of our life and its duties and obligations, 
and of the incredible harm and suffering that such a view entails, constitutes 
one of the mainsprings of the Viavi movement. Knowing that people cannot 
live intelligently unless they learn how ; knowing that the larger part of suf- 
fering comes from ignorance ; knowing the sacredness and importance of this 
subject, we shall not be content to relax in our labors while a single woman 
remains ignorant of the most vital things in life. 

As we have shown, the organs comprising the generative 
Dependence of the system are the vu i va> the vagina, the uterus, the Fallo- 
pian tubes and the ovaries. A great mistake lies in con- 
sidering these organs as independent entities. This partially explains the 
dreadful practice of removing one or more of them by surgical means a 
practice which completely ignores the fact that not alone do these organs con- 
stitute a perfect system among themselves, each depending for its usefulness 
and health upon the presence and health of all the others, but also that by 
reason of the close relation which the generative system as a whole, and its 
various organs as individuals, bear to the general economy of the body, their 
disease or removal represents an outrage which every part and function of the 
body resents, and for which it suffers. Neither a human being nor a lower 
animal can be deprived of a single one of these organs without being rendered 
incomplete, and no woman can enjoy life as Nature intended she should 
who?e generative organs are afflicted with disease in the slightest form. Even 
though a woman may not be aware that her imperfection cripples her, the fact 
is nevertheless evident to others. 



52 VIAVI HYGIENE 

TJ, F t - . The foundation of a woman's sex is the ovaries. All 

her other organs of generation are subsidiary to them, 
are provided as conveniences to serve their purpose. 

The eggs, so minute that they are not visible to the naked eye, and numbering 
at the beginning over 30,000 (though many of them never come to maturity, 
but naturally perish), require, some of them, over thirty years after puberty to 
mature. Upon maturing they push their -way through the outer covering of the 
ovary, are caught up by the fringe of the Fallopian tube, and carried forward 
through the tube to the uterus. It travels through the tube to the uterus, 
there, if impregnated, to remain nine months in its process of developing into a 
human being. The uterus is perfectly adapted to this purpose. At the expi- 
ration of nine months the walls of the uterus contract under the influence of 
the nervous system, and this contraction expels the child from the body. The 
womb and vagina, with their orifices, possess remarkable elasticity in health. 
Upon coming into contact with the air the nervous system of the child receives 
a bland shock, which, communicated to the diaphragm, causes it to begin 
that rythmical action which compresses and expands the lungs in the act of 
breathing, air enters the lungs, breathing begins, and the miracle of life is 
accomplished. What that life will prove to be, depends upon the physical 
condition of the mother both before and after the birth. 

Observe the extreme care taken by Nature to preserve 
The Provisions For this system O f organs from harm. The external organs 

are placed between the hips, where the strongest muscles 

and most abundant tissues are found. Cushions and linings of fat are provided 
for greater security. The abdomen and thighs project in such a way as to make 
it most difficult for any ordinary accident to reach the organs. The buttocks v 
or nates, the rounded fleshy parts on which the body rests in sitting, form 
thick cushions of the strongest muscles, which thoroughly protect the contents 
of the pelvic cavity in sitting or falling. Again, we find that the arteries 
veins and nerves which supply this region so change their course on their way 
to the pelvic organs and the lower limbs as to avoid any approach to the sur- 
face, on the contrary, deefly imbedding themselves to enjoy perfect protection. 
We have already spoken of the great strength of the bones of the pelvis, this 
strength coming not alone from their thickness and firmness, but also from 
their cylindrical arrangement. In studying the other parts of the body we find 
nothing like this perfection in measures to secure protection. The skull is very 
strong, but not nearly so strong as the pelvic bones, and the head has no thick 
cushion of muscle and fat to guard the brain. It is so with the thorax, or 
bony structure of the chest ; the ribs are fragile in comparison with the pelvic 
bones, and they present wide spaces through which the vital organs may be 
reached with ease. Even the spine and the spinal cord, so essential to the 
body, have no such protection as that given to the generative system. 



PROTECTION FOR THE ORGANS 53 

This is not an accidental arrangement. We find it all 
All Germ Life Is Nature. We observe that the reproduction of 



all livings things is guarded with the greatest care. 
Take so simple a thing as a bean. We find that it has a strong outer skin, and 
that when dry its two fleshy halves within are very hard. Snugly packed 
away between them, at the germinating end, is the little germ which will be- 
come the plant. It is a complete bean plant on a minute scale, but it is so 
small and so compact that it is difficult to understand this. Not only is this 
embryonic plant securely protected by the fleshy lobes of the bean, but these 
lobes, after they have become softened by the moisture of the ground, furnish 
the food upon which the infant plant lives and by which it grows until it has 
had time and strength to send down roots and put forth leaves, and begin life 
on its own account. Observe the great strength of the pit of a peach. Yet 
this little nut, which a strong blow with a hammer is required to crack, opens 
gently of its own accord when the seed within it announces that it is ready to 
grow and become a tree. Like the bean, the flesh of the peach seed is composed 
of two lobes, and snugly tucked away between them is the little germ that 
will become a tree. We might fill this entire volume with .the wonderful 
ways which Nature employs to perpetuate her children of all kinds, and the 
marvelous ingenuity and affection that she displays in guarding the means by 
which this may be accomplished. When we see Nature regarding thti subject 
as one of so great importance, and exhausting so much pains and ingenuity in 
accomplishing her results, should not we find in the fact an earnest appeal to 
our conscience and our intelligence to ascertain her purpose with regard to us, 
to learn all that we possibly can, and to bestow upon the subject that rever- 
ential regard which Nature demands from us ? 

Let us pursue the inquiry still further, for every step 
The Internal Organs of j t is fascinating and instructive. We find that the 

internal organs have been provided with even a greater 

protection than the external. First, there is the powerful bony basin, which 
we have already discussed. This is formed of some of the strongest bones of 
the body, bound together so firmly that movement is impossible, except in 
those parts where movement is necessary to the functions of the organs. 
These great bones of the pelvis are lined with cushions of muscular tissue, to 
protect the internal organs from the bones themselves ; they also constitute 
the medium in which the nerves, arteries and veins may be safely protected as 
they pass into this cavity and distribute themselves to its contents. The 
sacrum, which forms the back bony part of the pelvis, arches forward at the 
top, forming the promontory of the sacrum, which almost covers the uterus 
and ovaries, partially protecting them from the weight of the bowels above. 
When the bowels are full they are heavy. The promontory of the sacrum 
projects them forward, making the greater part of their weight rest upon the 



$4 V1AVI HYGIENE 

abdominal walls. These walls are so strong in a healthy woman that they will 
hold the bowels in place. Often, when the uterus is pushed out of place by 
the bowels being crowded down by tight lacing, the circulation in the uterus 
is impeded, and it becomes enlarged, with the result that the promontory, 
which before afforded it protection, now holds it as a prisoner. This crowd- 
ing down of the bowels is caused also by the habit of sitting on cushioned 
chairs or on the end of the spine. When the heels are elevated, as by high- 
heeled shoes, the natural forward inclination of the pelvis is thrown somewhat 
backward, so that the promontory of the sacrum no longer affords a shelter 
for the uterus, but allows the cavity to be more open and the bowels to crowd 
into it. Cushioned chairs press upon the blood vessels in the under side of the 
thighs near the knees, disturbing the circulation, damming up the blood in the 
pelvic cavity, and tending to produce congestion and inflammation. 

We have already spoken of the suspension of the uterus and the 
ovaries, the latter being under the Fallopian tubes and between the folds of 
the broad ligaments. Thus these organs, being in a swing, are able to adjust 
themselves to the varying positions of the body, and in pregnancy the uterus 
is permitted to rise into the abdominal cavity as it increases in size. This 
freedom of movement is necessary also when the bladder becomes distended, 
as the uterus can then retreat a little. Likewise, when the rectum is filled 
with fecal matter the uterus can advance. If these organs were fixed, the 
crowding of the bladder and rectum upon them would cause inflammation and 
excruciating pain. 

Let us next observe the wisdom displayed in keeping 

.brain Center 01 tne ^ e g enera ti ve organs in constant communication and 

Organs close sympathy with all parts of the body, by means of 

the nervous system. These organs are under the direction of the special part 

of the brain whose function it is to control them. This is the lower back part 

of the brain. Directly connecting these organs with the back part of the brain 

are nerves, one set carrying orders from the brain to the organs, and another 

sat carrying to the brain the sensation of pain indicating disease in the organs. 

This accounts for the headaches that so many women have at the base of the 

brain. 

An important fact in this connection may be mentioned here. Many a 
child is found to have a passionate nature at a very early age. It is a familiar 
fact that heat applied to any part of the brain will excite the action of that 
center, because it draws the blood to that part of the brain and thus supplies 
it with an undue amount of nourishment and stimulation. Hence if the 
child's head rests upon a soft, warm pillow, particularly if the child is lying 
on the back, that part of its brain becomes heated and the sexual instinct, is 
stimulated. In such cases a flat, hard mattress, light covering, and a mod- 
erately hard, cold pillow are to be used. 



PROTECTION FOR THE ORGANS 55 

The three great classes of nerves are the sensory, 

Hie Nervous Syster which carry i m p ress ions from the parts to the brain ; 
Hxplam the motor, which carry impulses from the brain to the 

parts ; and the sympathetic, which unite all parts of the body in one com- 
munity, and which serve to equalize the circulation and regulate the distribu- 
tion of nutriment. When disease invades the generative system this equal 
distribution is interrupted, the circulation is interfered with, and congestion 
and inflammation result. 

Often we find that by reason of the derangement of nervous forces pro- 
duced by disease a pain originating in a diseased condition of the uterine 
organs is transferred to the lungs, or the heart, or the kidneys, or the legs, or 
some other part of the body. Surgery has produced many disastrous conse- 
quences of a failure to interpret these symptoms correctly. For instance, 
perfectly sound ovaries have been removed, and women thus maimed for life, 
on an erroneous diagnosis which led to the belief that they were diseased, 
when the pain in them was of a simple neuralgaic character, originating in 
some other part of the body, and easily amenable to treatment. Hence we 
realize that not only may diseases of the generative organs produce pain in 
some other and healthy organ or part, but that pains arising from disease in 
some other part of the body may be situated in healthy generative organs. 
We are now beginning to comprehend the complexity of the nervous system 

The motor nerves, those over which the brain, con- 
Reflex Symptoms Not sciously or unconsciously to us, sends its commands* 

to the various organs and parts, are placed in close re- 

lation with the nervous system of the generative organs by numerous con* 
nections and ramifications. Thus it is that paralysis of some part of the body, 
as a leg, may result from a disease of the uterine organs. 

One of the commonest symptoms of these diseases is backache. This is 
simply an irritation of the nerve centers of the spine by the uterine disease. 
From this symptom, frequently experienced, arise the more complex and 
remote aches and pains. It is demanded of every woman that she understand 
the meaning of these pains, wherever they may be. It is not unusual to see a 
woman suffering with, perhaps, a pain between the eyes, or with partial blind- 
ness, or with dyspepsia, or with pain in any other part of the body, and yet be 
wholly ignorant that the seat of it is a uterine disease Innumerable instances 
have been found in which women suffered no uneasiness in the generative or- 
gans when they were badly diseased, and were utterly unconscious of the fact 
that they were diseased in that way, or that the pains which they had in other 
parts of the body had their origin there It is true that an experienced ob- 
server plainly sees the truth in the sufferer's face, but it is more important that 
she herself should know. T .t is for the purpose of teaching those who are will- 
Ing to know that this volume is prepared. Many women have had trouble 



56 VIA VI HYGIENE 

with the eyes, the back, the head, the digestive organs, the bladder, etc., and 
were entirely relieved and permanently cured by taking a course of the Viavi 
treatment, which by curing the central disease in the generative organs, 
abolished all the symptoms that arose from them. 

It is manifestly useless, if not injurious, to treat directly the numerous 
remote symptoms arising from uterine diseases. Many curious illustrations of 
obscure and unexpected conditions arising from uterine disease have come 
under the notice of Viavi representatives. A woman had become almost 
completely bald, and had expended, without good results, a great deal of 
money and labor in the use of special preparations announced as cures for 
baldness. She had been more or less troubled in the generative region, but, 
like most women, had made the mistake of accepting that condition as the 
inevitable lot of women. When, however, she adopted the Viavi treatment 
rmd was cured of the uterine disease, she was amazed and gratified to discover 
that her hair returned in full vigor and quantity, after she had abandoned 
the use of the hair specifics. It has been so with cases of partial blindness, 
and with many other reflex conditions. It is almost impossible to set a limit 
on the variety of distressing conditions in every part of the body that arise 
from diseases of the generative tract. Naturally and as a matter of course all 
these disappear upon the cure of the central disease. 




CHAPTER xi. 



DEVELOPMENT OF GTRLS. 



in all its stages and phases is a study of endless interest and profit. 
lp On every hand we constantly find surprises and beauties. The more we 
^ study, the more we marvel that so little regard is paid to the sacredness 
of life, to the duty of guarding health and strength, and to the laws 
which govern our being. An evil tendency is to cultivate a conceit which en- 
courages us to believe that science is omnipotent and can be made to take the 
place of Nature that our intelligence can be made to supplant the Creator's ! 

One of the most important of all the studies of life is to 
oex rias an Jiariy o b serve the development of the generative organs from 
Origin the time when tlie c^ia f s st in i n the womb to that when 

she merges into womanhood. In even an early stage of fetal life we find the 
organs of generation. .Presently the ovaries, those centers of life, establish 
their identity. At this stage they are bound and protected in the region 
of the kidneys, just as are the testicles of the male. Gradually, as the 
fetus approaches maturity, the ovaries in the female, as also the testicles in 
the male, descend to the position which they will permanently occupy through- 
out life. At the time of birth the ovaries contain all the eggs that they will 
ever have, though as yet they are in a rudimentary state. Even after the birth 
of the child they will remain undeveloped for twelve to fourteen years, until 
puberty arrives, and then a wonderful change takes place. 

What marvelous wisdom is shown in holding back the 

Development of the development of the ovaries and eggs during the period 
of childhood ! So far as human intelligence reaches, 

there is no evident means by which this development of the child-bearing 
power is retarded. The child is a perfect human being in all ways save that 
of the reproductive powers. It is perfectly natural and normal. The brain 
centers controlling the development and function of the generative organs are 
present and are perfectly healthy, but as yet the mysterious power that directs 



58 VIA VI HYGIENE 

the course of Nature withholds the blood supply within them that would bring 
about development. As a consequence these brain centers remain quiescent 
and inert. Their day and power have not yet arrived. But in good time, from 
the twelfth to the fourteenth year, sometimes earlier, sometimes later, the 
current of nutritious blood to them opens up, bringing food and strength. 
The centers develop, and the nerves leading from them to the generative 
system awaken to their duties. The blood supply of the generative organs is 
stimulated and increased, the organs develop, and the child becomes a woman. 

Meanwhile other wonderful processes, preparatory to 
The Growth of the thiSj haye been going Qn M first the infant Ues help _ 

less in its mother's arms. Where is the mother who, 

particularly with her first child, has not watched the sweet baby face change 
day by day as it was marked by the development of intelligence ? First she 
observed the infant's discovery of its sense of touch. She found it caressing 
her face with its baby hands, and affectionately patting the breasts from which 
it drew nourishment. Then would come its exclamations of satisfaction, 
safety and content as it would nestle in her arms, enjoying to the full the 
warmth, love and security which it found there. She sees it carry everything 
to its mouth, to test it by the touch of lip and tongue. She then sees the 
sense of sight come into play in the process of this examination, as the 
child would critically regard everything that it brought to its mouth. ' She 
sees the wonder and interest that it would manifest when placed at the window 
to look out upon the great world of which in time it would become a part. 
She sees it begin to creep, impelled by the forces hidden within it and urging 
it on. She observes it gradually come to the erect posture, and suffer the in- 
numerable falls and minor accidents that form part of the great scheme of 
life in all its stages. She notes the persistency with which it labors to master 
the art of walking, and with what ingenuity it uses her gown, or the table, or 
a chair for support. 

Another phase of the development now appears. The 
The Uses of Surplus child) at Ia3t able to walk and mn about> s h ows a vast 

Energy amount of surplus energy. Unless we study and un- 

derstand we wonder why it does so many unnecessary things, why it works so 
hard to accomplish nothing useful, why it is so noisy, why it so dearly loves 
freedom, why it instinctively prefers sound, healthy, cheerful people to those 
who are ill and morose and nervous, and why it does all the thousands of strange, 
unaccountable and seemingly foolish things that make up the life of childhood. 
The wisest of Nature's purposes resides behind its every act. Its vast amount 
of surplus energy, which it must expend or suffer the consequences, is given 
in order that by expending it the muscles and bones may be developed and 
hardened, the blood kept actively in circulation, the organs made to work up 



DEVELOPMENT OF GIRLS 59 

to their full capacity, and every other foundation laid for a vigorous life in the 
serious years to come. To repress these tendencies is to load the child with a 
burden under which it will labor the rest of its life. To- deny it any of the 
kindness and affection which it craves is to prevent proper development of the 
finer and higher side of its nature, and permit the lower, or more animal side, to 
gain ascendency. Weak, suffering and nervous mothers, for all their affection, 
have done more to cripple the lives of their children than all the forces that 
come into play in later years. And back of the harm thus done is that other, 
represented by the ill health of the mother before bringing her child into the 
world. Women have been actually advised to have children as a cure for 
their ailments ! It is assuming a terrible responsibility to advise a woman to 
secure her own comfort at the sacrifice of the happiness of the life to which 
she gives birth 

t During all the years of childhood the development is 

The Mind Also Is procee( ji n g. pi ay and romping assure the physical de- 
Developing velopment of the little life, provided that its food, 
sleeping and natural functions receive intelligent care. If not, the penalty 
will be paid there is never any escape from punishment for infractions of 
Nature's laws. Along with the bodily growth has come that of the affections, 
from the love which the parents bestow. The one remaining part of the child's 
nature, the mental, also has been growing at a prodigious rate. Every act of 
its life has taught it spmething, has added strength and experience and wisdom 
to some part or function of its brain. The co-ordinating faculties of the 
brain have marched abreast with the others. With all this comes what is 
termed the child's education the training of his higher mental qualities in 
the school-room. 

But there comes a time when a great and wonderful 
A New Existence Is change takes p i ace) with far more rap idity than any 

un hitherto. Let us see how it approaches. We have 

seen the girl playing and romping with her schoolmates, in utter unconscious- 
ness of the destiny awaiting her. She had never troubled her head over the 
nature of love and marriage, though these were familiar phenomena. The 
only difference she had observed between the boys and girls who were her 
companions was that the boys were rougher and coarser and louder than the 
girls. She naturally preferred the companionship of girls, because they, like 
herself, were daintier and gentler and finer. Her openness and frankness 
were noticeable. She could look her little world openly in the face. She 
could spend more energy in running and playing in a day than a grown 
person could thus give in a lifetime. 

Presently there is an inclination not to be so much of a romp ; Nature 
is making a call on her vitality for a purpose vastly higher than childish play. 



6o VIAVI HYGIENE 

A strange, soft whisper comes to her soul, and the wistful tenderness in her 
glance shows that the higher mysteries and beauties of life are unfolding 
themselves to her understanding. She grows quieter and gentler. A touch of 
the softness and repose of womanhood has come into her bearing. To her 
the girls and boys of her acquaintance take on a strangely diverging aspect. 
Romance is kindled in her heart. She finds beauties that she had never seen 
before. Poetry opens up fountains within her whose existence she had 
never imagined. In her dreamy moments she thinks of some wonderful hero 
who will come into her life. She has ceased to be a child. 

Important physical changes have kept abreast with this development. 
The lips have become fuller and redder. The bust has enlarged and become 
firmer, the hips have broadened and the thighs become larger. Within the 
secret laboratory of her nature the miracle has been worked. The brain 
centers have developed, the organs of generation have asserted their presence 
and purpose. One of the many thousands of rudimentary eggs in the ovaries 
has ripened, burst through the thin membrane covering the ovary, been taken 
up by the fringe of the Fallopian tube, and carried to the uterus. This has 
accompanied the first menstruation. Thus has the baby finally arrived at 
puberty. For about thirty-two years this condition will continue. 

It is at this time that a girl needs all the affection and care that a mother 
can bestow. It is a time when the newly acquired capacity, brought on by so 
great a change taking place within so short a time, is likely to manifest it- 
self in stronger desire than at any other time of life. Two serious dangers, 
which any mother can understand, now lie in wait for her, and every care 
should be taken to avert them. ? Tastes may be developed and habits started 
which mean the wrecking of self-respect or health. The girl is bound to 
learn ; the strong new force within her kindles a curiosity and creates a de- 
mand for knowledge. If she does not learn from her mother she will from 
some other source, and thus acquire likely a distorted and unwholesome idea 
of life. Before puberty has arrived the mother should take her daughter 
kindly in hand, and by patient and constant instruction teach her the laws 
that are about to be brought to bear upon her, and strengthen her for their 
observance. The most disastrous results have followed the neglect of this 
important, this essential duty. It is an infinite reproach to the mother that 
the daughter should discover herself a woman and feel shame for her 
condition. 




CHAPTER xn. 



PRE-NATAL INFLUENCES. 



ROM what we have said in foregoing chapters concerning Heredity, 
Environment and Development of Girls, it is easy to infer that the 
character, conduct and condition of the parents are matters vitally 
affecting the welfare of the child. In following chapters we shall show 
particularly what these effects are, how they are produced and how they may 
be remedied, with special reference to girls. We shall now consider some 
very important matters of a general character, affecting the duties of parents 
before the birth of the child, and the tremendous responsibilities that are 
involved. 

There is nothing more deplorable than the heedlessness 
Children Should Be with which children are permitted to be born. If there 
"Well Born is anv rigllt to w bich a ^{^ j s entitled it is to be born 

well and on purpose. Simply to "let Nature take its course'* is to invite 
suffering and lay the foundation for much of the misery in the world. The 
true starting-point in a realization of our obligations is a knowledge of the 
fact that whatever good we have in life is the result of deliberate and intelli- 
gent planning on our part. We cannot have a house to live in unless we 
either design and build it, to suit our needs, or find a suitable one that some 
one else has built. We cannot sustain life unless we eat, and we cannot eat 
unless we not only plan to do so, but exercise intelligence in the selection of 
food. We cannot get happiness in the home or success in any undertaking 
unless we work seriously to secure it by adapting ourselves to the conditions 
that surround us and molding them to our purposes. Whatever we do that 
brings us any benefit we plan for and work to secure. This is an immutable 
law of Nature, and its exactions rest upon every living thing. In a struggle 
for existence and for the fulfilling of its destiny the most insignificant plant in 
the forest is called upon to exercise whatever of strength, resistance or intelli- 
gence? it possesses. The only instance in which we see a disregard of these 



& VIAVI HYGIENE 



obligations in their highest form, the bringing forth of offspring, is in the 
most advanced human races. This is the greatest reproach that rests upon 
civilization. 

It is all the result of ignorance, of a failure to study 
One Purpose of Our and obey the laws of Nature. For what were we 

created? Merely to gratify our whims, fancies and 

appetites ? Even the humblest plant knows better than that. Observe, for 
instance, the commonest annual in our gardens. Its normal course is to take 
a certain length of time to come to maturity, produce its flowers and seeds, 
and then die. But if we withhold water before it reaches maturity, note the 
astonishing thing that takes place. The plant, realizing that the natural 
course of events in its life has been interrupted, and feeling within itself a 
purpose for which it was created, at once begins to hurry its processes. It 
ceases expending any material or energy on growing to attain its normal size, 
and concentrates all its efforts on the reproduction of its species. It puts 
forth flower buds, hastens their blooming, and rushes forward the process of 
maturing its seed ; so that, at the end, the usual time of ripening its seed has 
been greatly abridged. Then it dies after its wonderful struggle, but it has 
fulfilled a law of its creation the perpetuation of its kind. 

The first grand lesson for us to learn is that we were not 
The Plants Teach a create( j mer ely for ourselves, nor for others around us. 
A-esson To ourselves and to those about us we owe much, and 

we cannot discharge the other duty well until those obligations are met ; but 
above and beyond them is the grandest of all intelligent preparation for the 
reproduction of our kind. It does not merely happen that plants bear seeds 
for the perpetuation of their species. The most wonderful and ingenious pro- 
visions are made by Nature for fertilization. In plants whose blossoms con- 
tain both the male and the female principle, the arrangement of the parts is 
such that when the male pollen ripens it falls upon the female ovules beneath, 
and thus fertilizes them that is, fits them to produce after their kind. In 
plants in which some of the blossoms are male and others female, and 
in still others in which all the blossoms of one plant are male and all 
the blossoms of another female, honey is secreted which attracts certain insects; 
and these, in going within the blossom to seek the honey, brush against the 
male pollen conveniently placed that they may do so, and in going to a female 
blossom for more honey leave the pollen on projections conveniently placed 
by Nature to receive it. Thus fertilization takes place, and the perpetuation 
of the species is provided for. But note the great ingenuity of the scheme by 
which it is accomplished. Nothing more ingenious or more deliberately 
planned by the Creator could be imagined. This plan, infinitely modified and 
varied, extends throughout all the range of living things. Its highest, most 



PRE-NATAL INFLUENCES 63 

complex, most beautiful manifestations are in the human family. And yet it 
is here only that it is regarded with shame, here only that its principles and 
purposes are perverted and degraded, here only that disease and suffering 
result from its violation. 

Knowing, as we do, upon a little study and reflection, 
A tXMicep ion o that we were not created merely for ourselves and those 

about us, but also for the purpose of perpetuating our 

kind, it would seem that no obligation resting upon us could be so strenuous 
as that of fitting ourselves to discharge this duty with the highest intelligence 
and the most inviolate conscience. What higher conception of our purpose 
and destiny could there be than that of realizing that the measure of our in- 
telligence and the quality of our conscience determine the whole destiny of 
the race its capacity for happiness, its ability to achieve, its power to bring 
purity out of debasement, and in the full light of wisdom to work out the 
manifest designs of the Almighty? And what greater or sweeter reward 
could we enjoy than to see ourselves surrounded by bright, healthy, whole- 
some, pure-minded children, developing into true and sturdy manhood and 
womanhood, bringing sunshine and peace and strength into our lives? We 
may take pride in our own achievements, but what pride is so line and deep as 
that which we take in the nobility and fine achievements of our children ? In 
all the, range of human enjoyments there is none so bright as that, none that 
brings so much comfort, so blessed a content. Only by being competent to 
discharge our whole duty can we win the pleasure that such discharge bestows, 
and there is no pleasure in the world so deep and satisfying and permanent. 
Only by bringing forth children wisely can we invest them with the attributes 
which will enable them to enjoy the pleasure arising from their discharge of 
duty. To leave anything to chance is to insult the wisdom of the Creator, set 
His laws at defiance, and seek to place our poor powers above the masterful 
forces that rule the universe. 

T^ A^ t When Oliver Wendell Holmes, physician, scholar and 

ic Ad the poet> was asked at whatage we should begin to live 

aright, he replied, "Two hundred years before we are 

born." Behind this half-humorous answer lay the profoundest wisdom. 
It is clear that we ourselves cannot provide two hundred years in advance for 
our welfare, but we can provide two hundred years in advance for the welfare 
of our progeny. By preparing wisely and conscientiously for the birth of our 
own children to a competent and happy existence, we implant in them, by the 
law of heredity, a tendency which they will naturally follow to live wisely 
and conscientiously to secure the welfare of their children. These in turn 
will inherit a still stronger tendency of the same kind, so that the sixth gen- 
eration, which will appear two hundred years after us, will certainly be 



64 VIAVI HYGIENE 

vastly superior to us. This must be so, because we find it so in other direc- 
tions. All of our fine domestic plants and animals came originally from -wild 
and crude stock, which by intelligent breeding and cultivation we have brought 
to the present state of development. It is only ourselves that we neglect in 
this regard, while paying so intelligent attention to the operation of the law 
in the case of plants and animals ! And we have not yet reached, and never 
will reach, the limit of perfection to which we can improve the species that 
we are constantly evolving to higher types. Our race horses are becoming 
fleeter and finer year by year. Japanese jugglers and acrobats are the 
finest in the world simply because Japanese acrobatic fathers train their sons 
to be acrobats, and these sons train their sons to be, and so on from generation 
to generation. 

, Instead of applying to ourselves a law with which every 

n one of us is so familiar, we ignore it, depending on igno- 
rance and chance to work miracles, or caring nothing 

about the subject whatever. Under such circumstances how can we be sur- 
prised, why should we complain, that there is so much suffering in the world ? 
It is estimated that in the United States alone there are seven hundred thou- 
sand incompetents filling our prisons and insane asylums, and otherwise living 
on the bounty of the thrifty and hindering the progress of the race. We are 
responsible for their existence, but the fact does not seem to alarm us. What 
is true in the United States is true in every other civilized country, with vary- 
ing proportions of incompetents. How can we expect, in the life to come, 
that full reward which we are taught is given for an earnest and conscientious 
discharge of our duties in this life ? What excuse is there for our ignorance 
and negligence when we see and understand so well their evil results ? 

There are two influences determining the welfare of our 
knfidence children> One is our con dition before their birth, and 
Betrayed t ^ e ot ker the manner in which we rear them. The first 

of these is called pre-natal influences that is, influences existing before the 
birth of a child and operating upon its whole life after birth. We are all 
aware that a sickly tree will bring forth no fruit at all, or that if it does, the 
fruit will be of a poor quality, and scant in quantity. If we find such a tree 
in our orchard we at once try by every means to bring it to a condition of 
health, and if we fail, we dig it up and destroy it. The races of men are 
Nature's human orchard. When this great and wise farmer finds that one of 
us is sickly, she tries by every means to bring us to health. In order that this 
may. be accomplished she has first provided us with intelligence, which she 
expects us to employ in utilizing the agencies that she has placed within our 
reach for that very purpose, but if she finds that we persistently refuse or 
neglect to exercise our intelligence and employ these agencies, she uproots 



PRE-NATAL INFLUENCES 65 

us and destroys us. She argues, just as a human farmer does, that we are of 
no use to her in her great purposes, that our presence is even injurious. She 
ceases to care how much we suffer in disease, and gives no thought to our 
dread of death. We have failed to fulfill the purposes of our creation, and we 
must perish. And yet, with what a pang she must surrender the effort to 
make of us what she intended ! She had brought us forth in mighty travail. 
She had exercised miracles of ingenuity and force in creating us. She had 
endowed us with the highest and noblest capacities within her power. She 
had planned for us to discharge wondrous duties. She had designed us to be 
the sublimest work of her hands, the most powerful, the most complex, the 
most beautiful, the one perfect product of her handiwork. With all of these 
attributes she had endowed us with perceptions denied to all her lower creat- 
ures. She had given us an immortal spirit. She had endowed us, alone of all 
her marvelous array of creatures, with a conscience. Alone among all the 
bewildering variety of her living children, she had given it to us to know 
God, to comprehend His laws, to revere Him, .to comprehend His purposes, to 
walk in the light that His countenance sheds. What, then, must it mean to 
her to see us ruthlessly and recklessly betray the trust that she has reposed in 
us, scorn the splendid duties that she has laid upon us, scoff at the laws of the 
great God with whom she had set us face to face, and drag through the mire 
of disease and suffering the splendid opportunities which she has set in plain 
view before us ? 

What parent with the slightest shred of conscience can 
Ignoring a Great contemplate these mighty truths without hearing the 
Responsibility solemn entreaty and warning of the Creator in the still 
depths of the soul ? What mother can hold her helpless babe in her arms 
without feeling in her heart the tremendous pressure of conscience that called 
upon her wisdom for exercise before she brought the child into the world? And 
while obligations of a very serious kind rest upon the father, it is upon the 
mother that the heaviest obligations are laid. It is she that bears within her body 
for nine months, nourishing it with her own blood and impressing upon it her 
own moods, the helpless soul that is to appear in due course to meet the siren-" 
uous condition of life. It is from her breast that it must draw its sustenance 
for a most vital period in its existence. It is from her tenderness, patience, 
wisdom and strength that it must imbibe the formative influences of its post- 
natal existence. " The future of society," says Dr. Beaufort, "is in the hands 
of the mothers. If the world were lost through woman, she alone can save 
it." What truth could be more evident? It was the great Napoleon who 
said, "The future destiny of the child is always the work of the mother." 

It is to awaken women to the responsibilities thus indicated that the 
Viavi movement bends its energies, and it is from the practical success of its 
efforts that its intense vitality comes. 



66 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Some of the most touching passages in the literature of 
1 all nations refer to the mother's love for her child, her 

sacrifice, the sweetness, purity and undying devotion 

that lend so much sublimity to her presence. But why has it been reserved 
for dry scientific treatises to speak of the mother's influence upon the child 
before its birth? We can see upon a little reflection that a mother's care and 
affection for her child are natural, we may say instinctive; and although this 
detracts nothing from its inexpressible beauty, it still does not call for the 
manifestation of that higher intelligence, that trained conscience, which 
assail and master the overshadowing force of pre-natal influences. Napoleon 
stated but half the truth when he declared that the best citizens of France 
were the mothers who had borne the largest number of children. Far back 
of that, and of infinitely more vital importance, is the fitness of mothers to 
bear children, and their intelligent preparation for the duty. What the popu- 
lar literature of civilization most sorely needs is to rouse the consciences and 
enlighten the minds of both men and women on the fearful consequences of 
'ignorance and neglect before the birth, before even the conception, of children. 

Upon this subject a great woman has said: "We have 

Children Arc Invited been taught that it is an awful thing to comm it mur- 
Heedlessly der> to take human life> and so of course it is. ^There 

is no difference of opinion on that subject. But do you know that there are 
students of anthropology and heredity who think that it may be even a more 
awful thing to thrust, unasked, upon a human being a life that is handicapped 
before he gets it? That it may be a more solemn responsibility to give than 
to take a human life ? In the one case the murderer invades personal liberty 
and puts a stop to an existence more or less valuable and happy, but at least 
all pain is over for that invaded personality. ,,In the other case, in giving life, 
you invade the liberty of infinite oblivion and thrust into an inhospitable 
world another human entity, to struggle, to sink, to swim, to suffer, or to 
enjoy. Whether the one or the other, no mortal knows ; but he surely knows 
that it must contend not only with its environment, but with its heredity 
with itself. For we all follow the line of least resistance. Did you ever think 
seriously of that? No man is bad simply from choice. If you are good and 
true and lofty it is simply because, all things considered, that is to you the 
line of least resistance. The parents of the race must make it easy to be 
good, easy to be true, hard to be ignoble or criminal, not by rewards or pun- 
ishments those methods have been weighed and found wanting but by the 
very blood pulsations that are transmitted from both parents to the children to 
whom they take the tremendous responsibility of giving life. It is the fashion 
to repeat, 'The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.' Every one knows 
that this is not true in the sense in which it has always been used. It is true, 
alasi in a sense never dreamed of by politician or publican." 



PRE-NATAI, INFLUENCES 67 

A great man, who is successful beyond the common, 

M n ' Wh iS wealth y> sociall y to be envied, who enjoys almost 

Maternity ideal f am ji y relations, who is a man of broad intellect, 

who is beloved, successful, powerful, a famous lawyer, of international 
renown, has said this: "The more I think of it all, the niore I delve into 
philosophy and science, the more I understand life as it is and as it must be 
for long years to come, if not forever, the more I wonder at the sturdy bravery 
of those who are less fortunate than I. Does it pay me to live ? Would I choose 
to be born again? Were I to-day unborn, if I should be asked for my vote, 
knowing all I do of life, would I vote to come into this world? Taking life 
at its best estate, are we not assuming a tremendous risk to thrust it unasked 
upon those who are least safe from its pitfalls ? With the world's conditions 
what they are to-day, with the physical, moral and mental chances to run, 
with woman the character-forming producer of the race half-educated, it is 
little short of madness to cast that vote recklessly for another human pawn, 
who could hardly conceivably stand my chances in the world. It is a crime 
unless the mother is physically healthy, a mentally developed and compre- 
hending, morally clear, strong, vigorous entity, who knows her personal 
responsibility in maternity, and, knowing, maintains it." 

A great editor, commenting upon a call for a series of 
Ignorance Bring sa women > 8 congresses, wrote: "The purpose is to illustrate 

and celebrate the progress of women. Accordingly 

there will be sessions to discover the achievements of women in art, author- 
ship, business, science, histrionic endeavor, law, medicine and a variety of 
other activities. But so far as the printed programmes enable us to judge, not 
one thing is to be done to show the progress of women as women. There will 
be no showing made of an increased capacity on their part to make homes 
happier, to make husbands stronger for their work in the world, to encourage 
high endeavors, to maintain the best standards of honor and duty, to stimu- 
late, encourage, uplift, which from the beginning of civilization have been 
the supreme feminine function. Nothing, it appears, is to be done at the con- 
gresses to show that a higher education and a larger intellectual advancement 
have enabled women to bear healthier children, or to bring them up in a 
manner more surely tending to make this a better world to live in the noblest 
of all work that can be done by women. We need no congress to show us 
that women are more thoroughly educated than once they were, or that they 
can successfully do things once forbidden them. But have widei culture and 
wider opportunities made them better wives and mothers ? ^A congress which 
assumes that the only thing to be celebrated is an increased capacity to win 
fame and money, will teach a disastrously false and dangerous lesson to our 
growing girls. This fatal blunder as to the value of woman's development, as 
woman, quite aside from her home relations, has retarded the real civilization 



68 VIAVI HYGIENE 

and caused to oe transmitted (unnecessarily transmitted) the characteristics 
which have gone far to make insanity, disease and deformity of mind and. 
body the heritage of well-nigh every family in the land." 

A noble woman adds this to the literature of the sub- 
Evils of Incompetent j ect; Ignorant and undeveloped motherhood has been 

a terrible curse to mankind. An incompetent artist is 

merely a pathetic failure. A superficial woman lawyer simply goes clientless. 
A trivial woman doctor may get a chance to kill one or two patients, 
but her career of harm will be brief. A shallow or lazy woman journalist 
will be crowded out and back by the bright and industrious fellows who 
are her competitors. But a superficial, shallow, incompetent or trivial mother 
has left a heritage to the world which can and does poison the stream of life as 
it flows on and on in an endless widening of incompetence, or pain, or disease, 
or insanity, or crime." 

How easy it is to learn the truths that lend to mother- 
Women Desirous of hood its highest power j Natu re has been too wise to 
Knowledge confront us with impossible tasks, or with difficult obli- 

gations that discourage us. She has made the vital problems of life so simple 
that the most meager intelligence can grasp them. Certain things are born 
in the wife-heart and mother-heart, and it is merely our duty to find them, un- 
derstand them and develop them. We know of their existence; Nature 
thrusts them upon our notice. 

From all this it can be understood why the Viavi movement has educa- 
tion upon these matters as the basis of its work. The fatal defect of the 
ordinary methods of treating the ailments of women is that they do not put 
women in possession of the knowledge that it is absolutely necessary for them 
to have. With amazing shortsightedness it seems to treat them as mentally 
incapable of understanding themselves and their duties and diseases. We in 
the Viavi work know by multiplied experiences that they are not only 
eminently capable, but thr.t in their hearts they are eager for the truth that 
has been withheld from them, and never fail to acquire it when it is placed 
before them in a pure, intelligent and rational form; and that with such an 
understanding the dangers to which they ignorantly and innocently expose 
themselves and their offspring disappear. 

The lesson that we draw from this discussion is that the 

Natural Rights of con a.ition of the parents, particularly the mother, be- 

Children f ore t k e conception and birth of the child, is reflected 

in its condition throughout its whole life. The first right of a child is to be born 

on purpose to be longed for, planned for, loved even before it is conceived. 

But as this planning is not practicable in all cases, for the reason that children 



PRE-NATAL INFLUENCES 69 

may unexpectedly appear, and, what is most lamentable, sometimes when they 
are not desired, the next right of the child is that its parents, particularly its 
mother, should be fully prepared for parentage. The graat, overshadowing 
source of pre-natal harm to children is found in the unhealthy condition of 
the mother's generative system. If the great danger came from lung 
troubles, or stomach troubles, or the like, then our attention would have been 
directed to that. But such is not the case. It is the terrible prevalence of 
weakness and disease in the generative systems of women, and the far-reaching 
effects of those conditions upon the life and condition of the sufferer and the 
life and condition of her offspring, that represent the great evil of civilization , 
and it is at this evil that the Viavi movement is aimed. The plan for reaching 
it is complete first, the education of women upon these subjects; second, the 
placing in their hands of a treatment that brings them to the highest possible 
standard of physical excellence. The educational feature enlightens their 
minds and arouses their consciences, besides insuring that intelligent use of 
the treatment which removes irregularity of use and uncertainty of results ; 
the curative feature represents the only remedial means that modern science 
has been able to produce for establishing a sound physical condition. 




CHAPTER xm. 



A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE. 



L HATEVER weakness or strength a woman has before the birth of her 
child, it most likely will have afterward. Whatever good or evil influ- 
ence she can transmit to her child by heredity, she will impart to its 
environment. Thus, whatever of good or evil a woman transmits to her 
child will be increased after its birth. This is a subject of boundless import- 
ance, both to the mother and her child. Let us contemplate the mother who 
is unsound and perhaps nervous and irritable before conception ; she will im- 
part that condition to her child. Thus these two, forced by Nature to belong 
most intimately to each other, become a source of mutual irritation, each in- 
creasing the other's burdens, each rendering the other more unhappy, each 
adding to the other's unfitness to enjoy life and make the most of its 
opportunities. ' 

The converse of this picture is as bright as the other is gloomy. The 
hearty, sound, wholesome mother imparts her condition to her child. It 
comes forth a joyous young being, adding immeasurably to the mother's 
pleasure in living, and in turn receiving from her a strength, comfort and 
support greatly in addition to that which it received from her by heredity. 

Says Mary Howitt: "God sends us children for another 
A Noble View of p ur p 08e than merely to keep up the race : to kindle our 
Motherhood hearts; to make us unselfish, and full of kindly sympa- 
thies and affections ; to give our souls higher aims, and to call out all our fac- 
ulties to extend enterprise and exertion ; to bring round our firesides bright 
faces and happy smiles, and loving, tender hearts." That gracefully expresses 
a beautiful truth. It is not possible for a physically imperfect mother to have 
for her child that affection which has its basis in perfect wisdom. She may 
adore it, she may lavish upon it all the affection of which her nature is capa- 
ble ; but it will not be the sound, rational affection of the physically perfect 
mother; it is bound to have an element of petulance and impatience, to be 
uneven and ill-balanced, to lack in the steadiness and smoothness that great 
depth imparts. There is nothing so terrible as that common and tragic form 



A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE 71 

of melancholia in ailing mothers which finally leads them to the destruction of 
their children. Many a mother, finding her cwn life unbearable, has killed 
her children before taking her own life, fearing to leave them motherless to 
the mercies of a selfish world. And what are almost invariably the diseases 
producing that condition? Those of the generative system. That is the 
simple, terrible truth. 

It is for the reason that diseases of the generative 
Uterine Diseases Most System a ff ec t the nervous system, and consequently the 

mind, more seriously than any other diseases to which 

human beings are subject, that mental infirmities, with tragic results, so often 
arise from them. Women do not go insane from consumption, nor Bright's 
disease of the kidneys, nor any of the ordinary or malignant diseases that are 
generally, but erroneously, .deemed far graver than those of the generative 
system. No diseases have so great an effect as those of the generative organs 
in rendering mothers irritable and the noise of their children annoying. On 
the contrary, the so-called fatal diseases often have a softening effect, for the 
reason that they gradually blunt the nervous sensibilities, while producing 
no weakening of the emotional nature. As a consequence, a mother may be 
dying of consumption, yet to her the music of her child's prattle is still the 
sweetest in the world, the clasp of the childish fingers still the warmest, the 
yearning of the childish heart for comfort still the first to find a response. 

The mother suffering with a disease of the generative 
Invariable Effects of organs j s constantly under a nervous strain, because the 

generative organs constitute the grand center of the 

female economy during the generative life. Every nerve in her body cries 
out unceasingly. Every external impression must travel over suffering nerves 
to reach the brain, where it must of necessity paint a picture more or less dis- 
torted. Every noise is an irritation. The whole complexion of life is changed 
to a greater or less extent, but always and invariably to some extent, whether 
the sufferer may be aware of the fact or not. Demonstrations of affection 
from the children and from all others have either a weakened force and signifi- 
cance, or become positively distasteful. 

So much for the manner in which external impressions are translated 
by the mind. It is equally bad with interns.! impressions with thoughts 
originating in the mind and with the emotions of the heart. They necessarily 
and invariably, to a greater or less extent, partake of the diseased physical 
condition. They must be erratic, unstable and ill-directed. They must be 
weaker than in a condition of physical health. Love may insensibly merge 
into hate. Impatience easily becomes intolerance. The judgment must surfer. 
The perception and understanding of external things being imperfect, there 
must be irregularity and uncertainty in the conduct based upon them. 



72 VIAVI HYGIENE 



wru ri, KT No one w *^ deny ^ e intense, instinctive craving of a 

Aff hild f r tbe fullCSt measure of its mother's affection. 

That instinct is implanted within it for a wise purpose. 

Being a helpless creature, it is required by Nature to look to some source for 
comfort, protection and guidance. If it had been provided with greater 
ability to take care of itself, it would have been furnished with less desire for 
maternal affection. Such is the case with the lower animals. They have less 
affection for their parents in proportion to their greater ability to shift for 
themselves. Young fishes have no maternal care, for they are created able to 
take care of themselves; as a consequence, they have no maternal affection. 
The higher we ascend in the scale of living things, the more helpless are the 
young, and consequently the stronger their affection for their mothers. At 
the very top of the scale are human beings, in which we find the childish love 
for the mother the most pathetic thing in the world. How can any human 
being find the heart to deny the infinite longing of the little soul for the 
smallest measure of comfort that a mother's care can bestow? And it is in the 
gratification of this longing that the child experiences the greatest of all 
forces that can come into its life for developing the deeper, truer, more lasting, 
purer, more beautiful side of its character. There is no love under heaven 
that can take the place of the wise, competent mother's. 

The child needs a great deal more than affection from 

Requires its mot her it needs her guidance. How wonderful 
Guidance an(i b eau tif u i beyond all estimation is Nature's plan 

for the care of the young ! In the first place, she contemplates a prospective 
mother who feels vaguely a desire for offspring ; she provides intelligence to 
avoid errors of all kinds; after the child is born she provides that the mother 
should have for it the strongest affection of which the heart is capable, and 
that the child should have a similar affection for the mother ; and lastly, she 
aims that the mother should be the guiding and developing force in the most 
important period of the new life's existence. Absolutely nothing is wanting 
in this beautiful scheme, and nothing ever is lacking except the exercise of 
the intelligence with which Nature has provided the mother. A failure to ex- 
ercise this intelligence is not only a running counter to the plans and laws of 
Nature, but it invariably brings punishment ; and not alone is the mother the 
sufferer, but also the innocent life that she has brought forth ; and not alone 
does this suffering affect the whole life of the child, but is in turn transmitted 
by it to other innocent lives. And all this suffering is so easy of avoidance ! 
It is a singular and significant fact that Nature imposes severer punishment 
for the violation of her laws with reference to generation than any others. 
Very often we find less intelligence among human beings in the care of their 
offspring than among the inferior orders. Is there any room for wonder that 
there is so much suffering among civilized races, that so fearfully large a pro- 



A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE 73 

portion of women are unfit for this splendid duty, and that the world is filled 
with so vast an army of incompetents ? Is there any wonder at the zeal of 
Viavi advocates and the immensity of the field in which their labors are 
demanded ? 

We are aiming to make the world realize the overwhelm- 
Aims of the Viavi - n g j m p Or t an ce of increased intelligence as the basis of 
Movement intelligent living and sound health. We seek to correct 

the boundless evil of keeping women in ignorance concerning a matter that 
lies closer than any other to their own happiness and that of the world. We 
hope to instill a universal knowledge of the fact that the diseases of women, 
which receive the least attention, are perhaps the cause of more suffering, 
directly and indirectly, than all the other diseases in the world combined. It 
is an unwholesome state of the public mind which keeps these subjects in the 
background. There is no reason why they should not be studied and discussed 
under proper circumstances in all sweetness, wisdom and purity. Those who 
teach that they cannot, are enemies of the race. A vast amount of popular 
literature is issued concerning consumption and other malignant diseases that 
slay their thousands. Movements have started in various places to isolate con- 
sumptives, that they may not serve as sources of infection. The first appear- 
ance of a case of smallpox means a hurried removal to a pest-house. Enor- 
mous sums of money are spent by municipal authorities to secure wholesome 
sanitary conditions. Governments give untiring attention to quarantine regu- 
lations. The appearance of diphtheria and typhoid fever calls for prompt 
and rigorous sanitation. Health beards promulgate elaborate instructions and 
precautions for the public good. Yet all of these sink into insignificance when 
compared with the diseases that are discussed only in medical publications, 
that are withheld from those who would most benefit by a knowledge of them, 
and that cause greater and more lasting misery than all other diseases com- 
bined. To recognize this evil, break down this prejudice, spread enlighten- 
ment and bring health and happiness, constitute the mission of those engaged 
in the Viavi movement. 

If a child has been well born, the probabilities are 
This Contrast Wil. that {t win be well reared> The painfu i converse ol 

tliis is just as true. Viavi advocates are in a specially 

strong position to see and understand the contrast between intelligence and 
ignorance in this regard. On the one hand they see, as the result of their 
efforts, young women entering matrimony with a sweet and wholesome under- 
standing of its meaning and dangers, and physically as well as mentally pre- 
pared for the sacred undertaking. They see young mothers pass safely and 
happily through all the trials preceding the advent of the new life in the 
world. They observe the child to be possessed of all the mental and physical 



72 VIAVI HYGIENE 

No one will deny the intense, instinctive craving of a 

Aff Child f r thC fullCSt measure of its mo * her ' s affection. 

That instinct is implanted within it for a wise purpose. 

Being a helpless creature, it is required by Nature to look to some source for 
comfort, protection and guidance. If it had been provided with greater 
ability to take care of itself, it would have been furnished with less desire for 
maternal affection. Such is the case with the lower animals. They have less 
affection for their parents in proportion to their greater ability to shift for 
themselves. Young fishes have no maternal care, for they are created able to 
take care of themselves; as a consequence, they have no maternal affection. 
The higher we ascend in the scale of living things, the more helpless are the 
young, and consequently the stronger their affection for their mothers. At 
the very top of the scale are human beings, in which we find the childish love 
for the mother the most pathetic thing in the world. How can any human 
being find the heart to deny the infinite longing of the little soul for the 
smallest measure of comfort that a mother's care can bestow? And it is in the 
gratification of this longing that the child experiences the greatest of all 
forces that can come into its life for developing the deeper, truer, more lasting, 
purer, more beautiful side of its character. There is no love under heaven 
that can take the place of the wise, competent mother's. 

( The child needs a great deal more than affection from 

.Requires itg mot her it needs her guidance. How wonderful 
Guidance and Beautiful beyond all estimation is Nature's plan 

for the care of the young ! In the first place, she contemplates a prospective 
mother who feels vaguely a desire for offspring ; she provides intelligence to 
avoid errors of all kinds; after the child is born she provides that the mother 
should have for it the strongest affection of which the heart is capable, and 
that the child should have a similar affection for the mother ; and lastly, she 
aims that the mother should be the guiding and developing force in the most 
important period of the new life's existence. Absolutely nothing is wanting 
in this beautiful scheme, and nothing ever is lacking except the exercise of 
the intelligence with which Nature has provided the mother. A failure to ex- 
ercise this intelligence is not only a running counter to the plans and laws of 
Nature, but it invariably brings punishment ; and not alone is the mother the 
sufferer, but also the innocent life that she has brought forth ; and not alone 
does this suffering affect the whole life of the child, but is in turn transmitted 
by it to other innocent lives. And all this suffering is so easy of avoidance ! 
It is a singular and significant fact that Nature imposes severer punishment 
for the violation of her laws with reference to generation than any others. 
Very often we find less intelligence among human beings in the care of their 
offspring than among the inferior orders. Is there any room for wonder that 
there is so much suffering among civilized races, that so fearfully large a pro- 



A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE 73 

portion of women are unfit for this splendid duty, and that the world is filled 
with so vast an array of incompetents ? Is there any wonder at the zeal of 
Viavi advocates and the immensity of the field in which their labors are 
demanded ? 

We are aiming to make the world realize the overwhelm- 
Airns of the Viavi j n g i m p Or t ance o f increased intelligence as the basis of 
Movement intelligent living and sound health. We seek to correct 

the boundless evil of keeping women in ignorance concerning a matter that 
lies closer than any other to their own happiness and that of the world. We 
hope to instill a universal knowledge of the fact that the diseases of women, 
which receive the least attention, are perhaps the cause of more suffering, 
directly and indirectly, than all the other diseases in the world combined. It 
is an unwholesome state of the public mind which keeps these subjects in the 
background. There is no reason why they should not be studied and discussed 
under proper circumstances in all sweetness, wisdom and purity. Those who 
teach that they cannot, are enemies of the race. A vast amount of popular 
literature is issued concerning consumption and other malignant diseases that 
slay their thousands. Movements have started in various places to isolate con- 
sumptives, that they may not serve as sources of infection. The first appear- 
ance of a case of smallpox means a hurried removal to a pest-house. Enor- 
mous sums of money are spent by municipal authorities to secure wholesome 
sanitary conditions. Governments give untiring attention to quarantine regu- 
lations. The appearance of diphtheria and typhoid fever calls for prompt 
and rigorous sanitation. Health beards promulgate elaborate instructions and 
precautions for the public good. Yet all of these sink into insignificance when 
compared with the diseases that are discussed only in medical publications, 
that are withheld from those who would most benefit by a knowledge of them, 
and that cause greater and more lasting misery than all other diseases com- 
bined. To recognize this evil, break down this prejudice, spread enlighten- 
ment and bring health and happiness, constitute the mission of those engaged 
in the Viavi movement. 

If a child has been well born, the probabilities are 
that it will be well reared. The painful converse ol 
this is just as true. Viavi advocates are in a specially 

strong position to see and understand the contrast between intelligence and 
ignorance in this regard. On the one hand they see, as the result of their 
efforts, young women entering matrimony with a sweet and wholesome under- 
standing of its meaning and dangers, and physically as well as mentally pre- 
pared for the sacred undertaking. They see young mothers pass safely and 
happily through all the trials preceding the advent of the new life in the 
world. They observe the child to be possessed of all the mental and physical 



74 VIA VI HYGIENE 

excellencies that it can inherit from a sound and wise mother. They find it 
receiving all that its little heart yearns for in the way of affection, and all that 
its after life will require in the way of patient and intelligent training. They 
foresee, as the result of these conditions, a long and happy life for the child, 
its training by the mother in the ways that made her wise, and the foundation 
thus laid for a new and vigorous line that will constitute the backbone of all 
that is best in civilization. 

On the other hand, they see girls marrying who are physically unfitted 
for the ordeal, and who are uninformed of the trials and dangers that they 
will inevitably encounter. They see, as a result, unhappy marriages and dis- 
rupted homes. They see illness generally result, and if a child is born, the 
handing down to it of weakness that will cripple it forever, and the withhold- 
ing from it of the full measure of affection and intelligent training that might 
in a great measure have been employed to counteract the ills that it inherited. 
Many volumes might be filled with the results of their observations along 
these lines, and it would be a startling and tragic record, containing vastly 
more of gloom than of brightness. But it will be sufficient here to give two 
typical cases, each illustrating a phase of the subject. 

In the State of Michigan a highly nervous mother 
Career Ending in afflicted with a ut erine disease had not been well 

since the birth of her little boy. When the lad 

arrived at the age when boys are full of life she could not bear the noise that 
he made and that every boy has the right to make, could not stand the annoy- 
ance of innumerable questions that every child has the right to ask, could 
not bear the presence of the rollicking young life that was so much out of 
harmony with her own ; and so, for the protection of her shattered nerves, she 
sent him into the street to find life, freedom and amusement. There he formed 
associations and acquired tastes and ideas of whose nature his mother was 
ignorant, and when he had grown to young manhood he committed c. murder, 
for which, after trial and conviction, he was sentenced to imprisonment for 
life. He was her only child. How much of an evil tendency he may have 
inherited from her by reason of her unsound condition, and how much of it 
was developed by his youthful street associations, it would be profitless to in- 
quire. He was the product of his mother's condition of that there can be 
no mistake. He had not, in infancy, drawn from her breast the sustenance 
that means so much to a child. His yearning for his mother's wholesome cud 
patient affection could not be gratified, and thus the best in him could not find 
development. He could not have the wise guidance that a mother should give 
in the early days of childhood. And the broken-down, middle-aged woman, 
prematurely old, dragging herself to his cell day after day, what did she lose ? 
Not only the comfort and sweetness and expanding influence of her chjld, but 
the thing that too late had become the apple of her eye her child himself, 



A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE 75 

and by one cf the most infamous of all ends. Yet we know, as well as human 
understanding can know anything, that all this suffering might have been 
avoided ; that had the teachings and curative powers of Viavi been accessible 
to this unhappy woman, and she had availed herself of them, all this anguish 
and shame could have been averted. 

From such pictures as this and they might be multi- 
Great Mothers of plied into a vo i ume that WO uld startle the world it is 
Great Men a relief to tum to the bright side> and observe ^ e 

noble men and women whom the wisdom of parents has made competent for 
the higher duties and possibilities of life. It is a familiar saying that "the 
mothers of great men have themselves been great.' ' What made these mothers 
great? At the foundation they must have had perfect physical health, for 
without it no woman can be able to impart greatness to her children or inspire 
it in them. Who can imagine the mother of a Jesus, a Buddha, a Washington, 
a Gladstone or a Frances E. Willard a peevish, sickly woman, irritated by the 
noise of her child and driving it into the street for companionship? Who 
could imagine her weakening her unborn son's life with unwholesome pre- 
natal conditions? Who could imagine her other than a woman perfect in all 
the physical qualities that secure the sweetness, patience, wisdom, love and 
strength of a perfect woman ? Let us compare the life of the mother who 
drove her son to the street and the prison with that of the mother of Wash- 
ington. Is it necessary to contrast the anguish of the one, the despair, the 
self-reproachings of immeasurable bitterness, with the glorious realization of 
the other that her son was great in all the attributes of the highest manhood, 
and that in founding a splendid empire he gave a new and mighty impulse to 
the evolution of the race ? Is there a man or a woman so indifferent as to be 
unwilling to choose between these two conditions ? Is there one who will con- 
fess the lack of spirit, pride and energy to avoid the dark chasm and seek the 
sunlit heights ? 

The pages of history are crowded with illustrations of 
Case of Frances E. g reat men and W omen born of great mothers, but 
Willard on j v one w jn sum ce to serve as a type Frances E. 

Willard. And we shall let her tell the story in her own way, in her own 
words. That gives it a living force that no historian can impart. From a 
child brought up in the woods of Wisconsin, Frances Willard rose to be the 
world's leader in temperance and other moral reforms, and the chief mover for 
the political enfranchisement of women. How much the mother contributed 
to the greatness which the child achieved may be easily seen in the daughter's 
history. She always spoke of her mother as "Saint Courageous." Could any 
name be more eloquent? Of her mother she wrote: "I could scarce tell 
Where her thought ended and mine began." There was a wonderful blending 



76 VIA VI HYGIENE 

in thai, the merging of mother into daughter, the impressing upon the daugh- 
ter the mother's strength and goodness. In order that we may know how a 
great woman regards the mother who helped to make her great we shall 
quote somewhat extensively from what Miss Willard wrote about her mother : 
"There are not many men. and as yet but few women, of whom when 
you think or speak it occurs to you that they ate great. What is the line that 
could mark such a sphere? To my mind it must include this trinity great- 
ness cf thought, of heart, of will. There have been men and women concern- 
ing whose greatness of intellect none disputed, but they were poverty-stricken 
in the region of the affections, or they were Lilliputians in the realm of will. 
There have been mighty hearts, beating strong and full as a ship's engine, 
but they were mated to a ' straitened forehead.' There have been Napo- 
leonic wills, but unbalanced by strong power of thought and sentiment they 
were like a cyclone or a wandering star. It takes force centrifugal and force 
centripetal to hold and balance a character to the ellipse of a true orbit. 

u "My mother, my Saint Courageous, was great in the sense of this 
majestic symmetry. The classic writer who said, ' I am human, and whatever 
touches humanity touches me,' could not have been more worthy to utter the 
words than was this Methodist cosmopolite who spoke them to me within a 
few days of her ascent to heaven. She had no pettiness. . .* She had been, 
in her beautiful home, a mother so beloved that she drew all her household 
toward her as the sun does the plantes roundabout him, but she became a 
mother to our whole White Ribbon army. . . She believed in her sex ; she 
had pride in it ; she regarded its capacities for mental and moral improvement 
as illimitable, but at the same time she was a devoted friend to men. How 
could she be otherwise, with a husband true and loyal, and with a loving and 
genial son? 

"She never expected us to be bad children. I never heard her refer to 
total depravity as our inevitable heritage ; she always said, when we were 
cross, 'Where is my bright little girl that it is so pleasant to have about ? Some- 
body must have taken her away and left this little creature here with a scowl 
upon her face.' She always expected us to do well ; and after a long and 
beautiful life, when she was sitting in sunshine calm and sweet at eighty- 
seven years of age, she said to one who asked what she would have done 
differently as a mother if she had her life to live over again, ' I should blame 
less and praise more.' She used to say that a little child is a figure of pathos. 
Without volition of its own it finds itself in a most difficult scene ; it looks 
around on every side for help, and we who have grown way-wise should make 
it feel at all times tenderly welcome, and nourish it in the fruitful atmosphere 
of love, trust and approbation. 

"With such a mother my home life was full of inspiration ; she en- 
couraged every outbranching thought and purpose. When I used to play out- 



A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE 77 

of-dours with my brother, and do the things he did, she never said, ' Oh, that 
is not for girls ! ' but encouraged him to let me be his little comrade ; by 
which means he became the most considerate, chivalric boy I ever knew, for 
mother taught him that nothing could be more for her happiness and his than 
that he should be good to little sister .... To my mind the jewel of her 
character and method with her children was that she knew how without effort to 
keep an open way always between her inmost heart and theirs ; they wanted no 
other comforter ; everybody seemed less desirable than mother. If something 
very pleasant happened to us when we were out playing with other children, or 
spending an afternoon at a neighbor's, we would scamper home as fast as our 
little feet would carry us, because we did not feel as if we had gained the mil 
happiness from anything that came to us until mother knew it." 

Miss Willard's paper runs on thus at length, recounting the infinitely 
sweet companionship and trust existing between her mother and the children. 
After the daughter had become great and her name and good deeds were 
known in every corner of the civilized world, she never forgot the wonderful 
woman who had done so much for her. One month in every one of the many 
years that passed was spent with that dear soul in a quiet retreat. "Neither 
mother nor daughter," says Miss Willard's biographer, "was ever able to 
brook the thought of invalidism ; they could not bear to think of rivers that 
die away in the sand before their life is spent. They wished rather to resemble 
those streams which run full-breasted to the sea, and bear to the ocean upon 
their bosoms fleets of prosperity and of peace." 

Lady Henry Somerset, who visited Mrs, Willard, wrote this about her : 
"I had read her life and had some knowledge of her work, and with that 
work of course Miss Willard's mother's name was closely associated. But 
only when I crossed the threshold of Rest Cottage could I realize what a 
factor that mother had been in her great career. . . A lady of such fine, 
delicate instinct, with a mind so cultivated and purified by continued aspira- 
tion toward the good and true ; with a face serene and full of that inherent 
worth which came to her through her spotless ancestry and her own natural 
purity and refinement, I at once classed with all the greatest and noblest that 
I had ever met." 

One of her favorite mottoes was this, by Victor Hugo : "I am rising, I 
know, toward the skies ; the sunshine is on my head ; the nearer I approach 
the end the plainer I hear around me the immortal symphonies of the worlds 
which invite me." 

The brilliant career of Frances Willard, the foremost woman of the 
nineteenth century, the one who worked solely and unselfishly for the good 
of "women in ail lands, is dazzling in its public aspects, and in all its phases 
we may see the magic touch of her mother's influence ; but before she had 
become so famous she was doing a work no less noble as Dean of the North- 



78 VIA VI HYGIENE 

western University, at Evanston, Illinois. There she was instilling into the 
girls under her charge the deathless spirit which her mother had instilled into 
her. Of this part of her work one of her pupils says : " It was my happy lot 
to be one of those whom she designated as ' rny girls.' What it was for girls 
to be closely associated with Miss Willard in the formative period of their life, 
only those who know her well can at all appreciate. Such broad views of life 
and destiny as she opened to our sight ; such high ideals of character as she 
set before us; such visions of the heights to which we might climb, of the 
noble deeds we might achieve, and, with it all, such a deep and weighty sense 
of responsibility for the use we made of life, with its gifts and opportunities, 
I have never seen nor felt through the inspiration of any one else. It was like 
living on Alpine heights to be associated with her." The influence of such a 
life as that will never perish. 

It is a knowledge of the overshadowing value of paren- 

Vhat Viavi Advocates tal influence that he } ps to arm the soul of the many 
Recognize thousands of women actively engaged in the Viavi 

crusade. On the one hand they see women groping helplessly in the dark, 
suffering through an ignorance that has been largely forced upon them, and 
in turn transmitting their weaknesses to their children. And it is the daugh- 
ters, dragged into existence without their consent, who are the chief sufferers. 
It is bad enough that boys are born with tendencies that drive them to ruin ; 
it is infinitely worse that girls, the chief factors in the sustention of the purity, 
strength and nobility of the race, should be made the innocent instrumentali- 
ties for its undoing. But Viavi advocates have the happy assurance that their 
efforts to raise the standard of women are heartily appreciated and are 
noble fruit. 




CHAPTER xiv. 



A TALK WITH MEN. 



the burden and main purpose of this volume are an appeal to the 
conscience and intelligence of women, the responsibility of men in. 
the premises is so great that it cannot be ignored. Their obligation is 
two-fold they owe it to themselves to make the most of their capabili- 
ties, and for that purpose to smooth the way as much as possible to the worthy 
ends that they wish to achieve, and they owe it to their wives and children to 
extend to them all the comfort and protection that their welfare and happiness 
demand. It is unfortunate beyond all estimation that men rely too little upon 
their own common sense in matters affecting the health of their wives and 
daughters, and depend too much on the interest and skill of those whose 
methods they take no trouble to comprehend. 

TUT 9 nu When a wife or her daughters are suffering and in need 
Men s Obligation of treatinent> t h e Viavi representative always seeks to 
To Learn secure the co-operation of the husband and father. Ex- 

perience covering millions of cases throughout the world has firmly estab- 
lished the fact that often a man's more practical training renders him quicker 
than a woman to see and accept the common-sense character of the Viavi 
treatment, and that when the treatment has been adopted with his concur- 
rence, he takes an active interest in its proper use, with the consequence that 
perfect results are secured. For this reason it is deemed proper to offer some 
suggestions to men concerning the ailments peculiar to women. It is a sub- 
ject that unfortunately many men avoid through a sense of delicacy a 
most praiseworthy trait where it is wisely exercised ; but if it is exercised at 
the expense of the happiness of the family and the husband's aims in life, it is 
unwise and hurtful. This entire volume should be studied by every husband 
and father with an appreciation of the fact that most of the vital things in 
life depend on a knowledge of the matters herein discussed. And it is the 
duty of every wife to impress that fact upon her husband, and appeal to all 
that is best in him to master these truths. 



o VIAVI HYGIENE 

_, . f p , The following incident, while not germain to a discus- 
sion of the afflictions with which this book has to deal, 
is selected from thousands of cases that have come under 

Ihe observation of Viavi representatives, because it will show to fathers with 
peculiar directness the need of looking after their children and establishing 
perfect confidence with them. 

A bright boy sixteen years old had made no growth since he was thir- 
teen. As a consequence, he was at a disadvantage in his school classes, and 
when he was placed in a large mercantile house he found other and larger, 
though younger, boys promoted over him, while he was as bright and capable 
as any, though so small and childish-looking that the proprietors would not 
advance him. A close observer might have noticed that he suffered in some 
way, but being a very modest boy, and his confidence not being invited, he 
kept his counsel. Finally, when he had passed his sixteenth year, his health 
broke down. A physician was summoned, and he found that a twist in the 
spermatic cord prevented a development of the lad's sexual nature. From 
natural efforts to force the development in spite of the obstruction, illness and 
great suffering had ensued. The difficulty was easily remedied, the boy quickly 
recovered, and at once began to grow with astonishing rapidity. He became 
an entirely different boy. He grew strong where he had been puny before, 
rapidly blossomed into young manhood, and was at once promoted to a more 
responsible and lucrative position. If there had been the proper understand- 
ing between father and son the trouble would have been averted when it first 
appeared, for the boy knew that something was wrong and would have told 
his father had he been encouraged to do so. 

A valuable lesson to be learned from this case is the important relation 
that a proper development of the sexual nature has to the welfare of the 
child. We shall see later how common is retarded development among young 
girls, and how sorely they are in need of wise and kindly guidance from their 
parents. The case that we have here cited represents a condition that is far 
more common than parents realize, but cases of retarded development in boys 
are of insignificant occurrence in comparison with the untold thousands of 
similar cases in girls. 

. .If we regard the health of the family from a mere busi- 

usmcss ness p j nt O f v j ew> we s hall find it highly important. In 

the pursuit of whatever undertaking he has, a man of 

good sense will make its conditions as easy as possible, for thereby he saves 
strength and time which he can profitably employ in advancing his interests. 
If he finds that the house in which he works or does business is unhealthful, 
and that in consequence his strength is sapped, his attention weakened and 
his purse drained by doctors' bills, he will move into a better house. If he 
finds his assistants or associates a drag instead of a help, he will get rid of 



A TALK WITH MEN 8l 

them as soon as possible. It is neither economy nor common sense to have 
inferior aids to success, or aids that actually prevent success, if it is possible to 
secure helpful aids. 

The condition of a man's family bears a very intimate relation to the 
measure of success or failure that he secures. Not only is his wife his partner 
in a moral sense, but she is so in a business sense, even though she may know 
nothing about his business. If she is unwisely, through ignorance, expending 
money that he entrusts to her care for the welfare of the domestic partnership, 
she is crippling him financially. Perfect health in a wife is required for the 
exercise of that clear judgment upon which the proper management of the 
household concerns depends. If she is ailing, or peevish, or weak, she cannot 
take the interest in his business success that she could if she were well and 
hearty, and her condition depresses his spirit and saps his strength. This 
proposition seems so self-evident that one might wonder why it is stated here ; 
but the truth is, and this is amply proved in the experience of Viavi advocates, 
that comparatively few men consider this phase of the subject at all. 

The amount of money which a man expends for the 
The Matter of Cost treatme nt of his wife and daughters is, of course, a sec- 
ondary consideration, the main: thing being to secure 

their health, whatever the cost may be if the man is able to afford it. For 
it is infinitely better to live in a hovel with health than in a palace with dis- 
ease. At the same time, it is little less than criminal to waste money, no matter 
how much a man may have. If the needless spending of money impover- 
ishes the family, a deplorable condition is presented. Countless men have 
their noses kept to the grindstone by expenditures for medical attendance upon 
their wives or daughters. The reasons are very plain. As the skill of ordinary 
methods of treating women's diseases is inadequate, the attendance must be 
practically continuous or frequently repeated. This means steady doctors' 
bills and prescription charges. If an operation is performed the charge is 
almost ruinous in many cases. Fortunately many women are saved by the 
financial inability of their husbands to have an operation performed. In the 
presence of these diseases it is better to be poor than rich. 

Of course a true husband and father would care nothing for any expense 
provided it is a physical possibility for him to meet it that would restore 
his loved ones to health. But after all is spent, and nothing has been accom- 
plished, what has been the benefit from the expenditure ? We all know that 
medical or surgical attendance for the diseases of women is the most expen- 
sive in the whole category of disease. 

Compared with such expense, that incurred by adopting the Viavi treat- 
ment is insignificant. This ought to appeal to the common sense of a man. 
In addition to this, the expenditure produces tangible results a cure is effected* 
and that is the only means by which a cure can be effected. 



82 VIA VI HYGIENE 

If a wife is also a mother she has the gravest responsi- 
Paternal Pride in bilities that can rest on a ^ nman being graver than any 

a man can be called upon to meet. Apart from the nat- 
ural affection that a man has for his children is the pride that he takes in them. 
It humiliates and grieves him to see them inferior to other children. A man 
takes pride in the sturdiness and manliness of his sous, and iu the beauty, 
>weetness, modesty and brightness of his daughters. He may love them all 
the more if they are deficient, but there is a deep numb pain in his love that 
nothing can cure. 

He will realize, upon a little reflection, that as it is a law of Nature for 
like to produce like, an unsound wife will bear inferior children, and that a 
mother lacking to the smallest extent in perfect physical health cannot give 
her children the kind of affection and guidance that their natures require in 
order that they shall develop naturally and properly. Therefore no reasonable 
man can question the assertion that lie is called upon to take the closest inter- 
est in the physical welfare of his wife, and that he cannot do so unless he 
makes a study of her needs and condition, and devotes intelligence, care and 
affection to the task. 

Let a father reflect what it means to a girl to be sub- 
Dama one by mitted to an examination by a physician if she falls ill 
Examinations and these examinations are almost invariably made, and 
are rendered wholly unnecessary by the Viavi treatment. Is it right to out- 
rage the most sacred quality that a young girl possesses? Can we expect any 
good from this blunting of her delicate, sensitive, refined and sacred sensibili- 
ties? Can we understand how much the guarding of a girl's modesty means 
to her sweetness, her daintiness, her safety ? Rather let us, with all the intelli- 
gence and heart that God has given us, guard and cherish this quality that 
means so much to a woman, that lays the exquisite bloom of modesty on her 
cheek. 

What is true of daughters is true also of wives. Has a man the right to 
expose his wife to any sort of humiliation and shame, if he can avoid it? Is 
it not clearly his duty to ascertain if it is not possible for this bitter cup to be 
withheld from her lips? What woman wants to undergo such an ordeal? 
What man who is a man in the truest sense but that would save her from it if 
it lay in human power to do so ? 

To what extent may a man entrust to another the health, 
Limit to a Man's the mo fe$ty t the happiness, the life of those nearest and 

dearest to him is a question that every man should take 

into the innermost depths of his soul. What physician can have an interest 
in a man's family and welfare equal to his own ? This is not meant to cast any 
reflection upon a faithful discharge of duty by physicians. That is not the 



A TALK WITH MEN 83 

question. It is simply, Can any physician be as deeply concerned for the 
vital interests of a man and his wife and daughters as the man himself? We 
must not expect more of human nature than it is .capable of doing. If w* 
do we shall suffer the consequences. 

With regard to the skill of physicians, we have to say that in our opin- 
ion they generally exercise faithfully all the skill they possess. That their 
skill has proved utterly inadequate to handle successfully the diseases of wo- 
men is not the fault of the physicians, but of the system under which they 
were trained. There are some physicians who are a great deal more than the 
product of their scholastic training. Being naturally broad, as their experi- 
ence accumulates they gradually enlarge their views. Even though taught to 
despise the methods of other schools of medicine just as successful in practice, 
and to regard such methods as charlatanry, or as foolish or even dangerous, 
they learn by observation that their education was faulty, and they adopt such 
measures of cure as they find to be effective, from whatever source these 
measures come. Such physicians indorse the Viavi treatment when they learn 
its value, just as other conscientious and common-sense persons do in other 
walks of life. 

t t f Upon the score of medical empiricism this may be said 

Empiricism Clearly _ aad it win appeal to the com mon sense of every man : 

Physicians are taught in school that the only rational 

method is the one that they learn. It is ground into tbem that all other 
methods are founded on ignorance or fraud. Hence they are inclined to de- 
nounce all other methods as empirical, inelastic and inadequate, seemingly 
overlooking the fact that the position which they take, considered with all the 
circumstances, exactly meets their own definition of empiricism. We can see 
how this must be so when we reflect that there are numerous different and 
opposing schools of medicine, and that they heartily denounce one another as 
worthless or worse. Hence, if we accept the dictum of reputable physicians 
of all schools, we shall have to admit that all schools of medicine are worth- 
less or fraudulent. Now, we all know that they are not. We know that the 
medical profession is one of the noblest and most useful, that the great bulk 
of its followers are earnest, intelligent, unselfish, high-minded men. And we 
know that there are just as successful physicians in one school as another. We 
know that they all fail when it comes to the treatment of the diseases of wo- 
men, but that fact does not affect the usefulness of physicians in other dis- 
eases. And we know that besides being unable to cure the diseases of wo- 
men they are unable to cure cancer, consumption, Bright's disease and the 
other so-called incurable diseases. If a physician is unable to cure a uterine 
disease he ought not to be any more ashamed to confess the fact than his ina- 
bility to cure the other diseases which are beyond his skill. His inability 
should spur him to seek and apply an efficient remedy. 



84 VIA VI HYGIENE 

The deduction from all this is that it is easy to place too 
A Man Must Use much confi d e nce in the skill of a physician. Suppose 
Judgment ^^ a man ^ as a i awsu it seriously affecting his interests. 

Will he sit downantf occupy his mind with other matters, leaving all the work 
to his lawyers ? Not if he has any common sense. He will know that his 
lawyers have many other cases, that their interest is of necessity divided, 
and that no matter how much money he may be paying them for their 
services, they could not in justice and fairness neglect their other clients. In- 
stead of leaving everything to them, he will realize how much there is at 
stake and will give them every assistance in his power. He will seek out 
every shred of evidence that might be useful in his suit. He will ascertain 
the bearing of the law on his case. He will insist on knowing why they do 
this or that, for, realizing that he has common sense, he knows that it is a 
quality valuable in every concern of life, and that no amount of special train- 
ing can take its place. 

It is so with everything; he will not trust important matters wholly to 
others. He carries that rule into every essential part of his business. At 
every step he will realize that his responsibilities in matters affecting him are 
greater than those which any one else can possibly feel. He will know that 
not a single other person can give the subject that concentration which he can 
give, that attention based on a realization of its vital meaning to him. 

Why should he make an exception in the case of his wife and daughters, 
who trust so much to his manliness, generosity, chivalry, devotion and intelli- 
gence ? In what other concern of his life could there be so urgent a demand 
upon him for the discharge of all the duties that his responsibilities create ? 



A Physician and a 

Representative There being no thing 

professional in the relations existing between a Viavi representative and a 
suffering woman, there are none of the constraints and restraints existing be- 
tween a patient and a physician. The sufferer does not feel her utter igno- 
rance and helplessness, nor is she made to realize that she must depend blindly 
upon the skill of the representative. On the contrary, she is not only taught 
that she must know herself and the nature and cause of her ailment, but that 
very information is imparted to her. Her sense of her own responsibility is 
roused. This forms the basis of her intelligent use of the treatment, enables 
her to know the nature of the progress that is being made at any time, warns 
her against the errors that might retard recovery, makes her understand what 
lack of wisdom caused the disease, and impresses upon her the knowledge of 



A TAIyK WITH MEN 85 

how disease may be avoided in the future. This, it will be seen at glance, 
discloses a relation utterly different from that existing between a physician 
and a patient; and this difference is of very great importance, explaining 
many of the victories which the Viavi treatment wins over ignorance and its 
companion, disease. 

The mutual confidence that grows up between a sufferer 
Benefit of a. Close and a V i av i representative is beautiful. Out of "it arise 

conditions of the greatest value to the sufferer in her 

progress toward a cure. The sufferer opens her heart, is enabled by the knowl- 
edge that she acquires to explain her condition intelligently, and, having her 
conscience roused as well as her mind informed, has a far stronger resolution 
to recover, and is more faithful in adhering to the treatment. And it is only a 
woman who can make a woman understand the value of her sex, the import- 
ance of health and the effect of disease on herself and all about her. 

More than all this, and of the greatest value, is the ethical view which 
the Viavi representative takes of her work. With her the commercial feature 
of it is of secondary importance. Being a woman, with a woman's natural 
sympathies roused by her moral (which is very different from scientific) appre- 
ciation of the evils incurred by disease in women, she exercises over the suf- 
ferer a moral influence that must be productive of wholesome results. As a 
matter of fact, endless experience has shown this to be so. The ailing wo- 
man who has come under the Viavi treatment is easily discovered by her wider 
intelligence, her greater serenity, self-reliance and happiness, and her deeper 
appreciation of the duties and opportunities of women. If the Viavi treat- 
ment accomplished no more than that it would still be the greatest of all the 
elevating forces operating for the benefit of women ; but in addition to that it 
cures them of disease, and is the only thing in the world that does or can ; and 
thus it trebly arms them mentally, morally and physically for discharging 
those duties which bring the highest happiness to them and to all within the 
scope of their influence. This relation, and these results, are impossible be- 
tween a physician and a patient. Neither the physician, the patient nor the 
patient's husband would desire that such a relation should exist. 

Men may not be generally aware that physicians treat 
The Sexes Treated tne g enera tive nature of men with far more consideration 
LHnerenUy than that of women. Every day thousands of women 

throughout the civilized world are deprived of their sex by the surgeon's 
knife, but the emasculation of a man is so rare an occurrence as to be extra- 
ordinary. Why this difference ? It is partly explained by the fact that as men 
generally live more rational lives than women, diseases of their generative 
system are fewer. But there are other reasons operating far more extensively. 
As a surgeon is generally a man, he knows the value of sex to him in every 



86 VIA VI HYGIENE 

way, and consequently the value of sex to other men ; hence he will not 
emasculate a man except as a last resort, to save him from immediate danger 
of death. Yet men have many and serious diseases of the testicles, which 
correspond to the ovaries of a woman, aud of the prostate gland, which corre- 
sponds to the uterus of a woman. If these organs are removed from a man 
he is no longer a man, and accordingly the utmost pains are taken to preserve 
them to him. If a man should submit himself in all confide-uce to a surgeon, 
and find, after coming from under the influence of the chloroform, that he 
had been unsexed without so much as consulting him, the probabilities are 
very strong that he would either kill the surgeon as soon as possible or mulct 
him heavily for damages in the courts. 

No consideration is shown for the generative nature of 

women s Sex Is WO men. On the contrary, they are ruthlessly unsexed 

by hundreds of thousands, generally without any effort 

to cure them by other means, often unnecessarily and under an incorrect 
diagnosis, and frequently without their knowledge or consent. So great has 
this evil become that the Society for the Protection of Hospital Patients, an 
English organization, is putting forth strenuous efforts to check it, citing the 
fact, among many others, that, according to Dr. Le Canu, "the abuse of ova- 
riotomy has done more harm to France in ten years than the Prussian bullets 
did in 1870," that "the causes of our depopulation are closely allied to our 
practice of the castration of women," and that "there are in France five hun- 
dred thousand women without ovaries!" Most physicians even take the 
astounding position that a woman's sexual nature means little or nothing to 
her! Here is an extract from a very recent (1896) work on gynecology, a 
book compiled by a large staff of eminent surgeons, and recognized as an au- 
thority by, we believe, all surgeons: 

"The changes which take place in a woman following the removal of 
both uterine appendages [the ovaries] are the same as follow the natural 
change of life none other, none less. The woman is sterile ; she was sterile 
at the time of the operation, and would never have been anything else. Often 
the sexual appetite is increased ; never diminished, as is commonly supposed. 
The increase is simply the return of the woman's natural condition. Her 
pain and suffering and ill-health had inhibited the sexual appetite ; these 
being removed, the appetite returns in full force." 

Surely no man of common sense, outside the medical profession, could 
be made to believe such a declaration. He can easily believe, however, the 
fact that disease, as well as the knife, is destructive of the sexual appetite of 
women, and can infer that the removal of diseased organs may, in some cases, 
render sexual commerce less painful and repugnant ; but if a woman is un- 
sexed, no cessation of pain can restore her sex, and it will be as impossible for 
her to have sexual appetite as for a man to have ideas after his brain has been 



A TALK WITH MEN 87 

removed. A woman may think she has, because her disease has prevented her 
knowing what sexual appetite is, and she can bear sexual commerce where 
she could not before. Sexual appetite is the manifestation of a sexual nature. 
If the sexual nature is destroyed, there is no source from which true sexual 
appetite can possibly come. It must not be inferred that the removal of dis- 
eased organs ever improves a woman's condition. Any slight improvement 
in one direction is bound to be more than offset by injury in another. This 
will be more fully discussed in subsequent chapters. 

In the same work, and just a few pages before the foregoing statement, 
is the following : 

" The great trouble with surgeons is that they expect too much from 
the operation [removal of the ovaries], and lead their patients to do the same. 
This is a great mistake. So much local damage has been done by the inflam- 
mation, and the general health is so wrecked, that the woman will never again 
be the same well woman she once was ; such a result is neither to be expected 
nor obtained in very many instances. An absolute cure should never be 
promised; only relative results can be safely counted on." 

That statement, which is a direct contradiction of the one first quoted, 
will strike every common-sense man as being reasonable and true, so far as it 
goes. 

We have abundant evidence, of which the foregoing is 

Women's Estimate a sample> that physicians place a low estimate upon the 

value of sex in women certainly a much lower estimate 

than they place upon the value of sex in men. There cannot possibly be any 
controversy over that statement. What is the result? Women themselves 
naturally and unavoidably learn to place a low estimate upon their own sexual 
nature. They could not do otherwise under the circumstances. There is no 
one in whom they repose confidence to tell them anything different. They 
take their lesson from men in whose wisdom and skill they place implicit reli- 
ance, and there is no sufficiently informed husband to tell them otherwise. 

In consequence of the low estimate that women place on their sex as the 
result of their teaching, we see the existence of many fearful evils. We find that 
women are proud, some of them, to recount their surgical experiences. 
Imagine the man who would proclaim the fact that he was no longer a man ! 
He would hide his condition as the most shameful thing in his life. Who is 
responsible for this difference between the way in which men and woman re- 
gard the value of their sexual natures ? 

A standard American medical journal, discussing the evils that have 
grown out of the desire of many women to be free from the hamperings of 
their sex, says : 

"Limited space forbids the mention of but one feature of the subject, 
the most remarkable and suggestive of them all. The latter-day woman, not 



90 VIAVI HYGIENE 

avoidable certainly the rational conclusion is that somewhere in the bounty 
of Nature there are cures for all diseases, and that in the course of time they 
will be found. Clearly the one real cure of all disease is intelligent living, 
an understanding of the laws of Nature and their faithful and reverent obedi- 
ence. If that course were pursued for a few generations there could not possi- 
bly be any disease or crime in the world. There is a very earnest tendency 
to adopt that method, and the Viavi movement is probably the most wide- 
spread and most powerful of the agencies promoting it. But until that millen- 
nium arrives and that would be the true millennium we must do what we 
can to find the more convenient remedy that we are compelled to believe 
Nature has placed somewhere within our reach. The discovery of the Viavi 
treatment is evidence of the brilliant possibilities in that direction. 

A very large proportion of women's diseases were really incurable until 
the Viavi treatment was introduced. They were incurable solely because 
human resources before the discovery of this treatment were unable to cope 
successfully with them. In fact, the very foundation of the remarkable fame 
and world-wide adoption of this treatment was its perfect and permanent cure 
of cases which the ablest medical skill had pronounced incurable. From this 
difficult start, from this strenuous test that would have crushed it at the begin- 
ning had it not been successful, its use has spread to all the milder forms of 
women's diseases. Women who had been kept under expensive and torturing 
treatment by ordinary means for many years have been thoroughly and per- 
manently cured by the Viavi treatment. Many thousands of women have 
been similarly cured after numerous physicians, as competent as the world 
knows, had abandoned them to die as incurable. This shows absolutely that 
to pronounce a disease incurable does not make it so, but merely that the skill 
of the attending person is unable to meet its requirements, or that science has 
not yet discovered the remedy. 

There is a feature of the Viavi treatment that will appeal 
Effecting Cores Is witll spec j a i f orce to t k e p rac tical common sense of a 
Necessary man, and this is that all concerned with its promotion 

are keenly desirous that it should be successful. Hence the founders must 
put forth a treatment that will absolutely do the work that they claim it can 
do. They are aware that if they produced an inferior or fraudulent treatment, 
the inferiority and fraud would be inevitably discovered, and that their busi- 
ness would be ruined. They are perfectly aware that if they made the slightest 
assertion or put forth the slightest claim that could not be verified, they would 
fail to secure the confidence so necessary to their success. As a matter of fact, 
in order to be on the safe side and not run the slightest risk, they refrain from 
making claims that experience in the use of the treatment would warrant. 
They realize that for sufferers to secure better results than they expected will 
be far more beneficial to the business than for them to secure only as much 



A TALK WITH MEN 91 

as they expected, or less. The remedy's efficacy explains its business success. 

Therefore the leading idea is to cure. One cure assures other patrons ; 
one failure in a community is almost fatal to the further adoption of the treat- 
ment there. In order to assure a cure, they first ascertain beyond a reasonable 
doubt that the case belongs to the class which the treatment can successfully 
reach. They will not furnish the treatment to everybody, nor for every sort 
of disease. If they were willing to do that, they would place it on sale with 
any untrained person willing to handle it. But they know that to secure per- 
fect results it must be both sold and bought intelligently. 

The matter by no means ends with the sale. As soon as the purchase is 
made, the purchaser is invited to place herself under the direction of the Viavi 
Hygienic Department. Local offices of this department exist in all the prin- 
cipal cities, and are presided over by trained specialists in the diseases of wo- 
men. These have a larger experience with these diseases than any other 
specialists could possibly have. So long as the purchaser is willing, every 
step in the course of her treatment and in the progress of her case is care- 
fully watched by the experts of the Hygienic Department, and all needful 
advice is given whenever it is desired. There is a perfect system for doing 
this. The advice thus given is of the greatest value, and no charge whatever 
is made for it. That is because, in pursuit of the policy of effecting a cure 
and thus increasing the fame, adoption and benefits of the treatment, every 
effort to bring about a cure is employed. It is upon the cures that the Viavi 
treatment has effected that the remarkable and unparalleled extent of its use 
rests 

A thing that will appeal to the practical common sense 

Philosophy of the of a man is the rat j onal character of the Viavi treatment. 

How many men know anything about the nature of the 

ordinary treatment to which their wives and daughters are subjected? Not 
knowing the simple facts of anatomy and physiology in their wives and daugh- 
ters, they cannot understand any of these matters. Why should not men look 
into these things for themselves? 

The Viavi treatment is so radical a departure from the old and torturing 
methods of treatment, and is so rational and simple, that every man can easily 
comprehend its principles. It is the ripest and richest product of scientific 
research and achievement. Nothing like a comprehensive view of it can be 
given in this chapter, but its broader principles can be outlined. The only way 
to understand it thoroughly is to study the entire volume, which is devoted to 
the philosophy, ethics and method of the treatment. 

First, it educates women both as to their moral obligations and the 
causes, nature and cure of their diseases, thus laying an intelligent and firm 
foundation for wise treatment during illness and permanent good health after 
the cure. 



9 VIA VI HYGIENE 

Second, the remedial nart of the treatment is manufactured wholly of 
vegetable ingredients, avoiding minerals, sedatives, opiates and other ano- 
dynes. The manufacture is conducted under the most advanced antiseptic pre- 
cautions, and absolute regularity, purity and efficiency are secured. 

Third, instead of introducing the remedy into the stomach it is applied 
to the skin and mucous membrane, and being predigested, and prepared espe- 
cially with a view to take advantage of the remarkable absorptive powers of 
the skin and membrane, it is at once taken into the system, going both 
directly to the seat of the disease and to the system generally, being thus a 
combined local and constitutional treatment. 

Fourth, the remedy is a food for the nerves and tissues, and being pre- 
digested, it serves their wants at once, thus strengthening them and building 
them up, and enabling them to resume a normal and healthy condition. 

Fifth, it has a direct effect upon the circulation, regulating and strength- 
ening it, enabling the blood to carry nutriment freely to all parts of the body, 
and to remove the waste products whose retention produces disease. 

Sixth, as Nature is the only curative power in the world, Viavi puts the 
body in a natural condition, which means to say that Nature is enabled by the 
treatment to cast out diseased conditions. 

. Seventh, as this is a perfectly natural cure, without any resort to vio- 
lence by means of medicine or surgery, it is a complete and permanent one, 
so that disease will not recur unless through a resumption of the conditions 
that originally caused it a most unlikely thing, as the educational feature of 
the treatment will prevent that in the case of all reasonable and conscientious 
women. 

Eighth, the cure, being a natural one, leaves the woman perfectly whole 
and sound, and in full possession of the health and completeness essential to 
her happiness and to her discharge of all the duties of wife and mother. 

Such is an outline of the Viavi treatment. The details of its application 
can be learned in other parts of this volume. It will be found to be very 
different from the common method of employing drugs, which weaken an 
already weakened system ; from opiates and sedatives, which lower the 
vitality, prolong the disease and create the opium habit ; and from surgery, 
which mutilates women and often unsexes them. 

Let the man of common sense take his choice. 

There is one consideration that no man can afford to 

Physician's Opinion ignore He is the natu ral protector of his wife and 
Unnecessary daughters. They will trust his devotion before that' of 
any one else. It is his duty to see that debasing influences, from whatever 
source, shall be kept out of their lives, and that only the purest and best be 
brought to bear on them. It is his duty to extend to them all possible sympa- 
thy and assistance. If they are in need of the Viavi treatment and hesitate 



A TALK WITH MEN 3 

for any icason, to employ it, he may determine his own duty in the premises. 
If they decide to employ it, it is due from him to lend them every encourage- 
ment, and not only that, but to exercise the diligence of a practical man to 
see that they employ it rightly. As this is a treatment which they take in 
Hie privacy of their own homes, times may come when they will weary, and 
it is then that the husband's and father's kindly influence is so helpful. And 
if they have become convinced upon a representation of the merits of the 
treatment that it will benefit them, no influence, from whatever source, should 
be permitted to hinder their purpose to employ it. 

As for the influence of physicians with regard to the Viavi treatment, 
while many of the broader sort heartily indorse the treatment, many of the 
other sort may be found arrayed against it, and ready to condemn it if their 
opinion of its merits be sought, it should be reflected that no physician 
believes any remedy to be good except that which he has been taught is good, 
or which his experience has proved to be good. As the ablest physicians of 
different schools condemn one another's methods, they may be expected to 
condemn any treatment that does not originate with them. That is human 
nature. Such condemnation is worth, nothing. If a man and his wife make 
themselves familiar with the Viavi treatment there will be no question whether 
they will adopt it, but it is needless to invite sneers and interference with the 
good work of the treatment by seeking an opinion on the subject frorr. a 
physician. 

Many physicians recommend the Viavi treatment, but 
Unintelligen Use of we prefer that the matter be handled entirely by Viavi 

representatives. They have been specially and thor- 
oughly trained in the diseases of women and the use of the treatment, and 
without such thorough preparation the best results cannot be expected in all 
cases. The remedy is not permitted to be sold by druggists or chemists or 
other merchants, for several reasons, one being that it can be properly sold, 
and the best result secured, only by persons specially trained to handle it, 
and only to women thoroughly informed concerning themselves and the use 
of the treatment. 



CHAPTER xv. 



THE CIRCULATION. 



F we know what the blood is and how it circulates, and, in addition to 
that, how it is formed, we can understand many symptoms that indicate 
disease, and employ intelligent means for overcoming it. 

We can best understand the simple, rational and natural charac- 
ter of the Viavi treatment from a study of the blood and its circulation, and 
after that, of the wonderful principles of absorption and elimination. These 
are subjects that it is incumbent upon every one to know, for not only are they 
exceedingly interesting in themselves, but a knowledge of them is essential to 
an intelligent care of the health. 

The blood and its circulation are the direct medium 
The Function of the through which a n the vital processes are maintained. 
Circulation *fhe blood contains the nutriment that supports every 

organ and part of the body, for all the nutriment in all the food that we take 
must first be changed by digestion into blood before it is useful for the pur- 
poses of the body. If the blood is rich in nutritivo elements, and is kept freely 
in circulation, we have the first condition of health, and the first step in the 
successful treatment of disease. If for any cause the blood is poor, the nutri- 
tion of the body is checked to a certain extent, weakness and emaciation are 
invited, and disease easily gains a hold and will steadily progress. 

Again, if tuo nervous system becomes impoverished for lack of a proper 
nerve food iiJ :: Viavi, the blood vessels will lack tone and strength, or, in 
other word::, lose their power to relax and contract, which is necessary to 
normal circulation. As the circulation is entirely under the control of the 
nervous system, its impoverishment renders the system unable to rid 
itself of the v;aste that accumulates in the process of living. The entire body 
is being constantly worn out by living and as constantly renewed through the 
blood and its circulation, thus giving rise to the waste products. From a 
weakening of the nervous system, or in disease, we see an accumulation of 
these products in some part of the system. 



THE CIRCULATION 95 

Many familiat phenomena should make us acquainted 
Health Depends on with the i mportatlce O f th e quality and quantity of the 

blood and its proper circulation. The condition known 

as fainting is that in which the circulation of blood in the brain is temporarily 
suspended. This condition ensues almost immediately after the suspension has 
occurred. Hence we are at once impressed with the fact that unless there 
is a constant and free circulation of the blood in the brain the higher functions 
of that organ intelligence and volition are at once suspended. From this 
we can easily reason out the importance of a free circulation in any other 
part or organ. The sensitiveness of our consciousness to the blood supply 
indicates what every other organ or part must require for healthy work. 

When there is a surcharge of blood in the brain we have the familiar 
phenomenon of congestion of the brain. In that condition the entire body is 
thrown into a convulsion and the mind has lost consciousness. Hence we see 
that too much blood in an organ or part is as bad as too little. There must be 
an exact quantity of just the right kind of blood in every part of the body. 
If the blood lacks in nutritious qualities there will be impoverishment. Even 
if good blood is not properly circulated, everything will go wrong. 

The blood is a transparent fluid carrying red corpuscles 
Constitution of the and white corpuscles . T he red corpuscles are minute 

flat discs and are very numerous; they give the blood in 

the arteries its rich crimson color; this color is due to the ingredients com- 
posing them, oxygen, iron, etc. The white corpuscles are larger and fewer, 
and they possess the very curious power of spontaneous movement, called the 
ameboid movement, from the ameba, a minute sea creature that passes through 
substances by throwing out a penetrating projection and working its way 
through an opening much smaller than itself, resuming its globular form after 
accomplishing the task. The white corpuscles creep slowly along the sides 
of the blood vessels, while the red corpuscles occupy the center of the stream 
and hurry along. If the walls of the vessel are lax the white corpuscles creep 
through them and form pus in the tissues. All the purposes of the white 
corpuscles are not clearly known; the red corpuscles carry the essential ele- 
ments needed by the tissues. Both kinds of corpuscles are so small that they 
can be seen only under a microscope. It is supposed that one of the offices of 
the white corpuscles is to carry away the waste that accumulates in the tissues 
in every part of the body. 

The blood carries a great variety of nutritive elements. As it passes 
from one organ or part to another, each selects from it what it needs, and gives 
up to it what it wishes to discard. 

When we take food into the stomach, it ia there and in 
ThcDistnbu ion of the bowels changed by wonderful chemical and mechan- 
ical processes into a liquid form, rejecting such elements 



46 VIAVI HYGIENE 

as are not suitable for nutrition. These rejected elements are finally expelled 
from, the body as urine arid feces. Some of the nutriment thus prepared in 
the stomach and bowels passes directy through the walls of the blood vessels 
lining those organs in great numbers, and thus enters the blood, and the rest is 
taken up by special vessels called the lymphatics, and by them transported to 
the veins and emptied into them. Thus digestion in the stomach and bowels 
supplies the blood with nutriment, which in turn conveys it to air parts of the 
body. Each part then selects the particular elements that it needs. These 
demands are of very great variety, and hence the blood, in order to nourish 
all the parts, must carry all the elements, in the right quantity, that all of them 
require. 

This system exists in all living things, though its highest complexity is 
reached in human beings. Thus, the sap of a tree is its blood, and the con- 
stant flow of the sap is its circulation. Each part of the tree requires particu- 
lar elements for its nourishment, and the sap must contain all these elements 
in the proper quantities and of the proper quality. When we tap a maple tree 
for its sap, we let out its blood. The juice of sugar cane is its blood, and from 
it sugar is made. If we let all the sap out of a plant it will die, just as human 
beings will die if all their blood is spilled. Indiarubber is the dried sap, or 
blood, of a plant. Vegetable drugs are made largely from the sap, or blood, 
of plants. We can thus form an idea both of the vital importance of the 
blood and of its richness and value. 

When -we open an artery the blood that spurts from it is 
How Circulation Is a bright cr i ms0 n. If we open a vein, the blood that 
Accomplished flowg from it ig a dark> mu ^y, bluish purple. This 
opens up an exceedingly interesting and instructive field of inquiry. 

The heart, the lungs, the arteries and the veins, all controlled, as is 
everything else in the body, by special brain centers operating through the 
nerves, constitute the essential mechanical devices for carrying on the work 
of the circulation. The business of the heart is to thrust out the blood 
through the arteries to all parts of the body ; that of the veins to return the 
blood to the heart; that of the heart, again, to send to the lungs the blood 
that it has received from the veins ; and that of the lungs to purify this blood 
and return it to the heart, whence it is again sent out through the arteries ; but 
all of these changes of the blood's location, which means the circulation, lie 
directly under the control of the nervous system. The heart is a very strong 
muscular pump, divided internally into four chambers, two for receiving and 
sending out the arterial blood, and two for receiving and sending out the 
venous blood. This wonderful little organ seemingly never rests, though, as 
a matter of fact, like the body as a whole, it rests about a third of the time, 
baving a short pause between contractions. In that moment it takes its 
necessary 



THE CIRCULATION 9J 

So essential is blood to every part of the body, that the heart itself is 
supplied with it, the blood vessels in its walls being very numerous, because 
it has an immense amount of work to do. 

The dark, muddy color of the venous blood (the blood 
Phenomenon of - n the veins j is due to the i mpur ities that it carries. 

Breathing These are the waste products that it has gathered up in 

every part of the body. Along with this waste is the nutriment that the 
venous blood has received from the digestive system, but it will not be service- 
able until it has gone through the heart to the lungs, then back to the heart, 
to be sent thence through the arteries to all parts of the body. 

The blood is purified in a most ingenious and beautiful manner. Upon 
entering the lungs it distributes itself throughout that spongy organ, the 
vessels carrying it lining the small air spaces with which the lungs are filled. 
When we breathe, the air passes down the trachea (windpipe) which subdi- 
vides into numerous tubes called the bronchia (bronchial tubes), and these, 
subdividing as they proceed, terminate in minute subdivisions in all the small 
air spaces of the lungs. The impulse that draws the air into the lungs is 
created by the action of the diaphragm, a strong, flat, sheet- like muscle stretched 
across the chest. It keeps just as steadily at work as the heart, and its faithful 
action is just as necessary to life. Its expansion increases the size of the chest 
and lungs, and this compels air to rush in and fill the vacuum thus created. 
Its relaxation permits the chest and lungs to resume their contracted state, 
and the act of contraction expels the air from the lungs. This is the phenom- 
enon of breathing. 

When the oxygen of the air comes in contact with the 

^ h Bl^d 011 im P ure blood in the luu S s > through the thin walls of the 
vessels containing the blood, a low form of combustion, 

01 burning, takes place in the blood, somewhat similar to that observed in the 
combustion of coal or wood. There is so nice a relation between the ingredi- 
lents In the blood to be purified, and the ability of the air to do so, that if the 
equilibrium is destroyed to any extent, distress, disease or death is bound to 
ensue. The impurities in the blood are the fuel that maintains the combus- 
tion. After the fire once goes out, as it does in death, it cannot be rekindled. 
Death by asphyxiation, or smothering, is due to the fact that the air cannot 
enter the lungs, the combustion cannot be maintained, the blood cannot be 
purified, and hence the impurities that it carries, which are poisonous, are not 
removed, but are kept in the system, and, together with the accompanying 
cessation of combustion, destroy life. The first effect is to paralyze conscious- 
ness, just as we have seen in the case of fainting. Then the lower parts of the 
brain, which control the vital functions, come next under their influence, the 
heart and diaphragm stop work, and death is the result. Persons who have 



98 VIAVI HYGIENE 

been drowned, or asphyxiated with gas, or otherwise smothered, hav a 
purplish appearance due to the fact that the blood which fills them contains 
an excess of the impurities that render venous blood dark and muddy. For 
an analogous reason a rosy complexion, which is so great a mark of beauty 
indicates an abundance of pure blood in the system, its vigorous circulation, 
and an entire absence of impurities. It is easy to infer from this that to make 
the blood pure and the circulation healthy are essential steps to health. This 
is just what the Viavi treatment accomplishes. Hence women who have come 
thoroughly under the influence of the treatment generally have good com- 
plexions, for a muddy or sallow skin generally indicates some fault of nutri- 
tion or circulation, or both. 

The arteries rising from the heart are large muscular 
Work Done m the tubes> b ut as tliey p roc eed they subdivide again and 
vJapiUaries again, becoming smaller and smaller, until finally they 

dwindle to microscopic threads. These are the capillaries. The thumb nail 
placed upon any part of the body, or, if possible, upon any organ, would 
cover more capillaries than any one would be willing to count. Theii diameter 
is so small that the red corpuscles, which a powerful microscope is required 
for us to see, can just squeeze through them in single file. It is in the capil- 
laries, however, that the great work of the blood and the circulation is done. 
It is there that the nutriment of the blood passes out of the capillaries through 
their walls into the tissues, and is used by the tissues that need them, and the 
waste of the tissues is passed back through the walls and taken up by the 
blood. s'At one end of the capillaries we find pure arterial blood, and at the 
other end impure venous blood, for the further ends of the capillaries unite 
to form minute veins, and these in turn unite to form larger veins, and so 
on, reversing the order of the subdivision of the arteries, until the heart is 
reached. It is j ust like the forming of a river from many small streams. 

A number of things may happen to produce disease or 
Diseases Come from d i stress j n the elaborate process of the circulation. The 
Irregularities blood must be rich in the right kind of nutr iti v e ele- 
ments, and the circulation must be sufficient to keep it properly moving ; but 
other things are necessary. 

The walls of the blood vessels offer an important study. We can easily 
see that if they are weak and relaxed, their calibre is increased, and hence 
that a given quantity of blood cannot be sent throughout the body, for it 
it seems that the system does not manufacture a surplus of blood to overcome 
that difficulty, probably for the reason that more blood would only stretch the 
vessels the more. This condition of the blood vessels is called lack of tone, 
or lack of tonicity. Its source is traceable to some fault of the nervous 
fcystem. 



THE CIRCULATION 99 

Again, congestion is an undue gathering of blood at some particular 
place. It can be understood that when an undue amount of blood collects iu 
one place, it must be at the sacrifice of a proper supply to other places. We 
find this to be so. For instance, a woman suffering with a congested and in- 
flamed condition of the uterine organs, or any one of them, will very likely 
have cold feet. That is because the blood that should have gone to the feet 
to keep them warm is diverted, and they suffer. This diversion may be from 
the stomach, where large quantities of blood are needed for the digestion of 
food ; hence dyspepsia is found to be a common accompaniment of uterine dis- 
eases. Or, the blood supply to the brain is often curtailed by these diseases, 
and as a consequence we find that many women thus suffering are subject to 
fainting spells, or loss of memory, or other distressing conditions. Constipa- 
tion is similarly induced. Every function of the body requires a generous 
blood supply, and if this is diverted by congestion anywhere, some function 
or functions are bound to be interfered with. A peculiar property of the 
Viavi treatment is to make the circulation strong and free. This prevents 
and cures congestion, and its resultant condition, inflammation. It also 
restores tone to weakened blood vessels, reducing their calibre and enabling 
them to handle the blood naturally. There is no drug effect in producing this 
condition. It is the natural condition, induced by giving strength to the 
nervous system and supplying the blood with nutritive elements required for 
the tissues. The action of the treatment is hastened in certain cases by the 
simultaneous application of hot and of cold water to different parts of the 
body, cold having a tendency to reduce the local blood supply, and heat of in- 
creasing it. This will be more fully discussed when we come to the practical 
hygiene of the Viavi treatment. 

An organ requires blood in proportion to the amount 
Why Organs Need and character O f ^orb it has to do. When we take food 
Much Blood into the s tomach the lining of that organ immediately 
becomes filled with blood, which rapidly supplies the tissues of the>stomach 
with new material to take the place of that which is used up in the process of 
digestion. Again, the brain in the waking state requires a great deal more 
blood than in sleep, for the reason that the process of thinking and perceiving 
is carried on at the expense of the brain substance involved in the process, 
and this must be fed and regenerated by the blood. In the process of men- 
struation the ovaries and uterus are supplied with a great deal more blood 
than ordinarily, and in pregnancy the blood supply of the uterus is enormous. 
All activity demands a free blood supply. 

The low form of combustion in the lungs furnishes the heat of the 
body. The body becomes cold in death because this process of generating 
heat has been suspended. Likewise, if we tie a string round the base of the 
finger, and thus shut off the circulation, the extremity will become cold. 



100 VIAVI HYGIENE 

HJff The determining of blood to an organ for the purpose of 

^ en enabling the organ to perform its work is natural con- 

gestion, and therefore healthy and painless. There is a 

vital difference between natural and unnatural congestion. A hard brain- 
worker is likely to have cold feet, because the severe work that he puts upon 
the brain calls for an extraordinary supply of blood, and as the extremities are 
the most difficult for the blood to reach, they suffer. Where the blood accu- 
mulates in a place or organ without the purpose of aiding that organ to do its 
work, we have unnatural congestion, and if it is neglected we have inflamma- 
tion, or swelling. Congestion and inflammation require large quantities of 
blood: Now, in natural menstruation there is great congestion, but it is 
harmless and painless, because the organs demand it. Nature never intended 
that any of the functions of the body should be accompanied with pain, and 
hence we know that if pain exists there is some unnatural condition present, 
and this we call disease. In metritis (inflammation of the womb) there may 
be no greater congestion than in normal menstruation, but there is pain, be- 
cause the congestion is unnatural and represents disease. 

The blood is, of course, subject to the influence of grav- 

rligh Susceptibility i tet i 011 . Were it not for certain very ingenious contriv- 

to Congestion ances in the body all the blood would settle to t b e f eet 

and legs when we stand, or to the under part of the body when we lie down. 
Most of the blood vessels are supplied with valves, similar to those of a pump, 
which keep the blood from returning after having passed them. This prevents 
its settling by gravitation. An important exception, however, is observed in 
the generative organs. There we find an absence of valves, and, more than 
that, a very free intercommunication of the blood vessels in the organs. This 
alone ought to be sufficient to show that all these organs belong to one system, 
and that their relations are very intimate, insomuch that when one is diseased 
the others suffer, and that when one is removed the others are impoverished. 
In consequence of the absence of these valves and of the generous blood sup- 
ply of the organs, there is a high susceptibility to unnatural congestion. This 
will never occur in a condition of perfect health, but perfectly healthy wo- 
men are extremely rare. The woman who has never suffered pain or distress 
from conditions of her generative system is a blessed but rare being. The 
least violation of natural laws as they relate to these organs, and the slightest 
departure from a perfectly rational and natural mode of life or habits, may be 
expected to produce an unnatural condition. This in so not alone by reason 
of the peculiar character of the blood supply of the generative organs, but by 
reason also of the intimate nervous connection of the generative system with 
the brain and the entire body. 

The high susceptibility of the uterine organs to congestion explains in 
part the case with which they become diseased. 



THE CIRCULATION 101 

In a broad sense it may be reasoned that as the Viavi 
Remote Disease Is treatment furnishes the right kind of nutriment for the 
Overcome nervous system and tissues, thus inducing a healthy cir- 

culation, its effects are antagonistic to all diseased conditions. Were it simply 
a drug (drugs having limited and specific effects) it could not produce these 
general effects. When we reflect that nine-tenths of all the diseases of wo- 
men, of whatever kind and wherever situated, have their origin in some de- 
rangement of the generative system, we can understand the wide range of 
diseases that it appears to cure. Its special purpose is to reach diseases of the 
generative organs, and in curing them it naturally cures remote and obscure 
diseases arising from them. This result is obtained whether the disease is 
acute or chronic. 

From what we have seen of the nature of the blood supply of the gen- 
erative organs, and their extreme susceptibility to conditions out of which 
disease arises, and from what we have learned of the peculiar action of the 
Viavi treatment, it is easy to understand why the treatment is natural and 
therefore produces a natural condition, and why the cure is permanent. At 
the same time we have learned the importance of regulating digestion and 
the circulation, and of keeping the blood in proper condition. Closely related 
to this subject is that of absorption, which we shall discuss in the next chapter. 

4 

The importance of seeing to the elimination of impuri- 
Poisonous Products fies that accumu i ate in the blood by natural means will 

be evident to all. The way to do this is to keep the cir- 
culation up to a healthy standard, and the Viavi treatment accomplishes that. 
There is still another consideration When the blood does not circulate 
freely through an organ or part it retains there the impurities with which it is 
charged. As these impurities are poisons, a local inflammatory condition is 
induced. Furthermore, if the disease is extensive or severe, as it generally is 
in the graver forms of uterine afflictions, th^re are certain products of the dis- 
ease itself that taint the blood, and the lungs are unable to purify it. In this 
way these deleterious elements are transferred by the circulation to other 
parts of the body, and where they find suitable conditions they will establish 
new seats of disease. The brain itself is often affected in this way, giving rise 
to headaches, delusions, apprehension, melancholy and various other distress- 
ing derangements.* It is a law of the human economy that the weakest 
organs are the first to succumb, the first to be sought out by a disease that has 
invaded the system. Deleterious products of disease in the uterine organs, 
seeking through the system for favorable conditions under which to thrive, 
will find and seize upon the organ or organs which possess the least inherent 
strength and resistance. In this way consumption is not an uncommon result. 
If not the lungs, the kidneys ma)'- be affected. Disease attacks whatever is 
least able to resist it, whether organs or persons. 



CHAPTER xvi. 



ABSORPTION 



BSORPTION is the taking in of one substance by another. We have 
already seen how the products of digestion are taken up by the veins. 
That is absorption. This principle exists on an extensive scale 
throughout the system; it is an extremely important one in the econ- 
omy of the body, and this extensive function is taken full advantage of in 
the Viavi treatment. If drugs are introduced into the stomach the digestive 
powers are called upon to prepare it, and this means a draft upon the system. 
In the Viavi treatment direct absorption is depended upon, which imposes no 
"work calls for no using up of cells and tissues, nor for the diversion of the blood 
to aid that process. Furthermore, as ready absorption of substances suited to 
that process is slow when the circulation is poor, it is essential to strengthen 
the circulation in order to make the absorption ready and complete, and that 
is just the effect that the Viavi treatment has. 

Absorption is essential to all forms of life. The leaves 
Elimination and of a tree absorb cer tain elements from the air that are 
Absorption useful to the plant, and the roots perform a similar serv- 

ice with regard to elements in the ground. The blood of our bodies absorbs 
the nutriment that the stomach and intestines prepare, and the tissues in turn 
absorb it from the blood. 

A reverse operation of the law of absorption is seen when the tissues 
and organs reject substances, such as waste, that are no longer useful to them, 
or that are positively injurious. Thus, the tissues reject their waste while 
taking in new building material. That is to say, absorption and elimination 
are allied processes, but dependent on the permeability of the tissues and their 
power ic pass substances through them. 

So strongly established is this principle of absorption, 
Some Instances of and so remar k aD l e has been its operation in the use 
Absorption of the viavi treatment, that all that can be added to a 

discussion of the subject is some phenomena with which fciany are familiar. 



ABSORPTION 103 

It is a common practice, in the case of infants with very feeble stomachs, 
to rub medicine upon the skin; it is thus absorbed and then taken up by the 
blood. Shipwrecked sailors alleviate their thirst by keeping their clothes 
soaked in the salt water that they cannot drink. 

Some substances are much more easily absorbed than others. Olive oil, 
lanolin, cocoa butter and some other fats are readily taken up by the skin, and 
it is a familiar fact that frequent rubbings of the entire body with them will 
produce a layer of fat under the skin. 

The editor of this chapter was once kept alive for several weeks by in- 
jections of liquid food into the rectum, the stomach being unable to perform 
its function; in this case the food was absorbed by the mucous membrane 
lining the rectum, and thus it passed into the blood, and by the circulation 
was distributed throughout the body. The food was predigested that is, 
put by artificial means through a process analogous to that employed by 
the stomach in preparing food for the uses of the body. 

In the preparation of Viavi these principles, among 
Principles f Viavi otheES) are observed: First, it is predigested in the man- 
ufacture; second, it is made of vegetable substances hav- 
ing the strongest affinity for the absorptive properties of the skin and mucous 
membrane; third, these substances possess curative powers which produce the 
best of the results aimed at. 

Viavi in its cerate form is rubbed into the skin over the seat of the dis- 
ease, after the skin has been specially prepared in a manner hereinafter de- 
scribed; in this condition its pores (which are tubes penetrating the skin) 
are opened, and they readily receive the cerate and pass it to the blood. Viavi 
in its capsule form is placed in the vagina, where it comes in contact with the 
mucous membrane. The absorptive powers of this membrane being readier 
than those of the skin, the remedy is passively absorbed by it as completely as 
by the skin from rubbing. Frequently the absorption process is so active that 
in a few hours after the placing of the capsule every vestige of the remedy 
has disappeared by absorption. 

Secretion, the storing of a liquid by an organ, and ex- 
Work of Secretion cret i on> t ^ e elimination of a substance by an organ, 

may well be considered in connection with absorption, 

and they have a very important bearing on the rationale of the Viavi treat- 
ment. We shall first study secretion. 

A secretion is that which a gland separates from the blood for its uses. 
Thus> the gastric juice is the secretion of the stomach used in digestion. 
Saliva is a secretion of the mouth, used in moistening the food in mastication 
and making it easy to swallow, while at the same time containing valuable 
digestive elements. Tears are a secretion of the lachrymal glands. Milk is a 



104 VIA VI HYGIENE 

secretion of the breasts. Bile is a secretion of the liver, and serves nsefnl 
purposes. 

All of these secretions are necessary to the healthy action of the organs, 
but as they all come from the blood, two things are evident that unless the 
blood is sufficiently rich the organs cannot secrete from it the liquids that 
they require, and that unless the circulation is good an insufficient quantity of 
"blood will be brought to the organs, and hence the secretion will be deficient. 
Hence the importance of having good blood and a good circulation. The 
Viavi treatment meets those requirements exactly. 

In certain conditions of disturbed nutrition or local inflammation there 
is an excessive secretion. Leucorrhea belongs to this class. In the healthy 
State the vagina secretes a fluid that serves useful purposes, but if congestion 
or .inflammation be present, in which there is an excessive blood supply to the 
parts, the secretory action of the lining of the vagina extracts an excessive 
quantity of the fluid, and this flow is called leucorrhea. For an organ to 
secrete from the blood more of its proper secretion than it needs, is to impov- 
erish the blood to that extent. Hence in leucorrhea and all other conditions 
of excessive secretion the blood is unduly robbed, and we become anemic to a 
greater or less extent. In this condition the blood is unable to supply the 
rest of the body with its due proportion of nutriment and secretory elements. 

Excretion is the throwing off of unnecessary matter. In 

Useful and Harmful SQme instances the excretions of the body are also secre- 

Excrction tions and serve a use f u i purpose. Thus, the bile, which 

is secreted by the liver, and seives some use in digestion, is an excretion in 

the sense that it is a withdrawal from the blood of elements that would be 

deleterious to the general economy. Sweat is a watery excretion of the skin, 

but it carries an oily element that serves a useful purpose in keeping the outer 

skin soft and pliable. Urine is an excretion that is secreted by the kidneys, 

and, like the feces, or excrement from the bowels, serves no useful purpose, 

but is intended to be expelled from the system at proper intervals. 

Here again we see the wonderful principle of absorption at work, but 
this time to the injury of health. Just as stupefying or poisonous substances, 
as chloroform or vapor of mercury, are absorbed into the blood through the 
lungs if inhaled, so an unnatural retention of urine and the feces will cause 
them to be absorbed as poison to a certain extent, and by the blood distributed 
throughout the body. The offensive breath of a person who is constipated 
from retroversion is caused by the excrement of the bowels being taken up by 
the blood and eliminated through the lungs, in Nature's effort to get rid of an 
obnoxious substance in the body. Likewise a retention of the urine by the 
anteversion of the womb infects the blood with uremic poison. Thus we see 
that both excretion and secretion must be normal in order for health to exist* 
The Viavi treatment renders them so. 



ABSORPTION 105 

t P rinc ip* es f absorption and elimination operate 

The Two Principles together in efforts of the system to throw out certain 
products of diseased conditions. Take, for instance, a 

tumor. It would not have formed if the circulation had been sufficiently 
healthy to keep the blood moving and prevent the accumulation that consti- 
tutes the tumor. If the system had a tendency to bring up the circulation to 
its proper working pitch, the tumor would disappear. The assistance that 
Viavi renders enables that process to operate. Under the operation of the 
law of absorption, the blood current, strengthened by the Viavi treatment, 
proceeds to act upon the accumulation, causing it to be gradually absorbed, if 
there is no natural outlet through which it can be expelled whole or in pieces. 
Then the blood gets rid of the elements thus taken up, using the lungs, the 
skin, and the other organs of elimination for that purpose. This is all done 
so gradually that the blood is never affected injuriously, and the removal of 
the tumor is accomplished exactly as it would have been by Nature had she 
possessed the necessary strength ; Viavi merely lent the aid. Speaking gen- 
erally, then, the Viavi treatment first puts the nerves in a healthy condition, 
next establishes a normal circulation, next imparts needful nutrient elements 
to the blood, then causes an absorption of the products of diseased conditions 
and their elimination from the system. This simple and rational process, 
being a natural one, must necessarily produce the best and most permanent 
results. 




CHAPTER xvn. 



WOMANLY BEAUTY. 



. T is natural and proper that all persons, both women and men, should de- 
sire to be as attractive as possible. It is true, there are many who do 
not seem to care about the matter. Whether or not they really do to 
some extent: whether they delude themselves, or whether they are 
congenitally imperfect to the extent that they absolutely lack the desire, are 
subjects that there is not room here to discuss. That such a desire should ex- 
ist in every properly constituted human being, particularly of the higher 
races, we can readily understand when we analyze the social instinct implanted 
within us. We are endowed with attributes whose employment enables us to 
advance our own interests of whatever kind. The confidence and approval of 
our fellow creatures are essential to our best welfare and happiness. We know 
that the social compact has erected certain standards of excellence in morals, 
business, social conduct, literature, art, music and everything else. We know 
that the esthetic sense is necessary to the enjoyment of the finer externals of 
life. And we know that those persons who approach nearest to the accepted 
standards are most liked, exercise the greatest power, and are happiest. As 
there are accepted standards of physical beauty, and as those approaching 
nearest it enjoy most the benefits and pleasures that it can bestow, it is evident 
that if we are well rounded, and have our finer perceptions properly devel- 
oped, we not only admire beauty in others, but desire it for ourselves. This 
admiration and this desire are a wholesome and natural part of the great 
scheme of life, and hence the subject of beauty deserves serious attention. 

The great trouble with the subject of beauty is that it is 

Treated never treated as a matter having a common-sense, scien- 

oenously tific basis. It is generally handled in a romantic, 

nighty fashion, regardless of the fact that it is one of the greatest forces in the 

world for good or evil, and instead of being, by the nature of things, limited 

to poetic treatment or the domain of "beauty doctors," it reaches to some of 

the profoundest depths of scientific and sociological truths. 



WOMANLY BEAUTY 107 

This entire volume may be rightly deemed a treatise on the beauty of 
women, for by following its precepts the foundation for beauty must be laid ; 
nevertheless, it is advisable to segregate some special ideas in connection with 
the subject and set them forth in a chapter by themselves. A common-sense, 
practical treatment of the subject will be employed, so that every woman may 
see and understand many things that may have brought her unhappiness, and 
find a way out of her troubles. To women who possess beauty, know its 
power and desire to retain it, the suggestions here made will prove equally 
valuable. 

It is often said of a woman that she has beauty, but 
Admiration of Beauty nothing else; yet how many would be w ini ng to give 

Is Natural U p a i mos t everything for it ! This alone is an accept- 

ance of its great desirability, which may be taken to mean an instinctive esti- 
mate of its immense value and power. And the appreciation of beauty is 
confined to no special grade of intellectual or spiritual development. "A 
thing of beauty is a joy forever." Anything that is beautiful appeals to much 
that is best within us, and the cultivation of a due regard for it develops some 
of the finest and deepest qualities that we possess. When we decry beauty, 
wherever and in whatever we find it, we suppress and impoverish qualities 
essential to our happiness. 

Appreciation of human beauty seems to be instinctive with us. A 
beautiful woman is more beautiful than any other beautiful thing in the 
world. If a mother is beautiful, her child will tell her so as soon as it is able 
to talk. If the affection between a plain daughter and a handsome mother is 
what it ought to be, the daughter will never be jealous of her mother's supe- 
rior beauty, but will glory in it. A son may love a plain mother most dearly, 
but if she is beautiful he will have an added adoration for her, will be infi- 
nitely proud of her beauty ; and no matter how old she may grow, in nis eyes 
she will always be his beautiful mother. His sisters may be just as handsome 
as she, but he will take only a passing interest in their beauty ; he will adore 
his mother for her beauty, and hers will be the beauty by which he will judge 
that of all other women. The woman must be lovely who dares to become 
the wife of a man who had a beautiful mother. 

The pitiful makeshifts to which many women resort to 
Poor .Makeshifts for secure the sem blance, the mockery, of beauty, call for 
Beauty profound commiseration. They instinctively know the 

value of beauty ; it is an infinite pity that they do not know how to secure it, 
if that is possible. Vast sums of money, almost sufficient to maintain the 
governmental expenses of an empire, are annually spent by the women of 
civilized countries on ridiculous "face preparations" that are ignorantly sup- 
posed to take the place of intelligent living, a healthy body, an enlightened 



io8 VIAVI HYGIENE 

mind and a refined soul. Immense ingenuity and wealth are employed in the 
production of devices to supply deficiencies or add to the graces of the figure. 
Even the corset, that almost universally used implement that is actually 
regarded as a garment, is a compliment to the firm and rounded graces of 
youth. 

In all of these matters the thoughtful student sees a preference for artifi- 
cial over natural means ; an ignorance of natural laws and their tremendous 
value to every phase and condition of life ; a violation of natural laws and its 
consequences in imperfection and suffering ; a misconception of the true basis 
and character of beauty, and inability to induce and preserve it. And out of 
all this grow infinite misery, impossible longings, endless diseases, and cruelly 
hampering hereditary transmissions. 

. A lesson might be drawn from some curious differences 

Men Are DiJ ferent b etween WO men and men with regard to age and per- 

sonal appearance. As a rule a man is in his prime at 

fifty, and if he has lived rationally he is finer looking then than at any time 
before. True, he has lost the graces inseparable from youth, but he has ac- 
quired attractions that youth does not possess. These are a more stable and 
commanding masculinity, an accession of dignity, a composed massiveness of 
figure, and often a pleasant ruddiness of face ; even the gathering gray in his 
hair and beard is becoming. The man who interferes with the natural color 
of his hair is a curiosity and generally a subject for quiet ridicule. Happily 
they are very few. Wrinkles are not regarded as objectionable in men. If 
the man of fifty to fifty-five is well groomed, as every man ought to be, and 
as every woman must be, his fine-looking appearance is complete. 

Do we as often find so pleasing a picture in the woman of fifty ? She is 
then too apt to be called an old woman, but she will not be so called unless 
she is really old ; and she will not be old at that age if she has lived as 
rationally as a man. Her wrinkles are likely to be more aggressively in evi- 
dence. Her complexion is apt to lack the glow of health. Her figure is prone 
to have taken too wide a departure from the standard of beauty. There are 
very many remarkable exceptions ; we see them often in the cases of actresses, 
who early develop wisdom of the most acute order, and make an intelligent 
study of the preservation of their health and strength. We knew one who 
was a great-grandmother, and who was still a splendid-looking woman, active, 
graceful, easily taking the roles of women twenty-five to . thirty-five years of 
age, and carrying them off without the slightest suggestion of anything in- 
congruous in the representation. 

Why do many women dread, more than men, the en- 
Deplorable Dread < f croachment of years? As old age is perfectly natural, 
Old Age an( j therefore sacred and beautiful, there is manifestly 






WOMANLY BEAUTY 109 

something wrong when we abhor it for ourselves. If we dislike it so much 
for ourselves, we cannot see its beauties in others ; and if we do not, we cannot 
have for it that reverence, that tender regard, that veneration which so greatly 
sweeten old age in others and make it a useful, peaceful and happy period for 
ourselves. We know of women to whom the aged are positively repulsive. 
This is a serious thing, exposing an unfortunate condition reaching to the 
very heart of the human welfare. Very often this abhorrence of old age is 
inherited by women from their mothers. Here again we see the baneful 
effects of an unwholesome heredity. 

There is nothing more pathetic than the picture of a woman studying 
her face in the mirror and anxiously watching for the appearance of the first 
crow's feet in the outer corners of her eyes the very mark and cachet of a 
sunny disposition. We have known even very young women to repress all 
natural tendencies to laugh and thus wrinkle their faces, wofully ignorant of 
the fact that abundant laughter helps to keep us young ! There are innumer- 
able prosperous establishments where women get their faces "ironed" or 
"massaged" to remove the wrinkles! This will all sound incredible to the 
generations of wise and beautiful women whom the coming ages will produce. 
Of course women are welcome to all the "beauty" that they can get from re- 
sort to these devices, provided it does them any good, which a thoughtful 
person will doubt ; but such resort must do great harm in serving to keep from 
the mind the grand principles upon which beauty is founded. A mother who 
depends upon artificial means to make herself comely will never transmit to 
her daughter either beauty itself or the desire to acquire it by intelligent 
means ; nor will she be apt to take her young daughter in hand at the time 
when the foundation for beauty may be laid, and by useful aid and wise in- 
struction establish within her the beginning and understanding of beauty, and 
habits out of which a lifetime of practice must bring a large measure of 
beauty. 

The rapidity with which people grow old, other things 
Women Grow Old being equalj j s in proportion to the rapidity with which 
in Youth t key consume their vital forces without renewing them. 

Hard work does not make people grow old ; for, although hard work consumes 
vital energy, if there is a compensating or regenerating influence at work, the 
wearing effects of labor are counteracted. Women who have hard domestic 
work to do rarely work harder than their husbands, but they generally age 
faster under it. Why? Because a man's work is systematized, while a "wo- 
man's work is never done;" because a man has regular work, regular meals 
and regular sleep, while a woman permits everything to interfere with the 
regularity of her habits ; because a man is more in the open air, getting the 
benefit of the glorious and life-giving sunshine, while a woman keeps herself 
a prisoner within doors ; because a man seeks recreations that a woman imag- 



no VIA VI HYGIENE 

ines she cannot have. That is a short, but eloquent, story. There is no good 
reason why a woman's work cannot be systematized ; why she should not get 
out into the sunshine, nor why she should not get the pleasures that are due 
her and that are necessary to her health. Thus, at the very threshold of the 
inquiry we meet the old, old story of the effects of intelligent living. If a 
woman does not know how to regulate her affairs so that she can live intelli- 
gently, to the end that her youth will be preserved and her strength retained 
to manage her household with due wisdom, she should exhaust every effort to 
secure the necessary wisdom. This is a problem that each woman must solve 
for herself. If she does not, she will grow old before her time there is no 
escape. 

Work is necessary to the preservation of the physical 
n Activity Come conditions upon which beauty is founded. Work stimu- 
lates the circulation, and thus enables the blood to keep 

the system well fed and well freed from impurities; creates a demand for 
abundant wholesome food, which supplies the blood with the constituents that 
it requires for the healthy needs of the body ; lessens the desire for indul- 
gence in irrational and unhealthful things to eat and drink ; creates a feeling 
of weariness, and thus induces sound, long sleep, during which the recupera- 
tive processes of the body can work unhampered ; rouses mental activity, 
which not only increases the capacity of the mind, but stimulates and tones 
the entire nervous system, which regulates all the functions of the body ; 
being a part of the natural scheme of life, work brings contentment, or, if not 
that, it at least shuts out in great measure the idle discontent that saps vitality 
and beauty. 

f Another reason why women are apt to grow old sooner 

The Aging Effects than men is tfaa ^ unlike men> they perm i t themselves to 

suffer with diseases peculiar to their sex. In this respect 

a great many things may afflict a man, but he never for a moment accepts the 
affliction as the natural lot of men. He refuses to suffer any sort of pain if it 
can be avoided. As soon as he discovers something wrong with his generative 
system he sets about to correct it, and he never rests until he has succeeded. 
He knows that he could not attend properly to his business if he suffered. 

As diseases of the generative system are generally painful, and as pain 
is one of the most active forces imaginable to induce old age before its time, 
we have one explanation of the fact that women are apt to age at a younger 
period than men. Apart from the pain accompanying these diseases, is their 
wearing effect upon everything that constitutes the basis of health and strength- 
As at least nine women in ten, and doubtless a much larger proportion, suffer 
in some way with their generative organs, there is no reason to inquire further 
why women age at an earlier period than men. 






WOMANLY BEAUTY m 

The essentials of beauty are a good complexion, bright 

Gfotmd Essentials eyeg and a symme trical figure. Next come a smooth, 

"^^ty musical voice and an easy, graceful carriage. It will be 

observed that these attractions may belong to a woman of any age. Hence a 

woman at any time of life may be beautiful. It is true that youth, middle 

age and old age have their differences, but it is true also that the essentials of 

beauty belong to all periods of life. It is not true that all the beauty possible 

to women belongs to their youth. If they lose it with youth, it is generally 

the fault of the system under which they were reared. 

A wonderful feature of the matter is that these essentials of beauty are 
all under the control of nearly every woman. The few possible exceptions are 
those women who have inherited defects that no intelligent mode of life can 
overcome. Such cases are very rare. A woman may have harsh or irregular 
features, but she will be handsome if she have the essentials here specified. 
She may be very large or very small, but symmetry of form will erase that as 
an objection. 

Between all the extremes of a very dark brunette and a 
A Complexion That very fair blondC| wome n may have a perfect complex- 
ion, and they may acquire it by the employment of 

rational means within their reach. If the complexion is muddy or sallow, or 
in any way lacks the clearness and bloom of health, or is blotched, or im- 
paired by pimples or ' 'black heads, ' ' there is some fault of nutrition ; either the 
blood lacks in quality, or its circulation is not perfect. This may be the result 
of impaired general vitality, or improper food for the nerves and tissues, or 
imperfect digestion, or improper attention to the natural functions, or an un- 
sound condition of the nervous system. From what has been said in previous 
chapters of the close relation of tne generative system to the nervous system, 
it may be readily inferred that if there is the least thing wrong with the gen- 
erative organs, nutrition and circulation will suffer disturbance, and it would 
be a wonder if, under those circumstances, there should be any approach to a 
good complexion. Not only are nutrition and the circulation impaired by all 
diseases of the generative organs, but the products of those diseases are in the 
system, and it is trying all the time to work them off. The skin of the face is 
a convenient means offered for that purpose. 

A fine complexion is the best of all evidences of that 
okin ohows Internal L i 1 t < 

. systemic cleanliness which is a necessary accompani- 

ment of perfect health. Perfect cleanliness, internal 

and external, is absolutely essential to the beauty and sweetness of a woman. 
A clear, healthy complexion looks clean and is clean, and a clean-looking wo- 
man is charming. If the bowels and bladder are not in perfect working order 
and the demands of Nature do not receive prompt aud regular attention, their 



112 VIAVI HYGIENE 

contents will be absorbed into the blood and given out through the skin, 
making it muddy, blotched or pimply ; or through the lungs, tainting the 
breath. If there is disease in any part of the system, its products will take 
the same course and produce the same effects. If the nervous system is im- 
paired to the slightest extent, which it must be in disease, the digestive organs 
will not perform their work thoroughly, the blood will not be supplied with 
sufficient pure nutriment, the circulation will be imperfect, the excretory or- 
gans will not perform their functions as they should, and the result is a con- 
dition of internal uncleanliness, which will make itself manifest in the appear- 
ance of the skin. In some cases a good complexion is found with poor excre- 
tory powers, but eventually the good complexion disappears. 

The diseases peculiar to women are the great cause of a lack of this 
essential element of beauty. Their important effect upon the nervous system 
will inevitably create any or all of the disturbances here enumerated, and 
hence render a good complexion impossible. If the disease is cared for under 
the Viavi treatment, all the conditions necessary to the presence of a good 
complexion will be established. Not only is this a logical conclusion, but it 
is a fact of common knowledge among the many thousands familiar with the 
subject, that women who have been restored to health by means of the Viavi 
treatment have a clear and healthy complexion, in place of the muddy one 
that had before impaired their attractiveness. 

The practice of many women of resorting to artificial 
Troths o Nature means f or securing the semblance of beauty is the logi- 
cal outcome of their whole system of training in the 

matter of health, for beauty is nothing more nor less than a concomitant of 
health. If they have a disease they are taught to rely on artificial, rather than 
natural, means for curing it. They are taught that medicine, not Nature, is 
the curative power. They are taught that surgery is better than Nature. 
Every influence is brought to bear upon them to keep them ignorant of the 
existence and operation of natural laws, to treat Nature with a certain con- 
tempt, and to believe that human skill is vastly superior to that of the 
Almighty. They are not taught, except by the Viavi movement, that Nature 
has been in the business of handling the problems of living a good deal longer 
than any human being, or any set or generation or race of human beings, and 
that she knows her business a great deal better than they can possibly know 
it. It is ignorance of this mighty truth that makes women an ailing class, 
that leads them into errors for which they and all the generations suffer, and 
that impels them to depend upon artificial means, and thus utterly fail to ac- 
complish the ends at which they aim. No human being can rise above 
Nature. No human skill can devise remedies equal to Nature's, The first 
lesson that a woman must learn in her efforts to become physically attractive 
is that she must discard artificial means and employ natural ones. 



WOMANLY BEAUTY 113 

Bright, clear, "speaking" eyes go with perfect health. 
Eloquent Story of verv physician knows that. He can tell from the 
the Eyes appearance of the eyes whether his patient has a fever. 

He will know from their lack of lustre that the tone of the nervous system is 
low. The eyes give the surest unspoken evidence of the presence of pain. 
Their mnddy hue, or the congestion of the small veins near the surface, 
clearly indicates something wrong with the circulation. Their sunken appear- 
ance, or the droop of the lids, indicates general impoverishment, due to some 
fault of nutrition. 

These conditions are true with eyes of all kinds of natural expression. 
The beauty of one woman's eyes may reside in a certain languor, that of an- 
other's in a certain sprightliness. Both kinds of expression are beautiful in 
their way, and they have a strict relation to the general character of the facial 
expression, and to the temperament and bearing of their owner. A woman 
with a naturally languid expression of the eyes has correspondingly soft and 
gentle graces running through her whole composition her voice, her manner 
of talking, her style of movement. A woman with naturally bright, snappy 
eyes, is bright and snappy in all other ways. Both of these types, and all the 
intervening ones, are equally charming. Nature has a wonderful knack at 
harmonies. If there is disease, particularly of the generative system, which 
is the grand center of a woman's organization, the beautiful scheme of har- 
mony is destroyed. The eyes and the complexion are the first to suffer, the 
first of the essentials of beauty that a woman loses, the first to regain their 
charm upon the establishment of health. 

The question of a symmetrical figure is intimately con- 
Elements^ofBeauty nected with that of the complex ion and eyes. Every 

woman was intended by Nature to be competent for 

maternity, and the better adapted she is for that function the more nearly 
perfect and therefore the more beautiful her figure. This is the one and 
final test. 

In such types of women the chest and bust will be well developed, the 
hips sufficiently broad, the flesh firm, the figure straight and the head well 
poised ; even the movements of the body will bespeak grace, for they indicate 
a normal muscular development and perfect control through sound motor 
nerves. As the Viavi treatment has a particularly valuable effect in placing a 
woman in perfect condition for maternity, its natural and unavoidable effect 
is to bring her form as near as possible to the standard of beauty. 



.. 



_ . Some of the faults in the figures of women had their 

origin in improper development at puberty. This is 
u rty because of the intimate connection, through the nervous 

system, between the mammary glands and the generative organs. If the 



H4 VIA VI HYGIKNB 

nerves of the generative organs suffer from abnormal menstruation at puberty, 
the nerves regulating the nutrition of the above-mentioned glands partake of 
the unsound condition, and non-development of the bust is the result. As 
the Viavi treatment can be used upon young girls just as easily as upon grown 
women, and as good effects are much more quickly secured, and as the adop- 
tion of the treatment submits the child to none of the shame and humiliation 
imposed upon her by the ordinary method of treatment, it is the only safe and 
effective method for correcting the faults of improper development at the time 
when it is the most needed and will have the most permanent effects. 

The greater sensitiveness of these glands in responding 

Impoverishing Limbs to unsound conditions in the generative organs does not 
mean that other parts of the figure will escape harm. 

The whole nervous system is involved in any irregularity of the menstrual 
function at puberty, and through the nervous system the quality of the blood 
and the character of the circulation are affected injuriously. In this way the 
nutrition of the body as a whole is imperfectly performed. The result is that 
the muscular development is retarded, and a habit of the system established 
that -will tend to make the impoverishment permanent. In this way the 
roundness of all the limbs and the shoulders is prevented, and the thick 
muscles of the back not receiving sufficient strength, the spine curves from 
the true form, the shoulders become stooped, and the head and abdomen 
are thrust forward. It is very easy for this condition to become perma- 
nent from neglect at puberty, and when it does there is often very great 
difficulty in overcoming it. 

Any lack 01 nervous tone, whether in girls or women, destroys the en- 
joyment of wholesome exercise, which is necessary to the proper development 
of the muscles of the arms and legs, and upon this development depends their 
shape. The girl or woman who feels full of life will be impelled by the 
energy within her to exercise her muscles, and from this exercise grow the 
rotundity and suppleness necessary to perfection of form. This exercise pro- 
duces not only beauty of form, but grace of movement, which is just as 
essential an element of beauty. 

At any time in a woman's life any disease or abuse of 

How Disease Harms the genera ti ve system will work a direct injury to the 

the Form beauty of her figure. This is so because the integrity of 

the nervous system is overturned to a greater or less extent, but always to 

some extent ; and to that extent the figure will suffer. This comes about in 

the way already indicated an impoverishment of the quality of the blood, a 

weakening and derangement of the circulation, the improper and irregular 

nourishment of the body, and an absence of a desire to take the exercise that 

aids the development of the muscles and holds up their shape. 



WOMANLY BEAUTY 115 

There are other, but analogous, ways in which the forms of women 
suffer. If there is a tumor in the generative region, of course the beauty of 
the form is gone until the tumor is removed. Again, in the case of many wo- 
men the walls of the abdomen are not sufficiently elastic to permit of the 
natural distension, without injury, caused by pregnancy, with the result that the 
tissues separate ; after delivery the abdomen is flabby, and, being no longer 
able to hold the bowels in proper place, pouches out at the lower extremity. 
In both these cases the Viavi treatment is perfectly efficacious it removes the 
disfiguring tumor, and by rendering the walls of the abdomen elastic if used 
during pregnancy, prevents the separation of its tissues, and causes the walls 
to resume their original shapely form and position after delivery. 

A woman's beauty of figure is a question of symmetry, 
Symmetry the Test not of size , Both tall women and short wom en may 

of Beauty have beautiful figures, and so also may both slender wo- 

men and stout women. It makes no difference whether a tall woman or a 
short woman is slender or stout if her figure is symmetrical it will be beau- 
tiful. If, however, slenderness is carried to emaciation, or stoutness to extreme 
fatness, symmetry disappears, because the limits of the wide latitude in which 
symmetry can xist with varying proportions of flesh and bone have been 
passed. In the one case we have a bony hardness and angularity of figure, and 
in the other the effect of the bony structure in lending a graceful firmness to 
the figure is missed. It is evident that in extreme leanness there is insufficient 
nutrition, and that in extreme fatness there is abundant nutrition, but an 
inefficient circulation. Hence, as the Viavi treatment regulates the quality of 
the blood and its proper circulation, it naturally tends to correct these extreme 
conditions. Such, as a matter of fact and experience, has been found generally 
to be the case. It is taken for granted that the diseases producing these ex- 
tremes have their origin in some abnormal state of the generative system, and 
that in curing it by establishing natural conditions antagonistic to disease, the 
Viavi treatment corrects the errors out of which these imperfections of form 
arise. 

, Surgery is responsible for many of the disfigurements 

Surgical Mutilation which women suffen The number of W0 men whose 

breasts have been needlessly removed is appalling. In 

another part of this volume this subject will be more exhaustively treated ; it 
is sufficient here to say that a woman deprived of one or both of her breasts is 
hopelessly and lamentably disfigured. The loss of an arm is hardly so disfig- 
uring. Mutilation by removal of the breasts is contemptible to the last 
degree, and as it fails to accomplish any good purpose it is wholly inexcusable. 
An equally serious cause of disfigurement is the removal of the genera- 
tive organs. A little reflection will show how this must be so. Taking into 



n6 VIA VI HYGIENE 

account the close connection of the generative organs with the brain and the 
nervous system, it must be evident that extirpation of the organs necessitates 
a violent rearrangement of the nervous system. How it could be expected 
that this would fail to affect the entire physical economy, and through it the 
integrity of nutrition that determines a symmetrical figure, would be difficult 
to comprehend. We should naturally expect the bust to shrivel or become 
extremely flabby, and nutrition to be so disturbed that either general emacia- 
tion or extreme fatness would result. As a matter of fact, we find this to be 
so. Generally women who have been deprived of their sex by violent means 
grow uncomfortably stout, and sometimes obese and unwieldy. On the 
other hand, pains resulting from the disturbances created by operations are so 
enduring that emaciation is the result. In any event, it would be irrational to 
expect the figure not to suffer from such operations, and as a matter of fact we 
find that it almost invariably does. This is not a phase that concerns the 
operators, though it is one of very great importance to women themselves. It 
is they who are the sufferers. 

The bad physiological effects of destroying a woman's 
Unsexing; Change sex> whh the resu]( . of iln p airing her beauty, can be 

appreciated upon a little reflection. Any- natural process 

is good, and therefore beautiful in one sense or another. Hence the natural 
change of life, by which a woman parts with her child-bearing capacity not 
her sex, let it be understood is beautiful. A woman whose sexual organs are 
removed is unsexed as well as deprived of her child-bearing power, whereas 
a woman who loses the child-bearing power through change of life is not uu- 
sexed. This is a vital and self-evident difference, invariably ignored by those 
who make a business of unsexing women with the knife. Hence a woman who 
has been unsexed by the knife is very different from the woman who has lost 
her child-bearing capacity naturally. We can illustrate this by a familiar ex- 
ample. The secretion of milk is the natural and gradual winding up of preg- 
nancy. The great activities that have heretofore gone to the sustenance of the 
child in the womb are, after that service is no longer required, diverted to the 
secretion of milk. The drying up of the milk by artificial means immedi- 
ately after parturition lays a violent check upon the natural course of events, 
and hence the nervous system suffers severely, and through it all parts of the 
body. 

The great activities supporting the menstrual function arc checked by 
the unsexing operation, and violent disturbances must necessarily ensue from 
that cause alone. The change of life, which is a natural process, deprives a 
woman of nothing needful to her physical economy, and therefore, if she is in 
proper condition for the change, there ought not to be the slightest impair- 
ment of her physical beauty, as there must be in the case of women who are 
unsexed. As the Viavi treatment offers the only means for bringing a woman 



WOMANIvY BEAUTY 117 

of a child-bearing capacity to a condition of health without tinsexing her, it 
is naturally the only one that does not impair the beauty of her figure, but on 
the contrary enhances it. 

As Nature is a stickler for harmonies, it follows that a 
Musical Voice and Smoot i 1| r i cn , musical voice goes naturally with perfect 

Its irower health, and a sharp high-pitched, rasping voice with un- 

healthy physical conditions. This is not the voice to sooth a child, and words 
in such a voice will not drop like pearls into a husband's heart. One of the 
most deplorable things with many women is their utter blindness to the power 
residing in the quality of their voices. A charming voice is to the ear what 
all the combined beauties of the physical nature are to the eye. A woman 
may be able neither to sing nor declaim, but may have a speaking voice of 
infinite sweetness. It is the audible expression of all that constitutes her 
being, physical, mental and spiritual. The cultivated mind makes its presence 
known in the choice of words and their manner of expression. A highly 
developed spirituality lends to the voice a tenderness and rythm of ineffable 
charm. A perfect physical nature means so exquisite a development and ad- 
justment of the vocal organs that music will issue from them with the words 
that they utter, even though there ma} T be neither mental nor spiritual devel- 
opment. Some of the most exquisitely pleasing voices are found among 
savage women and the peasantry of Europe. Most of the great singers 
have come from the humblest social ranks, for it is there that we are most apt 
to find natural, simple living and perfect health. 

Diseases of the generative organs affect a woman's voice more acutely 
than any other. A woman in the last stages of consumption or Bright's disease 
is likely to have a much sweeter voice than the one afflicted with what she 
would deem a trivial ailment of the generative system. Naturally, then, as 
the Viavi treatment cures these diseases, it removes the source of vocal harsh- 
ness, and equips a woman with one of the most precious charms that she can 
possess. There is no music in the world so sweet as that of a sweet voice in a 
woman. There is no power so great to smooth the sharp edges of domestic 
life. There is none so powerful to restrain childish fretfulness and willful- 
ness. It is the truest sign of womanly perfection and loveliness. 

The practical lesson to be drawn from this discussion is that physical 
perfection lies at the basis of all true womanly loveliness in its highest possible 
form ; that resort to trifling artificial expedients is apt to divert our minda 
from the grand truths that lie behind the subject of beauty. 



CHAPTER XVIIL 



CONJUGAL RELATIONS, 




, ARRIAGE is one of the vital steps in Nature's wonderful scheme of 
life. It is not only the union of natural and indispensable forces in 
the perpetuation of the race, but it is accompanied with beauties and 
graces that sweeten and expand life, repress selfishness, inculcate 
forbearance and charity, and lead to the advent and enjoyment of offspring, 
with all the softening, strengthening and beautifying influences that they 
bring. And yet, how many marriages are there that bring all these benefits in 
their full and natural measure ? If we find the least shortcoming in any of 
these regards, we must deem it an evil that demands our most courageous and 
conscientious attention . Every unsatisfactory marriage is a reproach to human 
intelligence and an evidence of there being somewhere a defiance of the 
Almighty's purposes. As a matter of fact, we all know that ideal marriages 
are rare, that in by far the greater number of marriages there are more or less 
suffering and unhappiness, and that an appalling number of them are com- 
plete failures. Within the last few decades divorce has been making giant 
strides. 

The subject of domestic infelicity has attracted more 
' attention in recent times, from earnest students of soci- 
ology, than ever before in the history of civilization. It 

is a singular fact that every remedy but the right one is suggested, every 
cause but the true one sought. Reformers see in it the evidence of a lowered 
moral tone, and therefore they seek to raise the general moral tone by appeals 
to the evident benefits of a loftier spirituality, a broadened mentality or a 
stronger hold upon religious truths. It is a fact recognized by all that the 
home is the central force of civilization, of social and national strength and 
purity, of the power and happiness of future generations. It is observed by 
all that with a weakening of the moral force exerted by the home, there 
comes a lowered moral tone in every aspiration and endeavor. But it is 
doubtful if the closeness of this connection is sufficiently recognized. We 
find powerful organizations devoting their energies to the suppression of 






CONJUGAL RELATIONS 119 

drunkenness, while paying no attention to the inherent weakness that makes 
drunkenness possible. We see earnest philanthropic work in the direction of 
rehabilitating discharged convicts, without any inquiry into the causes that led 
them into crime. 

In short, we find, all through the range of philanthropic endeavor, 
devoted hearts and minds attacking effects while ignoring causes. We see 
this tendency carried to the most extreme lengths in every direction, not the 
least important of which is the ordinary treatment of the diseases of women, 
where the effects are attacked and the causes overlooked. In this tendency, in 
all its various forms of manifestation, we find an extravagant waste of effort 
and a further self-blinding to the simple fundamental truths that lie at the 
bottom of life. 

What is the cause of the modern strenuous popular 
IC A pressure upon legislative bodies for a broadening of the 

divorce laws, and for the equally strenuous opposing 

influence of religious bodies ? Why has this opposing influence, particularly 
in some parts of the United States, proved inadequate to stem the flood of 
divorce ? Can we take no hint from the fact that this movement has grown 
with the spreading prevalence of the diseases peculiar to women? Why 
search further, when the most primitive and obvious of causes thrusts itself 
upon our attention ? 

.> It must be clear that if men and women are mentally, physically and 
spiritually adapted to marriage, it should be a perfectly happy relation, for 
nothing in the world is more natural. In animals that are monogamous 
by instinct, we observe the singular fidelity which mated couples exhibit. 
Such a thing as separation or even disagreement is extremely rare. We find 
mated birds building the nest in common, keeping together as much as possible, 
enjoying each other's society, exhibiting each a tenderness and solicitude for 
the other, and finding their greatest pleasure in making wise and skillful 
preparation for the advent and care of their young. When the young are 
hatched, they both, and especially the female, exhibit the most pathetic affec- 
tion for them, and both make their first duty the feeding and protection of the 
helpless little lives that they have brought into the world. And at last, they 
teach the little ones to fly, and then to hunt food, and thus start them aright 
in life. 

Among the lower animals there is nothing whatever 
ssons 1 atignt by ana i g us to the diseases of the generative system that 

so grievously afflict human beings. Is not this difference 

an immeasurable reproach to the intelligence and conscience of the human 
race ? In searching for the causes that render human marriages so often fail- 
tires it is incumbent on us to compare our condition with that of the lower 



120 VIAVI HYGIENE 

animals. This is a scientific procedure. By studying the anatomical structure 
arid the physiology of the lower animals, scientists have gained some of their 
most useful knowledge of human anatomy and physiology. The lower 
animals have formed the standard of judgment of human conduct in many 
ways. It was Solomon who sought to shame the indolent and improvident by 
holding up to them the industry and frugality of the ant. From the beaver 
primitive man doubtless learned how to build dams. The lamb is our standard 
of gentleness, the lion our exemplar of courage, the owl our pattern of solem- 
nity. Even in mated doves we find the finest illustration of affection and 
fidelity. 

When we see among the lower animals an utter absence of diseases of 
the generative system, and concurrently an absence of conjugal infelicity, 
why should we not draw a lesson of inestimable value from the fact? 

In 1898 the United States Government published a very 
Growing Volume of elaborate series of statistics. From it we learn that the 

number of children born in proportion to the number 

of marriages is steadily decreasing, and yet that there has been no famine. 
We learn that there is a growing decrease in the number of marriages.' We 
learn that the size of the average family has diminished, since 1850, from a 
little over five and a half persons to a little less than five. We learn that the 
proportion of divorced to married persons is about one to one hundred. 
There are other things that we learn : Seventeen out of every ten thousand 
persons are insane ; thirteen out of every ten thousand are in prison ; women 
go insane later in life than men ; fifteen out of every ten thousand children 
are born idiots or feeble-minded ; seven out of every ten thousand are deaf 
and dumb ; eight out of every ten thousand are blind ; twelve hundred in 
every ten thousand die annually of consumption ; cancer and tumor are 
steadily increasing. '"> 

Every Viavi representative has an idea of the enormous influence ex- 
erted by the diseases of women to produce every one of these conditions. The 
terrible feature of the diseases of women is that, as they rarely or never kill 
outright and directly, their effect in producing all these conditions is over- 
looked. It is not reflected that as they unfit women for motherhood, they are 
responsible for the weakness that makes crime, insanity, idiocy and disease 
possible and fatal. It is not reflected that in the cases of the sufferers them- 
selves, these diseases open the doors to diseases that are charged with their 
death, suicide or insanity. 

Marriage is so complex a relation that unless all the 
Dme L-at conditions required by it are perfect its force is weak- 

ened. Any one can see that unless both the parties are 
perfectly healthy, one essential to a perfect union is absent. Tnere are, how- 



CONJUGAL RELATIONS 121 

ever, different effects produced by different diseases. Thus consumption, the 
most prevalent of so-called fatal diseases, does not make one irritable, nerv- 
ous, quick-tempered and impatient, while a comparatively slight disease of 
the generative system does ; and yet calmness, patience, forbearance and a 
sweet disposition are very essential to the happiness of married people. To 
the extent to which these elements are feeble will the force of the marriage tie 
be weakened. 

When childbirth is attended with great suffering and danger, it is apt to 
be avoided by unnatural means, even physicians deeming themselves com- 
pelled to advise such means. As every violation of a natural process is pun- 
ished, the punishment in such cases necessarily tends to weaken the conjugal 
bond. 

While healthy children are one of the strongest bonds of the union, 
drawing husband and wife together with a force additional to that of their 
mutual affection, sickly and peevish children, the product of weakness or 
disease on the part of the parents, are a constant irritation, much as they may 
be loved. 

The absence of children altogether means the absence of one of the 
natural results of marriage, and hence its incompleteness. 

Strange to say, none of these is taken into account, to any appreciable 
extent, in estimating the causes of unhappiness in the marriage state, and yet 
a little reflection will show how vital they are. 

One of the worst causes of a weakening of the conjugal 
Sexual Weakness bond - s the low est i mation in w hich women hold, be- 
cause they are taught to hold, their sexual nature and 

its perfect health. It must be evident to every person willing to know the 
truth that sex is the foundation of the love and mating of men and women, 
as of all other of the Almighty's living creatures that mate. To the extent to 
which the sexual nature of either party is weak, the marriage bond will lack 
strength. There are some who deliberately, we may say willfully, close their 
eyes to this self-evideut truth, and argue that the union of the sexes rests upon 
a higher and nobler plane than that. An answer to that argument is that 
where perfect affection and loyalty exist in the presence of sexual incomplete- 
ness, they do so in spite of that condition, and that their foundation is not so 
strong as perfect health would make it. Another is, that if there is anything 
in the whole range of Nature nobler and finer than perfect fitness for the 
bringing forth of children, it has never been discovered. 

The evil effects of unsoundness of the sexual nature are 

rofound Effects of SQ various and far-reaching that even Viavi advocates, 

who have made so close a study of them, doubtless fall 

far short of estimating them at their full value and to their whole extent 



122 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Thus, we may find conjugal infelicity between two persons seemingly perfectly 
healthy, the woman particularly being apparently perfectly sound in her sex- 
ual nature. Yet she very likely inherited from her mother, through the 
latter's efforts to avoid maternity, a dislike for children and c, refusal to bear 
them, thus incurring her husband's ill feeling ; or she may have inherited a 
dislike for her husband's attentions. This is only a suggestion of a thousand 
ways in which conjugal infelicity may be clearly traced to some violation oi 
natural laws with regard to the reproductive function. It would not be diffi- 
cult to compile a volume on that subject alone. 

The low estimate in which so many women hold, because 
Imperfe< and they are taught to hold> their sexual natu re, leads them 

away from an understanding of the fundamental cause 

for love and marriage, and hence makes them negligent of their health and 
completeness in that regard. Such incompleteness does not by any means 
limit itself to the sexual function. If a woman experiences little or no pleas- 
ure in the more intimate relations of a wife with her husband, or if it gives 
her positive distress, or is repugnant to her, her lack as a wife is not confined 
to that, though that alone is a very serious force in the weakening of the con- 
jugal bond. If she is not perfectly competent in that regard, she is necessarily 
lacking in many other qualities that determine the perfect wife. So seriously 
does any imperfection in that regard affect her whole feminine nature, whether 
she is conscious of the fact or not (and she generally is not), that to the extent 
to which she is imperfect in that regard, she is imperfect in all the other qual- 
ities of wifehood. Her sex is not by any means a matter of her sexual organs 
alone it is all that makes her a woman, all that makes her different from a 
man. The very shape and adjustment of her bones have their origin in her 
sex. Her mind, her character, her spirit, her sympathies, her affections, her 
tastes, her hopes, her aspirations, all these are qualities whose character is 
determined by her sex. If they were not, it would make no difference whether 
she had the sex of a woman or of a man. As she has the sex of a woman, she 
has the sexual organs of a woman, which are to some extent the instruments 
of her sexual nature. If their soundness is impaired by disease, she lacks 
perfect womanliness to the extent to which they are impaired ; and if she 
lacks perfect womanliness she lacks perfect wifeliness. Imperfect wifeliness 
is incompatible with perfect conjugal relations. 

A man and a woman are two different elements, two 
Perfect Union in different forces, intended by Nature to unite for a com- 
plexity of purposes, among them a higher enjoyment of 

life, a broadening and deepening of each, and the perpetuation of the race. 
Each is intended to be a perfect complement of the other, just as we see simi- 
lar opposites to be in plants and animals. It was intended that this union 



CONJUGAL RELATIONS 123 

should be formed that every man aiid every woman should marry. It was 
intended that they should be perfectly adapted to marriage and should desire 
it. There are a great many instances in which the intention has been balked, 
in which men and women have never married, and for excellent reasons apart 
from those which we are considering here. Such cases are not pertinent to 
this inquiry; we are now considering only the reasons for the imperfection 
of conjugal relations that have been formed. 

A man and a woman are two halves of a perfect whole. A whole cannot 
be perfect unless the parts composing it are perfect, and the parts cannot be 
perfect unless the elements composing them are perfect. If the parts are per- 
fect, the union will be perfect, no matter from how widely different sources 
they may come. If a prince marries a peasant, and both are perfect, their 
married life will be perfectly happy in spite of their difference in rank and 
all the embarrassments that the difference might be assumed to invite. 

The mutual adaptability of men and women to marriage 
Adaptability of the exteuds to every difference that distinguishes the sexes. 

Bven the organs of sex of the one are perfectly adapted 

to those of the other. This is one of the most beautiful and instructive facts 
in Nature. We have already seen how women are peculiarly constructed^ 
anatomically and physiologically, to bear children, and we know that men are 
not. We know, however, that men are necessary to the process of reproduc- 
tion. Then, men and women must have sexual organs perfectly adapted to 
each other. 

This perfect adaptation is impossible if the organs of either are lacking 
to the least extent in health. The absence of health is the only cause, except 
malformation, that impairs this perfect adaptability. If any one of the or- 
gans is absent, adaptability is impossible ; hence the removal of a woman's 
sexual organs destroys her adaptability to her husband. Mutual desire is an 
expression of adaptability. If it is absent through disease, adaptability does 
not exist. A wife may have so strong an affection for her husband that, even 
though she is lacking in desire, she takes a certain pleasure in giving him 
pleasure ; but it is clear that this is a different thing from sexual pleasure, and 
that unless a woman enjoys this sort of pleasure she is not only losing what 
Nature intended she should have, but is violating a natural law of her being, 
and must suffer the penalty in one way or another. The absence of this 
wholesome, pure and natural desire is a weakening of the conjugal bond. 

, , It seems hardly necessary to go minutely into the physi- 

Ha ^r ^ 0l Sy f the con J ugal relation though some simple facts 
may be given. A weakness, or any diseased condition 

of the generative tract, impairs more or less the procreative function. It be- 
comes undesired or painful according to the existing abnormal condition. If 



124 VIA VI HYGIENE 

the muscular tone of the vaginal walls is impaired, sexual commerce becomes 
imperfect, as the loose, flabby walls cannot form a tight sheath for the copu- 
lative organ of the male, from which function it receives its name. Under 
the influence of the nervous system excessive quantities of blood during sex- 
ural excitement are sent to the generative organs in both sexes. In the man 
the chief copulative organ enlarges by this excessive blood supply, while in 
the woman the calibre of the vagina becomes lessened ; hence the adaptability 
at this time to each other, which does not exist except under sexual excite- 
ment. A diminution or excess of vaginal secretions also impairs this function, 
sometimes rendering it extremely painful. All kinds and degrees of dis- 
placement, as well as all inflammatory processes, with their results, are 
detrimental. 

The most important of all abnormal conditions that painlessly but 
surely destroy perfect womanhood is leucorrhea. This discharge destroys the 
fine sensitiveness of the vaginal tract just as a discharge from the nose destroys 
or impairs the sense of smell. All of these conditions are the product of dis- 
ease or weakness, but none of them exists in a state of perfect health. To the 
extent that any of these imperfections exist the conjugal bond is weakened. 

The effect of the Viavi treatment in such cases is remarkable in every 
way. It not only removes the impairing local conditions, but rejuvenates the 
whole nature of a woman makes her perfect in all the attributes of wifehood. 

A reasonable exercise of the generative function is ben- 
A Misused Biblical eficial to the husband and wife, and it strengthens the 

conjugal bond, provided the conditions for it are perfect. 

If they are not, harm will result, and the bond will be weakened. The health 
and happiness of countless women have been wrecked and conjuga 1 infelicity 
has ruined many homes through ignorance of that vital fact. Numberless 
women, acting conscientiously under the scriptural injunction to submit them- 
selves to their husbands, without stopping to consider the true meaning of 
that injunction, have defeated the very end that they sought to accomplish. 
In such cases duty is not discharged, but violated. The injunction evidently 
contemplated healthy women (and women were generally healthy in those 
days), for it is inconceivable that women should be required to submit them- 
selves unreservedly when such submission impairs or destroys their wifeliness 
by sapping their strength and health. Men are wofully ignorant upon these 
matters, and it is the duty of wives to instruct them. There need be no fear 
that a man who loves his wife will consciously and deliberately do anything 
to impair or destroy the qualities that make her a perfect woman. For this 
reason alone it is essential that men should master the truths embodied in the 
Viavi movement, and that their wives should assist them in the acquisition of 
these truths. A man is all the better for knowing them, and will make all 
the better husband. 



CONJUGAt RELATIONS 1*5 

All the appetites and passions are stronger in men than 
Reason V H Stop - n women> because men are more vigorous animals ; but 
excesses this is no reason why they should indulge any of their 

appetites to an unwholesome extent. A man may inherit so strong a desire 
for drink that he will feel impelled to gratify it, but he knows that if he does 
he will destroy himself; if he has the right kind of manliness in him he will 
refrain. The fighting instinct is strong in most men, and finds frequent ex- 
pression when they are boys , but when they become men they use their man- 
hood and wisdom to repress the hurtful manifestations of the instinct, and 
direct it into channels that bring them benefits from the assault and con- 
quering of obstacles to their progress in life. The eating instinct is much 
stronger in men than in women, and yet their sense of chivalry and unselfish- 
ness moves them to see that their wives have just as good food as they. So, in 
the more intimate conjugal relation, if a man knows his duty and interests, 
he will practice moderation there as in all other ways in which his passions 
and appetites are strong. There is no reason why he should not, and Viavi 
advocates know from experience that he almost invariably does. It is a wife's 
duty to herself and her husband to place this knowledge in his hands. 

( Self-denial is one of the most elevating and strengthening 

Self-Dsnial Brings forces in the wor id. its value is taught by every relig- 
ion. Unreasonable indulgence in one direction weakens 

one's ability to resist temptation in all other directions. We see this in the 
case of drunkards ; their whole moral strength is impoverished. Over- 
indulgence of one appetite leads to over-indulgence of all others. No man 
of strong character and good sense will deliberately weaken his forces if he is 
conscious that any of his practices will have that effect. Bxtremely rare cases 
have come under our observation of husbands and wives who have never 
known each other in the closer conjugal relation. Their sole reason was that 
they were not constituted to bring forth healthy and competent children, with 
expectations of a happy life. That sentiment represents the pinnacle of 
human unselfishness. We have known of other cases, where husband and wife 
pursued the same course, because they were too poor to give their children the 
proper care. We have known of a few others who refrained because the wife 
would have suffered in pregnancy and childbirth. All these cases are com- 
paratively rare, because men and women have not generally risen to so high a 
state of mental and moral development ; but the fact that it has been done 
shuws that it can be done ; and if so much can be done, the much less that 
moderation represents can be done. 

If, through lack of the wife's sexual health, there is any 

jwlnhdehty May im p er f e ction in the reproductive function, a law of 

Nature governing the mating principle has failed to 



126 VIAVI HYGIENE 

operate, and hence the principle upon which the mating rests has been weak- 
ened, and this is an element of conjugal discord. It is true just the same if 
the lack of sexual health is found in the husband, but such cases are compar- 
atively rare, and we are not dealing with them at this time. A deplorable 
trouble with wives whose sexual nature has been impoverished by disease of 
the generative organs is that they cannot understand either what a perfect sex 
sense means, or what their condition means to their husbands. They cannot 
realize the value of what they themselves are losing on the one hand and 
suffering on the other. 

If a man possesses all the attributes of manhood, he will remain true to 
his wife, even though she is not a wife in the full sense ; and she cannot be a 
wife in the full sense if she has the slightest weakness or disease of the gener- 
ative system. It is the height of unwisdom and unkindness in the wife to 
permit herself to be in any condition that may naturally tend to weaken the 
bond between herself and her husband, for the bond is a natural one, and its 
full strength depends upon the presence of natural conditions. In short, a 
wife owes it to her husband, as well as herself, to be a perfect wife, for unless 
she is, an element of weakness in the conjugal, bond exists. The Viavi treat- 
ment enables her to be a wife in every sense. 

A very instructive lesson may be learned from observing 
gA [ ^^ the continued strength of the conjugal bond between a 

healthy and contented man and wife after the wife has 

passed through the change of life. The great natural difference between a 
woman who has been unsexed by surgery and one who has passed through the 
change of life has been noted elsewhere in this volume. If a woman has been 
unsexed by surgery she has suffered a removal of one of the strongest ele- 
ments of the conjugal bond, for the simple reason that she is no longer a 
complete woman ; and not being a complete woman, she cannot be a complete 
wife. The woman who has passed in health through the change of life is still 
a complete woman, and therefore a complete wife, if she is perfectly sound. 
Her sex has not been destroyed only the childbearing part of it has been 
withdrawn. Her husband's attentions are not repugnant to her, as they must 
be expected to be in the case of the wife who has been unsexed. If they were 
repugnant, Nature would be seriously at fault, and we know that she never is. 
On the contrary, if the husband and wife have been healthy and are fond of 
each other, the pleasure of their continued conjugal intimacy after the wife's 
change of life experiences no diminution on that account. As the Viavi 
treatment renders unsexing wholly unnecessary and takes a woman happily 
through the change of life, it enables her to be a wife in all senses, and pre- 
vents the introduction of any element tending to weaken the conjugal bond. 



CHAPTER xix. 



ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP. 



jHEN we study the philosophy of alternating activity and rest we can 
understand how important are both. Activity implies both the devel- 
opment and the consumption of strength. We acquire the essentials 
of strength from food, air and light, and these are the essentials of life 
itself. Having acquired the elements of strength, we develop it by activity, 
and in this way we lend vigor and endurance to life, and establish conditions 
antagonistic to disease. Everything that is created with the power of activity 
must be exercised, to secure its health and usefulness. The absence of all 
activity is death. Anything that interferes with activity invites the causes that 
eventually produce death. 

As activity means a consumption of strength, as well as its develop- 
ment, there must be something to compensate for the loss. This compensa- 
tion comes from food, air and sunshine. There is something else, however, 
equally important rest. Normal activity, if uninterrupted, consumes strength 
more rapidly than food, air and sunshine can produce it. The simple state 
of consciousness does that. Sleep is a form of rest it is "tired Nature's 
sweet restorer." 

It is very easy, by heedless living, to cripple our forces 
Recuperation Most with insufficient rest and sleep> Napoleon was worn out 

^ 5sentia while still a young man, because he had accustomed 

himself to only four hours of sleep a day during the time of his greatest 
activity. Gladstone lived to a very old age, and retained his wonderful mental 
and physical vigor to the last ; in his later years he is said to have slept seven- 
teen hours a day. Hard and exhausting work is never hurtful, if the sources 
of strength food, air and sunshine are intelligently employed, and the re- 
cuperative powers of the system have proper exercise. 

One of the greatest evils with which women have to contend is the gen- 
eral nervous irritation which their diseases produce. This condition is antag- 
onistic to the calm, easy, thorough working of the recuperative forces in rest 






128 VIA VI HYGIENE 

and sleep. The Vlavi treatment not only allays the irritation, and thus gives 
the recuperative forces full play, but by curing the diseases removes the cause 
of the irritation, and at the same time strengthens the recuperative powers. 

If an) r thing to which the power of activity has been 
Exercise Essential giyen is not ^^3^ i t w jn deteriorate and drift toward 

disintegration and death. Prisoners in solitary confine- 
ment become weak-minded because the higher forms of their mental activity 
have been suspended; there is no longer the stimulating attrition of other 
minds; external impressions no longer stir the brain centers to activity. If 
we securely tie up one of our arms, so that its use becomes impossible, its 
muscles will wither and its strength depart. A manifestly irrational and very 
strong tendency of modern times is to treat numerous functional diseases by 
seeking to relieve weak organs of the work that Nature designed them to do. 
Thus, when a woman's uterus has prolapsed the ordinary system of treating 
women's diseases requires that a pessary be inserted to hold the womb in 
place. The womb had become prolapsed because it had unnaturally become 
enlarged, and the ligaments designed by Nature to hold it in place could not 
sustain the burden. It is evident that the pessary relieves them of all work, and 
hence that so long as it remains in place the ligaments will gradually lose the 
strength necessary to hold in place a womb of normal size. The Viavi treat- 
ment discards the pessary and restores the womb to its natural size, so that 
the ligaments can hold it in place. That certainly is the rational plan, and 
it is perfectly successful in practice. 

A great deal more rest is required in disease *han in 
deeded health> for evident reasons. In the first place, disease 

in Disease prohibits a full employment of the sources of strength 

food, air and sunshine and therefore the strength is diminished from that 
cause. In the second place, it prohibits the proper development from which 
strength is secured. In the third place , disease itself is a draft upon the 
strength. In the fourth place, the natural efforts of the system to combat the 
disease increase the consumption of strength. In the fifth place, the poison- 
ous products of disease consume strength employed to eliminate them, and by 
lowering the general vitality hinder the accumulation and development of 
Strength 

The diseases to which women are subject are peculiarly pernicious in 
producing these effects, because of the universal nervous irritation and weak- 
ening that they cause. No disease of the generative organs, however slight, 
confines its bad effects to those organs; every nerve in the body is affected, 
and hence every functional activity in the body is impaired. With this gen- 
eral impairment come a crippling of the mental qualities and an impoverish- 
ment of the affections. 



ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP 129 

When we are merely resting, and are still awake, more 

Strength Consumed strength j s consumed than is stored. This must be so, 

in Kestmg e j ge we cou j^ ^ o without sleep altogether if we should 

simply rest sufficiently long. Even prisoners in solitary confinement have to 

sleep. One might think that as food, light and air are so essential to life, we 

could go longer without sleep than without them. Yet such is not the fact. 

Even while we sleep, the consumption of strength is proceeding, be- 
cause the heart, lungs, stomach and bowels, kidneys, liver and other organs 
keep steadily at work, and there can be no work without a consumption of 
strength. But the consumption is very much less than the recuperation ; in 
sleep more strength is being stored than used. Hence sound sleep is perfect 
rest. If it is fitful, broken and unsatisfactory, and we wake with a feeling of 
weariness, we have not received the full benefit that we should have had, we 
have not recuperated as we should, and we have added another burden to 
health and another impulse to disease. 

Many women are amazingly blind to the value of rest 

How Women Neglect and piti f ully helpless in commanding it. This is solely 
Themselves because they have not learned what it is and what it 

accomplishes, and therefore have had no incentive to plan deliberately and 
intelligently to secure it. Many work or worry every moment that they are 
awake. They should do as men do systematize their work and have regular 
hours for rest. Housekeeping is just as important a branch of the domestic 
partnership as the work that a man does. Indeed, the welfare of the entire 
family depends more on what the wife does and is than on what the husband 
does and is. If a woman is not orderly in the management of her time and 
strength, she is not conducting her share of the partnership work properly, 
and therefore is not discharging her duty to herself and her husband. If 
she does not rest and sleep sufficiently, she does not possess the physical 
strength and mental clearness necessary to a wise discharge of her duties. 

The improper wearing of clothing is a fruitful source of 
Women Lacking in the Diseases that afflict women, but probably the lack of 
wise precautions on the score of rest and sleep is respon- 
sible for much more. Unless a women is exceedingly careful in this regard 
she will not only establish a general condition of the system that invites dis- 
eases of her generative nature, but she will prematurely grow old and unat- 
tractive. Old age in a woman old in years is attractive, but it is not in a 
young woman. No unnatural condition is attractive, and every natural 
condition is 

Some women make slaves of themselves to their children, thus bringing 
harm both to their children and themselves. Some, being of unsound health, 
bring forth peevish and fretful offspring that sap the last remnant of their 



130 VIAVI HYGIENE 

strength, health and youth. Others spoil their infants with unnecessary 
attention. Many who are not burdened with household cares, exhaust their 
forces in social pleasures without recuperating with intelligent rest. 

The wise woman has a time for everything. She realizes that she must 
have abundant rest, and that at such times she must throw from her mind all 
the harassments of her life. 

Exercise of a helpful kind is just as necessary as rest 
Rt ^ and sleep. Attention to domestic duties is exercise, and 

like all other work is wholesome and helpful if it is 

wisely done. But it lacks some very important elements. One of these is 
sunshine. Fortunately, this is secured out-of-doors, where at the same time 
the most exhilarating and beneficial exercise is to be enjoyed. A short walk 
every day when the sun shines is highly beneficial. Out-of-door exercise has 
many other valuable qualities. It is stimulating. The nervous system re- 
sponds to the influence, and the circulation is improved in consequence, and 
the activity of the organs increased. A good digestion is promoted, and the 
system more readily rids itself of injurious elements, particularly those that 
are the products of disease. Pleasant impressions are generated, and these 
act wholesomely upon every function of the body. 

A good way to give an object to open-air exercise is to make informal, 
not fashionable, calls on friends. These, however, should be short, else the 
physical exercise will be insufficient. Sociability itself is one of the most 
beneficent of hygienic measures. 

. It is particularly incumbent on a woman suffering with 

Duty of *. uttering a uter i ne disease to exercise the utmost care and wisdom 

in securing adequate rest and wholesome diversions. 

She should reflect that her disease, however slight, is constantly sapping her 
strength and weakening her recuperative forces, and that it is doing this with 
a severity commensurate with the gravity of her affliction. Even her sleep is 
not as sound as it should be, and therefore she should have more of it than a 
perfectly well woman. Every minute that she takes in comfortable rest, and 
every hour that she can devote to sleep, adds to the power of her recuperative 
forces. The Viavi treatment will greatly assist her to secure sound sleep. 
This it does without the slightest trace of a sedative, opiate or other anodyne, 
but solely because it feeds, strengthen and tones her nervous system, and 
assures the removal through a strengthened circulation of the irritating prod- 
ucts of her disease. It thus gives her system strength to combat the disease, 
and her recuperative forces power to store up strength. 

Some practical hints on how to take rest in the waking 
low Re May Be state may p roye helpful . The entire body sho uld t>e 

rested, for if there is any part of it at work a draft is 



ACTIVITY. REST AND SLEEP 131 

being made upon the strength. The best rest is taken while lying down. The 
clothing should be thoroughly loosened, so that there will be nothing to inter- 
fere with the free circulation of the blood or press upon the viscera. A quiet 
place, free from noise, should be chosen if possible, for every sound gives the 
auditory nerves some work to do, and is an irritation as well. The mind 
should be made as blank as possible; but if it shows any tendency to wander 
upon disagreeable or fretting subjects, it should be made to dwell upon some- 
thing pleasant, for every unpleasant thought consumes far more strength than 
a pleasant one, and is an irritation besides. The room should be made as dark 
as possible, because light gives the optic nerves some work to do, and thus 
consumes strength, besides being an irritant. 

In resting while lying down, the couch or bed should be 
Secret of Resting per fectly comfortable. Of course the greatest care should 
Comfortably be taken not to contract a cold . The body should be 
perfectly level, for if the upper part of it is raised the bowels will be crowded 
down and made to press upon the organs of the pelvic cavity. If a pillow is 
used at all (and some women find that to do without one altogether is better, 
becoming accustomed to this by reducing its size day by day), it should be 
small, so that the blood can have free access by gravity to the brain, and 
should not be soft and heating, the idea being to keep the head cool. The 
abolition of voluminous pillows has helped to cure many a backache, because 
such pillows prevent the perfect rest of the spine throughout its whole length. 
Rest is promoted by shifting the position from the back to one side, and then 
to the other side, as a long-sustained position is itself wearisome. On warm 
days it will be found restful, while lying on the back, to place a moderately 
large, hard pillow under the knees ; this is especially beneficial where there is 
a tendency to swollen feet and legs, and varicose veins. 

If a Viavi patient will rest in this manner for half an hour every after- 
noon, and, if necessary, in the forenoon as well, she will find that her progress 
will be much more rapia and satisfactory, and that she will be less irritable 
and more cheerful and hopeful. 

It is eminently advisable that husband and wife, even 
Separate Beds Are though both are perfectly healthy, should sleep apart, 

and this is imperative if the wife is ailing to the slightest 

extent. It will be often found that the women who suffer from a lack of 
moderation on the part of their husbands are the very ones who insist on their 
sleeping together. They have only themselves to blame. The principal 
reason why women desire that their husbands should occupy the same bed 
with them is that they come to rely on what they feel is the protection that 
the presence of their husbands affords ; they are nervous and apprehensive if 
alone. It is more than likely that these same women slept alone before their 



132 VIA VI HVGI^NK 

marriage. They might reflect with profit that the feeling of security afforded 
by the presence of their husbands is merely a habit, and that it can be easily 
broken up by the exercise of a little determination and ctrength of character. 
It is a bad habit, and like all other bad habits, should be abandoned as soon 
as possible. 

It is better that they should occupy separate rooms. Where this is not 
possible, they should have separate beds in the same room. 

The diseases peculiar to women are particularly disturb- 
Commo ; csort to ing to sound and refreshing sleep. This is because the 

nervous system is badly affected and the body poisoned 

to a greater or less extent with the products of the disease. As a consequence, 
the temptation to use some kind of sleeping powder, pill or draught is exceed- 
ingly strong. Indeed, it is a common practice with physicians to prescribe 
drugs that have the effect of deadening the nerves and stupefying the brain, 
and thus inducing sleep. Within the last few years tremendous energies have 
been expended in the search for new sedatives, hypnotics, narcotics, soporifics 
and anodynes. Coal tar has yielded a formidable list of these poisons. In 
many cases the physician informs the sufferer afflicted with insomnia what 
preparation he is giving her to induce sleep, and he advises her that as 
she cannot sleep naturally, and is in great need of sleep, it is necessary that 
she should use the preparation. Believing this, she comes to rely upon this 
artificial relief from her tortures, and thus becomes confirmed in the habit. 
In other cases the physician conceals the drug under some symbol or unrec- 
ognized name in a prescription, and the victim is unaware that she is taking 
it. Many other sufferers resort to sedatives without the connivance of physi- 
cians, simply because they are so easily accessible and cost so little and are 
used by so many other persons. A great many women carry about with them 
little pellets, tablets, wafers, salts, or what not, that are made to ease head- 
aches or soothe or stimulate the nerves, and are ignorant of the fact that they 
are using destructive sedatives or stimulants whose true nature is concealed in 
the alluring name of the preparation. 

One of the most stubborn difficulties that Viavi repre- 
"^ * s sentatives have to encounter, particularly in chronic 

cases, is the presence, conscious or unconscious, of the 

narcotic habit in the sufferers. In such cases there is always and necessarily 
a lowered physical, mental and moral tone, to a greater or less extent, so that 
not only must physical conditions aggravated by the narcotic habit be over- 
come, but the mental and moral forces have to be built up as well. 

When it is reflected that the foundation of the reputation of the Viavi 
treatment was laid in the cure of chronic cases of the most serious kind, 
and that in rnany of these all the ,evil effects of the narcotic habit had to be 



ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP 133 

overcome (for no cure is possible until that victory has been won), Uae power 
of the treatment, not alone in curing the disease, but also in overcoming the 
fearful effects and seemingly invincible hold of the narcotic habit, may be 
comprehended. Some of the most brilliant victories achieved by the treat- 
ment have been in curing women of the opium or morphine habit while 
overcoming the disease out of which the habit grew. 

The evil effects of all drugs that alleviate pain and in- 
Evils from Using duce sleep may be easily compre hended. The controll- 
ing power of every function of the body, the force that 

renders possible everything that we do and are, is the nervous system. Even 
pain is evidence that the nerves are alive to their duties and are discharging 
them, for pain is Nature's notice to our intelligence that something has gone 
wrong which demands our immediate and wise attention. Pain is intended to 
be the great educator of our conduct. If an infant, lured by the beauty of a 
candle-flame, thrusts its finger into it, the flame will injure the tissues and 
nerves, and this injury is not good for the infant's welfare. Therefore, Nature 
provides that the nerves whose business it is to guard the welfare of that 
finger shall instantly inform the brain that a mistake has been made, that an 
injury is being done. The brain immediately, upon receiving this notice, and 
finding that it means the presence of harm, at once sends out, over another 
et of nerves, the impulse that causes the infant to withdraw its finger and 
thus stop the harm. 

It must be clear that pain is absolutely essential to an intelligent care of 
the body and its preservation from harm. That is what the capacity for pain 
was given us for. If that capacity is impaired or destroyed, we suffer an im- 
pairment or destruction of a thing vital to our self-protection and self-preserva- 
tion. That is just the effect produced by drugs that alleviate pain and induce 
sleep, and it is just the effect that the Viavi treatment counteracts. 

Upon the full integrity of the nervous system depend the 
Effect of Narcotics p er f ect wor king and condition of every part, organ and 
on Nerves function of the body. Any drug that has the effect of 

numbing pain or inducing sleep lowers the tone of the entire nervous system, 
and thus necessarily impairs its integrity. The unavoidable result is physical 
deterioration and an aggravation of any disease that may be present. This is 
true with regard not only to what may be termed strictly physical conditions, 
but also with the mind itself. Thought is a function of the brain, just as the 
secretion of bile is a function of the liver, or the secretion of gastric juice is a 
function of the stomach, or as the contraction of muscles in the various acts 
of the body and its members is a function of the motor nerves, or as the trans- 
mission of the sensation of pain is a function of the sensory nerves. The 
ability of the brain to perform its function in the production of ideas depends 



13 4 VIAVI HYGIENE 

strictly upon the condition of the brain. It is the grand center of the nervous 
system. It is here that all the incoming and outgoing nerves are assembled. 
It is here, after their assemblage, that they are brought into a close common 
relation, in order that the body may be what it is, a unified structure. Hence 
it follows that if an injury is sustained by any nerve or set of nerves, the 
entire body is injured to that extent. 

But what of the grand center, the brain, itself ? It is the one that re- 
ceives all the buffettings, that sustains all the injury that any nerve or set of 
nerves may suffer. That is why the mind is so seriously affected by uterine 
diseases. When a pain-alleviating or sleep-inducing drug is taken into the 
system it enters the circulation and is thus distributed to every part of the 
body. Not only is every nerve in the system affected by it, but the brain is 
affected both through all the nerves and through a direct attack of the drug 
upon it. As a consequence, an impairment of the function of the brain that 
is, the power to think is unavoidable, and the longer and oftener this injury 
is inflicted the more seriously the mind will be affected. 

* 

Anything relieved of the work that Nature intended it to 

How a Habit Is perform will eventually lose the power to do its work. 

Confirmed Th is j s j us t a s true of the nerves as of everything else. 

If, by the use of pain-deadening drugs, we impair or destroy the ability of the 

sensory nerves to convey impressions of pain to the brain, we shall not be 

properly informed when matters are going wrong, nor when danger and injury 

are present, and hence the mind will not know that anything is to be done to 

avoid the danger or to prevent or repair the injury. Every drug that is taken 

to alleviate pain tends to have that effect. 

Likewise, sleep is a function of the nerves, and a desire for sleep is a 
notice given to the brain that rest and recuperation are demanded bj the 
system. The brain thereupon directs that measures be taken to secure sleep. 
A bed is provided and prepared, we undress, get into bed, compose ourselves, 
and invite the sleep that the mind has ordered. If the nerves come to depend 
upon some artificial agency, such as a sleep-inducing drug, they will give a 
false and unnatural impression to the brain, and the brain, thus deceived, will 
produce a false and unnatural idea. The longer and oftener this deception is 
practiced upon the brain, the less will grow its power to functionate normally 
in the production of natural ideas, and the more confirmed, therefore, the 
false, unnatural and pernicious reliance will become. 

Physicians administer pain-deadening and sleep-induc- 
Thy Do. jive ing dnjgs out of mere pity for the 8uffererS) though 

often with the belief that sleep by any means is better 

than no sleep at all. They reflect wisely that insufficient sleep will bring in- 
Banity or death sooner or later, directly or indirectly. As their skill is iusuiH- 



ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP 135 

ciettt to produce natural sleep, they are forced to resort to artificial means, 
many of them being aware of the fearful risks they are running and of the 
immediate harm they are doing in order to secure the good at which they 
aim. It is the best they can do. This is one of the most pitiful and humili- 
ating confessions that the science at their command could make. 

The Viavi treatment perfectly does away with all the evils that this 
practice embodies. Through the education of the mind, the strengthening of 
the moral forces and the building up of the nervous system it explains the 
immense value of pain and aids its philosophical and cheerful endurance, and 
gives strength to do so. As for sleep, that is one of the first, most immediate 
and most salient of its good effects. Many thousands of afflicted ones, who 
had suffered incredible tortures from insomnia, secured, their first night's 
sound, sweet, peaceful and restoring sleep after the first few days' use of the 
treatment ; and the start thus made is never interrupted. This result may not 
be produced so quickly in all cases, but it will be in every case sooner or 
later, and it is never long delayed. 

The reasons why the Viavi tteatment induces a perfectly 

Natural *leep Is natural> and therefore beneficial, sleep, are evident. If 

the remedy contained any narcotic principle, the very 

end to which it is directed would be defeated, and the cures that it effects 
would be impossible. 

It feeds impoverished tissues that are irritating the nerves by clamoring 
for sustenance ; it feeds the nerves that have been impoverished by the inces- 
sant and exhausting demands upon them ; it regulates the circulation, which 
not only is thus enabled properly to distribute the nutriment from the remedy 
and the digestive system to every part of the body, but also to remove the 
waste products of living and the poisonous accumulations from disease ; it aids 
digestion, assimilation and elimination, all the organs being thus enabled to do 
their work painlessly and easily, without any fretting of the nerves or brain. 
In short, it induces a natural condition of the system, and as sleep is a natural 
process, sleep follows as a natural and certain result. 

It will thus be seen that sleep is not induced directly, as in the case of 
drugs, but indirectly, by the establishment of natural conditions in the system. 
That is to say, the treatment follows natural laws instead of violating them, 
and establishes a natural condition by natural means. Natural conditions can 
never be established by artificial means. Natural sleep can never be induced 
by drugs. Disease can never be overcome by resort to unnatural measures, 
and health can never for long be maintained under unnatural conditions. 

, The Viavi treatment induces waking rest in the same 

1 *p manner tnat it does sleep, but the process is so interest- 

ing and instructive that it will bear special analysis. It 



136 VIAVI HYGIENE 

is highly important that we understand all these things, for upon such under- 
standing depend a sure and early recovery from disease and an intelligent 
maintenance of health. 

We shall illustrate the subject in the following way : The sensation of 
hunger is a notice sent by all the nerves in the body to the brain that the 
system needs food. When the brain receives this notice it performs its natural 
function it creates in the mind a perception of the meaning of the sensation. 
Thereupon the mind devises the proper remedy it moves the arms and hands 
to procure food and convey it to the mouth, the mouth to masticate it and the 
throat to swallow it. Thus the demand is met. An impairment of the integ- 
rity of the nerves will often fail to inform the brain when food is needed, and 
consequently the sensation of hunger will be absent, and the mind will not 
take adequate steps to meet the demand of the system. 

So, the sensation of weariness is a notice sent by the nerves to the brain 
that the body is in need of rest ; the mind thereupon devises means for secur- 
ing rest. But women afflicted with the diseases peculiar to their sex have 
nerves whose integrity is impaired to a greater or less extent. Hence the nerves 
may fail to inform the brain that rest is needed, or the nervous irritation caused 
by the disease may prevent needed rest. If the integrity of the nerves is 
restored, they will perform their duty intelligently ; they will know when 
the body needs rest, and when it does they will so inform the brain ; and 
the brain will evolve thoughts of rest, and compel its adoption. That is just 
what the Viavi treatment accomplishes. 

A great many afflicted women dread going to bed, be- 
Dr d *d ie cause they know that long and torturing hours of wake- 

fulness await them. If they felt that sleep would come 

promptly, would be sound, and would continue for a sufficient length of 
time, they would look forward to bed-going time as one of the pleasantest 
events of the day. They would enjoy it just as much as a hungry person 
would an approach to a table laden with tempting viands. In the morning 
they would arise refreshed and satisfied, just as a person would from a meal 
that had been enjoyed. 

By establishing normal conditions the Viavi treatment induces a desire 
to sleep at the proper time, and the ability to sleep soundly and a sufficient 
length of time for the recuperative forces to do their work. There will be no 
tendency to dread the act of going to bed. la other words, natural conditions 
will be established by natural means, and natural functions will result. Sleep 
is one of them. 

We thus see that the Viavi treatment cures not alone by feeding the 
nerves and tissues, by establishing a perfect circulation and making good 
blood, and by eliminating the waste products of living and the poisonous 
products of disease, but also by establishing conditions that lead to healthful 



ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP 137 

and natural rest and sleep, which alone are among the most powerful of cura- 
tive agencies, and in whose absence the curing of disease is impossible. 

For the same reason that the Viavi treatment establishes 
How Activity Is conditions leading to rest and sleep, it rehabilitates those 
.encouraged conditions that render activity easy and pleasurable. 

People who do not rest and sleep sufficiently have no desire to employ their 
activities. They are tired and depressed all the time. " That tired feeling" 
has long been a byword in describing the feeling of women afflicted with the 
diseases of their sex. They feel no incentive to do wholesome, orderly and 
profitable work. They take little or no interest in their work, and as a conse- 
quence they do it badly. They feel no impulse to go out-of-doors and enjoy 
exercise, pure air and sunshine. Nothing leads them to seek those social pleas- 
ures that mean so much to the health and that add so much to the graces of 
life. They prefer the gloom of solitude and the dreariness of home imprison- 
ment. The Viavi treatment will change all that for them, and make them what 
they should be contributors to their own happiness and usefulness, to the 
happiness and prosperity and content of their husbands, and to the welfare of 
their children. 

, Every disease, however slight, is a hastened step to the 

True Meaning of grave> Every physical condition that embodies the 

least deviation from the normal, is a summons to death. 

Every artificial device employed to take the place of essential natural pro- 
cesses, is an invitation to disease or an aid to its work. Every reliance upon 
artificial means serves as a blinding to the right and natural means. The Viavi 
treatment recognizes and adopts the principle that natural tendencies are up- 
ward ; that the natural condition is one of health ; that Nature unaided would 
cure all diseases had not her Overcoming and recuperative forces become too 
weak in the many cases where she fails, and that the one and only true 
method is to extend the assistance that Nature needs. She will never fail to 
employ it if extended in time, and will make the most of it under the most 
disadvantageous circumstances. The Viavi treatment has proved the one and 
only aid that she can successfully employ in overcoming the obstinate and 
destructive conditions existing in the diseases with which women are afflicted. 



CHAPTER xx. 



REGULAR HABITS. 



)O long as the earth continues to revolve on its axis, presenting successively 
the different parts of its surface to the light of the sun, so long must it 
follow that the affairs of life and the world must be ruled by the condi- 
tions thus established. Nearly all savage people are or have been sun- 
worshipers, for they have the common sense to recognize the controlling influ- 
ence of the sun and the value of what we get from it, and have not yet devel- 
oped spiritually to a state in which they can conceive a higher power of which 
the sun is but an instrument; they have not learned that there are countless 
millions of other suns, all possibly giving life to countless millions of worlds 
besides ours. 

When the sun rises, the activity of all nature begins ; when it sets, the 
time of diurnal rest is at hand. Thus at the very foundation of life a regular 
daily procession of events is established, and the more we respect that fact, 
and order our conduct and affairs in accordance with it, the nearer we shall be 
to Nature and the more we shall get of the happiness and prosperity that she 
can bestow. 

All successful businesses are conducted with reference 

T^l l day and night ' This means the existence of a busi - 

ness habit to that extent. The formation of one habit 

leads to the formation of others. For that matter, it is needless to argue that 
we are essentially and of necessity creatures of habit. A step further leads us 
to an appreciation of the fact that habits may be good or bad, that we know 
the difference between them, and that it is as easily within our power to culti- 
vate useful as it is prejudicial habits. We know that if a business man falls 
into a slovenly and irregular way of conducting his business, it will go to 
pieces. We know that if one contracts a bad habit of any kind, one will suffer 
for it. We know, too, that habits are exceedingly tenacious, more so in middle 
life and old age than in youth, and that they are so, whether they are good 
or bad. 



ACTIVITY, REST AND SLEEP 139 

Useful habits, when thoroughly established, are followed 
Habit Co; s from SQ eagi]y that we may be hardly conscious of the acts to 

which they give rise. Thus, walking is a very complex 

and difficult art, requiring a high order of skill and judgment. A long time 
and vast labor were required of all of us to master it, and in the process we 
received many a hurt ; but after mastering it we acquired it as a habit, so 
that we came to perform the act with so great ease and assurance that it gives 
us no trouble whatever. In fact, we may be so engrossed with our thoughts 
as to be unconscious of any effort to perform it ; and under ordinary conditions 
we take great pleasure in it. Yet it is one of the most difficult things imagin- 
able. We do it so eac.ly solely because it has become a habit to do it easily 
it has become second nature. 

We do many other things automatically, all from having acquired the 
habit of doing them. Imagine, if possible, the incredible complexity of piano 
playing by an accomplished performer the vast range of muscles brought 
into perfect and harmonious play, the swift and accurate action of innumerable 
nerves, and the tremendous array of co-ordinating mental faculties at work. 
Yet to the performer it is all very easy, though utterly impossible to one who 
has not acquired his skill. It is simply because he has formed the habit it 
has become second nature with him. 

What is difficult in the beginning becomes easy by fre- 
Bad Tendencies in quent repetitiorj> That is the secret of skin in all 

things. Even many bad habits require much effort and 

persistence in their acquirement. The poison of tobacco is repugnant to thw 
human system, and boys who acquire the tobacco habit do so only after getting 
sick a number of times in the effort. Generally, however, bad habits are 
easier of acquirement than good ones, for the reason that we have got far 
away from the natural and primitive conditions of our existence, and it is 
required of us, under our present conditions, to make intelligence and con- 
science take the place of instinct. If we fail to do so, we have not sufficient 
instinct to guide us aright, but, on the contrary, a great store of inherited 
weaknesses and evil tendencies that seek to assume control. A poisoned hered- 
ity, therefore, has become our guide, instead of the instinct that makes the 
lower animals live aright and acquire only useful habits. It is true that we 
have another guide in the example of those about us, but unless we have tlie 
wisdom to distinguish between the good and the bad in the example that 
they set, our inherited perversity may naturally lead us to prefer the bad to 
the good. 

Many of us are in stupid ignorance of the fact that cer- 
we Should Study tain faabits that we fol]ow bear the slightest element of 

harm. We would try to uproot them if we knew they 



i4o V1AVI HYGIENE 

were injurious, but we take no great trouble to inform ourselves whether they 
are hurtful or helpful. It is incumbent upon every one of us with the slight- 
est pretensions to a faithful discharge of our duties to examine every one of 
our habits minutely and ascertain whether it is good or bad. 

The beauty of forming correct habits is manifold. They soon become 
easy ; they give endless pleasure ; they help to uproot bad habits by establish- 
ing a better order in the economy and giving it greater strength, pride and 
self-reliance. If we do not make an intelligent and persistent effort to uproot 
bad habits and establish good ones, we are deliberately violating our obligations, 
and bring harm not alone to ourselves, but to others, and more particularly to 
those* immediately associated with us. The mother or father who indulges in 
any injurious habit transmits to the offspring a tendency to adopt that habit, 
or others equally bad. 

x 

A , f o By the systematizing of all one's affairs they are the 

GC B d ' m re CaSily attended t0 ' and the P ractice of attending to 

them promptly and at the proper time soon establishes 

the habit of doing so.' Other things being equal, those men are the most suc- 
cessful in business who have the best and most orderly system for conducting 
it. It is ground into men from boyhood to systematize their duties. As a 
consequence, they can do a great deal more, and do it a great deal better and 
more easily, than if they had no system. The reason why the lives of so 
many women are hard is not that their duties are really irksome in themselves, 
but that they are injudiciously discharged. To do a thing in a haphazard way 
requires a great deal more strength and labor than to do it in a systematic way. 

There are certain simple regulations of life whose faith- 
Neglect -sonal ful observance brings powerful elements of health. 

Perfect regularity in personal matters is one of them. 

Take so simple a matter, seemingly, as the calls of Nature for an evacuation 
of the bowels and bladder. A great majority of people, women especially, 
have no definite time or times of the day for this duty, and consequently they 
establish no regularity of habit in this regard. The system does not organize 
its forces on a definite plan, but is always uncertain and hesitating. Of course 
everything must suffer from such neglect. 

There are others who defer such a call when it is made. If Nature does 
not take matters in her own hands and force the issue, she ceases for the time 
to make the demand, and then bends her energies to get rid of the deleterious 
refuse by other means. The nerves set the mucous membrane lining the 
intestines at work, and the blood absorbs what it can of the effete matter. 
The blood then carries it to all parts of the body, working some of it out through 
the skin, and some out through the lungs, thus tainting the breath In the 
case of urine unduly retained the blood takes up what it can and distributes 



REGULAR HABITS 141 

it throughout the system, with equally unpleasant and hurtful results. 

The functions of the body are wonderfully responsive to 
Nature Responds to kin( ji y and intelligent treatment. If the bowels and 
Thoughtfulncss bladder learn that at certain definite times of the day 
they are to be emptied, they will organize their processes so intelligently that 
they will be always ready to empty themselves at those times, and will never 
give any trouble in doing so. ^On the contrary, they will be so grateful that 
they will discharge their duty in a manner that gives us much satisfaction. At 
the same time, not the slightest strain will be put upon the nervous system in 
its efforts to correct our fault, and this will produce a state of general nervous 
content and ease. The best time for emptying the bowels is immediately 
before or after breakfast, for all during the night and the previous day the 

digestive processes have been storing refuse and getting it ready for discharge. 
The bladder, of course, will be emptied at the same time. In a normal state 
the bowels require emptying but once a day. If there is a tendency to do so 
oftener or less often, something serious is wrong, and we should try to cor- 
rect the fault without delay. One of the best ways of doing so is to establish 
the habit of emptying them at a definite hour every day. Even though no 
desire for stool may be felt when that hour arrives, Nature should be invited 
to make the effort. She will gradually come to understand that we have an 
intelligent and kindly purpose, and she will then do her utmost to conform 
herself to our intention. That is the establishing of an exceedingly benefi- 
cent habit. 

We can understand, upon a little reflection, why regu- 
Nature's Works Are larity of habits is so essential. Nature compels us to 
Rythmical sleep a certain number of hours every day. This is im- 

planted ineradicably within us, and we cannot violate it without suffering the 
consequences. Thus we have the foundation of a rythmical procession of 
events the waking and the sleeping life. Each has a distinct and vital pur- 
pose the one for the consumption of strength, and the other for its recupera- 
tion. Hence the more rythmical and orderly we make our acts, the more 
pleasure living will give us. It should cause us infinite shame to be driven to 
perform any of the natural functions, whether eating, sleeping, or evacuating 
the bowels and bladder. Nature desires to be our friend and guide, not our 
lash-wielding master. She punishes us only when we violate her laws, but 
she never fails to reward us when we obey them ; and we get pain or pleasure 
out of life to the extent to which we violate or observe its principles. 

It may be deemed a surprising thing that any necessity should exist for 
insisting on perfect regularity in one's personal habits, but the truth is that 
this is one of the worst obstacles encountered in the treatment of disease, and 
one of its most prolific causes. 



14* VIAVI HYGIENE 

One of the reasons why men are healthier as a rule than 
ood r'roouc a by women j s that they are more regular in their natural 

functions, and the reason why they are more regular is 

that their business is regular. If women would regulate their affairs as com- 
pletely, their natural tendency would be to give regular attention to their 
natural functions. Men were evidently intended by Nature to be stronger 
than women, but not to be heartier nor healthier. Their superiority in these 
regards grows out of their habits of life. 

Thus, in the matter of eating, the systematized method of a man's life 
lends a zest to his efforts, and this keeps his nervous system in good tone, with 
the result that his appetite is hearty and his digestion good. Women are 
prone to give too little attention both to the character of their food as strength- 
making material, and to regularity in taking it. Just as the bowels and blad- 
der respond gratefully to intelligent attention on the score of regularity, so 
does the stomach. When we come to discuss dyspepsia we shall have some- 
thing to say about diet, and the principles there laid down will have wide 
application. The point now insisted upon is that regularity in eating be given 
the closest attention. This is just as important as the character of the food 
that we eat. The stomach, like everything else, does its work best if it has 
regular periods of work and rest, and if this regularity is interfered with the 
health of a well person will suffer, and the disease of a suffering one will be 
augmented. 

. Regularity in the times for taking rest and sleep wiii 

^ conserve strength to a wonderful degree, and this strength 



is useful both in maintaining health and combatting 
disease. If the system has been accustomed to expect food at regular times 
(not closer than six hours apart), the sensation of hunger will rarely occur 
until the time arrives when the stomach has been taught to expect food. 
Similarly, if regular habits have been established with regard to emptying the 
bowels, the desire to do so will not appear until the regular time for emptying 
them arrives. In the one case the hunger will be sharp, and in the other the 
desire will be strong. As a consequence, natural enjoyment attends the per- 
formance of these functions, because they are natural functions. 

So, if the system has been made accustomed to expect daytime rest at a 
certain hour, it will create a desire for rest when that hour arrives, and the 
rest, therefore, will be sweeter, more thorough and more refreshing than if it 
is taken in an irregular and haphazard fashion. ) It is the same with going t<i 
sleep. If the system has been made accustomed to going to sleep at a certain 
hour, it will expect to sleep when that hour arrives, and as a consequence 
sleep will come readily and be sound and refreshing. 

It may seem absurdly unnecessary to call attention to these elemental 
end self-evident rules of conduct, but the fact is that ninety-nine persons in a 



REGULAR HABITS 143 

hundred give them no thought, much less understand their great value. 

There is hardly a thing of ordinary occurrence in life 
>od Ha teld . pleasure 



in the doing, if it is done regularly. Take exercise, for 

instance. If we have accustomed the system to the pleasant stimulus of a 
walk or drive or ride, or anything else of a kindred nature, at a certain hour 
of the day, it will expect that stimulus when the hour arrives, and will enjoy 
it much more than if the pleasure is taken in a haphazard and sporadic fash- 
ion. The great evil of evil habits is that the system has become accustomed to 
the regular performance of the habitual evil act. If a man accustoms his 
system to an intoxicant at a certain hour of the day, he will crave it when that 
hour arrives. In a similar way, the system will crave the indulgence of a 
good habit, and will enjoy it. 

It is the same with all the work that falls to our daily lives. A man 
enjoys his business, and is successful in it, in proportion to the regularity with 
which he conducts its details. Not only that, but it comes easier to him, and 
he does it better, and it is more beneficial to his spirits, health and strength. 
Great musicians have regular hours of the day for practice, and no matter 
how proficient and famous and prosperous they become, they must continue 
to practice in that regular way, or they will lose their skill. A woman who 
lays out her duties on a systematic plan, will find them much easier to do than 
if she permits them to drive her, will take a great deal more pleasure in doing 
them, and will receive the full benefit that their performance can impart, 




CHAPTER xxi. 



SUNSHINE AND AIR. 



E all realize to some extent the fact that the sun's light is essential to 
health and life, but do we realize it to the full extent, and do we make 
the most intelligent use of the knowledge ? Every living thing must 
have the sun's light. Even the blind creatures that live in caverns and 
at the bottom of the sea receive some light, however little, and however im- 
perceptible it may be to our senses. Some things naturally require less light 
than others, but we are not concerned with that fact here. We know that 
human beings require all the light they can get, and that they thrive in pro- 
portion to the amount they receive, and suffer in proportion to the extent to 
which they are denied it. Persons confined in prison cells or to their homes 
become etiolated that is, pale. This means that their blood is not of a char- 
acter to sustain health and overcome disease. If the blood is wrong everything 
else is wrong. 

The sun's light comes to us in two forms direct and 
Kinds and Effects re f racte( j e The direct light is the direct, uninterrupted 
of Sunlight ray . it is what we call sunshine. Refracted light is the 

ray turned aside, diffused and scattered. Hence it has power, but not nearly 
so great as that of the direct ray. The daylight in our houses is refracted sun- 
light ; that out-of-doors on a clear day is direct sunlight. On a cloudy day we 
have refracted and diffused light, because the direct rays are broken up, and 
much of their power absorbed, by the clouds. 

Civilized races have accustomed themselves in a measure to less sunshine 
than savages enjoy, but two things may be noted" first, that civilized races are 
not so healthy as savages, and that those civilized persons who spend most of 
their time in the open air are the healthiest. 

The difference between the power of the sun's light in 

The Qualities of summer and j n w i nte r is due to the difference in the 

Sunlight thickness of the layer of the earth's air that it has to 

penetrate. In winter this thickness is much greater than in summer, because 



SUNSHINE AND AIR 145 

the rays come to us more slanting, and hence more of them are absorbed, and 
fail to reach us. Therefore it is advisable that we get much more sunshine in 
winter than in summer. 

For our purposes we may assume that the sun's light has two qualities 
a chemical one, which is roughly called its actinic quality, and its heating one. 
Both of these qualities are diminished in winter. The actinic quality is of 
more importance to us than the heating quality. Both the actinism and the 
heat are vastly stronger in the direct than in the refracted rays. In a place 
that is very hot in summer the heat that we receive from long exposure to the 
direct rays may do us snore harm than the actinic quality will do us good. 
Happily, we can always use our intelligence both as to the length of time we 
should expose ourselves to the direct rays, and as to devising measures to lessen 
the power of the direct rays, by i terposing between us and the sun some- 
thing say a loosely woven fabric to intercept some of the light. 

Working hand in hand with the life-giving power of the 
Life from Air and sun is that of the aij% and the two are proper i v cons id- 

Sunsnine ere( j together. All things, including human beings, 

draw from the air much of what they need to sustain life. When earth is 
brought up from a deep mine or well, it is unfit to grow plants, because it 
lacks the elements that the air and sunshine impart to soil to make it suitable 
for the sustention of plant life. These forces work upon it as it lies exposed, 
and in the course of time a growth of grass or weeds appears upon it. Farmers 
get the best results by letting their land lie fallow once in a while that is, by 
refraining from growing a crop upon it. The following year it yields a much 
more bountiful crop than if it had been denied this opportunity to recuperate. 
Most farmers call this "letting the land rest." It does not really rest then any 
more than when a crop is on it, but the absence of a crop permits the air and 
sunshine to have free access to it, and they thus restore to it useful elements 
that former crops had consumed. It follows, therefore, that when a field is 
fallowed it should be thoroughly plowed, and more than once, for the more 
thoroughly it is stirred, to a reasonable extent, the more completely it is ex- 
posed to the action of the air and sunshine, and the more useful elements it 
draws from them. 

The air and sun, and particularly the sun, lend to all 

Effect of Si nkght livin g things the colors that distinguish and adorn them. 

Within the tissues in which the color appears, Nature 

stores what are termed pigment cells, which contain the element upon which 
the actinism of the sun's rays works to produce the particular color that the 
pigment is designed to develop. Hence for every different shade of every 
different color in living things, the pigment cells contain a distinct element 
capable of producing that shade when acted upon by the sun's light. 



146 VIA VI HYGIENE 

It follows that the brightest colors are seen in those living things that 
receive the greatest amount of sunshine. We know that persons most exposed 
to sunshine have the highest color. In the skin of brunettes there is more 
pigment than in that of blondes, and hence sunlight makes a brunette daiker 
than it does a blonde. Persons of a reddish complexion grow redder instead 
of dark in the sunshine. This is not because of the presence of a reddish 
pigment in the skin, but because the action of the sun stimulates the capilla- 
ries in the skin and renders the increased quantity of blood in them more 
visible through the cuticle. Brunettes have the same experience, but their 
skin is apt to be thicker than that of blondes, so that less of the red blood 
shows, and the presence of the dark pigment has a further tendency to obscure 
the red. Nevertheless, a brunette much exposed to the sun acquires a certain 
soft and pleasing glow that is visible in spite of the darker pigment. 

The air in a house is rarely, or never, so pure as that 

A Necessity for ou tside. There are so many reasons for this, and the 

fact is so familiar to all, that it need not be discussed 

minutely here. As pure air is necessary to health and to recovery from dis- 
ease, it is essential that we admit all that prudence suggests. The air in a 
bedroom rapidly becomes foul and poisonous, so that we are constantly taking 
back into the blood the deleterious elements that it has thrown off through 
the lungs. Hence it is highly important that the bedroom be amply venti- 
lated, both night and day. 

It is computed that when at rest we consume 500 cubic inches of air a 
minute. Therefore if we remain at rest all day and night in an unventilated 
room ten feet wide, twelve feet long and ten feet high, we shall consume one- 
third the air, for 500 cubic inches consumed a minute means 720,000 cubic 
inches consumed in twenty-four hours, and there are 2,073,600 cubic inches of 
air in a room of the foregoing dimensions. This means not only a consump- 
tion of that much air, but the vitiation of all the rest. If we walk at the rate 
of one mile an hour we use 800; two miles, 1,000; three miles, 1,600; four 
miles, 2,300. If we start out and run six miles an hour we consume 3,000 
cubic inches of air during every minute of the time. In walking at the very 
leisurely gait of two miles an hour we get the benefit of twice as much air in 
the lungs as when we are resting, and more in proportion to the increased gait. 
This means a greatly quickened action of the heart, a largely increased rapidity 
of the circulation, and an extensively augmented elimination of impurities, 
particularly through the lungs and skin. From this we may infer both the 
importance of pure air and the value of exercise. The sun's direct rays exer- 
cise a powerful influence in purifying the air. That is one reason why out- 
door air is purer than in-door. It is also a reason for having the bedroom as 
sunny as possible, and for admitting to the house an abundance of sunshine 
every day. 



SUNSHINE AND AIR 147 

t t The action of the sun's direct rays upon the peripheral 

ounsnme cenetn nerves those terminating in the skin is remarkable. 

It stimulates them, and the impulse of this stimulation 

is of course transmitted to the brain and extends throughout every part 
of the body. The effect is a heightened and strengthened vitality. All have 
observed the stimulating and refreshing effect of a hot bath, except where 
its injudicious use has produced an over-stimulation followed by depression. 
The effect of the heat of the sun is similar to that, but possibly there is an ad- 
ditional chemical effect from the actinic properties of the sun's rays. It is a 
curious fact that while we recognize the necessity of exposing the entire body 
to the action of the water in taking a hot bath, we do not fcsm to appreciate 
the value of removing all the clothing for a sun bath. Of course it is impossible 
to get the full benefit of the sun's light, or anything approaching it, unless we 
expose every part of the body to its effects. This requires great care, as there 
is danger of blistering the skin and overheating the blood. But if it is done 
judiciously, and at regular times, remarkable benefits will be secured from it. 
Directions to Viavi patients for taking a sun bath, are given in the latter part 
of this volume. 






CHAPTER xxn. 



MENTAL STATES. 



is easy to underestimate the importance of the relation between mental 
and physical conditions. Close observation and large experience have 
settled the following propositions : Disease affects the perfect integrity 
of the mind to the extent to which it affects the nervous system and 
draws upon the vital forces, and tends to create a condition of mind operating 
against the curative power of natural forces. For this reason it is demanded 
of us that we understand the mental condition in which disease puts us, and 
take such action as prudence, duty and common sense will suggest. This is a 
subject in which husbands and fathers should take particular interest. They 
should reflect that a woman afflicted with a disease peculiar to her sex is 
nervously affected in one way or another to a greater or less degree, and that 
this condition calls for his finest consideration and wisdom. 

When we reflect that eighty-five per cent, of the female 
Records of Lunatic inmates of i una tic asylums were brought to their condi- 
Asylums tion by a disease of the generative system, we can appre- 

ciate the serious nature of the situation. It has been already explained why 
diseases of the generative organs so seriously affect the nervous system, and 
ordinary intelligence will inform us that whatever injuriously affects the 
nervous system will bring damage to the center of that system, the brain, 
which is the organ of thought. All readers of newspapers see, with terrible 
frequency, accounts of women who have committed suicide, or killed their 
own children before taking their own lives. These are so common that the 
newspapers give no special attention to them. From these desperate condi- 
tions of the nervous system all the way down to the slightest nervousness or 
irritability are infinite shades of mental unsoundness, each and every one of 
them meaning an impairment of life. 

Every thought to which the brain gives birth, every 

Nerve Force and emo ti n that springs iip in the heart, every act that we 

perform, every living process within our bodies, is the 



MENTAL STATES 149 

product of nervous forces. If any single nerve in the body suffers injury, or 
is overworked, every other nerve will suffer, and the brain itself. There is no 
such thing as an independent nerve or set of nerves. They are all bound into 
one structure. If any nerve or set of nerves suffers injury or is overworked, 
all the other nerves, and of course the brain, sympathize with it, try to aid it, 
and give up some of their force to it. The greater the number of nerves in- 
jured, or overworked, the greater the draft upon all the other nerves and the 
brain. Every draft upon nervous force weakens the ability of all the nerves 
to do the natural work assigned to them. As diseases of the generative system 
involve an exceedingly large number of nerves, it is easy to understand that 
the harm they bring to the entire system is very great. 

The nervous system may suddenly and completely col- 
Constant Dripping lapse under a very sev ere injury to a considerable num- 
ber of nerves. This is called shock, and it is an eloquent 

fact that shock is one of the consequences most dreaded and oftenest experi- 
enced in surgical operations for the diseases of women. Shock nearly always 
follows such operations. If it is very severe, it is fatal. This shows the 
extreme nervous sensitiveness of the organs of generation, a fact with which 
we were already sufficiently familiar from knowledge of the great number of 
nerves supplying them. 

A minor injury, long sustained, has a cumulative force. A seemingly 
insignificant disease, particularly one of the uterine organs, maintains a con- 
stant nagging of the entire nervous system, and as this represents a steady use of 
nerve force without a compensating regeneration, there is gradual deterioration, 
until a condition presents itself which must give rise to serious consequences. 
It is like the constant dripping of water on a stone. It is impossible to see 
from day to day that any change is taking place, but the time comes inevitably 
when the effect is seen. 

Disease absorbs the strength that the body needs for all 
lowly its fuuctions and p ur p OS es. This strength is drawn from 

every part and organ, but most rapidly from those that 

have an inherent weakness in any event, those are the ones that suffer first 
and most. If the heart is lacking in native strength, it will give evidence of 
the draft being made upon it ; for this reason we often find palpitation with 
uterine diseases. Indigestion, a very common accompaniment of these dis- 
eases, indicates that the digestive system is giving way under the strain. The 
kidneys may be the first to suffer, leaving in the system much of the poison 
that it is their function to drain from it. The lungs may break down, render- 
ing the afflicted one subject to pneumonia, bronchitis or consumption. The 
walls of the blood vessels may have some inherent weakness that the nervous 
drain develops, with the result of imperfect circulation, the impoverishment 



ISO VIAVI HYGIENE 

of the body and the accumulation of waste to form tumors and other growths. 
With all of these conditions are correlated derangements* The blood will be 
of a poor quality. The lungs will not be able to do their work of purification 
and bring into the blood the valuable qualities that in health it takes from the 
air. Rheumatism, sciatica and numerous other complaints are likely to 
supervene. 

More distressing than the physical derangements to 
Mental Effects of wh i cn disease gives rise are those of the mind. It is in- 
tended by Nature that we should enjoy life, overcome 

difficulties, gain courage and an equable temper from experience, and make all 
things contribute in one way or another to the pleasure of living. Life is a 
ceaseless struggle against circumstances and conditions militating against 
happiness, but it is intended that we should be able to meet and overcome all 
these and turn them to advantage. If we lack the strength to do so we shall be 
unhappy to the extent to which strength is lacking. It is impossible for an 
unhealthy woman to be really happy. It is impossible for her to enjoy life as 
she should. 

As a matter of fact, we all know that afflicted women are beset by nu- 
merous worries. Things that cause others no uneasiness are formidable to 
them. They find the ordinary tasks and crosses of life, so useful to healthy 
persons in developing strength and character, and thus in the end contributing 
to the sum of happiness, taking all the sweetness out of life. 

Countless women have given up and died merely be- 
'ower of cause ph ys i c i ans had told them that their diseases were 
Impressions incurable diseases that would have indubitably yielded 

to the Viavi treatment. The reputation of the Viavi treatment was laid in 
the curing of otherwise hopeless cases, in which the sufferers had lost all faith 
in every kind of treatment, after suffering many years of torture under the 
various treatments to which they were subjected. They adopted Viavi not 
because they had the slightest faith in it, but merely to give it a chance if 
there was any. No faith in the efficacy of the treatment is required all that 
is needed is a faithful following of the instructions given. The remedy soon 
begins to make such changes in the entire organism as to remove the depress- 
ing mental burdens that add so much to the power of the disease. The mind 
grows stronger, and the crosses of life gradually lose their irritating force. In 
other words, the nervous system is slowly being brought to a condition of 
health, and thus everything else begins to do its work naturally. A hopeful, 
clear, cheerful mind is the natural one. 

There is nothing vague, intangible or supernatural con- 

A Rational Basis n ected with the Viavi treatment. There is nothing in 

of Cure it tnat a pp ea i s to anything but the hardest kind of com- 



MENTAL STATES 151 

mon sense in a woman, aud that is the very kind of which she is most in need 
when she is suffering. That is the kind that will make her understand herself 
and her disease, its causes, cure and prevention. It is strictly a practical, sci- 
entific treatment, based on simple natural laws easily understood and obeyed. 
Everything connected with it tends to bring women into a closer relationship 
with Nature and Nature's God. Its teachings lay the foundation for rational 
adhesion to any religion that may most strongly appeal to her. They enable 
her to understand the injunctions of religion and draw the highest consolation 
from their observance. From Viavi teachings she learns that intelligent living 
and the securing ani preservation of health are essential elements of all 
desires and efforts to obey divine laws. 





CHAPTER xxm. 
SIMPLE KNOWLEDGE. 



UCH of the space in the chapters Immediately following will be devoted 
to a description of the diseases of women, besides their causes and 
treatment. Descriptions of the diseases will be given, not because 
they are essential in the use of the Viavi treatment, but because they 
are deeply interesting and instructive, and add to a woman's knowledge, 
strength and usefulness. The Viavi movement appeals to the intelligence and 
conscience of women, and hence it furnishes the information upon which 
intelligence and the wise exercise of conscience are based. At the same time, 
it is neither desired, nor is it necessary, that any task should be laid upon 
women. It would be a misrepresentation of the Viavi movement, and a 
defeat of its purpose, to create the impression that anything whatever of a 
difficult or formidable nature exists anywhere within its aims and practical 
working. 

The thoughtful reader will have seen that in the subjects already 
treated the most helpful common-sense ideas have been put forth, and that 
they have been expressed in the simplest, clearest manner possible. In the 
semi-technical subjects that will be discussed in following chapters, the same 
course will be pursued ; and while, as we have said, an understanding of them 
is not essential to the success of the Viavi treatment, we are confident that 
they will be found so interesting that every woman will be irresistibly inclined 
to study and understand them. 

It is fully realized that women suffering with the diseases 
Illness I )doces pecu i iar to them are already sufficiently burdened. The 

whole aim of the Viavi treatment is to relieve this bur- 
den, not increase it. The details of the treatment itself are so simple, so 
pleasant, so easily carried out and bring so much comfort and satisfaction, that 
no matter how much a woman may be suffering, it will impose no burden upon 
her. The value of knowledge concerning the character of the disease lies in 
the fact that the sufferer is enabled by it to understand what the treatment is 
accomplishing in her case, as this leads to its more intelligent and persistent 



SIMPLE KNOWLEDGE ^53 

Use, and prevents* discouragement in cases where Nature, having so much to 
overcome, takes considerable time in establishing health. Nothing could be 
more beneficial to a woman who has been weakened by disease and suffering 
than a strengthening of the will. It is true that the Viavi treatment, in its 
gradual process of restoring health naturally, will bring the strength of mind 
and will that come with improving physical health, but if this strength can be 
imparted directly, as it is by an understanding of the causes and nature of 
disease and the operation of natural laws in overcoming it, the progress 
toward health will be more rapid. That is why the information contained in 
the following chapters is given. 

All the greatest and most useful knowledge is simple and 
The Simplicity of easily understood. Nature has been too wise to place 

Knowledge before us any problems affecting our welfare that are not 

easy to learn. The problems of health and disease are merely part of the 
problems of life that we must solve in order to live useful and happy lives. 
Although we are denied the instinct that enables the lower animals to live 
wisely and enjoy health, we have been given intelligence, which is infinitely 
higher and more useful. It was never a part of Nature's scheme that any set 
of human beings should seek to monopolize the knowledge that enables us to 
live wisely and happily. He who assumes that only his wisdom and discre- 
tion may be safely trusted with the knowledge of how we should live, is not a 
friend to humanity. Viavi advocates, having solved some of the vital prob- 
lems affecting the happiness of women and the world, desire that all should 
Share the knowledge and enjoy the benefits. 

To surround the laws of health which include those of disease with 
any sort of mystery, or to assume that they should be withheld from the com- 
mon world, is but adding to the volume of disease and suffering. It will be 
found in studying the ensuing chapters how simple and fascinating the prob- 
lems are, and how easily amenable disease is to intelligent treatment. The 
ordinary treatment of the diseases of women is strictly analogous to the 
methods of the Indian medicine men, the only difference being that with the 
last-named class of physicians the mystery is deepened by incantations and 
other mummeries. , 

Ins , , That a study of natural laws and their bearing upon 

ns me Ive ^ v health and disease is instinctively desired is shown in the ' 

fascination that the study of physiology in the schools 

has for children, and in the eagerness with which a young girl listens to the 
great truths of her being when imparted to her by a wise and thoughtful 
mother. Adults are but children grown up, and the study has an equal fascin- 
ation for them when once they are started. The sole reason why the diseases 
of women are not more generally understood is that a most unwise and hurtful 



I'S4 VIAVI HYGIENE 

influence has been exerted to make them believe both that women have not 
the mental ability to grasp these subjects, and that it is indelicate to study 
them. The evils of this are seen in the millions of women who lead wretched 
lives and sap the foundation of social and national health and purity. 

f Some women may say: "If the Viavi treatment is good 

liffcrcnt Kinds fof the diseases of women , why should I trouble myself 

of Women to study all these matters ? They are dry and uninter- 

esting, and I see no reason why I should bother with them. All that I want 
is to get well; that is what I want the Viavi treatment for, and that is all I care 
about." 

On the other hand, there are many who can appreciate the advantage of 
a knowledge of the origin of disease, particularly as such knowledge involves 
the ability to avoid, after a cure has been obtained, the causes that produce 
disease. 

There are still others who have an instinctive thirst for knowledge for 
its own sake, who enjoy its acquisition and take pride in its possession. 

The Viavi treatment meets the wants of all of these. It does not require 
knowledge at the hands of those who have no desire to possess it, as it will 
enable Nature to set up processes that will bring about a cure without the pos- 
session of eny knowledge of the subject. All of the vital processes of our 
economy are carried on by Nature without any directing knowledge on our 
part, and she operates in exactly the same manner in curing disease with the 
aid of the Viavi treatment. 

It is nevertheless more or less helpful that the truths set forth in suc- 
ceeding chapters be learned, for besides being eminently useful, they will be 
found to be exceedingly interesting. The treatment for each disease will be 
found in the chapter devoted to it, and special hygienic aids to the treat- 
ment will be found in the latter part of the volume, with references to 
them throughout the text. 




CHAPTER xxiv. 




THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



other part of the body is involved in so much obscurity as the nervous 
system, and concerning none other is there so much popular igno- 
rance. Its broader principles are well known, and an understanding of 
them serves as a guide to intelligent living, and to the happiest results 
in the treatment of disease. It is unnecessary to give an intricate explanation 
on the subject, but it is advisable to give a clear outlins of it, in order that the 
origin of symptoms otherwise inexplicable may be understood, and the value 
of the Viavi treatment in enabling Nature to overcome them appreciated. 

The nervous system has two great divisions first, the cerebro-spinal 
system, contained in the cavities of the skull and spine, and governing the 
higher mental faculties, emotions, impulses, sensations and impressions; 
second, the sympathetic system, supervising the nutrition. 

The great center of the cerebro-spinal system is the 

The Cerebro-Spinal train. It is composed of gray nerve cells, whose func- 

System t j on j s to or igj na te nerve force, and white nerve fibers, 

whose function is to convey impressions to the gray cells and impulses from 

them. The gray cells are in the cortex, or outer part, of the brain, in several 

layers, like the bark of a tree. The brain substance is wrinkled into folds, 

called convolutions ; the gray cells follow these convolutions, dipping down 

into the creases between them. This ingenious arrangement affords more 

room for the cells than if the surface of the brain were smooth, and prevents 

the necessity of a larger head to accommodate them. 

A white nerve fiber arises in each of these minute gray cells, which are 
so small that they can be seen only with the aid of a powerful microscope. 
These fibers, existing in countless numbers, compose the mass of white matter 
in the brain, and constitute all of the brain except the outer layers and groups 
of gray cells. The business of the cells is to originate impulses and ideas, that 
of the fibers to transmit them. Each fiber has a particular impulse or impression 
to convey, and no other. Fibers of like function are gathered together in 
strands as they pass from the brain into the spinal cord. From the cord they 



*50 VIA VI HYGIENE 

pass out to the various parts of the body. Some of these fibers are continuous 
frcm the l>rain to their terminals. Others are interrupted by bunches of cells, 
called centers. The first-named variety may be illustrated by telephone wires 
running directly from the central station to the houses of patrons ; the second 
by wires that pass through relay batteries at sub-stations. 

T , A Cells of like function are arranged together in the cortex 

12 j ^ n F C : of the brain - For instance, those having to do with the 

higher mental faculties, such as ideas, emotions, volition, 

etc., are situated in the front part of the brain (the forehead), while those con- 
trolling the movements of the tongue, face, hands, arms, legs and feet are sit- 
uated in the middle and side regions of the brain. Those having to do with 
the sensations of pain, touch and temperature are on the side of the brain, 
just above the ear ; the area of speech is immediately in front of the ear, 
behind that is the area of hearing, and behind that the area of smell and 
taste. The back of the head covers the area of sight. Lower, where the head 
joins the neck, is the area governing the co-ordinate movements of the body, 
enabling us to stand or walk properly. It is supposed that this part of the 
brain has to do with the uterine organs, as diseases of those organs produce 
pain there. 

There are really two brains in the skull, one occupying the right half of 
the skull cavity and the other the left. The fibers from these cross on their way 
to the body, so that the right brain governs the left side of the body, and the left 
brain the right. These brains are connected by what are called commissural 
fibers, which enable the two to work together in producing unison of action 
in the two sides of the body. 

The brain and the spinal cord are covered with membranes, the one 
nearest them supplying them with nourishment by carrying their blood 
supply. 

__ The nerves running from the cells and regulating the 

tor and sensory moveme nts of the body are called motor, or efferent 

(outgoing), nerves. Sensations from all parts of the 

body, such as seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, hunger, pain, heat, cold, etc., 
are carried to the cells over fibers called the sensory, or afferent (ingoing), 
nerves. 

The spinal cord is beautifully and systematically arranged. The fibers 
occupying its back and sides are the sensory nerves, while the motor nerves 
occupy the front. The spine is composed of segments of bone called ver- 
tebrae, arranged in a column, and the segments are separated by cartilage. 
(The spinal column and cord will be more fully described in the next chapter.) 
Through openings in the bones, called the vertebral foramina, the nerves and 
blood vessels pass in and out, the motor nerves in front and the sensory nerves 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 157 

at the back. Before leaving the spinal canal they unite in one sheath and 
proceed together to the various parts of the body for which they are destined. 

We may illustrate the action of the nerves by lightly 
How the Nerves prickillg the end of the finger with a pin> The in j ury 

vjperate thus done, however slight, rouses the activity of one or 

more sensory nerves, which immediately convey to the brain, and there record, 
the sensation originating in the finger. The brain weighs the sensation, and 
then causes a motor impulse to be sent out over the motor nerves governing 
the conduct of the arm, hand and finger ; these nerves stimulate the muscles 
in such a way as to cause them to contract, and by this contraction the finger 
is withdrawn from the pin-point. Hence a circuit has been established from 
the finger, over the sensory nerves to the brain and back to the finger over the 
motor nerves, the area of sensation in the brain being connected with the 
motor area by fibers. 

f All the cells and nerves have to be fed and sustained the 

low tne System game as &u other pafts of the body> Hence there are 

nerves whose business it is to keep all the cells and 

nerves supplied with nutriment by bringing the blood in contact with them 
through the circulation. Each kind of cell selects from the blood the particu- 
lar kind of nutriment that it needs for the work it has to do. The energy thus 
drawn from the blood .enables one set of cells to think, another to move the 
feet, another to experience joy, another to suffer sorrow, another to detect the 
slightest variation in musical tones, another to enjoy the delightful odor of 
flowers, another to preserve our lives by rejecting food that has the slightest 
odor of decay or disease. It is from these cells in the brain that all ideas and 
impulses spring love and hatred, pride and ambition, plans of battles, the 
discovery of worlds, the growth of mercantile enterprises, little acts of kind- 
ness, great deeds of philanthropy, the first desire of the babe to investigate its 
thumb. Every act done, every word spoken, originates here, the most won- 
derful and complex part of man. The rest of the body is more or less mechan- 
ical and chemical. The brain approaches the Divine. 

As all the power of the cells and nerves comes from the 
Power Comes from blood> the character of that power . must de p ea d on the 

quality of the blood and the manner of its circulation. 

We cannot expect to grow figs on thistles, nor can we expect that the thoughts 
will be pure and the functions of the organs healthy if the cells are fed on 
impure food. Poisonous matter is taken up by the blood from diseased parts 
of the body, and as all of it cannot be thrown out by the lungs, some must be 
carried to the cells and form part of their nourishment. It is impossible to 
have a sound brain and well-ordered mind, thoughts and impulses under such 



*58 VIA VI HYGIENE 

conditions; and it is equally impossible for the vital functions of the body 
to perform their serious work perfectly. l,ife must be impaired both in its 
higher and its lower levels. 

_ The sympathetic, or organic, system is composed of 

chains of knots or nerve ganglia connected by nerve 
fibers. This form of nervous system, though much 

lower and having much more limited powers and functions, is the kind, and 
the only kind, that plants have ; they are denied the cerebro-spinal system* 
which distinguishes animals and which makes animals a so much higher type 
of living things than plants. 'Human beings are still higher, partly because 
their brains are furnished with a greater number of gray cells. 

The sympathetic system is first found in the spinal column, along its 
sides and front. The right and left chains of ganglia are connected by fibers 
running across the spinal column. These ganglia, or knots, of nerve cells 
extend the entire length of the back, and there are three main centers of them 
one high in the thorax, or bony frame of the chest; one behind the stomach, 
in the abdomen; and one, the largest of all, in the pelvic cavity. From 
these centers nerve fibers run to and along the blood vessels throughout the 
entire body, following them to the minutest capillaries, and into the brain 
substance itself. 

The function of these sympathetic nerves is to dilate and contract the 
blood vessels, and hence they are known as the vaso-motor nerves literally, 
vessel-moving nerves. Branches of them control the action of the arteries in 
every part of the body, thus regulating the blood supply, or the circulation, 
in the heart, lungs, stomach, intestines, liver, spleen, uterine organs, etc. The 
last-named organs have an abundant supply of these nerves, because they are 
so abundantly furnished with blood vessels. 

All the parts of the sympathetic system are so intimately 
Remote Symptoms corn3ecte d with one another, that no sooner does a coii- 
Explamed gestion or an inflammation arise in the uterine organs 

than the sensation which it produces passes through both the sympathetic and 
the sensory systems of nerves to the adjacent parts of the body, and affect that 
area in the brain which governs these organs. The direct effect upon the 
sympathetic system of a congestion occurring here is to disturb the circulation 
throughout the entire body, at first affecting that in the parts contiguous to 
the organs. The great ganglion of the sympathetic system, the solar plexus, 
situated behind the stomach, is immediately disturbed, and its branches rami- 
fying +he tissues of the liver, spine, intestines and stomach give notice to them 
of the. disturbance in the uterine organs. Thus it is that so many and so 
varied disturbances arise from the uterine organs, for it must be remembered 
that the fibers from the plexus in the thorax are intimately connected with the 






THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 159 

heart and lungs ; thus we can understand the symptoms arising in the heart, 
stomach and bowels from uterine diseases, and how we are able to remove 
them. We can do so because the Viavi treatment, having removed from the 
uterine organs the cause that produced these symptoms, naturally removes the 
symptoms themselves. To treat these symptoms directly, as is the common 
practice, is merely to' inflict additional injury. 

We have seen how the intimate connection of all parts 
Injury Done to of the sym p a thetic system gives rise to symptoms due to 
the Brain disturbance of that system. In addition to this are the 

sensory nerves passing from the uterine organs to the spinal cord, and thence 
to the brain. Diseases of the uterine organs affect the sensory system of 
nerves centering in those organs. The sensations are pain and distress. They 
are transmitted to the brain centers governing the uterine organs, and by 
reason of the connection existing among all parts of the brain, affect it in its 
entirety, including those of its functions having to do with the higher faculties. 
Where the sensations from the diseased uterine organs are continually 
or with frequent recurrence transmitted through the centers in the spinal 
cord, those centers become irritated, congested and inflamed, and they in turn 
giving forth the sensation which we call backache. If we go higher, to the 
sensory area in the brain, we find that the cells are constantly transmitting to 
the higher centers a knowledge of the condition in the uterine organs, and 
that they in turn become weary and worn out, presenting such mental symp- 
toms as loss of memory and self-control, impaired vision or hearing, or the 
perceptive, reflective or imaginative faculties are perturbed to a greater or less 
degree, depending upon the nature and extent of the disease in the uterine 
organs. 

We have seen in previous chapters how inflammatory 

Eitect Upor tne an ^ di sease( j conditions are constantly pouring into the 

blood varying quantities and kinds of poisonous matter. 

As a result, the lungs have more purifying work than they are able to perform, 
and hence the impure matter not removed is carried to the nerves, the cells in 
the spinal cord and brain, and every nerve fiber in the body. In the first 
place, the power of the nervous force itself is reduced; in the second, the mus- 
cles, receiving impure blood through an impaired circulation, are not prop- 
erly nourished. Hence they become soft and flabby, and lose the firmness 
and roundness so essential to beauty and activity. The patient becomes list- 
less. The muscles lose their vigor. The brain becomes unable to formulate 
clear, strong ideas. Little by little the nervous system loses its integrity, and 
with that goes a loss of self-control. The slightest noise makes the sufferer 
start. Finally we are presented with the lamentable condition known as 
nervous prostration. 



160 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Nervous prostration may come from an excessive con- 
ervous suni ption of nerve force through grief or overwork 

mentally, or from the constant irritation of pain which 

uses up the nervous force in its work ot transmitting impressions of pain to 
the brain. Nervous prostration may come also from lack of nourishment of 
the brain and nervous system, and from poise ning by the impurities with 
which the blood is filled. A?$ Cf these causes may and frequently do operate 
together in producing nervous prostration in women afflicted with a disease 
of the generative organs. 

As the nervous system governs the srrjply of blood to every part of the 
body, including the brain and nervous system, it follows that when the nerv- 
ous energy originating in the brain is exhausted, the blood supply throughout 
the entire body is reduced, congestions are more frequent and inflammation is 
more certain ; and all this time the blood is not purified, there is a lowering of 
vital energy, and the system gradually falls into a condition of malnutrition. 

, The nervous system might be explained more minutely, 

Ox/ ISeaSC but sufficient has been said to show how sensations are 

carried from the organs or the surface of the body to the 

spinal cord and then to the brain, how these sensations affect the higher 
mental faculties, how continued and excessive sensation robs the nervous 
system of its force and vitality, thus rendering it unable to regulate the supply 
of blood to the various parts of the body, and hence how it comes that deple- 
tion, weakness, a dragged-out feeling, melancholia and despondency ensue. 
As the cause of the trouble is in the uterine organs, if the nervous system can 
receive help to enable it to become stronger it will in turn regulate the circu- 
lation and purification of the blood. Little by little the nervous system will 
be fed by better blood, with the result that while the disease is local, the condi- 
tions to which it gives rise extend throughout the entire system and are 
removed only when the local disease is cured. The Viavi treatment meets all 
these conditions. It not only enables Nature to cure the local disease, but by 
directly furnishing the nervous system with nutriment, it gives it the strength, 
to overcome the disease and establish health by natural means. 




CHAPTER xxv. 



THE BACK, 



spine, anatomically considered, is the most important part of the 
body, hence the frequent reference made to the spinal region in this 
volume in connection with the Viavi treatment. Its importance is 
never overlooked ; its treatment never omitted. 

The spine is a column composed of thirty-three short bones, called 
vertebrae ; they are separated by tough cushions of cartilage. The seven upper 
bones constitute the cervical part of the column ; the following twelve, the 
dorsal ; then come five in the lumbar region^ or :: Al of the back ; five more 
in the sacrum, and four in the coccyx. The lc ; named sections were described 
in former chapters, together with the promc-itory of the sacrum. 

The spine supports the weight of the head, and connects 
The Anatomy of tbe bones of the thoraX) or chest> with those of the 

the bpme pelvis. It also forms a secure and safe bony canal for 

the spinal cord. The ribs are attached to it and thus given a basis of support. 
The normal curves of the spine are three in number, resembling an open letter 
S. The word "spine" comes from the L,atin, "spina," a thorn, and the spine 
is so named because each of its vertebrae is provided with a sharp projection 
at the rear. These are called the spinal processes, and their purpose is to 
serve as points for the attachment of the powerful muscles of the back. These 
muscles maintain the body in an erect position. When normal, they prevent 
the spine from inclining to one side or the other, but preserve its vertical posi- 
tion. The spinal cord is contained in but does not entirely fill the spinal canal, 
which accommodates also the membrane that surrounds the cord, together 
with a connective tissue and a plexus of large vessels. The nerves of the 
entire body enter and pass into the spinal column through openings on their 
way to and from the brain Owing to its curves and the large number of bones 
composing it, and to its discs of cartilage by which they are separated, shocks 
transmitted to it from various parts of the body are greatly lessened. The 
column is constantly liable to these shocks from walking, jumping, sitting 
down hard and from receiving falls, accidental blows on the head, e*c. 



162 VIAVI HYGIENE 

From this brief description of the anatomy of the spinal column 
be understood how necessary it is to the welfare of every living creature to 
possess a strong spinal column. Its muscles must be strong and elastic, to 
hold it in proper position. If it is abnormally bent, certain parts of the viscera 
are compressed and their functional activity is impaired. As all functional 
activity is directly under the control of the nervous system, a disturbance of 
function reported to the brain through the spinal cord produces spinal irrita- 
tion to a greater or less degree. 

The metaphor, "plenty of backbone," expresses the 
1 ne i5aci JVlt universal conception of the value of a strong spine. 

Be Strong Here we have tlie s t re ngth of the mind and spirit 

measured by that of the back. The metaphor implies the possession of 
courage and self-reliance. It will usually be found that those who are strong 
in mind and spirit have strong backs. If the back is not strong, the important 
and powerful muscles attached to it are unable to do their work properly in main- 
taining the proper position of the body ; hence the innumerable nerves passing 
into and out of it are impaired by its displacement. The muscles of the spinal 
column have their special function to perform, which is normally to support 
the body in an upright position. If relieved of this important duty, by a 
corset, it at once weakens by having its work done for it. There is no way by 
which the legs or arms can become weakened, flabby and useless more quickly 
than by putting them at rest, and giving them no work to do. There is no 
means by which the spinal column can be weakened so greatly as by putting 
its muscles to rest by employing a corset to do its work. Many women "go 
all to pieces" the moment their stays are removed. 

The use of the corset has been so universally condemned by thinking 
women that it will be unnecessary for us to dwell longer upon the subject, 
except to state that there is, perhaps, no habit of life nor article of dress that 
is responsible for so much sickness, suffering and pain as this modern garment 
of steel and bones. 

The use of the Viavi treatment for spinal irritation has proved wonder- 
fully successful. It has stood the crucial test of clinical experience for many 
years ; that is the only proof of curative virtue. Spinal irritation may arise 
within or without the spinal column. When caused by a lack of blood supply 
or an anemic condition of the blood, it is known as spinal anemia. If there 
be an oversupply of blood we have spinal hyperemia. An abnormal condition 
of the blood supply within the spinal column can easily give rise to spinal 
irritability, which in time may lead to the most complicated disorders in this 
region. Understanding that both arteries and veins occupy this spinal canal, 
also that impeded circulation in either arteries or veins causes their caliber to 
enlarge greatly, it can be easily understood just how necessary it is that the 
circulation be normal, that there be no undue pressure. 



THH BACK 163 

There is no such thing as complete independence of the 
Close Relation of nervous sys tem. If one part of the body be affected, no 

All Parts matter how slightly, conditions are established that are 

felt and known through the entire system. 

If the terminal end of a nerve or set of nerves be distributed to an in- 
flamed or diseased part, constant irritation is transmitted through them to the 
centers in the spinal cord, and from these centers to the brain. The irritation 
of one center in the cord may be transmitted to another. For example : The 
uterine organs are inflamed, producing an irritation which we call backache, 
in the lumbar region ; from here it may affect the next higher centers, in the 
dorsal region, or it may produce an irritation between the shoulder blades, or 
even still higher, in the neck ; or the entire spine may become affected from its 
lower end to the base of the brain. The parts of the body supplied by nerves 
passing to and from these various centers may also exhibit symptoms of pain 
and distress. For instance, an irritation arising in the lumbar region from the 
uterine organs is often carried to the centers governing the stomach and 
other organs in the abdomen, or to the centers governing the lungs and heart, 
and frequently the patient is treated for heart or lung trouble, when the condi- 
tion there manifest is nothing more nor less than a reflex trouble which arose in 
the uterine organs. 

Again, we may have a diseased tissue in the stomach, and the sensations 
will be carried to the centers governing that organ in the spine, and thence to 
the brain. So it will be seen that irritation sent to the spine may pass to the 
brain, or to other nerve centers in the substance of the cord itself, and from 
these centers the irritation may be transmitted to the organs or parts of the 
body which they control. We endeavor to separate these things for the pur- 
pose of study, yet it is easily seen that it cannot be done in reality, and that 
each part of the body depends upon every other part of the system. 

An irritation of the spinal column may produce pain in many parts of 
the body, but it is equally true that a diseased organ or part may, through its 
special nerve supply, also irritate the Spinal cord in the regions above men- 
tioned. Again this goes to show the necessity of treating the body as a whole 
instead of as a collection of independent parts or organs. 

In spinal irritation we find pain at the nape of the neck; a sore or sen- 
sitive spot or spots in the spine, easily detected by pressure (sometimes the 
pain is superficial near the surface and at other times it is deep-seated); a 
continual burning sensation of a part or the whole length; extreme pain in 
the back just above or below the waist line, which aches like a tooth or as if 
it would break in two; pain in the back of the head; stiffness of the neck, etc. 
Remote but reflex pains from spinal irritation may also arise, such as dreadful 
headaches, insomnia, fainting, palpitatio'n, or a sensation as if the heart turned 
over, black spots or streaks before the eyes (which may be sore upon pressure), 
trembling of the body and limbs. Such patients are irritable and easily 



rG4 VIAVI HYGIENE 

depressed, dizzy, and have cold extremities. There may be noises in the eara 
and inability to concentrate the mind. 

Where the pain has localized itself in a certain region of the spine, the 
most cruel and inhuman treatments have been resorted to ; such as cupping, 
blistering, cutting, burning with a red hot iron and the like, all equally un- 
successful. Where the spinal column becomes abnormally curved or bent, 
mechanical appliances are the only makeshifts at relief employed by ordinary 
methods. 

We deem it unnecessary to take up and describe each and every diseased 
condition to which the spinal column is liable. We have but one object in 
view when treating this region, as elsewhere to bring about a healthy reac- 
tion by giving to the nerves and tissues the nutrition by which a regeneration 
may be established. 

_ We wish particularly to caution patients against the use 

of braces, corsets, jackets and other mechanical appli- 
ances, by which harm is done instead of good, as by 

such means the movements of the chest are impeded and an artificial support 
is given to the column in place of the muscular support which it is our one 
great desire to develop. The massaging of the spinal region with the Viavi 
cerate has so strengthened the muscular supports of the spine that curvature, 
even when marked, has been corrected. A little girl of seven years, a child of 
wealthy parents, was brought to us for treatment four years ago. There was 
a marked curvature in the upper part of the dorsal region, the convexity to 
the right side. A six months' supply of the Viavi cerate was purchased. 
During the time we saw the child twice, and a marked improvement was per- 
ceptible each time. About one year from the time we first saw the child, the 
mother reported a perfect cure, and the child was attending dancing school. 

Another remarkable cure was that of a young woman of twenty-five, 
who from curvature of the spine and uterine troubles was a confirmed invalid, 
being confined to her bed most of the time. Although little was expected in 
this case for the spinal curvature, magnificent and speedy results followed the 
treatment, which was very thorough, the massaging being done by one of our 
expert masseurs. 

As the time required for the cure is determined largely 
1 . by the amount of the Viavi cerate absorbed, the applica- 

tion of the cerate over the spinal region should be 
thorough. (See Cerate on Spine.) 

When insomnia is a prominent symptom in spinal irritation, the cold 
compress on the spine, following the cerate massage, will prove of great value 
as an adjunct to the treatment. (See Spinal Compress, Cold). A cold spinal 
.douche will answer the same purpose ; it can be taken by the patient herself 



THE BACK 165 

by attaching a rubber pipe to the cold-water faucet. This should be taken 
nightly. (See Spinal Douche, Cold). 

The Spinal Sun Bath in conjunction with the use of the cerate is another 
means of strengthening the spinal column. The spinal sun bath can be used 
when the spine is so sensitive to the touch as to interfere with its thorough 
massaging. The cerate should be rubbed over the spine, and the bare back 
then exposed to the warm rays of the sun. The rest of the body can be pro- 
tected so that the patient will not chill. (See Spinal Sun Bath). 

It will be noticed that, independently of the diseased condition which 
exists, and for which the Viavi treatment is employed, the cerate over the 
region of the spine forms a very important part of the treatment, as we take 
into consideration the great importance of supplying the nervous system with 
the necessary material for its regeneration, the influence of which is felt in the 
most remote parts of the body. 

Pain in the coccygeal region (the extreme lower end of 
Affection 4 the the spine j var i es greatly in severity and character. It 

may be aggravated upon sitting down or rising, when 

straining at stool, exercising, or even during perfect rest. It ma,y be of an in- 
flammatory, neuralgic or rheumatic nature. It may originate from colds, 
riding horseback or cycling, from falls or blows, after instrumental delivery or 
tedious childbirth, or from a suppression of eruptions. The treatment is the 
same as that given for spinal irritation. 

^ _, In paralysis of all parts of the body, the cerate over the 

le I rcatm \ S pj na i re gion forms the most important part of the treat- 

alysis ment. It is also to be used over the affected parts. (See 

chapter on Cerate). Among the many remarkable cures under the Viavi 

treatment was that of a girl thirteen years of age, who, while recovering from 

an attack of diphtheria, suddenly lost all power of locomotion. She had partial 

use of the arms, but none of the body from the waist to the feet. The daily 

use of the Viavi cerate in conjunction with the Viavi Brush Bath entirely 

restored the usefulness of her whole body. 

Another case was that of a child twenty-two months old, who had no 
more control of his legs than a new-born infant. In three months the child 
was walking. 

Another case was that of a child, born with one arm paralyzed. In 
three months she could use the arm fairly well, in six months she could hold 
playthings, and in sixteen months there was no difference between the 
rms, except that the one formerly paralyzed was not quite so strong as the 
ill arm. 

Still another was the case of an old soldier, who suffered with paralysis 
the left leg from the hip to the foot, caused by a gunshot wound. This par- 



166 VI A VI HYGIENE 

alyzed part of his body, which was entirely devoid of sense and feeling since 
1863, became as sensitive to the touch as other parts of his body. We deem 
this a most remarkable cure on account of the long existence of the paralysis. 

A complete restoration of function followed in the case of a woman who 
had gone on crutches for partial paralysis of the legs for twenty years ; the 
cause was uterine displacement. 

These are a few of the many cases that might be cited to show that, in- 
dependently of the cause, these cases of complete or partial paralysis need 
not all be deemed incurable. The best results are obtained in the younger 
patients. 




CHAPTER xxvi. 



MENSTRUATION. 



^SK N this chapter we shall discuss natural, or normal, menstruation ; chapters 
$jjl immediately following will be devoted to the errors and anomalies of 

^V menstruation. 

Menstruation is the flow of the menses, a periodical function of a 
woman's generative system, consisting of a bloody discharge from the uterus, 
recurring as a rule every four weeks, and continuing on an average four days. 
It begins with puberty and ends at the change of life, thus covering a period of 
about thirty-two years, though varying with races, climates and individuals ; 
this period is known as the genital life. Menstruation is called by various 
names, such as "being unwell," "the periods," "turns," "courses," "flowers," 
"terms," "monthly sickness," "the reds,'* "menstrual flux," "troubles," 
"monthly illness," "the flow," "the catamenia" and "the monthly purifi- 
cation." 

Menstruation is a natural function, necessary to a wo- 
atural man ' s organism during the childbearing period. As 

menstruation is a normal function it is painless. If 

otherwise, an abnormal condition of some kind exists. Menstrual anomalies 
are of so frequent occurrence that this function is generally looked upon as a 
sickness and is commonly called by the laity and profession, "the monthly 
sickness." The importance of the regular and painless appearance of the 
menses cannot be too strongly impressed upon a woman's mind, not only for 
her own safety and well-being, but for the health and well-being of genera- 
tions to come. 

If a woman does not thoroughly understand the entire 
generative function she is utterly unfit to assume the 
duties of wifehood or motherhood, for truly has it been 
said that "the fate of the Nation lies within the hollow of a woman's hand," 
which means that much depends upon the exercise of her intelligence and 
judgment. Few women do realize that if the monthly periods be permitted 



168 VIAVI HYGIENK 

to remain abnormal, independently of the nature of the abnormal condition, 
whether scanty, profuse, painful or suppressed, they will suffer the conse- 
quences sooner or later ; that they are allowing their bodies, by neglect, daily 
to become more and more susceptible to invasion of all kinds of ailments and 
disease ; that it will be only a question of time until one part after another will 
gradually give way ; they will collapse, both physically and mentally ; at the 
change of life, if not before, the penalty will be paid, whether in the form 
of tumors, cancers, insanity or death. 

Another important fact that should not be lost sight of, 
oor in connection with menstruation, is that unless at 

puberty the generative organs develop fully, the men- 
strual function becomes a menace to health and life. A woman scarcely 
recovers from one menstrual sickness before another appears, causing chronic 
invalidism. As the generative organs constitute the grand center of a wo- 
man's economy, it is essential to perfect health that they be not only fully 
developed, but able to functionate regularly and painlessly, and be capable of 
disposing of the monthly congestion, as the alimentary tract disposes of fecal 
waste, the kidneys of urine, the lungs of carbon dioxide, etc. 

If this function is impaired, functional and even organic troubles can 
and often do arise in the heart, head, lungs, kidneys, bladder, etc. There is 
no one part free from invasion of disease, through reflex disturbances arising 
in the genital tract. 

Menstruation depends largely upon the nervous system, 
Nervous System the same as functional act ivity of other parts. It de- 
Involved pends also upon the condition of the blood supply, but 
equally as much upon the fully developed and healthy condition of the entire 
generative tract. 

The mother who fully understands what normal menstruation depends 
upon, and also how much in turn depends upon this function, realizes the 
great responsibility resting upon her shoulders. She is ever upon the alert. 
She sees to it that her growing girls come to full perfection, that they bloom 
into perfect womanhood without flaw or blemish. A fully developed woman 
may suffer from menstrual anomalies, brought about by disobeying the laws 
of Nature, but such a woman responds readily to rational treatment. The 
woman who has been left to come up in a haphazard way, who has been per- 
mitted to take the most desperate risks early in life through ignorance, will 
not be so fortunate. The hand or foot that is fully developed will serve the 
body much better than a member that has been stunted in growth. The same 
rule holds good in the generative tract, but with much more force, as its func- 
tions are so essential to a woman, so vitally associated with everything that 
that makes her a woman. 



MENSTRUATION XOQ 

The average woman looks upon the menses as a flow of 
It Is *. Monthly blood from the vag i na i orifice. It should be regarded as 
Purification a bi ooc i y discharge of waste products from the whole 
body, its source being the lining membrane of .the womb. It is a monthly 
purging of the entire vascular system. What healthy woman living but will 
testify that after a normal menstruation comes a sense of purification that is 
experienced at no other period of her life? The inconvenience of the men- 
etrual period is more than compensated for by this exquisite sense of func- 
tional activity and bodily purification that follows. 

As has been stated, the source of the menstrual discharge 
Where the Flow is the Uning membrane of t he womb, but before the 
Originates QW can occur t ^ e epithelium, the thin layer that covers 

its surface, must be cast off. For this purpose a change in its texture takes 
place, and a fatty degeneration occurs, by which it is softened, as are also 
the terminal ends of the blood vessels or the capillaries within its substance. 
It is due to this change, which occurs several days before menstruation, that 
the thin covering of the lining membrane is pushed off, thus uncapping the 
vessels and permitting the menstrual discharge to escape. It may now be 
plainly seen how necessary it is that the blood supply be normal and that the 
organs be fully developed. But it will also be to a woman's interest to under- 
stand how the nervous system assists in establishing the monthly period. 

Nature has softened, loosened and broken up the tissues, 
Part Played by SQ to S p ea k t an & awa it s the action of the nervous system 
the Nerves to es t a blish the discharge. This is accomplished largely 

by the ovarian and uterine nerves, under whose influence a contraction of the 
muscular fibers of the womb, tubes, ovaries and ligaments occurs, thus retard- 
ing or preventing a return flow of the venous blood from these parts ; hence 
the weakened terminal ends of the vessels are uncapped and the flow 
naturally occurs. 

The function of menstruation will not seem complicated if we stop and 
consider that once a month an excessive quantity of blood is sent to the pelvic 
organs, that a fatty degeneration takes place in the uterine lining membrane, 
by which it becomes softened, and that under the influence of certain nerves 
a muscular contraction takes place, which pushes the blood into the vessels. 
As their terminal ends are weak, they rupture, or become uncapped, thus per- 
mitting the flow to pass away. Muscular contractions are constantly occurring 
in all parts of the body. Notice the frequent contractions of the heart, the 
lungs, the pupil of the eye ; all of these depend upon the nervous system. If 
the heart or lungs become inflamed, these contractions are accompanied with 
severe pain, and so it is with the monthly contractions of the uterine organs, 
which are of vital importance in perfecting this function. 



170 VIA VI HYGIENE 

When a woman realizes the systemic changes that occur, 
by which menstruation is established, she will then un- 
derstand how to avoid disobeying the laws of Nature 

which will bring about sickness and suffering. She will understand, too, how 
she can, by assisting Nature, overcome existing menstrual difficulties, by using 
the Viavi capsules and cerate understanding, meanwhile, that through the 
medium of the nerves and external, as well as internal, absorptive powers, 
Viavi is being carried to all parts of her body alike, that need renewing and 
rebuilding, and that the cure is progressing according to natural laws; that 
every part of her body is responding to the treatment ; that as the nerves are 
being fed, menstruation is becoming normal ; that as the circulation of the 
blood is being established, menstruation is becoming normal ; that as the 
generative tract is being beneficially influenced by the treatment, menstruation 
is becoming normal. A woman should realize that it is not palliative measures 
at the period that cure, but curative measures employed between the periods 
that bring about permanent results. 

Menstruation appears, as a rule, once every twenty-eight 

Differences among days> cotmt i ng f rom t h e beginning of one period to that 

of the next, but every woman is a rule unto herself as to 

the recurrence and duration of her periods. A woman may be perfectly nor- 
mal and menstruate thirteen, fourteen, fifteen and even sixteen times a year. 
These departures from the average do not indicate abnormality unless func- 
tional disturbances arise, and if so they demand immediate attention. If a 
woman menstruates every three weeks regularly and feels perfectly well, and 
has so menstruated from the beginning, it is evident that this time is peculiar 
to her. 

The duration of the flow also greatly varies, lasting from two to eight 
days. It can be determined as normal or abnormal only by its effect upon the 
organism. 

The quantity discharged at each flow varies in different individuals 
from four to eight ounces. The flow is more profuse in warm than in cold 
countries. Striking differences appear among women in this particular. We 
often see frail women who menstruate abundantly and who do not feel well 
unless they do, and robust women with naturally a very scant flow who become 
debilitated by a slight increase. In this particular, as in other features of 
menstruation, each woman is a law unto herself, and her individual peculiari- 
ties are natural unless they are accompanied with functional derangement, 
pain or weakness. 

It is important for a woman to know what her natural peculiarity is in 
this regard, as it furnishes a basis upon which she can judge the state of her 
health. It is the changes in her own condition, and not what may happen 
to some other women, that concern her. 



MENSTRUATION 171 

The menstrual flow is a very complex fluid, being corn- 
Composition of posed of N^ tne mu cous secretion of the uterus and 
the Flow t jje va gi na> epithelia and other debris. At the com- 

mencement of the flow it is generally pink in color ; at its height it resembles 
arterial blood, and as it ceases it gradually becomes rusty in color. It does 
not coagulate, as ordinary blood does, and has an odor peculiar to itself. The 
blood in it comes from the capillaries located in the fundus of the womb and 
the uterine end of the Fallopian tubes. The mucus is discharged from the 
proper vessels in the lower part of the body of the womb, its neck and 
the vagina. Its purpose seems to be to dilute the other constituents and make 
them flow more easily. The solid constituents are particles of the disinte- 
grated lining of the uterus. The disintegration appears with every men- 
struation. 

When we realize what an exceedingly complex affair 
every menstruation is, we can understand the extreme 
importance of it and of perfect health in connection 

with it. It is by no means the simple affair that most women suppose it to be. 
Every force of the organism is concerned in the process. Every nerve is 
called upon to do its share of the work. When the period arrives, the brain 
centers having the matter in charge throw forward their forces by stimulating 
the many nerves reaching all the generative organs, to a performance of the 
various kinds of work assigned to them. 

The disintegrated uterine lining that passes away with 
DisposiUc the flow is called the decidua menstrualis. If the ovum, 

the Lining of e ^ ^as become impregnated, the brain centers be- 

come aware of the fact in some mysterious way, so that instead of requiring 
the uterus to cast off its lining, they order a very different process. In such 
an event the lining is made to form itself into soft, velvety folds, which 
entirely fill the cavity of the womb, for the evident purpose of making a com- 
fortable nest for the minute egg which is not cast off as would be the case if 
the egg had not been impregnated. The decidua menstrualis now becomes 
the decidua vera, into which the impregnated egg is deposited, and in which 
it takes root and grows. There is no uncapping of the uterine capillaries, no 
blood escapes, and therefore there is no menstrual flow. Many other im- 
portant things happen, but they are best considered under the head of 
pregnancy. 



Great Force Is 



The forces involved in this monthly process are very 
great. The sensibilities of all the generative organs are 
quickened to a high point, partly from an unusual nerve 
Stimulus sent from the brain, and partly from a greatly increased blood supply. 



172 VIA VI HYGIENH 

Even the ligaments supporting the womb, Fallopian tubes and ovaries take 
part in the general process, being considerably congested. The strain upon 
the generative organs is intense, and they require perfect health to bear it. If 
they have such health, they easily and painlessly bear the strain and are bene- 
fited by it, just as the stomach, when healthy, bears the strain of the work 
that it is required to do in digesting the food, and is made all the healthier 
and stronger by it. 

After the change of life, when the generative organs have none of this 
work to do, they shrink, just as an arm will shrink if it is not permitted to 
work. The work required of the generative organs in menstruation is so 
various and must be*done so nicely and precisely that derangement is not only 
easy to bring about, but produces serious disorders when it occurs. 

The reverent mind cannot but marvel at the wisdom of Nature in doing 
all these things and doing them so well, if human folly does not interfere. 

The lining membrane of the womb begins to re-form as soon as it is shed. 
When it is re-formed the uterine walls no longer contract and force the blood 
out of the capillaries. The glands emptying mucus into the generative tract 
cease their activity. A state of quietude comes over the entire generative 
system, and the menstruation is at an end for that time. 

After all this, it can be easily understood that menstrua- 
Meaning of the tion s a natura i f unc tion and therefore essential to the 

health of a woman during the natural time for its occur- 
rence. It is tjie sign-manual of a woman's childbearing capacity, the basis 
of her womanliness. To the extent that it is imperfect a wonian lacks com- 
pleteness as a woman, though she is none the less a woman when Nature, not 
surgery, withdraws the function from her. If a woman experiences any 
irregularity, pain or discomfort from menstruation, she should know that the 
very foundation of her womanhood and womanliness is menaced, and that 
every sense of duty should impel her to correct the error. The Viavi treat ment 
offers the only known means for producing a perfect state of health in this 
regard. 

As we have stated, menstruation is a perfectly natural 
Tne Diseases of f unc tion, and therefore it should be perfectly painless. 

Common experience, however, shows that it is rarely 

free from distress of one kind or another. Unless it is perfectly healthy and 
painless, a woman is unsound, and her vital forces are suffering a drain that 
will sooner or later tell heavily upon her whole economy. 

Derangements of menstruation are so numerous and serious that they 
have distinct and formidable names. Among them are amenorrhea (absent 
menstruation); menorrhagia, or metrorrhagia (profuse and frequent menstrua- 
tion); dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation), subdivided into congestive, 



MENSTRUATION 



173 



mechanical, ovarian and membranous dysmenorrhea ; vicarious menstruation, 
and menstrual anomalies brought about by non-development. These will be 
treated under separate chapters, and something will be said also about one of 
the greatest of modern evils, curetting. 

A glance at the three physical conditions upon which 
The One Natural norma i menstruation is based the nervous system, the 
Treatment blood supply and the health of the generative organs- 

will show the peculiar fitness of the Viavi treatment for producing conditions 
upon which normal menstruation rests. As we have seen elsewhere, the rem- 
edy, being a food for the nerves, strengthens them for the performance of their 
duties. It supplies the blood with nutriment, and by strengthening the circu- 
lation assures an adequate blood supply to the generative organ. By accom- 
plishing these things it places the organs in a condition of health, permitting 
nothing to exist that interferes with the healthy operation of the menstrual 
function. No other way has been discovered for treating menstrual difficulties 
with any success. On the contrary, the incredible number of women annu- 
ally brought under the deadly influence of narcotics and stimulants, generally 
prescribed by physicians to relieve them temporally from the pains of abnor- 
mal menstruation, abundantly attest the failure of efforts hitherto to subdue 
this almost universal and destructive evil, and the need of a treatment that 
will restore to women their birthright of peace and strength. 



CHAPTER xxvu. 



ABSENT MENSTRUATION. 

(AMENORRHEA.) 



menstruation (amenorrhea) is the absence of menstruation be- 
tween puberty and the climacteric, not including the absence observ- 
able during pregnancy and nursing. The non-appearance of the men- 
ses at the proper time in the life of young girls may be due to numerous 
causes, which are discussed in a separate chapter. We are concerned here 
with amenorrhea after menstruation has been established and before it ceases 
in the natural course of events. 

Complete amenorrhea is the total suppression of menstruation ; com- 
parative amenorrhea refers to occasional and irregular menstruation. Primary 
amenorrhea means the non-appearance of menstruation from the time of 
puberty ; secondary amenorrhea is suppressed menstruation. 

Under all circumstances amenorrhea is a very serious condition, and if 
neglected will lead to detrimental or fatal results. 

As was pointed out in the last preceding chapter, the 

I Absent meristrual flow should be looked upon as a monthly 

purging of the entire vascular system ; hence a suppres- 

sion of the flow from unnatural conditions causes the system to become stored 
with foreign, and therefore deleterious, matter. 

Frequent and prominent results following suppression of menses are a 
breaking down of the lung tissue, an excessive accumulation of flesh, a drop- 
sical condition and a general impairment of organic functional activity. It is 
exactly like damming a rivulet. The water will accumulate and form a pond. 
Some of the water escapes by percolation through the soil and some by evapo- 
ration ; but if the supply is greater than the loss, the accumulation will be 
constant. The only way to stop it is either to dry up the spring feeding it, or 
to remove the dam. The Viavi treatment contemplates the removal of the 
dam, as that is the natural way. 

Of course this increase of flesh is unnatural, and therefore the sufferer 
is unhealthy. She becomes languid ; mental depression overtakes her ; her 



ABSENT MENSTRUATION I 75 

skin has a peculiar sallowness, and retains for some time indentations made 
with the finger ; her digestion will likely suffer, for Nature makes every possible 
effort to cut off the food supply. Then some disease, such as consumption 
or Bright's disease, appears, and death ensues. Thereupon it is announced that 
the patient died of consumption, or whatever else was the immediate cause of 
her death, and the vital lesson that might have been learned from a statement 
of the fact that suppression of the menses really caused her death, has been 
lost. 

Suppression of the menses by removal of the ovaries or 

When W oman Is uterus j s generally followed by a great increase in the 

size of the victim, this often progressing to obesity so 

great that locomotion is almost impossible. Many distressing cases of this 
kind have appeared and been observed by Viavi representatives. One was 
that of a wealthy woman whose husband, under the advice of physicians, 
persuaded her to submit to an operation that unsexed her. She was told that 
she would be speedily restored to health and would become, the physicians 
declared, like a young girl. Within six months after the operation she had 
increased so enormously in size that a special chair had to be made for her use. 
After change of life a woman may gradually increase in size. This is natural. 
But when, during her genital life, she is prematurely called upon to give up 
menstruation, the equilibrium of the system is destroyed, and often an abnor- 
mal and prodigious increase of flesh is the result, and sometimes a growth of 
hair appears upon the face. This is interpreted to mean that Nature is thus 
using some of the nutriment that she intended should be lost with the men- 
strual flow, and that now must be taken care of in some other way. In addi- 
tion to this hairy disfigurement which, by the way is very likely to be present 
with woman afflicted with scant, irregular or suppressed menstruation the 
voice loses its natural musical smoothness and softness and the bearing its 
gentler graces. 

These facts are mentioned to show the vital relation of healthy menstrua- 
tion to everything that makes for a woman's happiness and womanliness. No 
more urgent duty can rest upon every woman than to see that her menstrua- 
tion is perfectly normal. The Viavi treatment offers the only known means 
for bringing about perfectly healthy conditions, by perfectly natural mecns, 
in this vital regard. 

Suppression of the menses (amenorrhea) is brought on 
Causes Producing by var j ous conditions. Menstruation is a reflex act 
Amenorrhea that is> it {s the result of a num b er of forces and condi- 
tions acting in harmony. The destruction of this harmony impairs or destroys 
the function. The nervous system must be in good order, the blood must be 
healthy, the circulation must be perfect, and the generative organs must be 



176 VIA VI HYGIENE 

sound. If there is serious nervous depletion of a general kind, suppression is 
likely. Thus, it may follow any serious acute disease, such as typhoid fever, 
and may not be re-established until the nervous system has regained its normal 
status. A violent nervous shock, such as fright, grief or anxiety, may tempo- 
rarily suspend the function. A serious derangement of the digestive system 
may cause it. It is often found with pulmonary consumption, and is produced 
by the anemia that follows fevers, pneumonia, Bright's disease, diabetes, alco- 
holism, morphinism, cancerous or malarial conditions, or chronic inflammation 
of the generative organs. Some women suppress menstruation solely by 
nervous apprehension that it will not appear after they have misconducted 
themselves, when there is no natural reason why the menses should not appear. 
Prisoners and insane women are often victims. Cystic degeneration in the 
ovaries, tumors of the uterus, displacement of the generative organs by adhe- 
sions from peritonitis, flexions of the womb, enlargement and hardening of 
the uterus following pregnancy, are all causes of suppression (amcnorrhea). 
Sometimes a change of climate produces it, as is often seen in immigrants. 
Radical changes in the mode of living may bring it on. Taking cold during 
the menstrual period is a very prolific cause, and this is done mostly by cold 
bathing, permitting the feet to remain wet, sitting or lying in a cold air cur- 
rent, cooling off quickly after dancing or other vigorous exercise, sitting on 
cold stone steps, and even changing the linen. Ii intelligent attention is not 
paid to the evacuation of the bowels and bladdery the suspension may occur. 
Almost innumerable cases of suppression and its serious results have 
come under the notice of Viavi representatives. One was that of a young girl 
who had suffered suppression from getting her feet wet. Her condition gave 
rise to excruciating pains in her legs and feet, and eminent physicians treated 
her for rheumatism. Severe heart pains appeared, inducing unconsciousness ; 
she was treated for heart trouble. Her nervous system, and consequently her 
mind, were so seriously affected that at times she would become delirious and 
tear the bed clothing to shreds ; she was given heavy anodynes to quiet her. 
After a small fortune had been spent on her case without avail, she was brought 
under the Viavi treatment. By this means the congestion was removed, the 
menses were re-established, and all the reflex symptoms disappeared. 

Pregnancy usually stops menstruation, but there are ex- 
811 ceptions. It is not always possible to distinguish preg- 
regnancy nancy from suppression (amenorrhea), though the indi- 

cations, in a condition of perfect health, arc very different. Pregnancy will 
be discussed in a separate chapter. As it is a natural condition, and suppres- 
sion (amenorrhea) an unnatural one, we should expect great differences in 
the symptoms apart from the suppression, and these we generally find. 

In suppression we generally find headache, particularly on the top or 
side cf head ; heaviness of the feet ; dyspepsia ; lassitude ; drowsiness in the 



ABSENT MENSTRUATION i?7 

daytime ; dropsical conditions ; palpitation of the heart, bleeding at the nose, 
swelling of the veins of the legs. In addition are the constitutional signs 
upon which the whole disturbance rests as a basis. We can easily understand 
the meaning of all these conditions. The drowsiness comes from an impure 
condition of the blood affecting the brain ; the nose bleeding is evidence of 
Nature's effort to get rid of some of the blood that should have escaped in the 
natural way ; the distension of the veins of the legs shows a superabundance 
of fluid in the system, and the inability of the valves in the blood vessels 
there to keep the blood from settling. 

As the body is an exceedingly complex organization, 
Restoration of and as the f orces operating in menstruation are highly 
ie flow complicated, it is evident that in treating suppression 

(amenorrhea) very broad ground has to be taken. In the chapter devoted to 
inflammation of the womb, and in the chapter on curretting, attention will be 
paid to some of the causes of suppression (amenorrhea) and to its irrational 
treatment. It is desired to make the point here that a treatment which con- 
fines itself to local conditions as, for instance, the inability of the womb to 
cast off its lining in menstruation is disastrously incomplete and shortsighted, 
and therefore injurious, and that all of the complicated conditions involved in 
menstruation have to be considered and dealt with, if thorough and permanent 
results are sought. There is no such thing as a simple and isolated condition 
producing any of the derangements of menstruation. However simple and 
restricted the cause may seem, we may be sure that there are other and remoter 
causes behind it, and that it is our duty to remove them. We must put the 
entire nervous system in perfect order ; we must feed the blood and strengthen 
the circulation ; we must give intelligent heed to the local condition of each 
and all of the organs of generation, for all of them are involved, directly or 
indirectly, in the act of menstruation. Such are the principles involved in 
the Viavi treatment for suppression (amenorrhea), and its remarkable success 
in overcoming this dangerous and common malady are a sufficient attestation 
of its incomparable value. 

All the organs and functions of the body are bound in 
Natural Con itions O ne grand scheme of harmonious action ; hence disturb- 
ance in one particular is not an isolated condition, but 

represents a general disturbance to a greater or less degree. In suppression 
(amenorrhea) the uterus may be easily made to bleed, but that is not menstrua- 
tion. The Viavi treatment keeps this fundamental object in view : to restore 
the normal physiological balance, and to equalize waste and repair. To this 
end it is necessary to place all the organs in a healthy condition, that their 
functions may be normal. The activity of the eliminative functions of the 
skin- kidneys, bowels and liver must be brought up to the natural level. The 



178 VIAVI HYGIENE 

character and energy of the general circulation must be improved, by rational 
means. Regeneration of the nervous forces by sufficient sleep resulting from a 
sound condition of the nerves must be assured. The intelligence of the sufferer 
must be roused to the exercise of due caution on the score of sufficient and 
sensible clothing and food. With the reconstruction of the general health 
through the medium of the Viavi treatment the menses will return, but it is 
required that the treatment, including the Viavi preparations and hygienic 
measures, be employed faithfully and for a sufficient length of time. 

The forms of the Viavi remedies which as a rule are in- 
dicated in suppression (amenorrhea), are the Viavi cap- 
sules, cerate and tonic, but if the bowels are sluggish, 

the laxative is indicated. If the rectum is implicated, the use of the Viavi 
rectal suppositories in conjunction with the other remedies and with the 
proper hygienic treatment is required, in which cases individual advice will 
be given upon receipt of the Datient's health statement bv the nearest Viavi 
Hygienic Department. 

Every night, just before retiring, a vaginal douche in a reclining posi- 
tion should be taken. The Viavi Refluent Vaginal Irrigator will assure a 
perfect cleansing of the vaginal tract ; this will greatly aid the absorption of 
the Viavi capsules, and thereby hasten the cure. One moderately warm 
douche a day is sufficient, unless a profuse leucorrheal discharge is present, 
when a douche night and morning should be taken. After the evening douche 
a capsule should be placed in the vagina as high as can be conveniently 
reached, but no attempt should be made to force or introduce the capsule into 
the mouth of the womb, as placing any substance within the cavity of the 
uterus is directly against the laws of Nature, a fact shown by contractions and 
labor-like expulsive pains that are induced by the introduction of any foreign 
substance within the uterine cavity. When the menses appear, the douche 
and the use of the capsule should be suspended. If the flow continues over 
four days, the use of the capsules should be resumed per rectum until the 
cessation of the flow, when it may again be used per vagina. 

The use of the Viavi cerate, daily, over the region of the spine in a thor- 
ough way, is a very essential part of the Viavi treatment in establishing the 
menses, the nervous system, as explained in the last preceding chapter, largely 
governing this function. It must be kept in mind that the nerves of the en- 
tire body enter the spinal column on their way to the brain ; hence the whole 
nervous system becomes easy of curative access under the Viavi treatment. 
Before applying the cerate, the surface should be sponged off with a little 
warm vinegar and water to cleanse the pores of the skin and promote absorp- 
tion. Two parts of water to one of vinegar or acetic acid should be used. An 
assistant should be employed where a thorough massaging of the cerate over 
the region of the spine is necessary, but where the patient is obliged to apply 






ABSENT MENSTRUATION 179 

the cerate herself, it can be done in a thorough way over the lower part of the 
spinal column or back, only by placing the cerate upon the back of the hand 
instead of the palm. 

The use of the hot (see Hot Compress) or cold compress (see Cold Com- 
press) over the region of the abdomen is one of the most beneficial hygienic 
adjuncts to the Viavi treatment. Whether the hot or cold compress is to be 
used will be determined by the Hygienic Department that receives the patient's 
health statement, but as a rule the hot compress is employed twice a week. 
The compresses should be followed up by a thorough application of the 
cerate, always remembering that it will be from the quantity of cerate ab- 
sorbed that the beneficial results will be obtained, and not from the quan- 
tity applied. The cerate is to be used daily, in a thorough manner, applying 
it with an upward and downward stroke on the spine and circular movement on 
the abdomen. A very easy and non-fatiguing way to apply tl;e cerate will be 
after the patient has retired at night (see Reclining Abdominal Massage). The 
pendant abdominal massage (sec Pendant Abdominal Massage) is perhaps the 
most efficacious of all hygienic aids in conjunction with the Viavi treatment. 

Where the bowels are sluggish, they should be assisted by the use of the 
Viavi laxative. The laxative is not to be used in great quantities at once, but 
in small quantities, regularly and continuously, until the peristaltic movement 
of the bowels is normally established. The peculiar properties and action of 
the Viavi laxative are set forth elsewhere in this volume. 

It will be inferred from these directions that the Viavi treatment for 
suppression of the menses (amenorrhea) is both constitutional and local, and that 
it meets all the complex conditions involved in the trouble. The system is 
fed with the needed wholesome nerve and tissue food, the blood is enriched 
and the circulation strengthened, while the weakness of the alimentary tract 
is overcome. The system, being thus put in a sound condition, is enabled to 
perform its functions naturally, and a return of the menses is the result. In 
this process there is no forcing. Nature is simply assisted and enabled to do 
her work. 

. Menstruation may not be restored for some time after 

Patience and Time beginning the Viavi treatment, but the sufferer may be 
Required assured, beyond all doubt, that important benefits are 

being secured, and that the menstrual flow will appear at the proper time. To 
force it, as is the common practice, would be exceedingly unwise and is inva- 
riably injurious. Nature knows best. The delay represents no harm ; it 
merely calls for a little more patience on the part of the sufferer, but her 
reward in the end will justify every effort that she may make. 

Well ventilated sleeping apartments exposed to the sun's rays, with 
judicious exercise in the open air, either walking, riding or playing tennis or 
croquet, but never to the point of exhaustion, and plain, nutritious food, per- 



i3o VIAVI HYGIENE 

fectly regular habits, early retiring and abundant sleep, will greatly hasten 
the cure. It is exceedingly important that at the time when the period should 
appear the sufferer should take absolute rest, thus relaxing the system and 
giving the recuperative forces full play. Milk and cocoa are the best drinks; 
tea and coffee are sometimes positively injurious, particularly the formei. The 
great object is to develop robust health by inviting Nature to do her work, and 
giving her the opportunity. This is what the Viavi treatment accomplishes. 
It gives Nature material with which to work, and in good time as soon as it is 
proper she will see to it that the menses return, without resort to artificial 
means. Relief thus brought will be permanent, provided a modicum of 
wisdom be employed in living afterward. There is no torture in this simple, 
practical, natural treatment, no exposure in examinations ; it is taken in the 
privacy of the home, with conveniences that every home possesses. 




CHAPTER xxvm. 
PAINFUL MENSTRUATION. 

(DYSMENORRHSA.) 



'EARI/V all women suffer pain or unnatural, distress from menstrua- 
tion at some time of their lives, and generally with, every men- 
struation, and this suffering invariably indicates a diseased condition 
and represents a steady and cumulative drain upon the vital forces. 
Every pain suffered in menstruation takes a definite value out of life. Every 
moment of suffering at that time is sapping youth and vitality to a certain 
extent, hastening old age, depleting the mind of its higher and stronger 
qualities, weakening the hold upon the finer things of life, impoverishing 
the spirit, sapping the sufferer's womanliness, and lowering her capacity for 
wifehood and motherhood. Not one woman in a thousand realizes these 
truths. Aside from the Viavi movement there is no educational and uplifting 
influence to lead her to a true understanding of her condition and the burdens 
that she is inviting, and outside it no remedy exists for her affliction. Most 
women take it for granted that they should suffer at this time, either physically 
or mentally, not reflecting that as menstruation is a natural function it should 
be painless, that pain is evidence of disease, and that disease is steadily and 
mercilessly sapping her life. 

Suffering during menstruation has numerous manifesta- 
tions, and all of them point to an abnormal condition. 
With some the pains occur before the flow begins, and 
disappear when it is established. With others the pain extends through the 
second day of the flow. In other cases it continues throughout the period. 
In others the first two painful days are followed by complete relief for 
a time, with a resumption of pain toward the close. With some the pain 
comes suddenly with the flow and extends through the whole period, grad- 
ually lessening toward the close. Some women suffer pain only when moving 
about, and are relieved upon lying down. Again, some have pains every 
second month, but none at the alternate periods. 



182 VIA vi HYGIENE; 

The seat of the pain varies greatly in different women. It may be 
present in any or every part of the abdomen and pelvic cavity, with or without 
backache or headache. In severe cases it extends down one or both legs, or 
up to the waist, and even to the armpits. 

Intermenstrual dysmenorrhea is that in which pain is felt between 
the periods. It is not often encountered, and is usually difficult to treat. 

In some cases violent pains immediately preceding the period are 
relieved by a gush of blood from the vagina. Then comes a period of com- 
parative relief, followed, in a few minutes or an hour or two, by another par- 
oxyrm. These paroxysms are often so severe that the patient writhes in 
agony and is often insane for a short time. This is seen in many cases of 
uterine flexions when the womb is bent. The passing of the flow through 
the closure produced by the flexion causes the pain. 

Several kinds of pain may exist in the same case, showing that the same 
patient may have several kinds of painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea), just 
as one person may have several kinds of headache. 

Like leucorrhea, these abnormalities of menstruation are a symptom, 
not a disease. 

There are often nervous and mental disturbances of a 
Nervous Troubles ser i ous or der accompanying painful menstruation. The 
Arising general nervous disturbance may affect the digestion or 

circulation, or the healthy action of the bowels or bladder. The mental 
condition is often most distressing. Irritability is exceedingly common ; there 
is often a desire to withdraw from all human association, and brood alone 
over imaginary troubles. It is at this time that the blues are most likely to 
afflict the sufferer, and this is merely a form of melancholia, which in turn 
is a sort of mental derangement. Among the female inmates of lunatic 
asylums there is likely to be a marked increase of mania at these periods. It 
is at such times that women whose mental integrity has been shaken by dis- 
ease are apt to do the desperate things that send them to lunatic asylums, such 
as the killing of their children. Suicide among women is commonest during 
the menstrual period. 

A great many cases of this kind could be cited. One was that of a wo- 
man whose periods of suppression of the menses at times extended over a 
year. As a result she had been twice an inmate of an insane asylum. Her 
mental affliction entirely disappeared after her menstrual troubles had been 
cured by the adoption of the Viavi treatment. 

We can understand why physical and mental disturb- 
ances are so serious during the menstrual period in the 
absence of perfect health by recalling the intimate 

nervous connection of the generative organs with the brain. Not one, but all, 
of the organs are involved in any irregularity of menstruation, and hence the 



PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 183 

entire nervous system of these organs is eating into the soundness of the 
entire nervous system of the body. Pain from disease (which is very different 
from pain arising from Nature's efforts to eradicate disease) drains the recu- 
perative powers of their strength, and unless these powers are kept up to their 
full strength, there must be deterioration of mental and physical forces. Pain 
from disease is destructive of rest and sleep, without which the proper action 
of the recuperative forces is impossible. 

The use of sedatives, opiates and the like necessarily aggravates the 
evil by lowering the nervous vitality and crippling its ability to combat the 
disease. Stimulants have an equally injurious effect of another kind they 
unduly quicken the action of the heart and aggravate congestion. Evidently 
the rational treatment is to establish a normal condition throughout the system 
by natural means, so that the system itself shall be enabled to throw off the 
disease. Such is the action of the Viavi treatment. Instead of deadening or 
overstimulating the nerves, it feeds them and builds them up, supplies the 
blood with nutritious elements, renders the circulation able to remove accu- 
mulations occurring in congestion and inflammation, and gradually, without 
any forcing, establishes healthy conditions. It treats the disease between the 
periods, instead of offering useless and hurtful palliative relief during the 
periods. 

The kinds of painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea), 

Dysmenorrhea in with their causes> are as follows: Neuralgic dysmenor- 

Variety rhea, in which the pains are variable and shifting, and 

often unbearable. It comes with highly nervous temperaments and points to 

general nervous disorder or weakness. 

Menorrhagia, in which there is a profuse flow during the menstrual 
period. 

Metorrhagia, a hemorrhage from the womb at any time except during 
menstruation. 

Congestive dysmenorrhea, in which the painful menstruation is caused 
by an abnormal oversupply of blood to the vessels yielding the flow. 

Mechanical dysmenorrhea, in which the painful menstruation is caused 
by some physical obstruction to the flow. 

Membranous dysmenorrhea, in which the painful menstruation is 
caused by the lining membrane of the womb not being properly shed during 
menstruation. 

Imperforate hymen and the other causes of painful menstruation (dys- 
menorrhea) in young girls, as well as other forms of abnormal menstruation 
in adults, are discussed in separate chapters. 

We shall now take up the different forms of painful menstruation and 
discuss their character, causes and treatment. The study will be found exceed- 
ingly interesting. 



t84 VIAVI HYGIENE 

( In neuralgic dysmenorrhea (painfnl menstruation from 

Neuralgic Form neura i g i a j the pains are intermittent, and have the gen- 
eral character of neuralgic pains found in other parts 

of the body. As the name indicates, the pains proceed from some disorder of 
the nerves themselves, and are commonest in girls at the age of puberty and 
in young married women who have not borne children. It indicates a diseased 
condition of the nerves centering in the uterine organs, pain being developed 
by the great disturbance that occurs at the menstrual period. The skin of the 
lower part of the abdomen is highly sensitive during the pains. The pains 
may appear just before the flow begins, and then disappear, or they may per- 
sist intermittently during the period. They are often agonizing, rendering 
the sufferer delirious, and after the cessation of the flow she is likely to be 
prostrated. This form of painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea) rapidly under- 
mines the system and opens the door for some disease that proves fatal, or 
ends in insanity. More cases of destruction of the general health occur from 
this form of painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea) than from all others 
Combined. 

The pains are not always confined to the pelvic region ; sometimes they 
develop into neuralgic headache, facial neuralgia, or neuralgic pains in the 
teeth, eyes, fingers, toes, breasts, stomach, bowels, and even the heart. Or 
the spaces between the ribs (intercostal spaces) may be affected. In all 
such cases the pains, wherever situated, generally disappear upon a cessation 
of the flow ; but in some cases, particularly where there is continued irritation 
of the cervix, from laceration or other cause, the remote pains continue 
throughout the month. This feet should be borne in mind, for the reason that 
this secondary neuralgia is often treated directly, and therefore to the injury 
of the patient, from overlooking the fact that it has its origin in the uterus. 

A constitutional tendency to a neuralgic disposition 
that manifests itself during menstruation may be inher- 
Neuralgia ited< If a mother has permitted herself to suffer in this 

regard she may expect her daughter to suffer similarly. Or the constitutional 
condition may be developed by anemia (an impoverished condition of the 
blood), chlorosis (green sickness in young girls), gout, rheumatism, syphilis, 
malaria and the like. If the general low nervous condition from any of these 
causes exists it will give rise to neuralgic pains in menstruation. Of course 
if there is any disease of the generative organs we have a sufficient explana- 
tion of the general nervous condition that manifests itself in this affliction. 
The fact that the generative organs have so highly developed a system of 
nerves, and that their condition so easily affects the entire nervous system, 
and that the disturbance caused by menstruation is so great, explains the 

of the pains in the pelvic region during menstruation. 
Anything that induces nervous depression, whether mental or physical, 



PAINFUI, MENSTRUATION 185 

may cause neuralgic pains in menstruation. It often runs in families, thus 
clearly showing that it may be hereditary. One instance of many that have 
come under the notice of Viavi advocates was that of a grandmother, mother 
and daughter who were all afflicted with the same form of uterine trouble, 
and who were restored to perfect health by means of the Viavi treatment after 
all other measures had failed. This was an illustration of a particular form 
of menstrual trouble being inherited, and of its being overcome even though 
inherited. An unhappy married life, or a loathing for sexual intercourse, or 
forcible, excessive or incomplete intercourse, may easily induce it. Some- 
times the relief from pain after the flow begins is so great that hysterical 
laughter or crying is indulged. 

The proper treatment for neuralgic painful menstrua- 
Needs a Natural tion ( neura i g i c dysmenorrhea) is to build up the nerv- 
ous system. This can be done only by natural means. 

It is impossible to get any but bad results by resorting to forcing methods. So 
refractory is this form of painful menstruation that ordinary methods are 
helpless in treating it. The Viavi treatment, on the other hand, enjoys 
remarkable success in such cases. This fact can be appreciated when it is 
reflected that the treatment feeds the nerves and builds them up, removes all 
abnormal conditions, and with them the pains to which they give rise. The 
peace that follows a Viavi cure of this wearing and torturing malady is im- 
measurable, and the countless thousands of girls and women who have been 
thus cured are enjoying the blessings of life beyond all their hopes. The 
treatment for this form of painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea) is the same as 
for dysmenorrhea generally, and will be found in the latter part of the 
chapter. 

Menorrhagia is an excessive flow during menstruation, 

Flooding, P fuse and - s common iy ca lled profuse menstruation. Metror- 

Menstruation rna gia is a hemorrhage of the womb occurring between 

the menstrual periods, and is commonly called flooding. Neither is a disease 

in itself, but, like leucorrhea, a symptom of disease. In both cases there is an 

undue loss of blood, and this means an impoverishment of the system. In 

flooding (metrorrhagia) there is danger of bleeding to death, particularly wheii 

it occurs at childbirth. 

An excessive flow during menstruation is determined by the normal 
quantity of the flow in each individual. What would be an excessive flow 
with one woman would not be with another. If the flow is greater than usual 
in any particular case, we have profuse menstruation (menorrhagia), and it is 
evidence of disease and calls for treatment. It may take various forms. The 
flow may come at the regular time, and continue the usual time, but it may be 
too profuse ; or the flow may come too soon, or it may last too long. The 



i86 VIA VI HYGIENE 

question to be settled is whether an abnormal amount of fluid has passed. 

Numerous causes may produce profuse menstruation. A 
^ Profuse woman may be what is called a "bleeder," or one who 

bleeds easily from any, cause. (This is called hemophi- 
lia.) Stagnation of the blood in the veins of the uterus is a frequent cause, 
and this may come from disease of the heart or lungs. Congestion of the 
womb from any cause will tend to produce it ; among the causes are bad cir- 
culation, a distension of the walls of the blood vessels from weakness, or 
sexual excesses. Some of the most obstinate cases occur as the result of sub- 
acute or chronic inflammation of the ovaries. Diseases of the Fallopian 
tubes may be the cause. Among the commonest causes are structural changes 
in the walls of the womb, or tumors or other morbid growths within or upon 
it. The blood may be either fluid or coagulated, and may show great varia- 
tions in color and character. 

Strong, full-blooded women may stand profuse menstruation (menor- 
rhagia) for some time without apparent serious injury, though injury never- 
theless is being suffered; weak women rapidly decline under the affliction. 

If a woman is not pregnant, a flow between the menstrual 

Some Causes of per i o ds (metorrhagia) may be due to a fluxion of blood 

to the womb, or to a tumor or other morbid growth 

therein, or as an accompaniment of the change of life. With some women it 
may occur during pregnancy, without apparent injury to the child, though it 
is always to be regarded as an unhealthy sign, and in most cases is the fore- 
runner of abortion during the first half of pregnancy, and of miscarriage or 
placenta previa during the second half. 

It may occur upon the expulsion of the child, whether it be full-term or 
not. In such cases it is very important and almost always dangerous. If it is 
not caused by mechanical injuries, it is likely due to the inability of the 
womb tissues to contract and close the blood vessels. This may result from 
prolonged or exhausting labor, or from birth hurried by the use of instru- 
ments, or from a partly adhering placenta. 

Hemorrhages of this kind that occur after the birth, and while the 
mother is still confined, are usually not so severe, and generally occur with 
women who do not nurse the child. In such cases the hemorrhage indicates 
that the blood designed by Nature to form milk is thrown out of the system 
through the womb. Flooding (metorrhagia) may occur at this time, also, from 
inflammatory irritation of the womb. 

Diseases producing great debilitation, such as typhoid, smallpox, cholera 
and the like, may cause flooding. 

A persistent flow of blood from the uterus is generally due to some 
morbid growth within that organ, if it does not date from confinement or is 
due to weakness. If it occurs after the change of life, the presence 01 *. 



PAINFUIv MENSTRUATION 187 

malignant growth in the womb is indicated. 

A diseased condition of the lining of the womb is often responsible fot 
flooding. 

The grave question as to whether a patient is losing too 
Grave Effects of much blood may be determined by the effect of the flow. 
Hemorrhage j n h em0 rrhage the blood comes in gushes, or there is a 
continual heavy flow of bright red or dark blood. The face turns pale and the 
extremities become cold. There may or may not be pain. Other symptoms 
are convulsions, difficulty in breathing, anxiety, restlessness, extreme pallor, 
dimness of the sight, nausea, a ringing in the ears, feeble pulse ; and the 
mucous membrane becomes pale. A hemorrhage should receive immediate 
attention, as the patient thereby loses strength rapidly. Skillful medical 
assistance should at once be sought to check the hemorrhage, so that the 
action of the remedy may not be retarded by loss of strength so essential to 
the patient's welfare, which is always our first consideration. Hemorrhage in 
the case of a woman who has come thoroughly under the influence of the 
Viavi treatment is more easily checked than that in other cases. 

A patient need feel no uneasiness if a profuse flow, 
Flow During tne not a hem0 rrhage, occurs while she is under the Viavi 

Treatment treatment for foreign growths in the womb (see chapter 

on Tumors), as every flowing spell brings with it more or less of the abnor- 
mal substance. In the absence of a foreign growth, after the change of life, 
profuse flowing is one of the first signs of malignant disease (generally cancer) 
of the uterus or cervix. Curetting, the barbarous orthodox treatment for 
flooding (metrorrhagia), has been rendered obsolete by the Viavi treatment. 
Curetting, as will be readily seen, is a very restricted treatment, confined to 
one part of a single organ, the fact that all the organs are involved, and that 
the condition of the entire system contributes to the affliction, being ignored. 
Scraping away the lining of the womb cannot possibly place the system and 
the generative organs in a healthy condition, nor can it induce the growth of 
a healthy uterine lining. 

This is beautifully illustrated in the case of a young girl who menstru- 
ated at the unusually early age of ten years. The menses were so profuse and 
prolonged that complete prostration followed. Several competent physicians 
were called, who could neither give a cause for the early and profuse flow, nor 
render curative assistance. The efficacy of the Viavi treatment in building up 
the general system and in this way overcoming the profuse menstruation was 
perfectly illustrated in this case, as the child completely recovered. Eighteen 
months after discontinuing the Viavi treatment the mother reported the child 
as still sound and well. 

The amply proved and recognized superiority of the Viavi treatment as 



tss VIA vi HYGIENE; 

a means for removing the abnormal conditions out of which profuse menstru- 
ation and flooding arise are explained by its power to regulate, harmonize and 
restore the delicate normal nerve communication and vascular sympathies that 
exist among the generative organs, and between them and the brain centers 
and entire nervous system. 

The Viavi treatment for profuse flooding is as follows : 

Where there is a tendency to a profuse flow, the patient 

Hemorrhage should not insist upon keeping about and on her feet 

until the flow gains headway, but upon its first appearance she should lie 

down and keep perfectly quiet until the flow has ceased. This is imperative. 

Raising the foot of the bed two or three inches and keeping the head and 

shoulders low, tend to lessen the amount of blood in the pelvic organs. 

Both heat and cold serve to contract the blood vessels by stimulating the 
muscular fibers. Water heated to 120 degrees Fahrenheit acts as an astringent, 
and is one of the most convenient and valuable means to arrest a hemorrhage 
or profuse flow. A prolonged hot vaginal douche in a reclining position will 
frequently be followed by good results ; it can be conveniently taken for an 
indefinite time by using the Viavi Vaginal Refluent Irrigator attached to an 
ordinary fountain syringe. The water should be hot, and not merely warm. 

Vinegar may also be used in the douche with temporary beneficial 
results. In some cases it proves very efficacious, but as a rule astringents have 
but little value even when brought in contact directly with the source of the 
hemorrhage. 

In other cases cold compresses (see Cold Compress) act quickly and 
prove of more value than other methods, while it may be found necessary in 
some cases to cover the abdomen with an ice pack. 

Where the cold compresses or ice pack are employed, heat should always 
be applied to the extremities by holding the feet in hot water. 

The use of the capsule is discontinued during the flow, but if the flow 
continues for any length of time, so as seriously to interfere with the regular 
use of the remedy, it should be used per rectum, so that its effects may be felt 
continuously upon the system. (Also see treatment for Painful Menstruation, 
Dysmenorrhea). 

As a rule, the capsule is discontinued the first four days of the flow, 
when it is used per rectum until the flow ceases, when its use is resumed per 
vagina. 

Nutritious food is demanded, and the diet should be generous and well 
suited to the taste of the sufferer. Beef or good extracts of it, strong broths 
and soups should be given in small quantities, but frequently. Mutton chops, 
milk and eggs will prove of benefit. Lemonade, oranges and grapes are both 
beneficial and grateful to the patient. 

Stimulants do more harm than good and are to be avoided, except to 



PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 189 

revive a patient with a tendency to syncope. The Viavi tonic is always 
advised. 

Congestive dysmenorrhea is that form in which the pain 
am rising rom - g cause dky congestion. Natural congestion occurs dur- 
ing menstruation, but it is painless, because natural. In 

chronic inflammation, from displacement of the womb, or from adhesions 
following pelvic inflammation, and from other causes, we have unnatural con- 
gestion, and this causes pain during menstruation and frequently between the 
periods. Tumors and polypi in the womb are other causes of the congestion. 
This menstrual difficulty is oftenest seen in women who have borne children 
or have aborted, but it occurs also in women who have begun the menstrual 
period and maintained it for some time without pain. A good history of such 
a case is generally obtained from the patient. 

The symptoms of painful menstruation from congestion 
The Symptoms of ( congestive dysmenorrhea) are markedly different from 

those of neuralgic dysmenorrhea. In congestive dys- 
menorrhea the pain is generally present between, as well as during, the periods. 
In congestive painful menstruation the pains generally come on sud- 
denly with the appearance of the flow, and are accompanied with either a 
diminution or a cessation of the flow. They may be slight, or of the gravest 
and most severe character. The constitutional symptoms are always marked. 
The pulse is quickened, the temperature rises, the skin is hot and dry and the 
eyes suffused in short, the height of the fever is in proportion to the amount 
of congestion or inflammation. There are severe headache, occasionally 
delirium, general restlessness, and a considerable increase of urine. The 
surface of the entire body is highly sensitive. Many reflex symptoms are ex- 
perienced, such as pains in the small of the back and down the thighs either 
inside or outside. Sometimes the legs lose the power of movement. The 
digestive organs refuse to do their work, the bowels become constipated, vom- 
iting appears. Tenderness and soreness appear in the breasts. The sufferer 
usually experiences pain in walking, is easily fatigued, has leucorrhea, and 
the bladder is sensitive both during the flow and between the periods. If the 
inflammation is very slight the pains may subside when the flow ceases. 

One of many cases of this kind that have arisen in the promulgation of 
the Viavi treatment may be cited. A Viavi patient residing in New York, age 
thirty, had suffered since puberty from congestive dysmenorrhea. At each 
succeeding period the pain was greater. She had hardly recovered from one 
period before another was upon her, thus rendering her a chronic invalid. 
The spine became affected and was very sensitive at times to the touch. There 
was also a constant dull, aching pain between the shoulders. A perfect 
recovery resulted from the use of the Viavi treatment. 



ico VIAVI HYGIENE 

The Viavi treatment for painful menstruation from con- 
ow me it g es tion (congestive dysmenorrhea) seeks the causes 

Operates an( j p rocee( j s t o remove them. It recognizes the fact 

that these pains are merely a symptom of an abnormal condition of the gener- 
ative system, and is directed to a removal of that condition. If the cause is 
displacement, which prevents a free circulation of the blood and thus induces 
the congestion, the treatment corrects it. If it arises from adhesions, the 
treatment removes them by absorption, without surgical interference. If 
tumors or polypus growths produce the condition, it causes them to be ex- 
pelled or absorbed. In short, whatever the cause may be, the Viavi treatment 
removes it. The treatment for this form of painful menstruation is found in 
the closing part of the chapter. 

In mechanical dysmenorrhea the pains are caused by 
Mechanical Causes SQme mechanical obstruction to the free outflow of the 

menstrual fluid. These are of various kinds. A plug of 

mucus or blood may form in the cervix. Foreign growths, such as tumors or 
polypi, may appear in the uterine cavity. Both of these classes of obstruc- 
tions will interfere with the flow. Very common causes are flexions and ver- 
sions of the womb. The womb is flexed when it is bent upon itself, forward 
or backward ; this closes the canal. Its version means its tilting as a whole 
from its true position ; this presents an unnatural means of escape for the 
flow. Other causes are a stricture of the vagina and an imperforate hymen. 

The symptoms of mechanical, spasmodic or obstructive 
why Severe Pains p a i n f u i menstruation (dysmenorrhea) are very charac- 
teristic and easily distinguished. What is known as 

uterine colic is the kind of pain most frequently observed. This is produced 
in the following way : The menstrual flow, prevented by the mechanical 
obstruction from escaping as it forms, is retained for several hours in the womb, 
thus distending it ; then the muscles of the womb contract, as in childbirth, 
and as this contraction causes pain, the severity of the pain will be in propor- 
tion to the expulsive effort required to force the menstrual fluid past the 
obstruction. The flow then comes with a gush, and the pain ceases until dis- 
tension from another accumulation occurs, when another expulsive contrac- 
tion brings on another paroxysm. These recur at intervals during the period, 
and disappear when the period has ceased. When the obstruction occurs in 
the cervical canal the contractions will expel a small clot of blood, followed by 
a gush, which gives complete relief for the time. Sometimes the clots so ex- 
pelled are quite large, resembling pieces of liver. A woman who had suffered 
from mechanical dysmenorrhea for several years placed herself under the Viavi 
treatment. Her sufferings at the menstrual periods grew worse, until at one 
period a small uterine polypoid became detached and was expelled. This 



PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 191 

happily terminated her sufferings, by removing the mechanical obstruction to 
the flow, which had collected in the cavity of the uterus, and there remained 
until the expulsive forces of the organ expelled it, with labor-like pains. 
When a sufficient quantity of the treatment had been used the growth became 
detached, and was expelled with the flow. This is but one of almost countless 
cases of a similar kind occurring constantly in all parts of the world. 

The treatment for this form of painful menstruation will be found in 
the latter part of this chapter. It may be explained here that the Viavi treat- 
ment enables Nature to remove the obstructing agency, whatever it is, by 
establishing a healthy order of things by righting versions and flexions, 
removing tumors and polypi, or doing whatever else may be necessary to 
produce natural conditions. With the removal of the obstructions the pains 
disappear. 

Ovarian dysmenorrhea is painful menstruation caused 
When Ovaries Are by ovaritis, or inflammation of the ovaries. In such 
Involved cases the ovaries are enlarged or tender, or both. One 

or both ovaries may be involved. In chronic ovaritis there is more or less 
pelvic peritonitis, or inflammation of the peritoneum of the pelvis. When 
the menstrual epoch arrives there is natural congestion of the pelvic organs, 
and it is this congestion, pressing upon the diseased and sensitive nerves in- 
volved in the ovarian and peritoneal inflammation, that causes the pain. The 
suffering is paroxysmal and neuralgic, is cruelly tormenting, and the afflic- 
tion has its origin in the diseased condition of the ovaries, either one or 
both. Intermenstrual dysmenorrhea (paroxysms of pain between the periods) 
is also a feature of this complaint, and is more common, perhaps, in this form 
of painful menstruation than in any other. Occasionally it occurs after every 
other menstruation. .j 

In painful menstruation depending upon inflammation of the ovaries as 
the inducing cause, the flow gradually and progressively diminishes ; this is 
especially noticeable in girls and young women. It is largely due to non-de- 
velopment of the ovaries at puberty. There is a marked tendency to atrophy 
of the organs, ending in sterility and loss of sexual function. 

In painful menstruation from inflammation of the ovaries 
Symptoms This ( ovarian dysmenorrhea) the lower part of the abdomen is 
Affliction extremely sensitive, and the patient suffers a monthly 

martyrdom. Distressing headache, neuralgia and hysteria of every shade are 
likely to appear. The pain is usually dull, and is confined to one side, or ex- 
tends to both, as one or both ovaries may be affected ; when both sides are 
affected the pain usually extends around the pelvis and invades the buttocks and 
thighs, the breasts are often tender, and there is likely to be general nervous 
disturbance and depression of spirits. The amount of the menstrual discharge 



192 VIAVI HYGIENE 

tends to diminish. One of the numerous cases that have come within the expe- 
rience of Viavi representatives was that of Mrs. S. She came under the Viavi 
treatment for ovarian dysmenorrhea at a time when her life was despaired of, 
unless she should consent to an operation for the removal of both ovaries. 
Realizing what the operation meant to her future life, she decided to die 
rather than submit. She placed herself under the Viavi treatment, and in 
spite of the protestations of several eminent physicians that the treatment 
would do her no good, she completely regained her health from its intelligent 
and faithful use. Her menstrual periods are now appearing painlessly after 
eighteen years of suffering. 

When pregnancy occurs and thus gives the ovaries a rest of nine months, 
the Viavi treament, carefully followed during that period, heals not only the 
diseased condition of the ovaries, and that of the peritoneum arising from it, 
but secures the many happy results of which it is capable in pregnancy and 
childbirth. It is by no means advised, however, that pregnancy be invited for 
the purpose of assisting in the cure of this distressing malady. On the con- 
trary, it is far better to employ the treatment directly for the cure. The 
special treatment required for this form of painful menstruation will be found 
in the latter part of this chapter. 

Membranous dysmenorrhea is that in which the lining 

Uterine Membrane of the womb becomes thickened, and instead of being 

shed in almost invisible particles and without pain, as 

in normal menstruation, comes away in patches and shreds, or as a whole, 
causing great pain and many serious disturbances. 

The lining of the womb is a sac fitted to the triangular cavity of the 
uterus, with its three openings, the os (mouth) and the two Fallopian tubes. 
As has been explained, in normal menstruation it disintegrates naturally, and 
its shedding is facilitated by the fatty degeneration of the tissue connecting 
it with the womb, so that it passes away in almost invisible particles and 
without pain. In painful menstruation from a diseased condition of this 
membrane (membranous dysmenorrhea) it has become greatly thickened, the 
disintegration and fatty degeneration do not occur properly, its blood vessels 
are greatly increased in size, capacity and number, and abnormal conditions 
appear in the tissues of the womb. Instead of the lining disintegrating 
evenly and coming away imperceptibly, as in normal menstruation, in this 
form of painful menstruation the thickened lining leaves the womb irregu- 
larly, and often passes out whole, causing great pain. 

The common practice for treating this condition is to scrape away the 
reluctant membrane with a curette a barbarous practice that does nothing 
whatever toward the removal of the cause, and that entails evils of its own, as 
we shall see later. The Viavi treatment regards the condition as a symptom, 
and proceeds to remove the causes producing it. An inflammatory condition 



PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 193 

explains the trouble. This must be taken care of, and the condition causing the 
inflammation must be removed. There is evidently a fault of nutrition, and 
the circulation is unnatural. The Viavi treatment looks to the removal of 
those unnatural conditions. Its splendid success in enabling Nature to cure 
the disease on those lines, without the least torture or exposure, is easily in- 
ferred from its observance of natural laws. 

In the membranous variety of painful menstruation the 

Many Indications pains usua i ly begin with the flow, and increase as the 

flow progresses, finally producing pains identical with 

those experienced in labor. During these pains the mouth of the womb 
dilates, as in childbirth, and the membrane passes as a whole or in shreds. 
Usually the pains are severest at these times, and are followed by rather a 
profuse flow, which soon disappears. It may be followed by a purulent or a 
watery discharge, which may continue for a few days or indefinitely. The 
sufferer is usually extremely nervous, and sterility is commonly present. The 
general health surfers seriously in this form of painful menstruation. 

The most astonishing variety of irrational treatments have been em- 
ployed for this distressing affliction, among them dilatation and curetting, in 
conjunction with chloride of zinc or carbolic acid for the purpose of destroy- 
ing that part of the membrane left behind by the curette. Such a treatment, 
including curetting, is necessarily unsuccessful, as it makes no effort to remove 
the cause of the complaint, and introduces special evils and dangers not exist- 
ing with the affliction. Among many similar cases we recall that of an un- 
married woman who had suffered so severely with membranous dysmenorrhea 
that she had submitted to more than a dozen curettements for relief, being led 
to believe that each operation would bring about the desired result, or at least 
a diminution of her suffering. Her vision became seriously impaired, and 
she was as near a nervous wreck as could be imagined when she adopted the 
Viavi treatment as a last resort. She was completely restored to health by the 
use of the Viavi capsules and cerate. 

The Viavi treatment restores the womb to its natural condition, with the 
result that the lining is naturally formed after menstruation, is of a natural 
character, and is naturally and painlessly shed during menstruation. 

Salpingitis (inflammation of the Fallopian tubes) is 
Salpmgitis Is a sometimes a cause of painful menstruation (dysmen- 
orrhea). Salpingitis itself will be treated in a separate 

chapter, but it may be considered here in its relation to menstruation. In 
such cases the pains come on several days before the flow, as the inflammation 
reduces the calibre of the tubes and thus serves as an obstruction. 

In -the chapter devoted to Salpingitis many interesting things maybe 
'earned. The cure of that disease will remove the tubal obstruction that 



t$4 VIA VI HYGIENE 

renders menstruation painful, as well as overcoming their reflex disturbances. 
Iteration of the cervix, from childbirth, is another cause of painful 
menstruation. This subject will be better understood from a reading of the 
chapter concerning it. 

^^ It will be often found that obstructions of one kind or 

!r another do not sufficiently account for painful menstru- 

ation (dysmenorrhea) in all cases the causes lie deeper 

than the mere obstruction in such instances, and the obstruction is merely an 
indication of the deeper cause. We find some women menstruating painlessly 
through a very small cervical mouth, and others suffering agonies when the 
mouth is large. Obstructions caused by flexions of the uterus have more clearly 
defined characteristics. In such cases the bending of the womb upon itself 
closes the canal and obstructs the flow ; but there are conditions in the flexion 
itself that cause pain, because a flexion is an unnatural condition, and betrays 
the presence of disease, with highly sensitive nerves. Where the obstruction 
is above the juncture of the uterus and vagina the pains are severe ; where it 
is below, the pains are comparatively light. This is because the circulation is 
less interfered with in the latter case than in the former. The more the circu- 
lation is strangled, the harder the pressure on the nerves, and the greater the 
pain. It will be observed by women who have submitted to the old torturing 
method of treatment that dilatation to secure relief when the obstruction is 
above the juncture of the uterus and the vagina, rarely secures the end 
desired. This subject will be more thoroughly discussed in the chapters 
devoted to displacements and flexions of the womb. 

It is asserted that 71.90 per cent, of married women who were afflicted 
with painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea) early in life are sterile. It is a 
false and dangerous modesty that permits disease to become fastened upon 
young women, who are the very ones yielding most readily to intelligent 
treatment. 

We have classified painful menstruation (dysmenorrhea) 
A rew Oeneral f or conven i ence ; as a matter of fact, several kinds may 
ouggestiouC exist at once, and one or more kinds may overlap in 

the same case. The only importance that a classification has is this : If a 
woman has painful menstruation from a disease of the ovaries (ovarian dys- 
menorrhea), and she fails to adopt the Viavi treatment, she will be advised, 
almost beyond the peradventure of a doubt, to have her ovaries removed. 
The incredible harm that she will suffer from such mutilation has been pointed 
out ki other chapters. If the disease is in the form of tumors or polypi in 
the womb, she will be advised, sooner or later, unless she adopts the Viavi 
treatment, to submit to an operation in which her abdomen will be cut open 
on the median line, and the symmetry of her figure destroyed ; perhaps she 



PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 195 

will be advised to submit to the removal of the uterus. The Viavi treatment 
renders all these measures wholly unnecessary. It makes no difference to the 
woman who adopts the Viavi treatment what form of painful menstruation 
(dysmenorrhea) she has; it is equally efficacious in all, because it assists 
Nature to bring the parts into a healthy and normal condition, and has accom- 
plished seemingly incredible cures, even after every resource of ordinary 
methods had been exhausted and the case given up as incurable. A woman 
afflicted with any form of painful menstruation is in positive and imminent 
danger of a surgical operation, whether minor or capital, unless she adopts the 
Viavi treatment. 

The Viavi treatment for painful menstruation (dysmen- 

The Treatment for orrhea j is as follows : In all cases the Viavi cerate should 

Dysmenorrhea be used daily oyer the region of the spine ( see Cera te 

on Spine in the latter part of this volume), and its use should not be omitted 
during the menstrual period. The fact should be kept in mind that the cerate 
is to be rubbed in, not merely rubbed on, and that it will be from the quantity 
absorbed, not the quantity applied, that beneficial results will be obtained. 
The quantity that will be absorbed will depend on the absorptive powers of the 
skin, which are normally great in this region. If the cerate is absorbed and 
taken up by the pores of the skin it is not wasted, no matter how muc^i may 
be absorbed, and if the skin takes it up readily it should be given freely. The 
cerate is wasted only when more is applied than can be absorbed. While 
much depends on the absorptive power of the skin, much depends also on 
the amount of work and time put into the rubbing. There should be no stint 
of either. Some one with strength and perseverance should be employed 
for this. 

Where the flow is suppressed or scanty, or great pain precedes the 
appearance of the discharge, the hot compress twice a week may be used, 
daily in severe cases. It is described in the latter part of this volume. It 
alleviates the pain by reducing the blood pressure on the sensitive nerves. 

If there is a great deal of inflammation and congestion present, cold 
compresses, as described in the latter part of this volume, should be used 
twice a week, or daily if the case demands it, between the periods, and hot 
compresses at the commencement of the period and a few days before. After 
removing the compress, whether hot or cold, apply the cerate thoroughly over 
the region of the abdomen. 

The cerate should be applied daily over the region of the abdomen, but 
the compresses are to be used only at the times here specified. 

A Viavi capsule is to be used in the vagina every night, except during 
the menstrual period, and should be placed as high as possible. 

One of the most successful aids in the treatment of painful menstruation 
(dysmenorrhea) is massaging the abdomen. This process is described in the 



196 VIAVI HYGIENE 

latter part of this volume. (See Pendant Abdoiniual Massage.) We know of 
one plucky sufferer who secured happy results under the Viavi treatment for 
painful menstruation produced by uterine retroflexion and ovarian inflamma- 
tion by devising a padded rest for the upper part of her body, so that her arms 
and hands were left free to massage the pendant abdomen herself, without 
assistance. Brilliant results are almost sure to follow the persistent use of the 
abdominal massage, not only in painful menstruation, but in other abnormal 
conditions of the pelvic region. (Also see Reclining Abdominal Massage 
where the compress and pendant abdominal massage are omitted.) 

In all the forms of painful menstruation the cure is hastened, and time 
and money saved, by the use of the Viavi liquid in the stomach three times a 
day, in from five to ten drop doses, in water, about twenty minutes before 
meals. 

The circulation of the blood should receive attention, and foregoing 
chapters on circulation, rest, sleep, exercise and sunshine should all afford 
valuable hints for each individual case. 

If the nourishment of the sufferer is defective, the Viavi tonic should 
be used in connection with the other forms of the remedy. It is an iron prep- 
aration, containing the Viavi principle in addition. Its virtues can be better 
understood by reference to the chapters dealing more particularly with it. 

The more marked the hysterical tendency, the greater the need of will 
and determination on the sufferer's part to overcome the physical obstacles to 
her recovery, by following up the treatment faithfully and for a sufficient 
length of time, and by taking needful exercise in the open air and sunshine. 
There is generally a great repugnance for this, but the sufferer owes it to herself 
to make every intelligent effort to get well, and she will be gratified to 
observe how kindly she will take to proper exercise with a little effort at 
first. It is easy to overdo in this regard. The slightest approach to undue 
fatigue should be avoided. 

Rest and sleep should receive the most careful attention, and eating and 
the other natural functions should be attended to with the utmost regularity. 
Bach sufferer should make a study of her own case. The greatest benefits will 
come from this understanding. 

Too great care and attention cannot be given the appli- 

Importance of the cat j on o f the Viavi cerate externally over the region of 

the abdomen and spine, for all menstrual anomalies or 

difficulties. The absorptive powers of millions of pores are actively employed 
in taking up this particular form of the Viavi treatment. If our patients 
could realize, even to a limited extent, how greedily this nourishing food is 
devoured by these minute external vessels, much care .and time would be 
devoted to it. 

Each artery carries -with it a dilating and a contracting nerve fiber, both of 



PAINFUL MENSTRUATION 197 

which are controlled by the nerve centers. When an abnormal quantity of 
blood collects in a part, the activity, or ftmction, of the contracting fiber is 
impaired, which means congestion or inflammation. If the quantity of blood 
is less than normal, the function of the dilating fiber is impaired. 

If we give Viavi to the nervous system, through the pores of the skin, it 
assists both fibers in functionating normally and thus controlling the blood 
supply. Frequently it takes considerable time for this readjusting of the 
nervous system to occur. As the blood supply of the pelvic organs is largely 
under the control of nerves whose centers are located in the lower part of the 
back, or lumbar and sacral regions, it is evident that applications of the cerate 
over that part of the spinal column, which is both at and below the waist line, 
will immediately reach the nerve centers, and thus control the blood supply, 
bringing a great sense of relief and evident curative results. 

Where intense congestion of the internal organs is present and the ex- 
ternal surface of the body is cold, showing that the external capillaries and 
arterioles are unduly contracted, while those internal are abnormally dilated, 
a cold compress over the region of the spine (see Cold Compress on Spine), 
followed by a thorough application of the cerate over this region, will assist 
the controlling nerves to regain their functional activity. Those vessels which 
are over-dilated, normally contract, and those abnormally contracted, suffi- 
ciently dilate, and thus a perfect circulation is established. This spinal com- 
press treatment is to be employed between and not at the monthly periods. 

After using the Viavi treatment for a time the menstrual 

.rains nvioence periods may become even more painful than before. 

Progress Thig fact was forcibly illustrated in the case of Mrs. H., 

who thought that the Viavi treatment was doing more harm than good, when 

suddenly a quantity of blood, black as tar, became expelled, which brought 

the first relief that the patient had received, although she had been under the 

treatment for several months. - That menstruation remains painful while under 

the treatment should encourage the patient to continue until the cause of the 

trouble, however remote and deep-seated, is removed. 

The fact should never be forgotten, where menstrual difficulties exist, 
that the delicate uterine and ovarian nerve filaments are made exceedingly 
sensitive by the existing inflammatory process. When regaining tone under 
the Viavi treatment, they gradually relax and contract, not only to accommo- 
date the flow of blood in the vessels, but also to force it onward; hence the 
sensitiveness that is often experienced while under the treatment. While 
these symptoms are disagreeable and often very painful, they indicate that a 
normal condition is being brought about, and they should always give en- 
couragement to the patient to continue, as they indicate that beneficial changes 
are occurring. 

irregularities of the menses while under the treatment need cause no 



198 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



alarm nor uneasiness, as Nature will regulate the flow of blood from these 
organs in a way that will best benefit the system. Under all circumstances the 
Viavi treatment simply assists Nature, and the patient can rest assured that 
Nature will make no mistake if given the proper assistance. 




CHAPTER xxix. 



VICARIOUS MENSTRUATION. 



menstruation is that in which the menstrual flow occurs from 
J some part of the body other than the uterus. Although genuine cases of 
^> it are rare, their serious nature and the readiness with which they yield 

to the Viavi treatment make it advisable to consider the affliction here. 

As a rule, when the menstrual period arrives, the flow occurs from the 
mucous membrane in some part of the body. There is scarcely any part of the 
body from which it has not been known to occur, including the eyes. The 
most common places are the nose, gums, stomach, lungs, breasts, or even some 
portion of the skin; or the flow may occur from ulcers anywhere, or from 
hemorrhoidal tumors. The flow in some cases, instead of having the form of 
blood, may be a transudation of serum, which is colorless, in which event the 
discharge is represented by a profuse watery diarrhea. 

In seeking the cause of vicarious menstruation, we must look to faulty 
nutrition, or a low condition of the nervous system. It may be due, however, 
to high arterial tension. 

Although this menstrual anomaly is rarely encountered 
Interesting Cases by the average practitioner, the Viavi practice, which 
in Point extends over the entire world, brings these cases quite 

frequently to view, as they are always deemed incurable. Among other cases 
a beautiful young girl of eighteen came under the Viavi treatment in 1894, for 
vicarious menstruation. Bvery few weeks she would have spells of bleeding 
from the nose and gums. A little black blood constantly oozed from her 
gums, giving her the appearance of having her mouth filled with tobacco 
juice. She was weak and so exhausted that she could scarcely sit up. She 
suffered from a constant hacking cough, and was reduced in weight to seventy- 
two pounds. In six months, under the Viavi treatment, her weight had in- 
creased to one hundred and one pounds; her menses had become normal. 

Another case was that of Mrs. G., who menstruated from the skin just 
above the knees. This was a much stubborner case than the foregoing. The 
treatment proved as successful, although consuming much more time. 



200 VIAVI HYGIENE 

It will be noted that 110 matter what the cause of this 

Why the Treatment Distressing complaint, except malformation of the organs, 

the Viavi treatment is perfectly adapted to its cure. 

This can be better understood by studying theaction of the remedy as ex- 
plained throughout this volume. The blood is enriched, the circulation is 
strengthened, the nerves and tissues are fed, and the general system is put 
into a condition that enables the natural functions to establish themselves. 

Many grave dangers of various kind are invited by a neglect of this 
most distressing condition. Nature's wonderful tendency to make the most 
of a bad situation leads her to adjust her operations as nearly as possible to 
abnormal conditions that she cannot overcome. In this way diseases become 
chronic, and are more difficult to overcome than acute afflictions, or those that 
have recently arisen. The sooner any disease is taken in hand the easier it is 
cured, as the less the effort must be to break up a habit into which Nature has 
fallen. 

If for a number of months in succession the blood has come from the 
lungs, there is reason to fear that consumption will follow, especially in 
scrofulous women, or those having a scrofulous hereditary taint. 

The Viavi treatment for vicarious menstruation is the same as that for 
amenorrhea, to which the sufferer is referred. 




CHAPTER xxx. 



NON-DEVELOPMENT. 



former chapters the normal development of girls was fully considered, 
As non-development, or retarded development, or arrested development 
bears a close relation to menstruation, it is treated here. 

A large proportion of the women who suffer through life, or who 
upon marriage develop some weakness that leads to suffering, are those who 
failed to receive intelligent attention at the time of puberty. Some of the in- 
struction that should be given a girl at this time has been already indicated. 
We shall now discuss the character, origin and treatment of abnormal condi- 
tions that may arise. 

Wh Girls Suffer A ' n ^ care ^ u ^ observer will note a great difference between 
S Much ^ an( * k ys w ^ tlx re g ar d to the dangers attending pu- 

berty, but there are few who consider the reasons for 

this difference, and thus place themselves in a position to give better attention 
to the care of girls. 

As a woman's share in the duties appertaining to the perpetuation of the 
species is far greater than a man's, it follows that the changes which a girl 
undergoes in passing from childhood to womanhood must be far greater than 
those experienced by a boy. As the change lays a much heavier strain upon 
a girl's strength than a boy's, it is necessary that the girl's strength be con- 
served in every possible way while it is under the strain. We do not observe 
that such care is commonly taken. On the contrary, it seems to be generally 
assumed that girls ought to be expected to come through the trial as easily as 
boys. Striking evidence of this extremely hurtful view is seen in the fact that 
in schools girls at the age of puberty are expected to do as much work as boys. 
In other words, the schoolroom, particularly the American schoolroom, is 
responsible for the wrecking of countless women's lives. 

The immensity of the evils wrought upon girls by the 
rw* I 5 schoolroom can hardly be exaggerated. At the very 
Overstuoy t * me w jj en Nature is placing the heaviest strain upon 



202 VIA VI HYGIENE 

them, they are called upon to work to the full limit of their strength. Noth 
ing could be more obvious than the fact that any excessive burden placed upon 
a girl's mind at the age of puberty consumes forces that Nature demands for 
her physical development. Indeed, at this time there should be no more 
mental work than is needful to keep the mind in healthy working order, to 
prevent its stagnation, and to divert it from unhealthy concentration upon the 
wonderful change that every element of consciousness in a girl's composition 
makes her aware is taking place. It is infinitely better to permit a girl to lag 
behind her male classmates than to lay the foundation for a whole life of suf- 
fering. For that matter, the sexes should never be permitted to work in the 
same classes at this time. It places girls at an enormous and altogether un- 
natural disadvantage, and by introducing the element of competition spurs 
them on to exertion that they cannot afford to make. Nothing will be lost 
by proceeding slowly until the girl's menstruation has been firmly established, 
for when that occurs naturally there ensues a time of remarkable mental activ- 
ity that makes strides with a rapidity impossible to boys. During the process 
of establishing menstruation Nature has been consuming an enormous amount 
of vital energy. None of this has been lost, however. On the contrary, it has 
been used most judiciously in the making of a perfect creature, so that when 
the task is complete there emerges a girl with a vastly greater store of vital 
energy than she possessed before the change. This she is eager and ready to 
apply to the concerns of her life. We now understand why girls who have 
not been overworked during the change are able generally to outstrip boys of 
the same age in competitive mental work. 

Not only does Nature place a much heavier strain upon 
Girls Have Some girls than upon boys at tlie age of p UDerty) so t h at b oys 

Disadvantages p asg through it without experiencing any of the strong 
disturbances to which girls are subjected, but the menstruation experienced 
by girls a condition to which there is nothing analogous in the case of boys 
is a physical fact invested with numerous serious dangers. As there is 
nothing in a girl's instinct that teaches her to expect a discharge from the 
vagina, she cannot expect it unless she is taught to do so. If she has had no 
instruction when it appears, she sees for herself that a serious physical thing 
has happened, and that it is different from any of her former experiences. It 
is natural for this to fill her with alarm, and her native modesty will be more 
than apt to lead her to conceal her condition and resort to such means as she 
may devise for overcoming it. 

Another thing : The discharge contains blood. Every child has learned 
the danger of shedding blood. Every one knows that ati unchecked flow will 
cause death. The girl, if untaught, does not know that the flow in her case is 
natural, but, on the contrary, is inevitably alarmed, and her sense of prudence 
may lead her to check the flow by such means as may suggest themselves to her. 



NON-DKVElvOPMKNT 203 



When a boy emerges from childhood he finds nothing to 
An Invasion of alarm him On the con trary, all the sensations that he 
Alarm experiences are agreeable, stimulating, inspiring. Noth- 

ing occurs to rouse his shame or self-disgust. He simply feels himself becom- 
ing a man. A girl's condition is vastly more complex. Her natural sensibil- 
ities are not only finer than a boy's, but she experiences a super-refinement of 
all of them The slightest cause will make a deep impression upon her, far 
deeper than a boy experiences. When she discovers the menstrual blood, she 
is far more alarmed than she would be under other circumstances, but she is 
more than apt to experience a humiliation^ that requires the most patient tact 
and skill on the mother's part to overcome. Comparatively few girls can depend 
upon the kindness and wisdom of their mothers they must take care of 
themselves as best they can. If they had a bleeding from the nose, they 
would not hesitate to let the fact be known ; but as it comes from a part of 
the body of which they have so recently become intensely conscious, and 
which their natural and beautiful modesty leads them to guard from any sort 
of intrusion, they will suffer tortures of mind and spirit of an intensity that 
no one but themselves can understand. At this time, without a mother's kindly 
guidance, a girl is the most pathetic figure in the world. 

The ingenuity which girls display in their efforts to 
How G:rk Injure check the me nstrual flow when it first appears is remark- 
Themselvcs able. The commonest practice among them is to take a 
cold bath. This generally checks the flow, and begins a lifetime of suffering. 
Among many thousands of cases in which uninstructed girls have thus 
arrested their development, with dreadful results, is the following, which will 
prove typical : 

An uncommonly bright girl of thirteen began to decline, without any 
visible cause. Between her thirteenth and sixteenth years she made no growth, 
and degenerated from one of the brightest girls in school to one of the dullest, 
with no desire for study, but with fertility of resources in devising ways for 
keeping out of school. She finally came under the notice of a Viavi repre- 
sentative. The representative requested the mother to ask her daughter a few 
simple questions, the answers to which shocked the mother inexpressibly. 
She learned that three years before, at thirteen, her daughter had discovered 
the menstrual discharge, and had checked it with a cold bath ; that she had 
repeated this for three or four months, until finally the flow no longer appeared; 
that for a time thereafter she would suffer excruciating pains every month, 
but that she was ashamed to mention them. The girl had thus arrested her 
development, and at the time she was seen by the representative was seem- 
ingly drifting rapidly into consumption. A faithful course of the Viavi treat- 
ment made her what she ought to have been three years before a hearty, 
healthy, happy girl, fond of work and study ; but the treatment never would 



204 VIAVI HYGIENE 

have been necessary if the mother a woman of high intelligence, with a number 
of grown daughters had done her simple duty. 

When we fully- realize the heavy strain under which 
Nature places a girl at puberty, and the great amount of 
-Development yital force require( j to effect the change, we can under- 
stand the necessity for a highly vigorous girlhood as the foundation for the 
change. If a girl has been born of healthy parents, has been wanted before 
her birth, and has been reared with all the affection and wise guidance that a 
perfectly competent mother will bestow, and is properly instructed concerning 
the change that must occur, and is taken kindly through it, there never will 
be the slightest trouble. She will bloom into beautiful and happy young 
womanhood, will be possessed of all the charms and graces to which she i. 
entitled, and will be blessed with an abundance of that natural wisdom necessary 
to a happy, competent and useful life. But it will be observed that the condi- 
tions for all this, simple as they seem, and natural as they are, do not exist 
as a rule. As more than nine-tenths of the women of the civilized world are 
afflicted to a greater or less extent with some disease peculiar to their sex, 
a great majority of mothers are not perfect for their duties. To the extent 
that they are not perfect, their daughters will suffer. These young lives not 
only come into the world burdened with weakness inherited from the imperfect 
condition of their mothers, but they fail to receive the affection and wise guid- 
ance that are necessary to their health. 

It is often difficult to discover a girl's inherent weakness 
Weakness That Is nn ^\ ^Q comes und-^ the heavy strain imposed at 
Inherited puberty. It is then that the story of her mother's con- 

dition may be read in her own. Even before that time arrives, some distress- 
ing things are found. Viavi representatives have encountered many a girl 
under twelve afflicted with leucorrhea. In some cases it appears even in 
infancy. Knowing, as we do, the constant drain that leucorrhea makes upon 
the system, we can imagine the dreadful experiences of a girl who must pass 
through puberty in such a condition. 

Inherited weakness may take many forms. It may appear as a general 
lack of vitality. Many a little girl deemed charming because of what is 
termed her spirituality, by which is meant her lack of the animal vigor 
necessary to full development into womanhood, has a life of misery before 
her. It must be realized that the prime essential with a young girl is to be a 
perfect being. Every grace of mind and body, every element of strength in 
her character, every quality of womanly goodness and sweetness that she can 
develop, must have that for its foundation. Girls must come into the world 
with a wholesome heredity if they are expected to develop into perfect 
women. 



NON-DEVELOPMENT 205 

As with women, so with girls, the ovaries constitute the 
The Ovaries Arc gran( j ce nter of the sexual nature. Their condition at 
the Center puberty represents all that goes to the making up of the 

individual. If the system lacks in inherent strength, there will not be a suffi- 
cient source upon which Nature may draw for the vital energy required to 
develop the ovaries. Around and within these complex little bodies, the 
ovaries, cluster the finest, most delicate and most skillful adjustments of 
which Nature is capable. In puberty every resource of the entire system is 
called upon to contribute its quota of strength toward their development. The 
digestive system must be in perfect order, that food may be properly prepared 
for all the needs of the body. Every vital organ must be in superb working 
order. The blood must be supplied with the nutriment that the body requires, 
and its ingredients must be assembled with due regard for the separate wants 
of every part. The circulation must be full, free and vigorous. All the 
organs of elimination must be able to work up to their full capacity. The 
condition of the mind itself must be exactly adapted to the need arising at this 
time. If it is exhausted by laborious study, or if it is harassed by troubles oi 
domestic or other origin, the ovaries will suffer in development. If the sym- 
pathy and affection that the child-heart craves are withheld, or if the peevish- 
ness of a sickly mother is present to act as a depressing or irritating influence, 
the ovaries will suffer. 

So many causes may and do operate at puberty to pre- 
vent the normal development of the ovaries that it would 
Development be impossible to enumerate them all. It ought to be 
sufficient to impress upon mothers the grave character of the condition in 
which puberty places even the most robust girls, much more those who dis- 
cover the least tendency to be delicate or fragile. 

If Nature cannot find in the system sufficient material out of which 
to work properly the miracle of transforming a child into a woman, she will 
take all that she can find, and leave the rest of the body to suffer as it may. So 
great is the effort at this time that serious systemic disturbances of many 
kinds are likely to arise unless all the conditions are favorable. Headaches 
are very common. Pains in the ovarian region inflict unthinkable tortures. 
Many a young girl is so overcome by the many trials that she is called 
upon to bear, that she prefers death to all that she has to face, and thus it is 
that suicides at this time are distressingly common. 

Of course retardation of development of the sexual nature means retard- 
ation of development in all other directions. Unless the ovaries develop 
normally, the child will not develop normally in any direction. Her form will 
not fill out properly. She is likely to be flat-chested and stoop-shouldered, 
her eyes to be dull, her mind stupid, her affection blunted, her bodily fttad 
tions deranged. 



206 VIAVI HYGIENE 

When the attention of the parents is drawn to their 
Many Mistakes Are daughter > s sallow, pinched face, hollow chest, angular 

figure and lifeless, awkward gait all the evidences of 

low vitality and lack of natural development there is too apt to arise a decis- 
ion to put her through a course of exhausting physical exercise, and thus con- 
sume the last remnant of strength that the system of the girl requires for other 
purposes. Instead of this her life should be made as easy and pleasant as pos- 
sible, all exhausting work withheld, and careful attention paid to rational 
exercise, a sufficient amount of sunshine, wholesome diet and abundant 
sleep. It is under such circumstances that the Viavi treatment accomplishes 
many of its happiest results. All that Nature desires is some rational help; 
given that, and she will do all that is necessary. The shrunken, lifeless mus- 
cles should be fed by having the Viavi cerate rubbed into the pores of the skin 
once a day, and the circulation assisted with the baths described in the latter 
part of this volume. 

If a girl at this time is fretful, peevish or cross, it should be reflected 
that her condition is unnatural, and that her conduct is not the evidence of a 
perverse disposition, for Nature intended that she should be light-hearted and 
happy at all times of her life. If she has headache or backache, or is consti- 
pated, or her breath is offensive, there is tangible evidence of a condition 
demanding vigorous treatment. Nature needs assistance in removing the 
waste that accumulates from the act of living, and this assistance is furnished 
by the Viavi treatment. A serious fault of nutrition is evident, and the Viavi 
treatment furnishes the nutriment that Nature demands. Viavi is a predi- 
gested food, and is promptly appropriated by the impoverished tissues. A 
perfect cure cannot be expected in a short time. Persistence is required, but 
the reward that comes from it is immeasurably great. 

As early as ten years of age a girl should be instructed 
A Gir Requires by her motlier to expect menstruation in the course of 

time, and should be impressed with its great importance 

to every concern of her life as long as she shall live. The mother should 
point out the danger of taking cold, of too much violent exercise, particularly 
in skipping the rope, of permitting the feet to remain wet, or of sitting on 
stone steps or the damp ground. To secure the daughter's full confidence is 
to make it sure that she will announce the changes that she feels taking place 
within her at eleven or twelve years of age, when the mother can explain 
them and thus remove all the apprehension and shame that they will other- 
wise arouse. It is wonderful and beautiful to see the readiness with which 
girls respond to appeals to their confidence from their mothers. These matters 
should be discussed openly and freely, not behind closed doors, as if they were 
something to be ashamed of. But for this false shame there would be much 
less suffering in the world than there is. At the same time the girl can be 



NON-DEVELOPMENT 207 

given to understand that the mother is the only one in the world with whom 
it is right for the daughter to discuss these subjects. The mother will be grat- 
ified beyond measure to see how eager her little girl is for more knowledge; 
how she follows her mother about and begs for more. This can be imparted 
judiciously, but it is evident that the mother must inform herself before she 
can do so, and she is unfit in the full sense to be a mother of girls unless she 
does. 

There is one danger a rare one, but one giving rise to 
An Imperforate ser ious possibilities unless it is understood that may 
Hymen confront young girls at puberty, and that is an imper- 

forate hymen, or a hymen that has no opening through which the menstrual 
flow may escape. The hymen and its usual perforations are described else- 
where in this volume. The absence of a perforation is congenital it is a conr 
dition that has existed from birth. If there is no opening, the menstrual fluid 
is dammed up, and becomes a serious menace to health. The flow, seeking an 
outlet elsewhere, will likely give rise to very serious results. There is only 
one cure for imperforate hymen an opening must be made, and this should 
be done by a competent physician. 

Among the cases illustrating the evils of maternal neglect in the matter 
of instruction of young girls may be mentioned the following, referring to 
imperforate hymen: A girl at puberty showed symptoms of imperforate 
hymen. When the attending physician announced that a slight operation was 
necessary the child protested vehemently, and force was required by her 
mother and the physician to compel her to submit. The operation was sim- 
ple and painless, but the wretched child cried at night for months. Long 
afterward she explained that the cause of her distress was her belief that the 
operation was one intended to change her from a girl to a boy, and that she 
did not want her natural condition interfered with! Such cases of incredible 
mental anguish on the part of girls from ignorance and from the absence of 
confidence between them and their mothers, are far more common than most 
mothers realize. This girl's ignorance and consequent suffering were an un- 
bounded reproach to the mother. 

TBTk t Until the discovery of Viavi and its use in cases of non- 

development, there was no remedy for the treatment of 
the very common and distressing conditions arising at 

puberty. The most that ordinary methods could recommend was increased 
outdoor life, with perhaps an iron or other tonic. There was no way of feed- 
ing the depressed and weak nerves, of introducing the very food that Nature 
requires in the wonderful change. The Viavi treatment supplies it, and thus 
enables Nature to handle the great and complex problem that lies before her. 
It is the very help that is required. Under its influence the blood, supplied 



aefc VIAVI HYGIENE 

with proper nutriment, is sent bounding through the body, filling it with the 
life appropriate to childhood. The treatment unshackles Nature, and enables 
her to take the weak girl kindly in hand and lead her through the marvelous 
change that makes her a woman. These assertions are made from redundant 
experience. Many of the countless thousands of the victories won by Nature 
over disease with the aid of the Viavi treatment have been in the cases of 
young girls suffering under the bondage of incomplete, retarded or absent 
development. 

Youth is a very valuable factor in the treatment of disease. This is one 
reason why young girls respond so readily to the Viavi treatment, and why 
permanent sound conditions are so easily established thereby. 

According to the latest researches, chlorosis, or green 
Ijtecn Sic ess, ot s j c k ne ss, seems to be characterized by a diminution in 

Chlorosis the amount o f hemoglobin in the blood. The change 

appears to be strictly limited to the red corpuscles. This is a disease found in 
girls near the age of puberty. It is limited almost entirely to the female sex 
and generally makes its appearance between the ages of fourteeen and twenty- 
four. There is a conspicuous paleness of the skin, which is sometimes clear 
or of a greenish, yellowish hue. There are dark circles around the eyes; the 
lips and other mucous membranes are pale. There may be also a dropsical 
condition of the eyelids, face and feet. The breath is cool, and the ears, nose, 
lips, hands and feet are cold, indicating that the circulation of the blood is 
poor. The patient is generally very sensitive to cold. We find also that 
palpitation of the heart is present. Although the patient does not exert her- 
self in the least, there exists great weakness of the muscular system, and she 
becomes easily tired. The head is dizzy and aches. There are noises in the 
ears, and pains in different parts of the body, especially in the back; hysteri- 
cal spasms, nightmare, and evert an inclination to self-destruction. There are 
a loss of appetite and a desire for sour things, and a morbid craving for chalk, 
paper, ashes, fresh earth, coals and even excrements. An absence of the 
menses, or painful and irregular menstruation, is generally present, or a thin, 
watery leucorrhea may appear in place of the menses. In other cases chlo- 
rosis is accompanied with profuse menstruation. Hysterical paroxysms are of 
common occurrence. 

In chlorosis the whole digestion is disturbed, and consequently the 
assimilation of nutriment for the blood does not take place properly ; hence 
all functional activity is impaired, more or less. The adaptability of the Viavi 
treatment for this disease is prominently conspicuous. 

Chlorosis may exist for several years if not properly treated, but under 
<he proper Viavi treatment splendid results are speedily obtained. The treat- 
ment for chlorosis is the same as that for non-development, given elsewhere 
in this chapter. 



NON-DEVELOPMENT 209 

Irregularity of menstruation in young girls, from non- 
Nervous Troubles, <i eve i p mell t and allied causes, gives rise to nervous 
Epilepsy troubles that are likely to be much more serious than in 

the case of adults. Epilepsy is sometimes a result. Low spirits and melan- 
cholia are frequently encountered. Many a girl has run away from home 
because her nervous condition had made her surroundings seem intolerable, 
particularly if the mother was cross, unsympathetic or irritable. It is under 
such circumstances that suicide is committed by girls of an extremely sensi- 
tive temperament. All these conditions disappear with the removal of the 
cause by means of the Viavi treatment, which is the same as for non- 
development. 

There should be no hesitancy in the use of Viavi capsules by young 
girls, and they should be instructed in the matter. No rupturing nor stretch- 
ing of the parts occurs, as an opening sufficiently large exists, if the parts are 
perfectly normal, and if not, a rupture should be made. If the normal open- 
ing exists, from the high elasticity of the membrane, no rupture can result. 
The Viavi treatment, besides being the only means for enabling Nature to 
establish normal processes in such cases, spares a girl the mortification and 
injury inflicted by examinations. She takes the Viavi treatment in the privacy 
of her own room, with none but her mother to know. 

If a girl shows the slightest weakness at puberty, suffers 
Viavi Treatment p a j n Q f any ki n( j or j n an y locality, exhibits any form 

of nervousness, is depressed in spirits, suffers from poor 

circulation, as is indicated by cold hands and feet or a blue skin, is anemic, 
chlorotic, has headaches or backache, if the menses are retarded or abnormal 
in any way, the bust and chest flat and not developed or the muscles flabby, 
she needs the Viavi treatment, by which Nature is supplied with the material 
with which she is enabled to develop the child into the perfect and complete 
woman, and thus insure to her a life free from suffering and pain. 

Especially should great care be given the use of the Viavi cerate over 
the region of the spine (see Cerate on Spine) at least once a day, so that the 
nervous system may be properly nourished. 

The pendant abdominal massage (see Pendant Abdominal Massage) is 
one of the most important hygienic adjuncts to the Viavi treatment for non- 
development, in conjunction with the use of the Viavi capsules, cerate and 
tonic. 

The hot compresses (see Hot Compress) twice a week over the region 
of the abdomen will also prove of great benefit in assisting the blood to circu- 
late freely throughout the pelvic and abdominal regions. By this means Viavi 
is carried by the blood to the generative organs and their tissues, and thy 
derive the necessary nourishment by which a full development i* obtained. 

The compresses are to be used twice a week, but the cerate is ah/ayato 



2io VIAVI HYGIENE 

be used over the region of the abdomen every night in a thorough manner. 

The cerate is also to be used once a day over the region of the bust. It 
should be applied with a circular movement, and all harshness carefully 
avoided when treating the chest and mammary glands. 

Young growing girls respond readily to the Viavi treatment, and the 
effects from its intelligent use will soon be noticeable. The muscles fill out, 
the bust develops naturally, the digestion becomes good, the heart light, the 
spirits buoyant ; in short, the girl is made by Nature, with the assistance of 
the Viavi treatment, what she was intended to be a budding woman, full of 
the life, spirit and grace that distinguish her sex. 




CHAPTER xxxi. 



CONGESTION, INFLAMMATION, ULCERATION. 



the chapter on the circulation of the blood an outline of the principles 
of congestion and inflammation was given. As one or more of these 
conditions are present in all, or nearly all, of the diseases of women, it 
is well to inquire more closely into them, and have the knowledge thus 
gained ready for a better understanding of the numerous diseases to be dis- 
cussed in the following chapters. 

Congestion, as has been shown, is an unnatural determination of blood 
to a part or organ, and is different from the natural congestion that frequently 
occurs and that is necessary to the organs. Inflammation is a condition in 
which there is a more or less permanent oversupply of blood in the capillaries, 
distending and enfeebling them, and producing swelling, tension, redness, 
pain and heat and impaired function. Ulceration is a destructive change that 
has set up in the tissues as the result of inflammation and impaired nutrition. 

Although inflammation, wherever found, is of the same 
Many 1 lames for general character, it has many names to indicate its loca- 
tion. The suffix "itis" appended to the name of a part 

means inflammation of that part. Thus, ovaritis means inflammation of the 
ovaries ; peritonitis, inflammation of the peritoneum ; metritis, inflammation 
of the metra, or womb ; urethritis, inflammation of the urethra ; gastritis, 
inflammation of the lining of the stomach ; vaginitis, inflammation of the 
vagina ; salpingitis (from salpingo, a tube), inflammation of the Fallopian or 
Eustachian tubes (in this volume the use of the word is restricted to the first- 
named tubes); vulvitis, inflammation of the vulva; cystitis (from cyst, a sac), 
inflammation of the bladder, and so on. These names are mentioned to show 
how simple they are when their meaning is understood. Many sufferers are 
needlessly frightened when told that they have a disease called by some for- 
midable name, when it may mean simply an inflammation. These terms are 
used merely for convenience, but often in a way to discourage a sufferer. It 
is important, therefore, that she know the meaning of them, for that is the 
first step to an understanding of the causes that produce them, and hence to 
intelligent treatment of them. 



212 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Not only has inflammation a special name according to 
The Sym its locatiou> but it pro duccs special symptoms as it im- 

pairs the functions of the various organs. Inflammation 

of the lungs will produce one set of symptoms, of the womb another, of the 
eyes another, of the ovaries still another. It is from the symptoms that we 
learn the location and extent of the inflammation, and from the location that 
we give it a special name. The visible characteristics of inflammation are 
swelling, or enlargement, hardness and redness, accompanied with a sensation 
of heat and pain, and impaired function. From these characteristics of in- 
flammation in various parts of the body, although we cannot see them, we 
know that inflammation exists. We know, too, that all inflammation is of the 
same general character, and that it is amenable to the proper treatment. 

The expansion and contraction of the arteries, by which 
The Nerves Are their ca i^ TQ j s increased and diminished, and by which 

the blood is drawn into them and forced onward, are 

controlled by the nerves having that duty to perform. Every blood vessel has 
its dilating and contracting nerves. When these nerves become weak or par- 
alyzed, the expansion and contraction of the arteries do not properly occur, 
and the vessels become filled v/ith blood and the circulation is impeded. The 
walls of the vessels being lax, the vessels, crowded with blood, gradually ex- 
pand, and some of the elements of the blood escape through the walls into 
the adjacent tissues. The tissues expand under this accumulation, chemical 
changes take place, forming impurities and causing heat, and the cardinal 
symptoms of inflammation appear swelling, heat, redness and pain, and im- 
paired function. The swelling is produced by the accumulation of blood ; the 
heat is due to chemical changes ; the redness is caused by the distension of the 
capillaries with blood and the escape of blood into the tissues, and the pain is 
caused by the pressure of the accumulation upon the multitudinous nerve 
filaments in the affected region. 

All these results come from the inability of the nerves to perform their 
duties. This inability may be due to injury or malnutrition, colds, excesses, 
neglect, or severe mental strain. Hence it is evident that inflammation is a 
response to injury or to a disturbance of the mechanism of nutrition, the 
function of the structures concerned being impaired. When the starving 
nerves and tissues have taken up the nourishing food of Viavi in sufficient 
quantities, control of the circulation is regained. The flow of blood to and 
from the parts becomes normal and the impurities are removed. Such is the 
specific action of all the forms of Viavi in reducing inflammation, independ- 
ently of its stage, type or location. When the condition has progressed so far 
as to destroy the function of the sensory nerves, pain disappears. An extreme 
illustration of this is seen in gangrene, and often a seriously ulceration condi- 
tion of the uterus. 



CONGESTION, INFLAMMATION, ULCERATION 213 

Inflammation is brought about by some cause that acts 
Various Phases of - n an j n j ur i ous or destructive manner upon the tissues, 
Inflammation such ag cold> heat> i n j ury> impeded circulation from any 
other cause, or infection. 

When from inflammation there is an accumulation of fluid in the joints 
or the pleural cavity, it is termed serous inflammation. 

Adhesive or fibrinous inflammation is so called from the sticky substance 
that exudes, by which two surfaces are quickly united. This form of in- 
flammation is best seen in the peritoneal cavity. Extensive adhesions of low- 
grade tissue will form in the peritoneal cavity from fibrinous inflammation in 
a few hours. 

Croupous inflammation is so called from the formation of a false mem- 
brane upon the surface of an inflamed mucous membrane. 

Gangrenous inflammation belongs to the malignant type. 

Where there is liquefaction of the tissues, suppuration occurs which is 
called suppurative or phlegmonous inflammation. In this form the deeper 
parts become involved. 

Inflammation of the mucous membrane has a tendency to run along the 
surface. That is why the inflammation may begin at the vulva and gradually 
extend to the Fallopian tubes and ovaries, or through the urethra to the 
bladder. 

In acute inflammation the swelling increases the temperature, and all 
characteristic symptoms are rapid and prominent, while in chronic inflamma- 
tion the symptoms are much less marked. Repeated causes of acute inflam- 
mation will bring about a chronic inflammatory condition, and chronic condi- 
tions will often be lighted up by acute attacks. When the functional vigor 
of the nerve supply of a part becomes impaired, the vitality of the tissues is 
greatly diminished; hence the slightest injury or aggravation from exposure, 
injudicious exercise, etc., will repeatedly give rise to inflammation, and thus 
place a woman in a most deplorable condition. 

Other forms of inflammation are known as sthenic and asthenic. Acute 
inflammation in the young and vigorous is called sthenic (strong), while the 
asthenic (weak) form appears in the feeble and old. 

Ulceration is a symptom following inflammation, and it shows perverted 
nutrition ; therefore the Viavi treatment employed for ulceration is identical 
with that for inflammation. (See treatment for inflammation of the various 
organs.) Ulcers and open sores are treated in a separate chapter. (See 
Ulcers.) 

The results from internal and external inflammation, 
and from inflammation of the various organs, differ 
greatly, but as the cause is the same, a remedial 
agency that reduces it in one locality will act as beneficially in another. 

Inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia) interferes with respiration, and 



2T4 VIAVI HYGIENE 

hence the proper purification of the blood does not take place in these organs. 
Inflammation of the stomach (gastritis) interferes with the liquefying of the 
food; indigestion follows, and hence the body is deprived of its normal 
amount of nourishment. Inflammation of the uterus (metritis) interferes 
with the functional activity of the whole generative tract ; hence the monthly 
venous purification does not normally occur, and the foundation for pelvic and 
abdominal tumors and cancers is laid ; adhesions form, displacements are 
brought about, etc., and as the generative tract constitutes the very pivot of 
the female economy, the pelvic and abdominal regions are the most dangerous 
locations of the whole body for its development. Simple inflammation in 
these regions lays the foundation for many obscure and fatal diseases. 

Inflammation is prevented by the prompt use of the 
The Treatment in viayi treatment . ?his j s particularly so in cases of 
Inflammation croup and i rr i tat i ng coughs, when the Viavi cerate is 
applied immediately at the onset of these troubles ; and in cases of badly 
crushed tissue from mechanical injuries. Inflammation and tenderness disap- 
pear by its use, and a complete cure follows where the injury receives imme- 
diate and continuous Viavi treatment. (See chapters on Wounds, Sprains, 
Burns, etc.; also see special treatment for inflammation of various parts and 
organs.) 

It is obvious that inflammation is an impeded circulation, by which the 
functions are impaired and the tissues deprived of nourishment. The same 
phenomenon occurs, no matter where the inflammation may be located. The 
symptoms change and vary with the function of the organs which are im- 
paired. Inflammation extends from one tissue to another; it may begin in 
one place and extend in all directions. There is always a cause, and the 
removal of these symptoms depends first upon the removal of the cause, and 
this upon the action of Viavi, which has the strongest affinity for the impaired 
circulation in the tissues and organs. This being understood, it can be easily 
seen why the Viavi treatment has been taken as the treatment for these condi- 
tions into millions of homes, and has been given a prominent place, not only 
as a specific for uterine inflammation and their sequelae, but also as a house- 
hold remedy for the reduction of inflammation wherever it exists in any part. 




CHAPTER xxxn. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB. 

SUBINVOI,UTION.) 



^S N preceding chapters we learned how readily the womb takes on an inflam- 
$j$ matory condition, what this condition will lead to if neglected, why 
^^ there is so little tendency toward vc luntary recovery, and why and to 
what extent this condition affects the well-being of the sufferer. We 
shall now approach the subject more closely, and inquire into the causes and 
treatment of uterine and pelvic inflammation. These cannot be properly un- 
derstood unless the truths set forth in preceding chapters have been mastered. 
It is taken for granted that every woman who has become aware of the causes, 
character and results of her affliction will make every intelligent effort to 
secure recovery. She cannot do so, nor secure the happiness and comfort that 
health assures, unless she makes an intelligent study of the subjects treated 
in this volume. 

Inflammation of the womb (metritis) may be either 
Kinds of Uterine acute or c h ron i c> Acute inflammation is of recent oc- 

currence ; chronic inflammation is that which has become 

established. All acute conditions are much more readily cured than chronic 
ones. The reason is this: Both conditions are foreign to the purposes of 
Nature, but in an acute condition the natural curative powers of the system 
have not been so generally reduced as in a chronic condition, and its more 
recent appearance invites natural efforts to combat it with more vigor. In a 
chronic disease, Nature, finding her efforts to cure unavailing, has adapted 
herself to a greater or less extent to the abnormal condition, though all the 
time protesting with pain and thus calling upon our intelligence for remedial 
assistance ; but the abnormal condition has become to a certain extent a habit 
of the system, and we have already learned the strength of habit. 

It follows that upon the very first indications of inflammation of the 
womb we should employ prompt, vigorous and intelligent treatment to over- 
come it. If we do not, it will merge into the chronic form, and require much 
more time, effort and expense. 



2i6 VI A VI HYGIENE 

The difference between taking such a case in time and permitting it to 
exist without proper treatment is illustrated in the following cases, selected 
from many thousands that Viavi representatives have met : Mrs. W. contracted 
a cold. The result was acute inflammation of the womb and ovaries. Her 
sufferings were intense. The prompt use of Viavi under her mother's guid- 
ance brought about a perfect recovery in a week. Three capsules were used a 
day, together with a daily hot compress, and two applications of the cerate 
daily over tlje region of the spine and abdomen. This required some time and 
exertion, but no adhesions formed, no permanent enlargement was left, no 
displacements, and no other unhealthy condition. The recovery was perfect. 
The case of Miss P. was very different. She was too modest to seek help. She, 
too, contracted a cold, and then overtaxed her strength by teaching school 
and being on her feet, when she should have been in bed and under treatment. 
This patient used the Viavi treatment three years to obtain the same results 
that the first patient secured in one week, as the intense inflammation so seri- 
ously interfered with the functional activity within the pelvic and abdominal 
region that the formation of a number of small fibroid tumors had well 
progressed. 

Apart from the special and immediate causes producing 
Causes of Uterine i nnammat i n of the womb (metritis), there are general 
Inflammation causes that we have already discussed in our inquiry into 
the origin and character of inflammation. Thus, the extreme sensitiveness of 
the generative organs to abnormal systemic conditions, such as impaired nutri- 
tion, devitalized nerves, unintelligent living, lack of proper food and sufficient 
rest, sleep and exercise, invites the localization within them of any weakness 
that may exist generally in the system. If, for instance, the tone of the nerves 
whose function it is to regulate the elasticity of the arterial walls becomes 
lowered throughout the system from some general cause, the probabilities are 
that the ensuing weakness of the arterial walls will become localized in the 
generative organs, and particularly in the uterus, by reason of the great num- 
ber of its blood vessels and the sensitiveness of the nerves controlling them. 
In such cases it is evident that to torture the womb with local treatment has 
no effect whatever upon the causes producing the condition, and that the 
Viavi plan of assisting Nature to remove the causes by furnishing vital nour- 
ishment is the only rational one. The nervous system must be built up, and 
intelligent living must be followed. 

Aside from the general causes that produce inflammation 

Specific Causes of the womD ( me tritis) are many of a strictly local 

Encountered character. Among these are the inflammation following 

delivery (this is generally associated with blood poisoning septicernia); a 

sudden suppression of the menses, caused by taking cold; physical injury 



INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB 217 

from the use of the sound, the curette, pessaries, tents and medications ; lacer- 
ation ; the production of abortion ; surgical operations upon the uterus ; mis- 
carriage ; excessive intercourse ; venereal diseases ; non-development. 

Suppression of the menses produces inflammation by stopping the 
escape of impurities which Nature designed should be removed. Medications 
have a similar effect. Abortions, miscarriages and surgical operations are 
violent interferences with natural conditions, and produce a radical nervous 
derangement that prohibits a natural control of the uterine blood vessels. 
Excessive intercourse has a similar effect upon the nerves, and so also have 
displacements, which always retard uterine circulation. 

When the inflammation extends from the womb to the peritoneum 
covering its body or upper end, we have what is called perimetritis. 

When inflammation of the womb has become firmly established, it pro- 
gresses toward ulceration, lays the foundation for tumors and cancers, causes 
the formation of adhesions, and produces numerous other evils. 

It is impossible for one part of the womb to become in- 
r omb Is flame( i without affecting other contents of the pelvic 
Involved cavity to a greater or less extent ; consequently, when 

we treat metritis, or inflammation of the womb, we include endometritis, 
which means inflammation of the lining membrane of the womb, as it is im- 
possible for the body of the womb to become inflamed without its lining 
membrane becoming involved in the inflammatory process. We also include 
inflammation of the cervix, or neck of the womb (cervicitis), inflammation of 
the lining membrane of the cervix fendocervicitis), and allied inflammatory 
conditions. 

We know that an inflamed finger will not only involve the whole hand, 
but the arm as well, and impair their functions. It is the same way within 
the pelvic and abdominal cavities. Inflammation cannot be confined to one 
spot, nor treated in one spot to effect a successful cure. We must treat the 
contents of these regions as a whole. Hence the success of the Viavi treat- 
ment. If a woman is told that she is suffering from metritis, endometritis, 
cervicitis, endocervicitis, she becomes terrified from the use of technical 
names, believing that an operation is the only means of relief. But if she is 
told that she is suffering from inflammation of the whole womb (which this 
free use of technical terms indicates), she does not become frightened, but 
realizes that inflammation here can be as successfully reached by natural 
treatment as inflammation elsewhere. 

A large majority of the cases of chronic inflammation 

of the womb are due to subinvolution. This means a 

failure of the womb to return to its natural size after 

childbirth, abortion or miscarriage. The process of involution, the returning 



2iS VIAVI HYGIENE 

of the womb to its natural size after childbirth, is not completed, even by a 
perfectly healthy woman and under the most favorable circumstances, in less 
than thirty or thirty-five days, and a great many accidents may occur to delay 
or largely arrest it. Mental shocks, too early intercourse, suppression of the 
milk, retention of pieces of the placenta, and, commonest of all, the uncon- 
conquerable and unpardonable proneness of women to leave their beds too 
soon, interfere with normal involution. Subinvolution almost invariably 
follows childbirth where a woman has conceived with the womb in otherwise 
than a perfectly healthy condition. In many cases it is caused by a constitu- 
tional condition known as laxity of fiber ; this may be peculiar to women in 
all ranks and to those who look healthy. 

Another frequent cause of the failure of the womb to return to its natural 
size (subin volution) is neglect after an abortion or a miscarriage. Women of all 
classes are too apt to overlook the fact that these occurrences, instead of being 
trifling, are generally more serious than labor, for the simple reason that they 
are a violent interference with the natural course of events, whereas normal 
labor is a natural event. 

Another cause is a recurrence of the condition in a slight form after each 
birth. The uterus has not properly regained its normal size after childbirth 
before another pregnancy occurs. Repetitions of this gradually bring the 
uterus to a size two or three times as great as it should be, and there is a con- 
tinuous copious leucorrhea. Prolapse or even protrusion of the uterus is a 
frequent addition to this condition. This will be more particularly discussed 
in the chapters devoted to displacements of the womb. 

We frequently find married women who date their invalidism from 
childbirth. These periods of illness extend over many years, from fifteen to 
twenty, and over. We have reference to cases of subinvolution uncomplicated 
with laceration cases in which involution has not occurred properly after 
childbirth. Where the womb remains large and heavy, as in subinvolution, 
every monthly period becomes almost a menace to life, if the patient is unfor- 
tunate enough to contract a cold or overtax her strength. If the hand, foot or 
any visible part of the body remained abnormally enlarged from disease for 
several years, would not its functions become impaired, and would it not be- 
come a burden ? So it is with the enlarged and heavy uterus, but much more 
so, as it cannot be put to rest like a member of the body, for it has its func- 
tion to perform monthly, and this is of vital necessity to the health and life of 
the invalid. 

The symptoms of inflammation of the womb are many 
The Symptoms of and varied> inflammation of the womb always causes 

its enlargement, and enlargement in turn causes dis- 
placement; hence the presence of the characteristic symptoms peculiar to the 
displacement, in whatever direction it may fall, backward, forward, or down- 



INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB 219 

ward: pain in the abdominal region, in the back; a sense of weight and bear- 
ing down in the pelvis, increased when standing, pain in the uterine region 
when sitting down; leucorrhea; menstrual anomalies of all kinds, with an 
aggravation of the symptoms during the menses; great heat, with a burning 
sensation of the cervix and vagina; digestion and appetite become impaired; 
the lower extremities become painful and lame, often leading a woman to 
diagnose her case. as that of rheumatism; sterility, if it become complicated 
with inflammation of the tubes and ovaries, while the inflammatory process 
overlaps and involves surrounding tissues and organs to such an extent that 
often the whole body from the waist to the feet is hardly free from pain. The 
upper part of the body is not exempt, by any means. Mental symptoms arise, 
such as forgetful ness, peevishness, crying easily and for no cause, despondency, 
melancholia ; and even various forms of insanity, more or less severe, may oc- 
cur. We find also loss of sleep, intense headaches, pain on the top of the head 
and at the base of the brain; also a marked or peculiar pain between the 
shoulders, with tenderness of the spine and breasts, which show that the 
generative tract constitutes the center of the whole female organism, that an 
impairment of it implicates the whole body; and that by removing the cause 
the inflammation within the pelvic region all distressing symptoms, even in 
remote parts of the body, disappear. 

As a rule menstruation should not be expected until at 
When to Expect least seven or G igfa months after delivery, if the breasts 

are yielding milk to the child; if not, menstruation 

should not be expected for two or three months after delivery. If, therefore, it 
is discovered that a woman has had her menses regularly and profusely ever 
since her confinement, or that she has had a continual blood-colored discharge, 
with occasional flooding, we may at once conclude that she is suffering from 
subinvolution or something worse. 

The Symptoms of In CaSeS f chrollic inflammation due to the failure of 
o j. the womb to return to its natural size after childbirth, 

ou Din volution ... , _ , 

the womb is always large and hard, and tender to the 

touch. Enlargement and tenderness of the ovaries will be generally found 
present, from the fact of the close sympathy existing between them and the 
uterus. 

A woman suffering with inflammation of the womb from any cause 
finds little of the pleasure of life to which she is entitled. For reasons set 
forth in preceding chapters, her entire physical economy shares in the dis- 
turbance, through the injury suffered by the nervous system. She cannot be 
a proper wife to her husband nor mother to her children. Unfortunately, she 
is not in a condition to realize the extent to which her whole nature is im- 
poverished. This fact imposes a special obligation upon the husband to treat 



220 VIAVI HYGIENE; 

her with every consideration, and do all in his power to assist her to recovery. 

__. The treatment for metritis (inflammation of the womb), 

^iTfla ' endometritis (inflammation of its lining membrane), 

perimetritis (inflammation of that part of the peritoneum 

connected with the uterus) ,cervicitis (inflammatiou of the neck of the womb), 
endocervicitis (inflammation of the lining membrane of the cervix), salpingi- 
tis (inflammation of the Fallopian tubes), ovaritis (inflammation of the ovaries), 
vaginitis (inflammation of the vagina), subinvolution, enlargement, erosion, 
granulation, and laceration is the same. The cause to be removed is the same. 
The symptoms differ with the locations, and the names merely indicate the 
location. Removing the cause will remove the symptoms, though they be 
called by a thousand names. The forms of Viavi used are the capsules and 
cerate, unless derangement of other organs is present, which calls for special 
treatment, such as a catarrhal condition of the nose and head, which would 
indicate the use of the Viavi liquid in conjunction with the other forms of the 
remedy; or hemorrhoids (piles), which would indicate the use of the rectal 
suppositories, etc. 

In inflammation of the above-mentioned organs and parts the thorough 
but gentle massaging of the abdomen with the Viavi cerate forms fully one- 
half of the treatment; it renders the tissues capable of selecting and appropri- 
ating from the nutritive fluids the material for their individual regeneration. 
Curative results follow in proportion to the thoroughness of its use, taking 
into consideration the gravity of the condition at the beginning. Before mas- 
saging the abdomen with the cerate the patient will read the Manner and 
Rules for Abdominal Massage. Also the chapter on The Forms of Viavi, which 
fully explains how the skin should be prepared for its application, and its 
extensive systemic results. 

Hot Compress. When the inflammation is acute and not accompanied 
with profuse discharges of blood, in addition to the daily applications of the 
cerate over the abdominal region we would advise that the hot compress be 
tised twice a v/eek, or more frequently if the case requires it, over the region of 
the abdomen. (See Hot Compress.) 

Cold Compress. Where the inflammation has existed for some time and 
is accompanied with profuse and frequent menstruation, we would advise the 
cold compress twice a week, or oftener if required. (See Cold Compress.) 

Hot and Cold Compress Alternately. Where the continued use of either 
the cold or the hot compress debilitates and is not followed by marked bene- 
ficial changes, we would then advise the alternate use of the hot and the cold 
compresses. 

Pendant Abdominal Massage. Excellent results will follow the use of 



INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB 221 

the pendant abdominal massage (see Pendant Abdominal Massage) in inflam- 
mation of the above-mentioned organs, unless complicated by frequent flood- 
ing spells or a cystic condition, when the pendant abdominal massage is not 
to be used. 

Cerate on Spine. The cerate is always to be used daily over the spinal 
region. (See Cerate on Spine.) When the patient is obliged to apply the 
cerate herself over the spinal region, she should place the cerate on the back 
of the hand instead of the palm; this makes that region easy of access. 

Peritoneal Massage. The cerate should always be used thoroughly over 
the muscles forming the floor of the pelvis. Its application here is largely 
instrumental in helping to reduce inflammation and overcome displacements. 
It also affords great relief from sensations of downward pressure in this region. 
(See Peritoneal Massage.) 

Douche. One douche at night just before placing the capsule is a neces- 
sity. The douche is for the express purpose of cleansing the vaginal tract, 
so as to promote absorption of the capsule If profuse leucorrhea exists, a 
douche night and morning will be a necessity. (For manner of taking douche 
see Vaginal Douche.) Vaginal douches are not curative, but are hygienic aids 
to the Viavi treatment. 

Reclining Abdominal Massage. When the patient has but few con- 
veniences, has worked hard all day and her bedroom is cold, we would advise 
that she retire, after which the abdomen should be sponged off with a little 
warm water and vinegar, thoroughly dried, and the cerate then applied, 
nightly, as follows: (See Reclining Abdominal Massage; also see Cerate on 
Spine: How to make self-application of same.) 

Bowels. The bowels should be regulated with the Viavi laxative, as 
constipation alone aggravates inflammation within the pelvic regions. (See 
Viavi I/axative, also see Kneading of Bowels in Hygiene.) 

Circulation. A good circulation of the blood is also a necessity. It 
can be established by employing one of the baths (see Baths) most convenient 
to the patient. The Hygienic Department will also advise individually as to 
which bath will be best for the patient to use by which the best results can be 
obtained. 

Displacements. If displacements are present, see Positions for same. 



CHAPTER xxxin. 



ENLARGEMENT OF THE WOMB. 



[ROM a study of the structure of the womb, given elsewhere in this 
volume, we can understand why congestion or inflammation of the 
womb causes great enlargement of that organ. In brief, the reason is 
that the blood vessels of the womb are not only very numerous, but 
exceedingly tortuous, or kinky, resembling loops ; this is a wise provision 
of Nature to prevent the rupture of the blood vessels from the enormous 
stretching occurring in pregnancy. If the vessels were straight, or approxi- 
mately so, as in other parts of the body, we can see that their walls would tear 
asunder from the strain of pregnancy. The wonderful provision that Nature 
makes for preventing such tearing adds to our reverence for her wisdom, 
but \ve cannot have this reverence without acquiring knowledge of the facts 
upon which to base it. 

^ The walls of the uterine blood vessels, like those every- 

* where else in the body, have their particular sets of 

nerves whose function it is to maintain the calibre of the 

vessels, and thus enable them to keep the blood moving naturally. If these 
nerves lose their tone, they cannot perform the work assigned to them, and in 
consequence the walls of the blood vessels become lax ; the blood cannot be 
kept moving properly ; it accumulates in the vessels, distending them greatly, 
and causing them to press upon the nerves traversing the tissues of the womb, 
thus producing pain and distress, not only in the womb itself, but also in the 
small of the back and in the lower part of the brain. -As there is a great 
abundance of these vessels, and as the lax condition of their walls renders 
them highly distensible, their congestion with blood greatly increases the size 
of the womb. Many persons are familiar with the appearance of varicose 
veins. That is a condition in which the walls of the veins have lost their 
strength and become lax. The veins fill with blood and puff out. This will 
illustrate, though not accurately describe, the condition of the uterine blood 
vessels in congestion, and as they are so crooked, the distension is great. 

There is another source of enlargement from congestion. The stagna- 



ENLARGEMENT OF THE WOMB 223 

tion of the blood in the vessels prevents the proper feeding of the uterine 
tissues and the removal of their waste, with the result that they undergo im- 
portant changes, and the muscular fibers take on a low grade of tissue enlarge- 
ment. Again, following pregnancy there are many cases of subinvolution, as 
explained in the chapter under that heading, which see. 

As has been pointed out in previous chapters, congestion 
The Results of inevitably tends to produce the permanent condition 
Congestion known as inflammation. In this stage the destructive 

processes at work in the tissues are more advanced, and tend steadily to ulcer- 
ation. The rational course is to take the congestion in hand as soon as it 
appears, and check it before it develops the more advanced and serious 
changes. A knowledge of the manner in which the Viavi treatment affects 
the nerves and tissues involved in this condition renders easy an understand- 
ing of the readiness with which it overcomes congestion. Viavi advocates 
greatly prefer to see disease cured in its incipiency than to wait until the con- 
ditions become more or less permanent and refractory. 

The enlargement may not be uniform, for one part of the 

Character of the womD may be much more enlarged than another. This 

Enlargement j s because of unevenness in the weakness developed by 

the nerves of the blood vessels. The womb may be large and soft, or it may 

be large, indurated (hard) and extremely sensitive to the touch ; on the other 

hand, its sensory nerves may be so impaired by the conditions present, that 

the womb may be devoid of sensation. 

Enlargement of the womb causes more disturbance and distress than 
would a large degree of displacement without inflammation. The reason is 
that it encroaches upon surrounding parts and places a greater strain upon the 
ligaments supporting it. When these are healthy and not overtaxed, they are 
elastic, and move regularly with breathing. If they are under an undue strain 
from enlargement, this movement is retarded, causing an impairment of 
strength and function, and also pain and distress. They bear up under this 
strain as long as possible, but presently they give way, and the womb becomes 
displaced as well as enlarged. An enlarged womb will become displaced 
sooner or later, and then we are presented with a two-fold source of pain and 
of drain upon the strength of the entire system. 

The causes of enlargement are those already discussed 

under the chapters relating to the circulation, congestion 

Enlargement and inflammation of the womb. The subject cannot be 

understood without an understanding of those chapters. It is impossible for 

any woman to understand her condition too thoroughly upon these subjects. 

The knowledge will be of inestimable value to her in every way. 



224 VIA VI HYGIENE 

Among the causes of enlargement may be mentioned the following: 
Inflammation of the womb from excessive coition, laceration, curetting, 
abnormal menstruation, adhesion of a part of the placenta after childbirth, 
the refusal of the womb to return to its natural size after confinement, tumors 
and other abnormal growths, a sudden stoppage of the menses, inflammation 
of the ovaries, venereal diseases, dropsy, and a general lowering of the ner- 
vous tone of the entire system from severe fevers and other ailments of all 
kinds. 

To show the gradual progress of disease or of one abnormal condition 
overlapping and running into another, we cite the case of a woman who 
fifteen years before commencing the Viavi treatment was lacerated at the 
birth of her first child. This prevented the womb from returning to its 
normal size, and subinvolution, or enlargement, was the result ; then followed 
retroversion and prolapsus, ulceration, backache, headache, intense inflamma- 
tion with adhesions of the ovaries, palpitation of the heart, and extreme ner- 
vousness. Her mind was a blank, and the only relief offered her was through 
a surgical operation for the removal of both the womb and the ovaries. After 
commencing the Viavi treatment she seemingly grew worse for several 
months, until discharges commenced passing away, which revealed the cause 
of the pain, as it was Nature's effort to rid the system of a tumorous condi- 
tion, the foundation of which was laid at the time of the laceration. It is 
now four years since this patient recovered her health, and up to this time 
there has been no return of former troubles, thus showing that her cure is 
permanent. 

As is elsewhere explained, the pelvic cavity is very 
Enlargement and small> and the generative organs are snugly packed 
Pregnancy -within it, each designed to occupy a certain amount of 

room. The unnatural enlargement of any one of them distresses all the 
others and interferes with their working and health. A most instructive 
lesson may be learned by contemplating the difference between the conditions 
arising from enlargement of the womb by disease and by pregnancy. For a 
certain length of time after conception (which is thoroughly discussed in a 
subsequent chapter) the womb remains in the true pelvis, but its enlargement 
there in no way interferes with the other organs or gives them the least dis- 
tress. That is because pregnancy is a natural condition ; enlargement of the 
womb from disease is not. We can well imagine that the other organs are 
made aware through the nervous system that conception has occurred and that 
the uterine enlargement following it is natural, and that therefore there is no 
cause for uneasiness. Possibly another reason for this absence of distress 
among the other organs is that in pregnancy the nerves binding the generative 
organs into a system are not diseased, while in enlargement from disease they 
are. Certain it is that enlargement from pregnancy causes no distress among 



OF THE WOMB 225 

the other organs, and that unnatural enlargement does. It is the old lesson 
taught again, that natural processes are painless and abnormal ones painful, 
and that pain is evidence of disease. 

As the womb continues to enlarge in pregnancy it rises 

M* OUS out of the true pelvis into the false pelvis above ; and 

there, even though it grows to an enormous size, it doe* 

not interfere, in health, with the perfect working of any of the abdominal 
organs. A tumor of that size, being an unnatural growth, would interfere 
with the working of every vital organ, would greatly reduce the strength of 
the sufferer, and be a constant menace to her life. 

While in pregnancy the natural forces governing the conduct of the 
womb raise it into the false pelvis, where it will have room to expand, in 
enlargement from disease the opposite course is found. These forces lose 
their power, and the womb gravitates downward, producing a tilting or bend- 
ing out of position, or prolapsus. A better opportunity than this for learning 
the vital difference between natural and unnatural conditions could not be 
found. This difference is completely ignored in those forms of treatment for 
enlargement which resort to unnatural instead of natural means. Outside the 
Viavi method the natural treatment of enlargement is unknown. 

The first thing to consider in connection with enlarge- 
Two Tr itrnents ment of the WQmb - s that> Hke all other en i argements 

produced by congestion or inflammation, it is amenable 

to rational treatment. Outside the Viavi treatment surgery is the only means 
known for treating this condition. Of course this ignores the causes produc- 
ing the condition, and in consequence the treatment is unsuccessful. Cutting 
or scarifying the cervix to relieve congestion is so irrational that the fact 
needs only to be mentioned to be evident. Operations to shorten the liga- 
ments called plastic surgery so that they will not permit the womb to grav- 
itate out of place, can only offend the intelligence of enlightened minds. 
Besides, such treatment does not reduce the enlargement. It is not to be 
wondered at that, outside the Viavi treatment, surgery is the only relief 
offered women for this distressing affliction, for physicians, as a rule, are as 
helpless in treating this condition in a rational way as they are in the case of 
cancers and tumors. 

The Viavi treatment enables Nature to remove the cause that produces 
the condition, and then the condition disappears. It feeds and builds up the 
nervous system, makes the blood healthy and nutritious and the circulation 
strong, feeds the tissues, and thus establishes the conditions by which Nature 
can remove the diseased condition present. All of the processes of the cure 
are natural, because they are performed by Nature, the treatment merely lend- 
ing the aid that she lacks. No natural functions are interfered with, but all 



226 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



are strengthened. None of the conditions of healthy organic life are im- 
paired, but all are made sound and strong. The foundation is thus laid for 
permanent healthy conditions after health has been secured. 

The Viavi treatment for enlargement of the womb is the same as for 
inflammation of the womb, set forth in a preceding chapter. 




CHAPTER xxxiv. 



ADHESIONS. 



)N adhesion is the unnatural union of two surfaces as the result of in- 
flammation or abrasion. The chapters on peritonitis and the anatomy 
of the generative system will explain many things that are omitted 
here, connected with the subject of adhesions. It may be stated broadly 
that the peritoneum is the membrane lining the abdomen, partially covering the 
various organs there and in the pelvis, and that one of its purposes is to afford 
a slippery surface by which the various organs may rub against each other 
without friction and injury. For this purpose it exudes mucus in the proper 
quantity. Here again we see a wonderful provision of Nature, for as the 
organs are constantly moving, both in the movements of the body and in the 
performance of their functions, the absence of such a provision would produce 
serious results. 

Inflammation or other injury of the peritoneum causes the production of 
a thick, gluey exudation, and this tends to make opposing surfaces where it 
appears stick together. In a short time, often in a very few hours, this 
union becomes permanent, but the uniting tissue is always of a low grade, and 
Nature's object to provide the organs with perfect freedom of movement 
within their proper bounds is defeated. Thus we have a condition of disease, 
with pain, discomfort, and an interference with the proper working of the 
organs. 

Inflammation of the peritoneum (peritonitis) is the cause 
Origin of adhesions; it may also be produced by surgical opera- 
Adhesions tions and Diseased conditions of the organs. When 
once peritonitis has set in, it may spread with great rapidity, producing, upon 
its subsidence, extensive adhesions. As the intestines are covered with the 
peritoneum almost their entire length, they may become matted in one 
solid mass ; or the inflammation may be circumscribed, producing adhesions 
among the uterine organs. The fimbriated ends of the Fallopian tubes may 
adhere to the ovaries, or the womb, tubes and ovaries may be all found adher- 
ing to the surfaces adjacent to them. The more severe and extensive the in- 



1: ;i i: 

t :i. j > : :i ! "i i ;i: iii II 
:i ' < II. i ii i, .1 ' ( t: . i: <:: ' i 



i; ,ii 



If i M 'I. 

ifjl* ;. 

fe a H ^ 






its activity 

of activity of the organs from ac 
peritoneal adhesions, for the Viav 
adhesions are found in the pelvic 
are oftenest encountered. In a 
cut open, adhesions are found, 
the reason that the pains to whict 
in the pains caused by the origins ,1 

The arrest of any organ's 
this condition nervous irregula 
effect upon the entire economy. 

As every disease of the ute 
and adhesions, the wise course 
affliction by curing the original 
to arise. 



laJ:|!<i 



nti 



Character of the 
Adhesion 



Adhesive ti s ': 
and but a me ; 
low all in flat): 




i.: us 
;:ns 
.for 



|:,l lie 



character producing from the blo<xl 
adhesions. It is largely a questio 
depth to which it affects the tissues 
matory condition, however, is a til ; 

be developed. m m m ^ ^ , 

Nor does every exudation of lymph mean that adhesions must neces- 
sarily follow. As soon as the exudation begins the absorptive powers of the 
system come into play to dispose of it. If these powers are sufficiently strong, 
or the amount of lymph exuded is not greater than they can handle, the 
lymph will all be absorbed and no adhesion will result. If the amount ex- 
uded in excess of that absorbed is great, a very dense and firm adhesion will 
result; but often the adhesion is so slight that it will separate of its own accord 
if assisted by a slight strain. Thus, an adhesion of the womb in displacement 
may give way under the Viavi treatment, even before being absorbed, and the 
womb become reduced in size and enabled to resume its natural position. 



ADHESIONS 229 

The only treatment known to ordinary methods is to tear 
Evils of Surgical the a( jhesioiis loose by force. For this purpose, if 

Treatment adhesions are the object at which the surgical measures 

are aimed, the abdomen is cut open, the various organs of the abdomen and 
pelvis turned over and examined, and the adhesions forcibly loosened when 
found. It is unnecessary to dilate on the dangers and irrational character of 
this method of treatment. Nature had already given the clue to the proper 
treatment by showing her power to get rid of much of the gluey lymph as 
soon as it appeared. The principle of absorption was employed in that process 
one of the most important forces in the body. 

The Viavi treatment, recognizing that simple fact, aims to bring up the 
absorptive powers of the system to the point at which they will be able to 
absorb the adhesive tissue. This it does with perfect success, doing away 
entirely with all the violence and dangers of the surgical method. It is 
merely a matter of bringing the natural powers of the system up to their 
normal standard; when that is done, as it is most successfully done under the 
Viavi treatment, Nature thoroughly removes the abnormal condition repre- 
sented by adhesions. The adhesive tissue is gradually and naturally absorbed, 
the adhering parts separate, and the organs right themselves into position and 
enjoy the freedom essential to their healthy working. At the same' time the 
diseased conditions that caused the adhesions are removed. 

That the Viavi treatment causes adhesive tissue to 
Viavi Trea ncnt for become abs0 rbed has been repeatedly demonstrated by 
Adhesions the uterus> w hich, having been bound down and ren- 

dered immovable by adhesions, becomes movable under the treatment, and 
moves back into position. Where growths in the breasts have adhered to 
the ribs, the adhesions have become absorbed and broken loose, by the use of 
the Viavi treatment, and these glands have regained their mobility. An illus- 
tration of the efficacy of the treatment in overcoming this inflammatory 
product was in the case of Mrs. B., whose breast had been removed. The 
cicatricial tissue, or scar, left from the operation, which was between four and 
five inches in length, had adhered to the bones. The Viavi treatment was 
used, this adhesive tissue became absorbed, and normal mobility was restored. 
This is but one of many similar cases. 

We recall also the case of a young woman who, shortly after marriage, 
suffered from a severe attack of peritonitis. The womb was found retroverted 
and firmly bound down by adhesions. Under the Viavi treatment of capsules 
and cerate, with hygienic aids, cerate over the region of the spine daily, 
pendent abdominal massage daily, assuming the knee-chest position and 
applying the cerate over the abdominal region daily, the adhesions were 
entirely absorbed and the enlarged and displaced womb became normal ia 
size and moved back into position. 



230 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The treatment of adhesions within the abdominal and pelvic regions is 
the same as that given for metritis, or inflammation of the womb, with the 
exception of the pendant abdominal massage (see Pendant Abdominal Mas- 
sage), which then becomes a necessity, in assisting to break loose and weaken 
the adhesive tissue. 




CHAPTER xxxv. 



CURETTING. 



J|3|HE operation known as curetting is for the purpose of scraping away the 

V||| lining membrane of the womb. The instrument with which this is 

<2P accomplished is of a spoon or scoop shape and is either sharp or dull 

upon its edge. 

The operation is performed by first introducing a speculum into the va- 
gina, with which it is gradually distended. This enables the operator to fasten 
a sharp hook or hooks into the muscular tissues of the neck of the womb, by 
which means this organ is dragged downward and outward to the vaginal 
orifice. The os, or mouth, of the womb is then dilated, and the curette is 
introduced into the cavity of the womb and repeatedly drawn outward The 
pressure of the sharp edge of the instrument against the inner walls of the 
womb scrapes or cuts away its lining membrane. The cavity of the womb is 
then washed out and packed. This operation of scraping away the lining 
membrane is for the express purpose of causing a new lining membrane to 
form. If the chapter on Menstruation has been read it can be easily under- 
stood that if Nature is given the proper assistance, as is done with the Viavi 
treatment, she will not only throw off the diseased lining membrane, but is 
enabled as well to grow a new and healthy one without surgical interference. 

The dragging downward of the womb the length of the 
Injury Done to the vaginaj out of its norma i position, is in itself a serious 

procedure. It so stretches the ligaments of the womb, 

the posterior wall of the bladder and the anterior wall of the rectum that it 
requires months or longer of both treatment and care before these over- 
stretched parts regain their normal elasticity and condition, if ever they do. If 
adhesions are present they are likely to be torn loose and internal hemorrhage 
occur. 

The dilation of the os is another part of the operation that proves inju- 
rious, so much so that surgeons differ greatly as to the best of the various 
methods advised and employed. If the organ is hard, or indurated, the dila- 
tion becomes a serious operation in itself. Before the neck of the womb can 



232 VIAVI HYGIENE 

be made sufficiently large to introduce the curette, the bruising of the tissues 
by the dilating instrument causes the most agonizing pains. If the dilating is 
rendered painless by anesthetics, that does not prevent in any way the injury 
done the tissues, as they in no way relax. Nature opens the os from within 
outward, operators from without inward. 

The uterus resents mechanical interference more than any other organ 
of the body, and it requires most careful manipulations and dilations to open 
the neck of the womb sufficiently to allow of the introduction of the curette. 
Note the unwillingness of a rosebud to unfold by mechanical interference, and 
how the petals refuse to separate, and the bruised, unnatural appearance of the 
bud that has been opened, and this will give some idea of the resistance of the 
neck of the womb and the bruising of its tissues by this forcible dilation. 

The neck of the womb, with its outward and inner openings, acts as a 
double guard to the cavity of the womb itself, which is the cradle of the race. 

If the greatest antiseptic precautions are not taken, blood 
poisoning results. The puncturing of the uterine walls 
with the curette is not an un frequent accident, especially 

where the walls of the womb are soft, such a condition being present as leads 
to flexions. Often the curette is thrust entirely through the uterine walls into 
the peritoneal cavity. Curetting in obscure pregnancies is the cause of 
abortions. Uncontrollable hemorrhages may result, or there may result a com- 
plete obliteration of the uterine cavity, the muscular tissues being so torn by 
the curette that a complete union of the walls results. 

A diseased lining membrane never exists independent of a diseased con- 
dition of the womb itself; the whole organ is implicated more or less. It 
would be as sensible to scrape away the lining membrane of the stomach to 
establish a healthy reaction in that region as to scrape away the lining mem- 
brane of the womb for the same purpose. 

The openings of the Fallopian tubes into the fundus of the womb are 
exceedingly small; curetting leaves them raw, bruised and bleeding, and they 
frequently become entirely obliterated by the inflammatory process which 
follows this operation. It should be remembered that these openings are only 
sufficiently large to admit a very small bristle. This occlusion leads to diseases 
of the tubes and ovaries, to painful, suppressed and irregular menstruation, 
and to other complications that are difficult to overcome. 

A large number of patients coming under the Viavi treatment have sub- 
mitted at some time in their lives to this operation, some of them many times, 
each time being led to believe that it would be the last. One patient had sub- 
mitted to twenty curettements, and though we promised but little in this case, 
the recovery was all that could be desired. Large numbers of women have 
come under our care to be treated for a suppression of the menses resulting 
from curettements. 



CURETTING 233 

It is necessary for the lining membrane to be thrown off 
Difficulties in before the menses can appear, but before this occurs, 

Nature prepares the organ for the throwing off or shed- 
ding, of the membrane. In curetting, the womb is not prepared to cast off its 
membrane; hence a normal membrane is not formed. It is thick and hard; 
hence when the menses appear it becomes exceedingly difficult to cast off this 
scarified covering. Every succeeding curetternent causes the inside of the 
womb to become more and more abnormal, and the membrane to change from 
an exceedingly thin, tissue-like affair into a thickened and tough covering. 
Curetting is harsh, unnatural and radical, three conditions which should 
always be carefully avoided in the treatment of diseases peculiar to women. 

A physician's widow who came under the Viavi treatment and was 
cured of membranous dysmenorrhea said that other women might submit to 
having their wombs house-cleaned with the curette, but that she much pre- 
ferred to assist the womb by means of the Viavi treatment to house-clean 
itself, which it would do regularly every month if given half a chance. 

Curetting is resorted to because those who employ it 
The Operation Is haye no other meaus of treating the condition that they 
Illogical wish to overcome. Besides all the dangers that accom- 

pany it is the patent fact that it cannot possibly remove the cause of the con- 
dition at which it is aimed. It cannot supply the blood with nutriment. It 
cannot produce a healthy circulation. Instead of toning and strengthening 
the nerves, it irritates and therefore enfeebles them. It cannot produce a 
condition in the uterus that will enable it to form a healthy lining and shed it 
easily and naturally in menstruation. It cannot do any of the rational and 
beneficial things that Nature could do if she only were given the assistance 
that she requires. Instead of aiming to help Nature, it endeavors to force her 
processes. This is beyond any human skill. 

The Viavi treatment is just the reverse of all this. It imposes no 
torture. It commits no outrage upon Nature. It produces no abortions. It 
attempts no violence, and hence avoids the dangers that violence invites. 
Instead of all this it gives just the assistance that Nature requires to remove 
the diseased condition existing. It assists in building strong, healthy tissue. 
The Viavi treatment has rendered curetting utterly obsolete wherever it is 
employed. 



CHAPTER xxxvi. 



LEUCORRHEA. 



'HE word leucorrhea means a white flow. It is so called to distinguish it 
from the colored discharges from the vaginal orifice, such as the menses 
and flooding. In color it may range from a white glairy mucus to a 
yellow or greenish tinge, due to its purulent or fetid character. In some 
cases it has a creamy consistency ; in others it has a curdled appearance. It 
usually develops during the genital life of a woman, though inherited cases in 
children are frequent. It is the commonest of all the diseases that afflict 
women, nearly every woman being troubled with it at one time or another, to 
a greater or less extent. The deplorable feature of the matter is that women 
as a rule do not regard it in its true light as a serious affair representing a con- 
dition in which no woman can be healthy, and leading infallibly to graver 
conditions, unless its cause is removed. 

In a condition of health the linings of the vagina and 
An Indication of u t er us secrete a sufficient quantity of mucus for the 

natural purposes of the organs. This secretion, being 

natural, represents no unhealthy drain upon the system, but is necessary to 
the general health and tone of the organs. When this secretion becomes 
excessive, we know that disease exists. In salivation, for illustration, the 
salivary glands secrete a great deal more saliva than is needed in the prepara- 
tion of the food ; the same condition is observed sometimes in gastritis. In 
both of these cases we know that disease exists, and that the excessive secre- 
tion is evidence of the fact. In certain diseases of the eyes the lachrymal 
glands are too active, and secrete an excess of tears ; the diseased condition 
causes it. In diarrhea the lining of the intestines becomes abnormally active 
and causes an oversecretion of mucus, which thins the stools4j we know in 
such cases that disease is the cause. In bronchitis and pneumonia the lining 
of the bronchial tubes is inflamed, and this causes an excessive secretion of 
niucus, which we cough up ; that means the presence of disease.^ It is so in 
catarrh of the nose. Hence we are compelled to realize that if there is an 



LEUCORRHEA 235 

excessive flow of mucus from the vaginal orifice, a condition of disease exists, 
and that the flow is evidence of the fact. 

Leucorrhea begins so insidiously and gives so little trouble for a long 
time that it attracts little attention. For that reason it generally has become 
chronic before anything is done to cure the disease of which it is evidence. As 
a chronic disease is much more difficult of cure than an acute one, it behooves 
all women to watch themselves carefully in this regard, and adopt treatment as 
soon as the first signs of leucorrhea appear. 

t The immediate condition producing leucorrhea is analo- 

Two Kinds of gous to that p ro( j uc i n g catarrh of the lining membrane 
Leucorrhea of the nose> It is a great deal more ser ious than that, 
however, for several reasons. One is that the far greater sensitiveness of the 
nerves of the generative system renders them much more susceptible to injury 
from the presence of an inflammatory condition ; another, that a diseased con- 
dition in one organ of the generative system affects all the other organs ; an- 
other, that this affection has a far greater effect upon the entire nervous sys- 
tem ; another, that the injurious products of a diseased condition in the uterine 
organs are more readily absorbed into the system than those of any other part 
of the body. 

Leucorrhea may originate either in the vagina or the uterus. If in the 
vagina, it is called vaginal leucorrhea; if in the uterus, uterine leucorrhea. 
In severe cases the two forms may exist together, through the sympathy that 
exists between the organs. As the discharge represents a diseased condition 
of the linings of the organs, it follows that the longer the diseased condition 
exists the more deeply these linings will become involved and the longer will 
be the time required to bring them to a condition of health. 

A woman suffering with a serious case of leucorrhea 
a and every case will become serious if neglected uncon- 

siously proclaims her condition to all eyes beholding 

the pitiable condition she is in. Her emaciation, her dull and heavy eyes, 
her sallow skin, the dark circles under her eyes, her repugnance for the 
joyous things of life, declare her loss of beauty and loveliness, and clamorously 
publish the wreck of her womanhood. Her occasional dizziness and palpita- 
tion of the heart, her inferior digestion, her neuralgia, her silly conduct 
springing from hysteria, her attacks of despondency and melancholy, the im- 
pairment of her memory and power of concentration, her difficulty at times 
even to recall the names of her children, these indications, or any of them, 
announce that the vital centers of her being have succumbed, and at she is 
but a wretched semblance of the glorious creation upon whom the Almighty 
had expended miracles of forces that she might be the most beautiful thing in 
the world, the mother of men, a power of infinite good in the uplifting and 



236 VIAVI HYGIBNE 

purification of the race, the inspiration of much that is noblest in humanity, 
thechastener and sweetener of life, the bright star lighting the road to heaven. 

To the extent that a woman has leucorrhea, however slight, her woman- 
liness is impaired. She is less a wife, less a mother. It is all the more piti- 
able that she is likely to be unaware of the fact. And not alone is it the wife or 
mother whose life is thus poisoned, and who poisons the lives of her husband 
and children, but girls and unmarried young women by innumerable thou- 
sands are sufferers from this insidious and life-sapping malady. What in all 
the world is daintier, more gracious, more charming than a girl glowing with 
the cleanliness, sweetness and purity of htalth ? What picture does the sun- 
light touch with a softer, tenderer grace ? Where else may we seek the source 
of a spell so wonderful, so potent, so exquisite ? Upon what other thing 
under the sun has the Creator lavished bounties so rich, so varied, so inspiring ? 

The young sufferer with leucorrhea is as far from that bright picture as 
the darkness of caverns is from the glorious light of the midday sun. The 
bloom that puts the blush of the rose to shame has faded to the pallor of the 
crushed and discarded lily. The sunlit road of life has been closed, and a 
dark and lonely byway entered. The roundness, graces and purity of youth 
have yielded to the harshness, uncleanliness and repulsive iiess of disease. 
And the pitiful part of it is that the sufferer is ignorant of her unloveliness, 
does not understand why she fails to exercise the charm that is her right, 
comes to regard her isolation and neglect as unjust, and, aided by the mental 
and spiritual impoverishment that she suffers by reason of her affliction, drifts 
into a hopeless, vacant, indifferent life, and in bitterness reflects what she 
should have been instead of a sufferer with the miseries of a broken life. 

The immediate cause of leucorrhea is a catarrhal con- 
1 ne Cause dition of the linings of the parts, just as a discharge from 

the nose indicates a catarrhal condition of the lining of 

that organ. The discharge is the product of an inflammatory condition. The 
chapter on Congestion and Inflammation gives a clear understanding of this 
condition and of the general results to which its neglect will lead. In leucor- 
rhea, besides the general systemic conditions of which the affliction may be 
merely a symptom >pecial local causes may be present. Among these are 
menstrual derangements, displacements of the womb, uncleanliness, pregnancy, 
prolonged nursing, abortions, miscarriages, excessive iniercourcc, cervical lacer- 
ation, piles, ulceration, tumors, a sudden suppression of the menses, cold or 
wet feet, damp clothing, tight lacing, the wearing of heavy skirts, violent 
exercise during the menstrual period, the use of cold water or other harsh 
injections to prevent conception, and the wearing of pessaries, tents and the 
like. 

It will be observed that all these causes are of an irritating character, 
except those associated with colds and suppression of the menses. The ex- 



LEUCORRHEA 237 

treme sensitiveness of the membranes lining the vagina and uterus renders them 
peculiarly susceptible to inflammation, and requires intelligence for theii 
care. 

Where the cause is constitutional, as from anemia, scrofula, consump' 
tion, malaria and the like, the closest inspection will fail to disclose any local 
cause. 

In addition to the effects of leucorrhea that have already 
Some EJiects or been indicated in the paragraph discussing its symptoms, 

Leucorrhea the f o ii ow i ng may be enumerated : The discharge repre- 

sents a severe and constant drain upon the system. The discharge is rich 
in some of the most valuable constituents of the blood ; hence with the flow 
there is constantly being drawn from the system, and every part of it, import- 
ant nutritive elements that were designed to supply the needs of the body at 
large. The system is unable to meet the deficiency, principally for the reason 
that instead of being furnished with the extra strength required for the task, it 
is weakened by the discharge. In addition, the nerves centering in the affected 
parts set up a nervous disturbance in the spinal cord and the brain centers 
having to do with the generative organs, with the result that, as we have seen 
in former chapters, they communicate their condition to the entire nervous 
system, and thus impair all the functions, some more, some less ; the weaker 
and more susceptible suffer first and most. 

Thus we can understand why pains in the back and head appear, why 
the digestion is disturbed, why the action of the heart is weakened, why an 
enfeebling of the nervous control of the blood vessels weakens the circulation, 
why the feet swell, why an impoverished condition of the blood renders the 
sufferer pale, why starved muscles are weak and flabby, why stagnation of the 
blood produces tumors, and why the many other things that result from 
neglected leucorrhea must occur sooner or later. 

In some cases of leucorrhea the mouth of the womb 

( - )tfaef closes, owing to the sticky character of the discharge 

and the inflamed condition of the cervix. As a result, 

mucus accumulates within the uterus, and it is finally expelled by labor-like 
contractions of the womb, giving rise to uterine colic. 

With uterine leucorrhea there is generally painful menstruation, for the 
reason that the lining is diseased and cannot be shed normally during men- 
struation. 

When the condition of which leucorthea is evidence has become chronic, 
the blood supply of the uterine organs is seriously interfered with, and the 
blood has been rendered impure by its absorption of the poisonous products of 
the disease. As a consequence, abnormal growths may appear in any of the 
organs vagina, womb, Fallopian tubes or ovaries. It should be borne in 



238 VIAVI HYGIENE 

mind that leucorrhea Is not a disease, but a symptom of disease, and that the 
condition of which it is a symptom will inevitably lead to grave results unless 
they are eradicated. 

Under the inflammatory condition present in uterine leucorrhea, the 
womb gradually enlarges, and eventually becomes too heavy to be held in 
place by the ligaments designed to support a womb of normal size. Or the 
affection may extend to the ligaments themselves, and thus increase the evil. 
In either event, the womb becomes displaced. In a succeeding chapter we 
shall see what a serious matter displacement is. 

A serious and trying result of neglected leucorrhea in many cases is the 
excoriating (burning) character of the discharge, rendering the skin sore and 
setting up acute inflammation of the external genital organs. Or the acrid 
discharge will affect the mucous membrane over which it passes. 

Leucorrhea in time entirely destroys the chief function of the vagina. 
Its walls become loose and flabby. Thus sexual commerce becomes unsatis- 
factory and incomplete. Displacements also occur from this same loss of 
tonicity. 

The temptation to resort to astringent douches to stop 
Unwise Ma |e of the flow is excee ain g l y strong, and is widely advised 
Treatment under the ordinary method of treating the diseases of 

women. A little reflection will show how unwise and hurtful such a practice 
is. In the first place, it completely ignores the cause of the disease ; unless 
this is removed the disease cannot be cured. In the second place, in many 
cases where the disease is deep-seated and complicated, the discharge acts as a 
safety valve until the cause is found and overcome. Besides that, in ordinary 
and uncomplicated leucorrhea the sudden application of a solution of alum, 
or other astringent, to the highly sensitive membrane will be very apt to 
derange its capillary circulation and thus produce or aggravate the inflamma- 
tion. To dam up the flow brings about complications that would tax the best 
skill to reach, extending to the tubes, ovaries, etc. These injections have an 
injurious effect reaching far beyond the immediate generative organs. Some 
of the worst cases of gastric indigestion that we have treated were clearly 
traceable to astringent vaginal injections used to check leucorrhea. The only 
rational treatment of leucorhea is to remove the cause producing it, and the 
only measures that can produce satisfactory and permanent results are natural 
ones. This is just what the Viavi treatment is. 

No knowledge concerning the origin and effects of 

Rational Means leucorrhea is required for its cure by means of the Viavi 

Employed treatment. The knowledge has been furnished here for 

the information of women who desire the benefits that it will impart. It 

should be an important matter to every womau to know how to avoid leucor- 



LEUCORRHBA 239 

rhe a, what evils its neglect will surely bring, and what treatment appeals to 
her common sense as being the rational one. 

It matters not what the cause of the disease may be, the Viavi treatment 
is perfectly adapted to it. This can be appreciated from an understanding of 
the preceding chapters of this volume. While a woman is under the treatment 
she must, of course, avoid any conduct that would tend to weaken her system 
or produce local irritation. She should understand all that has been said about 
rest and sleep, the blood and its circulation, the wearing of proper clothing, 
the use of a separate bed, the avoidance of sexual excesses, and all the other 
matters that appeal to a serious woman's common sense, conscience and sense of 
prudence. If her husband is led to understand all that is required, his man- 
hood may be depended on to lend all the assistance that he can give. He 
naturally desires his wife to be well, for if she is afflicted with leucorrhea, she 
cannot be a wife to him in the full sense. 

The Viavi treatment, by removing the cause of leucor- 

How a Cute Is rhea> puts a stop to the discharge gradually and nat- 

rjtecteo urally, so that when a woman is cured she is cured, and 

no occasional nor frequent patching has to be done; and she will remain well 

if she does not again permit the causes producing the disease in the first 

instance to arise. 

If the discharge is produced by inflammation, the Viavi treatment will 
overcome it by reducing the inflammation; if by tumors, it will cause the 
foreign growth to be expelled or absorbed; if by cervical laceration, it will 
assist Nature to heal the laceration; if by anemia, it will furnish the blood 
with the nutriment that it requires, and will further assist the digestive and 
assimilative functions to that end; if by miscarriages, it will give the strength 
that renders miscarriage impossible; if by displacement, it will reduce the size 
of the womb and enable it to return to its natural position; if by ulceration, it 
will remove that condition. With the cure, all of the painful or annoying 
symptoms of the disease will disappear. A woman cured of leucorrhea ex- 
periences a feeling of relief and cleanliness, of strength and lightness, that 
gives her infinite pleasure. 

It makes no difference whether the disease is of recent appearance or 
long standing. Of course chronic cases require much more time to cure* 
This will call for patience and perseverance on the sufferer's part, but her 
reward at last will more than repay the effort. 

As many young girls are afflicted with leucorrhea, often without the 
knowledge of their mothers, or even of the girls themselves, it is highly im- 
portant that every mother should ascertain the condition of her daughters in 
this regard and lose no time in removing it. The Viavi treatment is especially 
efficacious in all such cases, and can be employed as easily as in the case of 
adult women. 



240 VIAVI HYGIENE 

It is a well known fact that leucorrhea, outside the Viavi 
x>me Instances of treatment, baffles the most expert medical skill as coin- 
covery pletely to-day as it did a century ago. Here, among 

many thousands of others, is the case of Mrs. G., who for thirty- two years 
had employed the best medical advice for leucorrhea. When she came under 
the Viavi treatment she was a complete physical wreck. Her teeth had been 
destroyed by the strong medicines that she had taken internally, the womb had 
become badly prolapsed and bled upon touch, and she suffered from dyspepsia, 
headaches, weak sight and numerous other ills. Her condition was produced 
by a cold contracted during the first menstrual period. It resulted in inflam- 
mation of the womb, with the symptom, leucorrhea, as the visible result. 
Under the best medical care the discharge grew worse for thirty-two years. 
A perfect recovery was secured under the Viavi treatment. 

Another case was that of a woman, then the mother of a grown daughter, 
who had inherited the leucorrhea from her mother, her daughter also hav- 
ing inherited the trouble from her. The mother's condition had become 
badly complicated", the daughter weak, pale and debilitated. Both responded 
with surprising rapidity to the Viavi treatment, showing that although leucor- 
rhea be inherited, it can be successfully reached by the treatment. 

Another chronic case, one that required a careful and continued treat- 
ment, was that of a woman thirty years of age, who had been obliged to wear 
a napkin constantly for fifteen years. The discharge was both purulent and 
profuse. This case had been pronounced incurable by the best physicians at 
home and abroad. Only those who have suffered in a similar way can under- 
stand this patient's gratitude to be relieved under the Viavi treatment after so 
many years of this constant, uncleanly discharge, and to be able to discard the 
use of the napkin, which is so gladly laid aside when worn only for a few days 
of each month. 

As leucorrhea is a symptom of some existing abnormal 
The Treatment for con( iition, the cause must be sought and overcome, 

whereupon the result, the discharge, will disappear. If 

it is caused by a lacerated cervix, the laceration must be cured. (See Treat- 
ment for Laceration.) If from inflammation of the cervix, womb or other 
parts of the generative tract, see Treatment for Inflammation of the Womb. 
If it comes from an absence of the menses, see Treatment for Ameuorrhea. If 
from the presence of tumors, see Treatment for Tumors. Where it is caused 
by anemia, or a general impoverished condition of the blood, see Treatment 
for that condition. Vaginal douches for leucorrhea are never curative, but 
are simply hygienic aids to the Viavi treatment, in this way cleansing the 
tract and helping to promote absorption of the capsule. 

When a woman is so situated that she cannot know the cause of a 
leucorrheal discharge, which is frequently the case where wotn^n live in 



LEUCORRHEA 241 

isolated parts, and with some women, especiall)'- young unmarried women, who 
do not care to consult concerning abnormal conditions of the generative tract, 
we would advise that such patients use only the Viavi capsules, cerate and 
tonic, with the following hygienic aids. Knowledge of the exact cause of 
leucorrhea is not necessary to a cure, but it might serve in some cases to 
hasten recovery. 

The cerate should be used daily over the region of the spine (see Cerate 
on Spine). 

Hot compresses must be used twice a week (see Hot Compress), but the 
cerate is to be applied daily over the region of the abdomen (see rules for 
Abdominal Massage). 

A moderately warm vaginal douche is to be used every night just before 
retiring, taken in a reclining position, if possible. (See Reclining Douche.) 
After the douche has been taken, a capsule should be placed in the vagina as 
high as can be conveniently reached with the finger. The douche and use of 
the capsule should be discontinued when menstruation occurs. 

The Viavi tonic should also be used to help regain the strength. If the 
patient is married, no sexual excesses should be committed, while the strength 
should be husbanded in every way possible. 

A good circulation is also necessary. (See Baths for same, particular 
attention being called to the Viavi Brush Bath.) 

Mothers who hesitate to use the capsules in the cases of their young 
daughters so afflicted, are doing them the greatest injustice by laying the 
foundation for them of chronic invalidism in their youth, from the erroneous 
idea that the vaginal orifice would in some unaccountable manner be injured 
ty the insertion of the capsule. (See Imperforate Hymen.) 




CHAPTER xxxvu. 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB. 



jp|?HE chapters devoted to a description of the organs of generation, inflam- 
M|j| mation of the womb and the circulation will greatly assist to an under- 
(^ standing of this chapter. 

The womb, being suspended, or swung, within the pelvic cavity by 
means of muscular ligaments, enjoys a larger degree of motion than any 
other organ in the body. It is deemed displaced only when it remains perma- 
nently out of position. By doing so it interferes with the functions of otlier 
organs, and also suspends largely its own function and its blood supply. A 
temporary displacement backward is accomplished every time the bladder be- 
comes full and distended with urine, but as soon as the urine is voided the 
normal womb moves back immediately into position. Every time the rectum 
is heavily loaded, the womb is displaced forward until the rectum is emptied, 
when it again resumes its normal position. The womb moves also with every 
step and with every breath, but much more by deep abdominal breathing 
than by superficial chest breathing. 

The movements of the womb are necessary to its normal 
~*f K state, as it is partly by this exercise that the blood is car- 

ried to and from it. It is also this exercise and the constant 

relaxing and contracting of its muscular ligaments that give to them their 
great strength. When this exercise is prevented by a prolonged displace- 
ment the blood does not pass freely to and from the womb ; hence it becomes 
enlarged and heavy. The womb must be exercised by these movements, or it 
becomes diseased. Here, as elsewhere in the body, exercise maintains healthy 
functional activity. 

We know from reading previous chapters that the womb lies between 
the broad ligaments, and that it is through these broad ligaments that the 
blood, vessels of the womb pass on their way to and from this organ When 
the womb becomes displaced backward or forward, these ligaments are twisted 
more or less, according to the degree of the displacement ; hence the blood 
vessels within their substance are twisted as well. This accounts for the con- 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 243 

gestion and inflammation of the womb that are present in displacements. 

A woman who carries about a displaced womb is an invalid, and although 
no pain at first be experienced, the foundation is being laid for the breaking 
down of her constitution, sooner or later. We find displacements in young 
girls and elderly women, as well as in women of middle age. 

A cause of displacement is anything that will weaken 

The Causes of t ^ e u t er ine ligaments. It may be a general weakness of 

Displacement the w ^ole body ; accordingly, when the womb becomes 

temporarily displaced from the filling or emptying of the bladder or rectum, 

the ligaments have not strength enough to lift it back into position. 

Again, if the womb becomes inflamed and heavy, an extra weight is 
placed upon the muscular ligaments, which have not the strength to lift it ; in 
comsequence the enlarged and heavy womb falls out of place. The longer it 
remains displaced, the heavier it becomes, as the quantity of blood held within 
its walls becomes greater and greater, until congestion and inflammation are 
the result. This explains why there is no chance of a spontaneous cure. 

The two conditions that are always present in displacement, as before 
stated, are a weakness of the uterine muscular supports and an enlargement of 
the organ. Some of the causes of these two combined conditions are over- 
work, frequent childbearing, menstrual irregularities, leucorrhea, constipation, 
indigestion, diseases of the heart or lungs ; in fact, nearly all the diseases to 
which flesh is heir may be the cause of displacement. The Viavi treatment 
will enable Nature to handle the affliction successfully, a fact easily under- 
stood when the natural processes set up by the treatment are comprehended. 

Leucorrhea may be both a primary and a contributing cause of displace- 
ment. The vaginal walls offer a strong support for the uterus. When they 
become weakened by leucorrhea, as they invariably do, the support that they 
offer is withdrawn, and displacement precipitated or aided. 

Understanding the causes of displacement, it will be 
Common Plan of evident that to reach and over come them we must seek 

them and remove them. This cannot be done by the use 

of pessaries or other false supports. (See chapter on Pessaries.) Neither can it be 
accomplished by surgical methods, a shortening of the round ligaments, which 
are the natural guy ropes of the uterus and whose function it is to hold the 
womb in proper position during the latter months of pregnancy, so that no 
injury is wrought the intestines by the pregnant womb. 

Ventral fixation, or the stitching of the fundus of the womb to the 
abdominal walls, is one of the most absurd as well as inhuman methods em- 
ployed. Only the woman who has submitted to this operation can describe 
the pulling, burning pain and the intense nervousness that result from this 
method of treatment. Here the attempt is made to overcome one kind of 



244 VIA VI HYGIENE 

displacement that is amenable to rational treatment, but another kind is 
brought about which is not only permanent, but a thousand times worse, with, 
no hope of relief. The -womb by this operation is dragged forward and 
upward several inches, thereby putting nerves, muscles, tissues and the bladder 
on a constant and intense strain, and thus also displacing the contents of the 
whole pelvic viscera. The womb now lies upon the top of the bladder. 

In none of the methods employed, outside of the Viavi treatment, is the 
slightest attention paid to the cause of the trouble, and no pretense whatever of 
an effort is made to overcome it. No .assistance whatever is offered Nature in 
her efforts to overcome the condition, her benign and able offices and powers 
are utterly ignored, and her laws are boldly outraged on the amazing assump- 
tion that human skill is greater than hers. 

Only a person who understands the complete helplees- 
Viavi Treatment in ness of the medical pro f e ssion in dealing with these dis- 
tressing conditions can appreciate the wonderful value 

of the Viavi treatment. That it does lend to Nature the assistance which she 
requires to overcome displacement, cure leucorrhea and ovaritis, and expel 
tumors, seems so incredible a triumph of science over disease, so vast a stride 
beyond the helplessness that had formerly prevailed, as to be almost beyond 
intelligent credence. It has been so long accepted as a fact that these afflictions 
were beyond the reach of science, that an announcement of the discovery of a 
means for successfully overcoming them is naturally a challenge of the boldest 
sort, and one that Viavi advocates are more than glad to make. The almost 
countless thousands of cases of these kinds that have been cured under the 
treatment, after every resource of old methods had been exhausted, mark the 
discovery and evolution of the Viavi treatment to its present perfection as the 
most remarkable stride that science has made during the century. The innu- 
merable women in all parts of the civilized world who have been raised from 
a life of helplessness and torture by means of the Viavi treatment, when all the 
skill of all the medical schools had proved unavailing, constitute a tremendous 
army of intelligent, happy women who who fully realize the prize that they 
have won, and the seeming miracle that has been accomplished. So long as 
the testimony and enthusiasm of these women are available, the gospel of the 
Viavi treatment will find zealous aud fearless advocates. 

nn understanding of the way in which the Viavi treat- 
Why the 1 reatment ment enables Nature to overcome displacement will 

show not only the fact that such a victory must be ex- 
pected from the adoption of the treatment, but also that the methods hereto- 
fore in use could not possibly produce good results. Nature would overcome 
these conditions had she the power; it is merely a matter of supplying the 
assistance that Nature requires. She will perform the cure. 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 445 

When a woman seeks assistance for a displacement the womb has re- 
mained out of position sufficiently long to caus'e inflammation and enlarge- 
ment, from interrupted uterine circulation. The Viavi treatment having 
a specific value in reducing inflammation, the condition is gradually overcome 
by its use. At the same time the uterine muscular supports that were relaxed 
and weakened are regaining their elasticity and strength through this tissue 
food, and thus in time the displacement is overcome by simply assisting Nature 
to undo the work that eaused the trouble. No surgical, no mechanical methods 
are ever beneficial. Even when adhesions have bound the womb down to 
adjacent parts, the adhesions have been caused to become absorbed, and the 
womb under the treatment moves back into its normal position ; in other 
words, the displacement is overcome. (See chapter on Adhesions.) 

Each form of displacement has its special symptoms, 
General Symptoms but there are some symptoms and effects that are com- 
mon to all. A retarding of the normal movements of 

the uterus gives rise to a sensation of a dull, heavy weight pressing upon the 
surrounding organs. Sometimes a great deal of pain is experienced, while in 
other cases not much if any pain is felt ; but in the latter, the inflammatory 
process is generally very destructive ; a great amount of damage has occurred 
before patients feel it necessary or are forced .to seek relief. Generally there 
is pain in the head and back, while there is inability to walk or stand for any 
length of time, from the feeling of weight and lameness in the abdomen. 
There is likely also to be lameness in the legs ; the memory becomes impaired 
and the sufferer often fears insanity. 

A displaced womb can never empty itself properly of 

Menstruation is ^ e mens t m al secretions; hence the monthly vascular 

purging is imperfectly performed. The blood may be 

held within the cavity of the womb until it gives rise to labor- like pains in expell- 
ing it. This greatly injures the texture of the womb, and if allowed to continue 
it prevents the formation of a healthy lining, which must be renewed each 
month. Tumors are caused by a stagnation of the blood in this locality. (See 
chapter on Tumors.) Cancer is caused, as a rule, by the irritation to which a 
displaced womb is always subjected. (See chapter on Cancer.) 

We shall now take up the various forms of displacement and discuss 
them separately. 

In anteversion'the womb as a whole falls out of position 

A " * forward, thus resting upon the bladder, which is forced 

to become its unnatural support. As this is not the 

function of the bladder, it becomes in consequence greatly irritated. Its 
capacity also is much lessened, and the Datient, in consequence of the irrita- 



246 VIAVI HYGIENE 

tion, is forced to urinate frequently. This is a characteristic symptom of 
anteversion. If the displacement is permitted to continue, an inflamed condi- 
tion of the bladder results ; this is known as cystitis. (See chapter on Inflam- 
mation of the Bladder.) 

The urine is conveyed from the kidneys into the bladder 
M *A Q the continually through the two ducts, the ureters. When 

the bladder becomes moderately fillip the pressure upon 

the nerves in this vicinity informs the brain that it should be emptied. In 
health this occurs at comfortable intervals. When a displaced womb, as in 
anteversion, rests continually upon the bladder, there is a constant nervous 
summons to the brain to empty the bladder. But it is a false impression; 
hence the message back to the nerves in this vicinity to empty the bladder, 
and this ever-present sympton of emptying the bladder when it may contain 
but a few drops of urine. Voiding the urine under such circumstances, of 
course, does not relieve. In time the sphincter muscles that control the flow 
of urine lose their function through constant irritation of the nerves, with the 
result that incontinence of urine supervenes, and there is frequently a con- 
stant dribbling of urine from the urethral orifice. A woman in that condition 
is an object of tne deepest pity, and yet such is the condition of many women 
who have suffered with anteversion for a considerable length of time. 

Inflammation of the bladder resulting from this displacement in time 
Involves the ureters, and this inflammation in time also extends to the kidneys, 
producing one or more of the serious and often fatal diseases of these organs. 
No organ nor part of the body can suffer constant and prolonged irritation with- 
out becoming diseased. Instances of this are seen on every hand and are 
familial to all. The constant irritation of a tight-fitting shoe, for illustration, 
will produce corns on the foot; the constant use of alcoholic drinks will irri- 
tate the lining of the stomach and produce gastritis, etc. Another result of 
anteversion is urethritis, or inflammation of the urethra, the little short duct 
that conveys the urine from the bladder. (See chapter on Inflammation of 
the Urethra.) 

Other symptoms of anteversion are backache, difficulty 
he bym toms of j n wa ]kj n g > nervousness, painful menstruation, leucor- 

rhea (from interference with the circulation), and a 

heavy bearing-down pain in the pelvis. When the womb is healthy it is alive, 
light and hollow, ballooning about in the abdomen out of harm's way. Now 
it is inflamed, enlarged and displaced forward; hence it becomes an object for 
our curative consideration. Our one purpose is to restore this organ to a 
healthy state, whereupon its presence in the abdomen causes no disturbance. 
The womb has become anteverted because it was too heavy to remain in posi- 
tion. It became enlarged from \he inflammatory process, and the treatment 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 247 

must be directed to bring it back to its natural condition and size, where its 
weight can be sustained by its muscular supports. 

Among the countless cases of anteversion that have 
Cores Under the y ie ided with perfect success to the Viavi treatment was 

that of a middle-aged woman who was a chronic sufferer 
with the complaint. Her suffering for years had been intense, and in con- 
sequence she had become bedridden, being unable to stand upon her feet. 
The constant irritation of the bladder caused by the displaced womb had 
caused partial paralysis of the sphincter muscles, so that a physician was 
called twice a day to empty the bladder. From the use of the Viavi capsules, 
cerate and liquid, the results were both satisfactory and rapid. In two weeks 
she had regained complete control of the urine and was able to sit up for the 
first time in many years. The recovery was rapid, taking into consideration 
the many years that she had been ill. 

Another case was that of Mrs. T., who had suffered from anteversion for 
sixteen years. ^ There was present a great complication of troubles, which had 
all resulted from the displacement. Among these were violent headaches, 
dyspepsia, congestion and enlargement of the liver and spleen, piles, consti- 
pation, insomnia, nervousness; sometimes she would waken from a short nap 
to find her head drawn back toward the spine. The constant dribbling of 
urine had scalded the external genitals until they were perfectly raw. The 
inflammation of the womb and bladder was so intense and painful that the 
patient would faint and lie as one dead for an hour or more. This cure con- 
sumed two years, but the patient felt fully repaid for the time and money 
so spent. Thousands of illustrative cases could be given to show the efficacy 
of the treatment in such cases, but space will not permit. 

The treatment for anteversion is the same as that given 
The Treatment for for i nflammation of the womb and ovaries. The forms 

of Viavi to be used are the capsules and the cerate. 

When the bladder, urethra or kidneys are involved, the Viavi liquid should be 
taken internally, three times a day, about twenty minutes before each meal, 
in from five to ten drop doses. 

The position for anteversion should be taken one or several times a day, 
as the patient's occupation permits. (See Position for Anteversion.) 

In anteversion the womb as a whole turns forward ; in 
A tU f e anteflexion there is a bending forward of the top of the 

womb alone. In this form of displacement it bends 
upon itself, much as a jack-knife when being closed. In anteversion the womb 
is large and has overtaxed its muscular supports, which have allowed it to fall 
forward as a whole ; but in anteflexion the muscular substance of the womb 



248 VIAVI HYGIENE 

itself has become so softened from inflammatory processes that it has fallen 
forward upon itself, or bent over. Auteflexion and anteversiou may both be 
present at the same time. The flexion may be slight, or it may be very great. 
It will be remembered that the womb resembles an inverted pear, the heavy 
part upward. The point of flexion is generally at the junction of the neck 
with the body. 

The symptoms of anteflexion are much the same as 

rhe Symptoms of those of ante version, but as a rule more severe and 

Anteflexion requiring a much longer treatment. The position of the 

womb is such that menstruation is greatly interfered with. A part of the flow, 

in the form of clots, may be retained from one month to another, being unable 

to pass the abrupt bend in the uterine canal This naturally keeps up a constant 

aggravation, which brings about a most serious condition. The irritation 

causes most destructive inflammation, and frequently there is an absolute 

break in the softened muscular tissues of the uterine structure. 

A flexion always causes sterility, as the lining membrane of the womb 
is never normal ; consequently it cannot prepare itself for the accommodation 
of the fertilized ovum, which fails to take root ; hence sterility. Membranous 
dysmenorrhea becomes permanently established, the nervous system badly 
impaired. The retained discharges cause the blood to become charged with 
injurious substances and the entire system deviates from the normal lines to a 
marked extent. 

In this, as in other forms of displacement, perfect cures are obtainable 
under the Viavi treatment. The condition is not unalterable. The inflamed 
and softened organ gradually regains its normal tone and position, but the 
patient should carefully consider her condition and make a study of it, so that 
she may not become discouraged if painful symptoms be present for some time 
after coming under the treatment, as there is a great amount of rebuilding 
that will be necessary before the organ will be in a condition to resume its 
proper position and function. 

The treatment for anteflexion is the same as for anteversion. 

Retroversion means a displacement backward of the 
Some Effects of W omb as a whole. I^ike anteversion, it produces a long 
Retroversion line of distressing conditions. So many painful condi- 
tions may be caused by retroversion that the cause of the trouble is too often 
lost sight of. 

As has been explained elsewhere, the rectum follows the curve of the 
sacrum, and has just sufficient room when all of the organs are of their natural 
size and in their proper position to functionate normally. When any of these 
organs becomes enlarged or displaced, others suffer. A part of the rectum is 
curved backward immediately behind the womb. In retro version the en- 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 249 

larged and heavy uterus falls back against it ; hence its calibre is greatly 
lessened at that point. By reason of this mechanical obstruction the fecal 
matter, which is very heavy, gathers in a mass in the rectum just above this 
point and pushes the retroverted womb still further downward and backward. 
This increases the unnatural tension of the uterine ligaments, or supports, and 
causes not only backache, but a dragging-down sensation in the region of the 
back as well. 

From this partial occlusion of the rectum in retroversion, the feces 
become packed in the upper part of the rectum. There they gradually harden 
and dry from unnatural retention, and are finally discharged after some of 
their deleterious elements have been absorbed into the circulation and carried 
to all parts of the body, to do what mischief they can. This condition is to 
the body what defective sewerage is to a house. The packed feces injure the 
lower part of the rectum and anus, and by the nature of their hardness and by 
severe pressure upon the diseased and sensitive womb resting against the 
rectum, aggravate its inflamed condition. 

The irritation produced by the constant pressure of the womb upon the 
rectum interferes with its circulation, giving rise to fistula, hemorrhage, in- 
flammation and ulceration of the rectum, with the various forms of tumors or 
piles that are generally seen with this condition. (See chapter on Diseases of 
the Rectum.) A large per cent, of rectal cancers among women are caused by 
this displacement backward. 

The injurious effects of retroversion are not confined to 

Bad Effects upon the rectuni| as all of the v i sc era in this location are 

fastened together the womb to the vagina, the vagina 

to the bladder, the bladder to the urethra, the bladder also by means of 
a cord to the umbilicus, or navel. When the womb falls backward, it 
makes traction upon the bladder; & it, in turn, makes traction upward upon 
the urethra. One of the effects of this strain is to produce partial or 
complete paralysis of the nerves controlling the function of the urethra 
and the sphincter muscles by which the flow of urine is controlled. There 
will be, in consequence, a dribbling of the urine or a constant retention, 
necessitating the use of the catheter for emptying the bladder. This upward 
stretching of the urethra also irritates its lining membrane, giving rise to 
urethral caruncles, purplish growths which may line it or hang from its 
mouth like small, dark red tongues ; they are often extremely sensitive. 

As the bladder is stretched backward as well as upward in retroversion, 
the urachus, or cord that attaches the bladder to the navel, is also stretched 
backward; hence there is pain in the umbilical region, the irritation fre- 
quently causing a watery or pus-like discharge to escape from the navel. At 
times this discharge is very offensive. 

As the womb moves, so do the ovaries move with it ; hence a dislocation 



2 5 o VIA VI HYGIENE 

of the womb also produces a displacement of the ovaries. (See chapter OD 
Inflammation of the Ovaries.) 

The causes of retroversion are the same as those produc. 
The Symptoms of ing ante version> but the womb has fallen backward in- 

stead of forward. A large number of nerves lie upon 

the backbone in that part of the pelvic cavity where the top of the retroverted 
womb rests ; hence the mental and nervous symptoms that accompany retro- 
version. The most prominent symptoms of retroversion are backache and a 
dragging-down sensation in the pelvis; this greatly interferes with locomo- 
tion. We find also leucorrhea, and often erosions of the cervix. Emptying 
the bowels becomes painful. Pains run down the front of the thighs, and they 
become worse upon motion. A burning sensation on the top of the head is 
also a characteristic symptom, or extreme pain in the back of the head, and 
mild forms of insanity, or the sufferer fears insanity. There are melancholia 
and hysteria, loss of memory, palpitation of the heart, stomach troubles, 
irritable spine and impaired eyesight. From poor drainage the lining mem- 
brane becomes inflamed (endometritis), and this in time involves the whole 
womb. This inflammatory process causes this organ to become adhered 
to surrounding parts. The ligaments are twisted and the circulation is im- 
peded, not only in the womb and ovaries, but also in the broad ligaments, 
which in time become varicose. 



Th T t f ^^ e ^* av * treatment for retroversion contemplates the re- 

. inoval of the conditions that produce it. It establishes the 

Ketroversion . . 

circulation; in this way all inflammatory conditions are 

overcome, the womb is restored to its natural weight and size, its ligaments 
perform their function of sustaining it in place, and the cure is perfected by 
simply assisting Nature. 

The use of the Viavi capsules and cerate is indicated; when rectal 
troubles are present, the Viavi suppositories should be used. If the bowels are 
constipated, the Viavi laxative is indicated. If the urinary tract is implicated, 
the Viavi liquid should be taken internally in from five to ten drop doses, three 
times a day, about twenty minutes before meals. 

The knee-chest position (see Knee-Chest Position) should be taken 
daily, just before retiring at night. 

A woman should make every effort faithfully to follow up the hygienic 
measures advised, as they will greatly abridge the time of the cure, save 
e xpense, and bring a present sense of comfort. As in the treatment of all 
other diseases of women, care should be exercised in the matter of rest and 
sleep, and other features of intelligent living discussed in previous chapters. 
Where displacements are present, coition should always be very moderate, as 
this is a great source of irritation to a displacement of any kind. 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 251 

Patients come under the Viavi treatment for retroversion 
Instances of Cures that has been brought about by many and var ious 

causes. Some of these patients have been ill for a short 

time, and some for a long period of time. The same results are obtained in 
all cases, independently of the cause and of the length of time that the dis- 
placement has been present that is, where the remedy is used for a sufficient 
length of time. 

One of our London patients, a public singer, suffered severely for three 
years from retroversion. During eighteen months of this time she was in 
Vienna under the care of three eminent physicians. She gradually grew 
worse instead of better. A six months' use of Viavi brought about a perfect 
cure; even her singing voice, which had been temporarily lost, was restored. 

Another case was that of a lady who had worn a pessary for five years. 
This patient was about forty years of age when she came under the Viavi treat- 
ment, and had suffered from a weakness of the generative organs since her 
eighteenth year. When she came under the treatment the pessary was dis- 
carded and an excellent recovery made, j 

Another case was that of an elderly woman who had suffered for many 
years from retroversion. The prominent symptoms were a very weak and 
aching back, kidney trouble, stubborn constipation and terrible headaches- 
This patient knew nothing whatever concerning the anatomy of her body nor 
the care of it. When she fully realized her conditiou she placed herself under 
the Viavi treatment and used it with religious regularity, obtaining the same 
results that others do who use the treatment in a like manner. Such instances 
of cure might be enumerated indefinitely. 

In retroflexion the womb bends backward upon itself at 

The Nature of the j unct i on of the cer vix and the body of the womb. 

It is similar to anteflexion, except that the bending is in 

the opposite direction. The bending in both cases is caused by enlargement 
with heaviness of the body of the womb, and a softening of its tissues. In 
retroflexion, as in anteflexion, the cavity of the womb is closed by the bend- 
ing, and the menstrual flow and leucorrheal discharges cannot easily escape. 
The evils arising from these abnormal conditions have already been pointed 
out. Women recovering from pregnancy should carefully follow the advice 
given in the chapter on Pregnancy, as flexions are more likely to occur at this 
time than at any other, from women leaving their beds too soon, the womb 
at this time being very soft and greatly enlarged. 

These flexions produce an inflammation of the lining of the womb, and 
of the womb itself, with the formation of adhesions to the bowel. In addition 
to this, certain irregular changes take place in the muscular walls of the 
womb, such as an abnormal thinning of the front wall and a thickening of the 
rear vail. A varicose condition of the veins within the ligaments is also a 



sj2 VIAVI HYGIENB 

result. This in time leads to prolapsus of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes. 
The treatment for retroflexion is the same as for retro version. 

By prolapsus uteri is meant a falling downward of the 
Prolapsus c womb. The womb becomes enlarged from congestion 

or inflammation overtaxing the muscles by which it is 

suspended in the pelvic cavity. As they in time lose their elasticity they 
allow the womb to sink gradually downward. This is prolapsus. The womb 
has become prolapsed because it was too big and heavy, and its displacement 
is due to gravitation. 

The curative outlook is not gloomy, as we can, by reducing the inflam- 
mation, thereby reduce its weight to normal, and thus cause it to return to its 
proper position, even adhesions becoming inadequate to prevent its ascent. 
The displacement may be only to a slight degree, or it may be so great as to 
cause the organ to protrude from the vaginal orifice. It then often resembles 
an angry-looking tumor, as the result of constant friction by the clothing and 
contact with the limbs. This is known as procedentia, meaning a complete 
prolapsus of the uterus. 

As the upper part of the vagina is continuous with the 
Effect upon the neck of the wom b j the vaginal walls are also dragged 
Bladder down with the falling womb, its walls folding upon 

themselves. The anterior wall of the vagina forms the posterior wall of the 
bladder; hence the bladder becomes prolapsed as well. It is not unusual to 
find the bladder protruding from the vaginal orifice just in front of the 
womb. When it becomes distended with urine, it is large and prominent, 
varying in size from an egg to a quart bowl. When the urine is voided the 
bladder then resembles a loose, irregular, flabby mass of mucous membrane. 
When from friction and the acrid nature of the urine, the protruding bladder 
becomes inflamed, the sufferer's condition is indeed pitiable. It often becomes 
necessary to push the bladder upward with the fingers before it can be success- 
fully emptied. This displacement of the bladder is known as cystocele, or 
prolapsus of the bladder, according to the degree of the displacement. 

Lameness of the legs frequently accompanies prolapsus 
The Symptoms of and is often m i sta k e n for rheumatism. The legs may 
even become partially paralyzed from pressure upon the 
nerves leading down the legs. 

The dragging-down sensation in prolapsus is similar to that experienced 
in retroversiou, ante version or the flexions. The nature of the pain is dull 
and heavy, especially across the back. The ovaries and Fallopian tubes, as 
well as the bladder and vaginal walls, are dragged downward, and many pain- 
ful symptoms throughout the whole pelvic and abdominal regions are present. 



DISPLACEMENTS OF TH WOMB ^3 

the nature of which it becomes impossible for the sufferer to express. In 
short, all symptoms of anteversion and retroversion may be present, with many 
more. 

There is no part of the body that yields to rational treat- 
Mechanical Aids ment so qu j ckly as the generative tract, and no part that 
Irrational resents mechanical or surgical methods so stubbornly 

and keenly. This fact speaks for itself whenever surgery or a mechanical aid 
is resorted to. This is all that is offered, outside the Viavi treatment, to women 
so suffering. In fact, surgery has become so remunerative and fashionable 
that the medical profession is resting perfectly content, making no effort 
\\hatever to find and employ means that have been discovered by others, and 
by which cures can be permanently established. 

As in anteversion and retroversion, all degrees of prolapsus are success- 
fully cured by the Viavi treatment. The patient is not propped up, nor 
patched up, nor stitched up, nor cut up, but she is cured according to the laws 
of Nature. 

_ _ Middle-aged women who have given birth to large families 

-, , . and reared them on limited incomes, women who have 

worked hard all their lives and are still obliged to do so, 

and those who have worn pessaries from ten to twenty yearo and discarded 
them upon coming under the Viavi treatment, have been permanently cured. 
These women have not had the opportunity to favor themselves even while 
under the treatment, but the cures have gradually progressed under the most 
unfavorable circumstances until the organs have regained their proper posi- 
tion and normal condition. This is as severe a test of the efficacy of the Viavi 
treatment as could be desired. In cases where the conditions of life are more 
favorable, the good results are secured earlier. 

_, tip- Innumerable cases of prolapsus cured by means of the 
amples of Fine viayi treatment m i gn t be cited, but the following ex- 
ecovcry treme illustrations will be sufficient: Mrs. M. came 

under the Viavi treatment in 1895. She had suffered from prolapsus of the 
v;omb and bladder for thirty years. Soon after puberty the womb became 
prolapsed, and although she was under the care of skillful physicians for 
thirty years, no relief whatever was obtained. The prolapsus was so great that 
when the sufferer was seated the uterus would be the first part of the body to 
touch the chair. The urine was of so acrid a nature that even the legs were 
raw. The displaced womb GO pressed upon the nerves and vessels heading to 
the legs that the pain rendered them almost useless, while they were swollen to 
about twice their natural size. She suffered also from great nervousness, 
headaches, backache, indigestion and neuralgia, and was able to walk but a 



254 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



short distance. She could neither rise nor sit without assistance, and would 
then suffer so intensely that she would scream with pain. She came under 
the Viavi treatment while in her fiftieth year. The prolapsed womb not only 
regained its normal size and position, but gradually all other abnormal condi- 
tions were overcome. No marked change occurred in her condition for the 
first six months. 

Mrs. T. came under the treatment in 1890 for prolapsus. She had worn 
a pessary for ten years. The pessary, from pressure on the surrounding 
tissues, had caused extensive ulceration. It was discarded, and the patient 
seemingly grew worse for some time. Several abscesses of the womb and 
external genitals formed and broke, showing the necessity of a thorough 
purging of the tissues in this region that had to be brought about before the 
cure could be perfected. Although, from reverse of circumstances, this 
patient has been obliged to be upon her feet almost continuously since she was 
cured by the Viavi treatment, there has been no return of the displacement. 

The treatment for prolapsus is almost the same as that 
The Treatment for g j vell f or retroversion. The use of the Viavi cerate over 

Prolapsus t ^ e abdominal walls for all kinds of displacement cannot 

be too thorough. Their blood vessels, nerves and tissues connect them either 
directly or indirectly with all parts of the body. When these walls are lax, or 
loose and flabby, weakness of the whole body is induced. Not only is the 
generative tract weakened and displaced by it, but the whole abdominal 
viscera as well. (See chapter on Abdominal Walls.) 

The surface of the abdomen is prepared for the reception of the cerate 
by cleansing it with vinegar and water. The pores, or absorbent vessels, of the 
skin greedily drink in the cerate, which is a nourishing food. Then by the 
blood it is carried not only to the superficial layers of the abdomen, but to the 
deeper ones as well, rendering them healthy, strong and elastic. Its action 
does not stop here, as the blood vessels carry it still deeper, and the perito- 
neum, which lines the abdominal cavity and separates all of the viscera, also 
receives its share. The ligaments of the uterus are formed from prolonga- 
tions of the peritoneum, so that these supports, which lie within the pelvic 
cavity, also receive their share of this nourishing food applied externally. Its 
action reaches still farther, and the womb, Fallopian tubes and ovaries, the 
nerves within these cavities, the walls of the blood vessels, the intestines, the 
rectum, the bladder, and, in short, every fiber and cell within the whole pelvic 
and abdominal regions is benefited by the cerate applied over the abdominal 
walls. 

As hygienic adjuncts to the treatment the compresses are to be used. 
Some patients can use the cold compress (see Cold Compress) twice a week 
with benefit ; others derive most benefit from the use of the hot compress (see 
Hot Compress) twice a week, while with others the best results are obtained 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 255 

by alternating the hot and the cold compresses, always using the hot first. 

The cold site bath (see Cold Site Bath) for prolapsus, especially where 
the womb protrudes and is angry looking, will prove most grateful to the 
sufferer, and a good night's rest follows, as a rule. When the site bath is used 
the compress may be omitted, but the cerate over the abdominal walls is nevef 
to be omitted. Before massaging the abdomen see Rules and Regulations foi 
Abdominal Massage. 

If, when the patient comes under the treatment, a pessary is being worn, 
it should be discarded at once, for not only is it relieving the ligaments of the 
work they were designed to do, but is thus depriving them of the strength 
that they must have in order to hold the womb in place. It is also aggravating 
the condition by irritation and pressure. If a pessary has been worn until 
the tone of the muscles is temporarily suspended and a support of some kind 
is necessary until the ligaments regain their strength to some extent from the 
Viavi treatment, a tampon may be worn during the day, but it should be 
removed at night. 

Procure some absorbent wool and absorbent cotton. 
The Use of a These may be got from Druggists or chemists. Roll the 
Tampon wool i oose iy j nto a ro ii } a bout twice the size of the 

thumb, or larger if necessary, and around it roll a layer of absorbent cotten. 
Cut this into three-inch lengths, and tie a cotton string tightly about the 
center of each piece. This will form a light, fluffy, non-irritating tampon, 
which can be inserted in the vagina for a temporary support for the womb. 
Bmpty six Viavi capsules into half a cup of olive oil. Mix thoroughly. Sat- 
urate one of the tampons with this mixture. After taking a morning vaginal 
douche, assume the knee-chest position (see Knee-Chest Position), and while 
in that position insert the saturated tampon in the vagina. This will form a 
temporary support for the womb during the day, and at the same time the 
muscles and ligaments will be constantly absorbing the remedy and thereby 
becoming stronger. Two douches should be taken daily in the reclining posi- 
tion, one before inserting the tampon and the other after withdrawing it 
immediately before retiring. It must not be left in the vagina over night. A 
fresh tampon should be used daily. The tampon should be discarded as soon 
as possible, and the patient should favor herself by keeping off her feet as 
much as possible. A Viavi capsule should be used every night. Should any 
difficulty be experienced in holding the tampon in place a T bandage should 
be employed, one part going around the waist and the other between the legs. 
The cerate is always to be used over the region of the spine. (See Cerate 
on Spine.) 

Every patient that comes under the Viavi treatment is 

Sympto ithal just as likely to feel worse for a time as to feel better. 

Encourage In cur j n g displacement with the Viavi treatment we are 



256 VIAVI HYGIENE 

giving to the system a material, or food, which must first be made use of by 
the various organs and tissues of the body to undo what has been done to cause 
the existing trouble, whatever it may be. There has been a stagnation of 
blood. It may be congestion, or it may have progressed into inflammation so 
extensive that its various forms of destructive products are present. The 
symptoms that a patient experiences while under the treatment depend 
entirely upon the extent and nature of her trouble and the amount and kind 
of repair work that will be necessary to bring all parts back to a healthy con- 
dition. One patient experiences a dragging, pulling sensation, first in one 
place and then in another, in the pelvic and abdominal regions. If she is 
thoroughly informed on the anatomy of these parts (as she will be if she has 
studied the earlier chapters in this volume) she will know that the pulling 
sensation experienced is in the region of certain muscular supports of the gen- 
erative organs, and that these supports are making an effort to get the organs 
back into their proper position. They were abnormally relaxed; hence the 
contractions, or pulling sensations, that are plainly felt. 

Again, the parts may become relaxed after using the treatment for a 
time, and the womb may therefore sink lower than ever before. In such 
eases a great amount of acute inflammation has been present. When by the 
treatment this is reduced, the parts for the time being are relaxed. The inflam- 
mation of the parts has acted partially as a false support. The cure at this 
point of relaxation is only half accomplished, and the treatment must now be 
continued. By means of it the relaxed tissues take up a sufficient amount of 
nutriment to allow them to regain their tone and elasticity. Now is the 
time that the cure can be pushed with the double-strength capsules, and the 
patient should favor herself by resting as much as possible in a reclining posi- 
tion. 

When displacement occurs, as has been previously stated, 
The Symptoms of a stagnat i on O f the blood within the blood vessels occurs 
Recovery - n ^ p e i v i c an( j abdominal regions. The walls of the 

blood vessels are thereby injured by overdistension, as are also the nerves that 
follow the vessels and twine about them as vines. When the nerves are suffi- 
ciently fed and strengthened by Viavi they gradually regain their function of 
controlling the blood supply, by causing the vessels to contract and relax, so 
that the blood may be forced onward. When this is occurring the patient 
suffers pain, but it will be only temporary. As soon as the circulation of the 
blood is established, these painful symptoms will disappear. It is a necessary 
part of the cure when stagnation and inflammation exist. 

When the stagnant blood is started on its course it cannot all be purified 
at once; hence it circulates throughout the whole body. The brain for the 
time being is dull and sluggish, and the patient wants to sleep or to make no 
erertion. Now is the time to employ the baths (see Baths*) as a means of 



DISPLACEMENTS OF THE WOMB 257 

establishing the circulation. The remedy is carried by the circulating blood 
to all parts of the body, and each organ is thereby strengthened and assisted 
in performing its special function. 

Bloating is another symptom that frequently appears after using the 
treatment for a time. It should never discourage the patient, but greatly en- 
courage her, as it shows that the action of the remedy upon the system is being 
fully felt. It is caused by the disintegration of the poisonous matter, which 
separates into its component parts, one of which is gas. The gas arises more 
quickly than the lungs can remove it, because the blood already contains a 
large amount of impurity. The use of the remedy causes these impurities to 
be thrown into the blood in still greater quantities, and consequently the 
blood must go to the lungs a larger number of times before these impurities can 
be removed. The lungs, having only a certain capacity to remove the impuri- 
ties, cannot remove all that is in the blood at one time. Little by little these 
impure gases will be taken into the blood and thrown out through the lungs. 

Sometimes the vaginal discharges become excoriating after commencing 
the treatment, producing itching, burning and even rawness, so that the patient 
may suffer considerably from disagreeable symptoms. This is due to the fact 
that the body is throwing off impurities, and that as these discharges or secre- 
tions pass down over the mucous surfaces they produce rawness, burning and 
itching, which will disappear as the parts are rendered healthy and there is 
less of these impure matters to be thrown from the system. The tissues also 
become more healthy and are not so tender as in the first place. 

A most astonishing feature of the ordinary method of 
Ad vising ^Pregnancy treating displacement of the womb is to advise patients 
Reprehensible go su ff er j n g to become preguaut as a curative method, 
tn some cases it is possible to become pregnant, in others not. Let us analyze 
the situation thus offered to a sufferer. Coition, when displacement exists, 
is not only painful, but with most women exceedingly repulsive. No inflamed, 
displaced organ can perform its normal function, and even though the patient 
conceive, it is done under difficulties. If she were not diseased she would 
not be suffering with displacement. A displacement would not be present if 
the womb were healthy. It has fallen out of place because it was so enlarged 
by disease that its natural supports could not keep it there ; therefore she is 
requested while in this condition to bring a child into the world with a heredity 
of weakness and disease that will poison its whole life and tend to make it one 
of the vast army of incompetents who are unable successfully to make the 
struggle for existence, and who in infancy and childhood are easy victims of 
all the diseases to which children are liable, and who, many of them, fill the 
prisons and insane asylums. As for the mother herself, imagine the torture 
that she must suffer during pregnancy, the grave risks to her life that she 
must run, aud the sufferings that in a large majority of cases await her for the 



258 VIAVI HYGIENE 

rest of her life. That such advice should be given to a woman suffering with 
displacement staggers the credulity of the wise, and yet such advice is being 
daily given, and, where possible, followed. 

If such medical advisers could but once personally make use of their 
own prescription and pass through a term of pregnancy under such circum- 
stances, suffering the tortures that no one can fully describe, the prescription 
would never be given the second time, pregnancy being safe only under the 
most favorable conditions. 

How different the Viavi treatment ! It is based on the 
The yiavi Plan self-evident proposition that no disease can be cured 
Different unless the conditions producing it are removed. As it 

removes these conditions with perfect success, the diseases growing out of 
them, together with the symptoms to which they give rise, disappear. The 
treatment ascertains what Nature would do to effect a cure had she the power, 
and then supplies the means that she lacks. Thus the system itself cures the 
disease with the help rendered by the Viavi treatment ; it rids itself of disease 
by natural means. As a consequence, after the cure the system is in a natural 
condition, which means a condition antagonistic to disease. For that reason 
it is able to resist disease. That is why a cure under the Viavi treatment is 
permanent, and that is why a permanent cure, or a cure at all, is impossible 
by any other means. 




CHAPTER xxxvm. 



PESSARIES. 



other chapters intimations of the irrational purpose anct positive harm of 
pessaries have been given. A pessary, though used to cure displace- 
ments, is merely a mechanical makeshift at relief to prop the displaced 
womb partially into position. This is done to the great injury of the 
womb itself, its ligaments, and adjacent organs and tissues. No hard, foreign 
substance can be placed in the vagina and allowed to remain for any length of 
time without doing" more or less injury to the tissues. 

Stem pessaries, which are partially inserted into the 
The Harm Done by uter j ne cav ity, are most dangerous instruments, as they 
frequently cut through the walls of the womb, especially 
when the walls are soft and inclined to flex or bend upon themselves. 

Those in the form of oblong rings so greatly distend the vaginal walls 
that ulceration frequently results. We recently saw a patient in whom exten- 
sive ulceration had occurred from one of these pessaries. It had imbedded 
itself in the walls of the vagina so deeply that they in time grew partially 
over it, requiring a skillful and expensive surgical operation to remove it. 

The cup pessary allows the neck of the womb to rest in a receptacle 
resembling a cup. By its use a constant irritation is kept up, as the womb is 
continually moving, and but few patients can wear this kind of a support for 
any length of time. 

When a pessary is worn no effort is being made to reduce the size of the 
enlarged womb, which is the cause of the displacement. No effort is made 
to strengthen its muscular supports, which are entirely relieved of their func- 
tion ; hence the greatest injury follows its use, while irreparable damage is 
wrought the tissues by pressure. The corrosive action of the vaginal secre- 
tions acts upon the material of the pessary, and accumulations occur. This 
causes greater pressure in time, and perforation of the vaginal walls follows, 
allowing the escape of urine and fecal matter into the vagina. 



s6o VIAVI HYGIENE 

The vagina does not resemble a cylinder, or hollow tube, 

Injury t but c i ose iy resembles a slit iu the tissues, its front and 

Vagina back walls lying together, The walls of the vagina are 

separated by Nature only at the termination of pregnancy, when it serves as a 

passage-way for the child from the womb into the world. The walls of the 

rectum also remain in juxtaposition, except when acting as a reservoir for the 

fecal waste. If this hard waste matter remains in the rectum for some time it 

causes pressure, and hemorroids, or piles, result from continued irritation and 

pressure. This illustrates the action of the pessary. 

As it is normal for the walls of the vagina to remain together, it is ab- 
normal and injurious to hold them apart by the insertion of a pessary. The 
more elastic and tense the vaginal tract, the greater the support it renders the 
womb from air pressure. When stretched apart by a pessary, atmospheric 
pressure becomes impossible. Not only the vagina and the womb are injured 
thereby, but the whole abdominal viscera, and the' detrimental results of the 
pessary are felt by the whole body. 

It will not be necessary here to go into further discus- 
ethod sion upon this subject. The chapter on Displacements 

Available of the WomD shows clearly how the Viavi treatment 

overcomes naturally all the conditions by which displacements are caused. 
The patient can easily understand that violence and artificial resorts to over- 
come displacement are worse than useless, and that a cure of displacement by 
means of the Viavi treatment is permanent. 

If pessaries cured displacements we should not daily encounter women 
who have worn them from one to twenty years. Illustrative cases given in 
the chapter on Displacements show that the pessary can be discarded and the 
displacement cured by Viavi, even though the pessary has been worn for 
many years. 



CHAPTER xxxix. 



PERITONITIS. 



J1HE peritoneum is a closed sack lining the pelvis and abdomen. The con-- 
xjpi tents of these cavities are not enclosed in it, but rather shut out of it 
tS 6 except the free ends of the Fallopian tubes, which open into it. The 
surface of the peritoneum is very extensive, as great probably as the 
external surface of the body, the skin. We find a part of it in close proximity 
to the great artery of the liver ; a prolongation of it separates the diaphragm 
from the liver, the liver from the stomach, the small intestines from the large, 
the intestines from the uterine organs and pelvic viscera. A part lies between 
the rectum and the womb, another part between the womb and the bladder. 
It forms, as well, a part of the ligaments that support the womb and ovaries. 
When all or any part of this extensive serous membrane is inflamed, we have 
a condition known as peritonitis, an inflammation that often results disas- 
trously, even fatally. 

The causes of peritonitis are many and varied. It may 
Various Causes and be caused by an external injury, a blow, a fall, a pene- 
Symptoms trating wound, gonorrhea, exposure to cold and wet, 

abortions, unclean instruments in making examinations, and surgical opera- 
tions. It may also be caused by the continuation of an already existing in- 
flammation of the womb, Fallopian tubes, ovaries, bladder, liver, spleen, by 
childbed fever and abnormal menstruation. 

Pain is always present in peritonitis, and its nature is sharp, severe and 
lancinating (stabbing). It is always increased by the slightest motion or touch. 
The sufferer lies upon her back, with legs drawn up. She uses only the 
chest muscles in breathing, and avoids carefully all action of the abdominal 
muscles. The weight of the bed clothing cannot be borne. 

The inflammation seldom involves the whole peritone- 
um, but only a part or parts. No inflammation can exist 
throughout these cavities but that certain parts of the 
peritoneum become involved, sometimes quite extensively. The peritoneum 



262 VIAVI HYGIENE 

possesses wonderful powers of absorption, and heals readily under proper 
treatment. It is extremely sensitive, aiid this is a frequent cause of death 
from shock produced by operations within the pelvic and abdominal regions. 
Peritonitis is at best a dangerous disease. The danger varies according 
to the cause, complication and extension. The minute vessels become filled 
with fluids varying in quantity and character, and they ooze through the 
membrane. Sometimes the oozing is very extensive, and the abdomen, in 
consequence, becomes greatly distended; but owing to its serous nature, it 
is easily absorbed. 

When the inflammation is of a fibrinous nature, the 

rhe Formation of fluid is st j ckv auc j g i uey . t hi s j s apt to cause the forma- 

Adnesions t j on Q f adhesions. The layers of the peritoneum may 

become adhered together where they come in contact, and form sacs in which 

fluid is retained ; or strings and bands of fibrin may be formed, which fasten 

the intestines together, causing strangulation. The womb, Fallopian tubes and 

ovaries also may be bound down by adhesions. (See chapter on Adhesions.) 

The Viavi treatment for peritonitis is to control this great 
The Treatment for i n fl amrna t ry heat as speedily as possible, and at the 

Peritonitis same time to re g u i a t e the circulation of the blood in the 

affected membrane. 

Two Viavi capsules should be used daily, per vagina, one in the 
morning and one in the evening. 

The Viavi liquid is to be taken into the stomach in from five to ten drop 
doses, three times a day, on an empty stomach. 

The surface of the abdomen should never, under any circumstances, be 
injured by blistering. The first part of the Viavi treatment consists of rubbing 
the lower half of the back with the Viavi cerate thoroughly but gently for 
from five to ten minutes. If the attendant is careful a foot-tub can be set 
in the bed and the feet placed in water as warm as can be borne. Then 
wring a thin piece of cotton cloth, or better, a face towel if it can be borne, 
out of cold water, and place it upon the abdomen and stomach. In a few 
minutes this cold cloth will become hot, when it should be replaced with a 
cold one, gradually slipping the cold one under the hot one. The application 
of this cold compress will take patience, skill and great gentleness, as the 
abdomen is extremely painful. At first it will be possible only to place the 
cloth, but after a time very gentle pressure can be made over this region. 
It will be only a short time until great relief will follow this application. 
When these cold compresses have been applied for about half an hour, dis- 
continue them, and with a soft camel's hair brush (if great tenderness exist, 
Otherwise use the hand), apply the melted cerate, thoroughly but gently, over 
the region of the abdomen and stomach. The cerate may be melted by placing 



PERITONITIS 263 

some of it Jn a teacup and setting the cup in hot water. The feetmaynow be 
withdra vn from the tub and dried. This treatment should be given once a 
day, or twice if the severity of the disease requires it. 

We particularly wish to call attention to the cold compress advised in 
peritonitis, as it differs greatly from the ordinary cold compress advised in 
inflamed conditions of other parts and organs, where several thicknesses of 
cloth are absolutely necessary at the beginning to obtain the desired results in 
stimulating vital action. One thickness alone of thin white cloth is used in 
peritonitis by reason of the exceedingly sensitive and painful condition of the 
abdomen, and the greatest care and caution must be exercised in placing this 
thin piece of cloth upor the sensitive parts. 

The diet should be light and mainly liquid, such as milk properly pre- 
pared, broth, toasl in water, or thin gruei and should be taken in small quan- 
tities and every tnree hours. Positively no heavy food should be taken at all, 
as the bowels are weakened, and irnta ion from such food would have a 
tendency to light up the inflammation again and produce serious complications. 

So extensive loss of function is brought by adhesions that at the first 
indication of inflammation within the pelvic and abdominal regions the 
Viavi treatment should be employed very thoroughly indeed. 

We knew of one patient who had suffered from habitual 
Recovery o the peritonitis for years; the least little co i d or overexertion 

started up the inflammatory process. At the first onset 

she went to bed and employed the Viavi treatment, using as many as eight to 
twelve capsules a day. She also kept quantities of the cerate continuously 
over the region of the abdomen. By employing the treatment so thoroughly 
and vigorously in the beginning, she was able to ward off these attacks, and to 
be up and about her usual duties in a short time. This is but one of thousands 
of cases of peritonitis that have yielded readily to the Viavi treatment. 



CHAPTER XL. 
INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES. 

(OVARITIS, OR OOPHORITIS.) 



NFLAMMATION of the ovaries is the crowning evil of the diseases to 
which the generative organs of women are subject. As the ovaries are 
the center of a woman's generative nature, all the other organs of gener- 
ation being accessories of their usefulness and instruments of their 
purpose, when they become diseased all that distinguishes women as women, 
all that makes them different from men, all that serves as the foundation of 
their beauty, loveliness and charm, is assailed. As their disease is the impair- 
ment of the woman nature, so their complete destruction by removal is the 
unmaking of the woman nature. 

All these wonderful potencies do not reside alone in the small and 
seemingly insignificant organs in which the eggs that produce all human life 
have their origin. They in turn are merely the organs, the expression, of 
complex and mysterious forces that ramify throughout every fiber of a 
woman's being ; but without these organs as a means of expression of the 
forces that they represent, the forces themselves become powerless. One can 
not talk if one's tongue is cut out. One cannot hear if the auditory nerve has 
been destroyed. One cannot see if one's eyes are taken out. So a woman 
cannot give expression to her womanliness if her ovaries are diseased or 
removed. 

Tucked away in that marvelous receptacle, the skull, 
The Sources of are b ra j n centers in great numbers, endowed with a 
Womanliness bewildering variety of powers. If the center that re- 
ceives and translates the impression of sight is removed, the ability to see is 
completely destroyed, even though the eyes remain perfectly sound. If the 
eyes are removed and the brain center of sight remains, it not only becomes 
useless, but through lack of exercise or any necessity for existence, it gradu* 
ally shrivels and loses its power, just as does anything else in Nature that is 
denied the function for which it was created. 

It is so with the brain centers governing a woman's sexual nature. If 



INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES 265 

they be removed, her sexual nature will be completely destroyed, even though 
her organs of sex remain perfectly sound. If the organs are diseased, the 
brain centers governing them partake of the diseased, impaired and imperfect 
condition. If the organs are removed, the brain centers governing them gradu- 
ally shrivel and lose their power; and it is this power that determines the 
womanliness of a woman, that makes her a woman instead of a man or any- 
thing else that Nature did not intend her to be. 

As the brain centers are not independent entities, but as each is de- 
pendent on all the others for its proper working, it follows that if the brain 
centers governing the generative nature of a woman become impaired by dis- 
ease of the generative organs, or rendered useless by the removal of the 
organs, all the other brain centers suffer in sympathy, and thus the whole 
nature of the woman, physical, mental and spiritual, becomes impoverished 
to a greater or less degree. 

If the extensive and intimate nervous connection foe 
fof tween the ovaries and the brain were properly under- 
the Ovaries stood by the world at large ; if it could be adequately 
realized that the disease or severance of this intricate system of connecting 
nerves reaches forth a destroying hand to everything that makes a woman a 
woman ; if the sufferers themselves could only appreciate the immeasurable 
difference between them and women who have been mercifully spared this 
affliction ; if husbands could be brought to know the heavy responsibility 
resting upon them to master the great truths of this subject ; if all who de- 
votedly give their hearts and hands to the unselfish work of uplifting the race 
could imagine the overshadowing importance of preserving the integrity of 
womanhood, there would be no inviting of ovarian diseases by unwise con- 
duct, and public sentiment would stamp out the castration of women with an 
iron heel. The Viavi movement has come as the champion and defender of 
women. It proposes to assail unsparingly every influence that tends to 
degrade women and cast them from their high estate. It will labor unceas- 
ingly to lead women out of the darkness of ignorance in which they are so 
persistently kept and in which originate their own sufferings and the incred- 
ible harm that these sufferings bring to humanity. 

In diseases of the ovaries we find the culmination of all the evils that 
fall to the lot of a woman's nature. In it we discover the broadest and brightest 
field for the dissemination of enlightenment, the inculcation of a sense of duty, 
and the restoration of womanhood to its rightful estate. It is gratifying 
beyond measure to see, as we expected, the eagerness with which countless 
thousands of women are responding to this call upon their brains and con- 
science, the infinite pleasure that they enjoy from health where before they 
had suffered with disease, and their fearless work and indefatigable zeal w 
spreading the Viavi truths. 



266 VIA VI HYGIENE 

Inflammation of the ovaries (ovaritis) may be acute or 
1 * chronic. The acute form is that which has existed but a 



short time ; the chronic is that in which the inflamma- 
tion has become firmly established. Its character is similar to that of inflam- 
mation anywhere else in the body ; it is this fact that renders it so readily 
amenable to the Viavi treatment. The nature and tendencies of inflammation 
have been discussed in another chapter. Ovarian inflammation is often very 
painful, because the ovaries have an exceeding abundance of nerves, every 
one of which suffers if inflammation to any extent exists, and because it was 
evidently designed by Nature that as the health of the ovaries was so essential 
to the well-being of the entire economy, any trouble with them should cause 
the brain to be vividly informed of the fact, to the end that intelligent means 
be at once employed to overcome it. In many cases, however, the inflamma- 
tory processes have been so destructive as to impair the sensitiveness of the 
nerves, thus crippling their power to give notice of disease. Thus it is that 
many women have the most serious inflammation of the ovaries without 
being aware of the fact from excessive pain. 

The left ovary is oftener affected than the right, because the upper 
part of the rectum is on that side, the pressure from the passing fecal 
matter, particularly in constipation, acting a* an irritant, and also because the 
left side of the cervix is oftener lacerated than the right. Besides, the left 
ovary, unlike the right, lacks the valve th it assists in controlling the circula- 
tion in the right ovary, and hence it is that in the left ovary there is a greater 
tendency to congestion and inflammation. 

The causes of ovaritis are many, among them a sudden 
The Causes suppression of the menses, extension of inflammation 

from surrounding parts, gonorrhea, excessive coition, 

astringent or cold-water injections, abortions, miscarriages, displacements of 
the pelvic organs, any condition that tends to weaken or impede the circu- 
lation, pessaries, an improper use of instruments, and cauterization of the 
cervix with nitrate of silver. 

The ease with which the ovaries sympathize with diseases of the other 
generative organs is explained by the closely related nervous and circulatory 
systems making all these organs parts of a whole. Not only that, but as the 
other organs are the servants of the ovaries, the ovarian functions are impaired 
and disease invited if the servants are diseased. "The uterus and its appendages'* 
is a misleading and unscientific phrase encountered in the medical books. 
The incorrect inference -from it is that the womb is the center of the genera- 
tive system, and that the ovaries are among the organs inferior to it. The 
reverse is the truth. A woman's ovaries, which are sacrificed so ruthlessly, 
are the organs demanding the most care and the most sacred preservation. 
They should receive first consideration. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES 267 

Ovaritis being, as a rule, complicated with other inflatn- 
Thc Symptoms or ma tory processes, the symptoms are many and varying. 
Ovaritis -k e a ff ec ted ovary or ovaries may be enlarged and ten- 

der, with pains radiating at intervals or continually to the sides and down the 
lower part of the back. Pain in the ovarian region of a dull, aching or burn- 
ing character, aggravated by moving about or by a sudden jar, is characteristic 
of ovaritis. Pain in the groin is a frequent symptom, and the leg on the 
affected side is often kept partially bent to ease the pain. Pains in the leg may 
be so severe as to cause lameness. Considerable pain may be experienced at 
stool or while urinating. Hysterical symptoms are often developed, and 
frequently a profuse leucorrhea. All symptoms are aggravated as the men- 
strual period approaches, and menstruation will be painful and generally 
profuse. With some sufferers the pain ceases when the flow is fully estab- 
lished. A little excitement will often cause the ovary to throb and burn. 

^. The very same painful symptoms accompanying ovaritis are caused also 
by a diseased cervix and anteversion. This has frequently led to a wrong 
diagnosis and brought the sufferer under surgical treatment, the mistaken 
diagnosis being discovered only when the abdomen has been cut open and 
healthy ovaries brought to view. Other instances in which similar cutting is 
done on a wrong diagnosis are when the ovaries suffer with neuralgic pains 
from conditions existing elsewhere in the body, in both cases the ovaries are 
generally removed when the operation has progressed thus far, on the amazing 
theory that if they are out they will give no trouble ! As they were not 
responsible for the pains, no relief whatever is experienced from their removal. 
On the contrary, all painful symptoms become intensified and many new ones 
are added. 

The Viavi treatment has developed the fact, beyond all 
Mutilation Is Not possibiUty of doubt> that the mut ilation of a woman by 

the removal of her ovaries for ovaritis, is wholly unnec- 
essary, besides being an evil of inconceivable magnitude. Inflammation here 
yields with the same readiness as does that in the other organs. 

The enormous practice and experience of those engaged in the Viavi 
movement have demonstrated beyond all question that women with unsound 
ovaries are much better off than those who have had them removed. While 
the ovaries are present there is always hope ; there is none whatever where 
they have been removed. The Viavi treatment can bring to women who have 
been thus mutilated a peace and comfort that they have never known before, 
but it cannot restore the foundation of womanhood it cannot create new 
ovaries. In offering perfect relief without mutilation ; in effecting a cure 
without depriving a woman of that upon which her womanhood rests : in 
bringing her to a condition of perfect health and complete womanliness, the 
Viavi treatment has come as a boon of priceless value, the greatest blessing 



a6 VIAVI HYGIBNE 

that science has ever extended to helpless, hopeless, suffering humanity. 
In a preceding chapter addressed particularly to men, but full of in- 
struction and warning to women, something has been said on the general 
subject of the surgical mutilation of women. We shall now discuss the sub- 
ject in its more concrete aspect, as it is full of the profoundest interest for 
every woman who desires happiness for herself and for those dependent 
upon her. 

There is something instinctively repugnant to a woman 

M t efrofs in the idea of havin s her bod y cut P en - This is the 

deep, still voice of Nature pleading within the inmost 

recesses of her soul. It is true that extremely rarely, or never, is the repug- 
nance based on an intelligent understanding of the dangers and subsequent 
evils of the mutilation. If it were, there would be no such operations. It is 
based simply on a natural horror of being cut. A few women have seen men 
injured or mangled in accidents, and they know full well the awful thing that 
it is for the human body to be subjected to such an injury. Those who have 
never witnessed such a spectacle havf, only their instinctive repugnance to 
human ^butchery to guide them. A woman cannot picture herself lying 
stripped, unconscious and helpless in the midst of a group of male operators, 
spectators and students, with a number of alert female nurses in attendance. 
She cannot see the administerer of chloroform or ether standing at the head 
of the operating table, administering the deadly drug and watching with anx- 
ious expectancy for the dreaded signs of sudden collapse. She cannoc behold 
the table laden with a glittering array of sharp knives and other instruments. 
She cannot see her white skin part under the sharp knife, and the blood spurt 
as veins and arteries are cut. She cannot see the nurses deftly sponging 
away the blood in order that the operator may see the better how to do his 
work. She cannot see him examine her ovaries, and then perhaps wonder 
whether they should be removed or not. She can take no part in the moment- 
ous discussion that ensues, and upon which the best in her life depends. She 
cannot protest if it is decided to remove ovaries that are sound. She lies com- 
pletely helpless, every sense and faculty bound in chains heavier than the 
stoutest iron. She cannot know if a slip of the knife opens the bladder or 
intestines. And she cannot foresee the sufferings, mental and physical, that 
will abide with her all her life if she survive the ordefcl. 

Let us see the difference between the woman who offers 
Two Illustrations herself to surg i ca i mutilation and the one who adopts 
Contrasted the Viavi treatment. The first will not be in formed of the 

dangers and horrors of an operation, for that would surely decide her to forego 
it. She cannot conscientiously be promised absolute relief, for that is impos- 
sible : she cannot be told that she will be as sound and happy as a young girl, 



INFLAMMATION OF THK OVARIES 269 

because that would be untrue. The best that can be said to her is that "only 
relative results can be safely counted on." That may be told her conscien- 
tiously, because that is what the old methods teach ; but that does not make it 
true, nor is it true or even possible. She will not be told that her unsexing 
will render her unfit for wifehood and the higher duties and pleasures of life, 
because the old methods do not admit that such a result will accrue. She will 
not be informed that it is proposed to castrate her. That terrible word, "cas- 
tration," will never be mentioned to sufferers. The affair will be called an 
"operation"! In the books it is technically called ovariotomy, or extirpa- 
tion of the ovaries. Nevertheless, it is castration. A woman offering herself 
to this operation will not be told what a castrated human being is. Should 
she ask if men are castrated as readily as women, the question might prove 
embarrassing. 

The woman with ovaritis who offers herself to the Viavi treatment i* 
informed that with the aid of the Viavi treatment Nature will overcome he* 
disease by perfectly natural means ; that there will be no violence, no forcing, 
no foolish and hurtful attempt to substitute human skill for that of thff 
Almighty ; that the cure will be slow, so that when effected it will be thorough 
and permanent ; that after the cure is effected, she will find herself a complete, 
hearty, happy woman, in possession of all the attributes of her womanhood, 
equipped to enjoy life as it was designed that she should, and able to exercise 
the usefulness that should be the aim and desire of every true woman. 

It is not difficult to make a choice between these two methods. 

Skill in the art of surgery has reached so high a poin' 

ouccess or that the number of deaths of women under the opera 

tion for the removal of diseased ovaries has becom* 

comparatively small. It is this fact that makes the resort all the more insidi- 
ous and deadly. In the first place, as a woman suffering with ovaritis haJ 
greatly impaired strength and vitality, extreme care is taken to build her up 
with treatment, so that she may be reasonably expected not to die under thf 
knife. Recent strides in antiseptic surgery have reduced the chances of in 
fection. The ligation of severed arteries and the sewing up of wounds have 
become an exquisite art. All these and other advances have so greatly reduced 
the chances of dying from the operation that surgery has been made dan 
gerously inviting to the unwise, particularly to those who do not know that i 
cure of any chronic condition cannot possibly be made quickly nor by vio 
lence and the outraging of natural laws. 

A reduction of the chances of fatal results under the operation has only 
aggravated the evil. Statistics showing the small percentage of women who 
die on the operating table give rise to one of the most hurtful delusions of th*" 
age. The statistics of women discharged from hospitals as "cured" serve i 
similar purpose. A terrible and eloquent record might be compiled by follow 



270 VIAVI HYGIENE 

ing up the life of every woman who has been castrated. It is in the aching 
silence of the home that the true story of the success or failure of surgery 
is read. 

A remarkable and significant fact is that nine-tenths of 
Frightened by the women who come un der the Viavi treatment for 
Operations ovarian diseases have been assured that a surgical opera- 

tion in other words, castration offered the only hope in their cases. Many 
were given a certain short length of time in which they might expect to live 
if they did not submit. A great many thousands of women throughout the 
world have come under the Viavi treatment and been cured by means of it 
after being told that castration (politely called an "operation") offered the 
only known and possible means of relief, and after being assured that they 
could live but a short time without it. It is gratifying beyond all measure 
that there are so many women in the world (and there are incredible numbers 
who have not yet been reached) who have the moral courage to resist, and the 
common sense to seek other means of relief. Their action is all the more en- 
couraging in view of the fact that every sort of human pressure is brought to 
bear upon them to compel them to submit. They are taught, in the first place, 
that all the possible and conceivable curative skill in the world resides in the 
medical schools. They are never shown that Nature, and Nature alone, is 
the great physician, and that Nature, and Nature only, can cure disease. 
Added to this is the warning of early death if they do not submit. And 
superadded to this is often the entreaty or demand of their husbands that they 
suffer the mutilation. All this makes it remarkable and immeasurably grati- 
fying that the womanliness, common sense and courage of so many women 
enable them to resist this almost overwhelming pressure and exercise the sense 
of individual responsibility that the Creator implanted for the wisest purposes 
in the breast of every rational being. 

The woman afflicted with ovaritis finds herself in the 
most unhappy position imaginable. On the one hand is 
her instirfctive repugnance to being cut open, her fear 

and horror of the ordeal. On the other are the ceaseless pressure and urging 
of those whom she has been taught to trust and honor, and, if her husband is 
among them, to love. Every gentle and confiding trait of her nature is 
worked upon. If she wavers and seeks for light in medical works, she is 
driven to despair to learn that surgery offers the only hope. She is amazed 
and crushed to discover that so large a part of the modern medical journals is 
devoted exclusively to surgery, and that nine-tenths of the operations reported 
show the different methods employed for the mutilation of women -none, she 
may pause to reflect, for the mutilation of men. 

She appeals to her husband. He is the one above all others who loves 



INFLAMMATION OF THE O VARIES 271 

her, who has her welfare at heart, who desires every possible thing to be done 
for her health and comfort. He is the one in all the world upon whose manli- 
ness, generosity, sympathy, affection and wisdom she feels that she can rely. 
From the depths of her anguish she will beg him to tell her if it is- not possible 
for this bitter cup to be withheld from her lips. "No," he will answer gravely; 
"the doctor says it must be done, and he knows best ; h^ understands his busi- 
ness." Still she cannot accept it. With an aching heart and a broken body, 
suffering as few mortals can, in all the ways that mortals can suffer most, she 
seeks a physician other than the one who had informed her that only an 
operation could save her ; surely this one, so kind and skillful, will know of 
some other way. "No," he announces, after a careful examination ; "nothing 
but an operation can save you." Castration again ! She refuses to submit. 
Still hoping against hope, she seeks another. It is the same dreadful story 
operation, nothing but operation ; mutilation, nothing but mutilation ; castra- 
tion, nothing but castration. It would seem almost a miracle, a direct inter- 
position of Providence, that this crushed and despairing woman, preferring 
death to the horrors that confront her, should drag forth from her shattered 
strength the resolution to resist to the end, and exercise her heaven-sent gift of 
common sense. But she does. She may pause to reflect that science is 
.constantly advancing, that what is conscientiously believed to be right to-day 
is found to-morrow to be wrong. She searches further, leaving the beaten 
track that has become a nightmare. She discovers the Viavi treatment. She 
learns of innumerable cases similar to hers in which perfect health has been 
secured by adopting it. She may or may not become convinced that the treat- 
ment will probably be efficacious in her case that makes no difference with the 
healing power that Nature receives from the treatment. With her it may be 
merely a matter of trying something, anything, that offers an escape from the 
horrors with which she has been confronted. She adopts the Viavi treatment, 
and gradually becomes well, strong, competent and happy, retaining every- 
thing that constitutes her womanhood, and in the end presenting herself to 
her husband as his perfect wife. 

This is not a fanciful illustration. Not only is it the transcript of one 
particular case that is in mind, but it is strictly representative of thousands of 
similar cases. 



M Wk % \A - ti mes it * s t* 16 husband who refuses to permit his 
Men Who Shield wife to su b m i t to mutilation castration even when the 
wife herself is willing. Such cases constantly arise. 

They are deeply gratifying-as showing the common sense and independence of 
judgment that are so natural with men and so becoming in their conduct. 
Here is one of thousands of such cases : 

One day a large, handsome man, with clear, steady eyes and a face 
showing strength and determination of character, presented himself at one oi 



272 VIAVI HYGIENE 

the principal Viavi offices. With him was his yonng wife, a bride, about 
twenty years of age. Her wide blue eyes and pinched face presented such a 
picture of terror combined with suffering and hopeless resignation as can 
never be forgotten. Her history was soon told. At the time of her marriage 
she was a light-hearted, plump, rosy-cheeked country girl, ignorant of the 
vital things that a woman should know. Shortly after her marriage she con- 
tracted a severe cold. It had settled in her ovaries, which, when her husband 
presented her at the Viavi office, were tender, enlarged, inflamed and exceed- 
ingly painful. Almost the first question that the husband asked was whether 
we operated for ovarian troubles. When promptly answered in the negative 
an expression of great relief came into his face. He then voluntarily told the 
following story : 

"My wife and I have been making a tour of the offices of the leading 
physicians of this city. Seven of them examined my wife. Her abdomen 
had been so roughly and deeply kneaded that every breath caused intense 
pain. The first surgeon advised that my wife's ovaries be removed. I knew 
what that meant" and here his face flushed "it meant castration. I thought 
I had consulted the wrong doctor, and so I went to another ; it was the same 
story there castration. I went to a third; still it was the same castra- 
tion. ""We could stand no more that day. My wife was weak and suffering, 
and I was sick at heart. We waited a few days and then resumed our 
search. Only two physicians were consulted that day, and both declared 
for an operation castration. It had a seriously depressing effect upon 
my wife, and I had difficulty getting her home. Her mental condition 
became so bad that I went out alone and described her condition to other 
physicians. They all declared that there must be an operation castration. I 
told my wife that they all agreed to the same thing castration and asked 
her what she thought about it. I can never forget the look of despair in her 
face. She said that they ought to know what was best to be done, and that 
she was willing. I could not bring myself to believe that castration offered 
the only relief. One of the surgeons whom I had visited oame to my office 
and insisted on an immediate operation. A friend of mine was present. Af- 
ter the surgeon had left, this friend said that he knew of a non-surgical 
treatment that his wife had used for a similar trouble, and that had produced 
her cure. It was the Viavi treatment. He told of his wife's experience how 
she had gone from one physician to another and had heard the same story 
castration, castration, castration until she had become a nervous wreck from 
fright and from thought of what such an operation would mean to her. I 
knew, and so did my friend, that castration must mean as much to a woman as 
to a man ; my friend and I knew what we should be if castrated, and we were 
determined that our wives should not submit to such mutilation if there was 
any way to avoid it without sacrificing their lives." 

This man's wife made a rapid recovery under the Viavi treatment. A 



INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES 273 

little more than * year after her visit to the Viavi office she came in bringing 
a splendid boy baby that had been born after she recovered her health. It 
was impossible to recognize her at first, so rosy and plump and happy she was, 
and so proud of what she declared was the best and healthiest baby in the 
world. She had come merely to express her gratitude and exhibit her 
wonderful boy. 

Both men and women should know and it cannot be 
The Fallacy of too ^ ee pjy DOr too often impressed upon them that the 
Castration moment a woman submits to the removal of her ovaries 

she is a castrated woman ; that at that moment she ceases to be a woman, and 
that she is no longer a wife except in name. She must be a strange woman 
who, understanding what castration means to herself and husband, what she 
loses physically, mentally and spiritually by this mutilation, what crippling 
she suffers as her husband's partner, counsellor and inspiration, will submit to 
it. Women who demand the relief that was offered them by going through 
this terrible ordeal are looked upon as unreasonable and troublesome. They 
are now brought face to face with the helplessness of their condition and posi- 
tion, socially, domestically and physically. They feel keenly the barrier that 
has arisen between them and their husbands, which no tenderness, devotion 
nor kindness can obliterate. Their bodily sufferings are intensified. To 
these have been added a mental anguish and despondency that border at 
times upon insanity, for they are now brought face to face with the results of 
these operations ; the infinite pity is that they did not know in the beginning. 

If the finger, arm or leg be amputated, we all know that 
Physical Effects of the stum p re mains exceedingly sensitive, and that it has 
Surgery to ^ care f u u v protected. ' This is so, even though it is 

covered with skin. If any part of the generative tract is cut, innumerable 
nerves are severed far more than in an amputation of a finger, an arm or a 
leg, and there is no thick skin with which the severed ends may be covered. 
Hence these severed nerve-ends suffer constant irritation, and this irritation is 
constantly nagging the brain centers and drawing upon the strength of the 
system. Again, as the blood supply to these parts is enormously abundant, 
large numbers of blood vessels also are severed ; the larger ones are ligated, or 
tied, the smaller ones are caught within the stumps or scar tissue which forms. 
The beautiful mechanism of the abdominal circulation is fearfully injured, 
the circulation is impeded, and Nature rebels at this shameful and unnecessary 
mutilation. * 

A certain r.raount of inflammation follows these operations, and peri- 
toneal adhesions ate bound to form from that condition. These adhesions may 
be so extensive that the contents of the pelvic and abdominal cavities are 
glued together in the most fantastic fashion. As it is necessary \o the healthy 



274 VIAVI HYGIENH 

functional activity of these organs, and to life itself, that all the parts designed 
to have freedom of motion should enjoy it, adhesions, by preventing it, set up 
the most extensive conditions that undermine health and threaten life. The 
nerves in the stumps left by the operation are constantly irritated ; this irrita- 
tion produces inflammation, and from inflammation adhesions inevitably 
arise. It is common for the second, third, fourth, and even as high as the 
eighth operation to be performed in efforts to undo some of the harm of pre- 
ceding operations, principally in forcibly breaking down adhesions that have 
been formed. Even this is unnecessary, as in the chapter on Adhesions it will 
be seen how readily the Viavi treatment causes the loosening of adhesions 
without any resort to violence. 

By these adhesions the normal movements of the bowels are partially 
suspended. Powerful purgatives are thereupon administered to render the 
passages liquid, no solid fecal matter being able to find its way past the abrupt 
angulations that have formed in the bowels. From their use the stomach and 
whole alimentary tract suffer impairment of health and function, and in time 
this condition becomes irreparable. 

Let us observe the conduct of the millions of nerves 
Hsintcgration of that haye been severed by the operation for the removal 

the Nerves of the ovarieSt T he removal of the organs that they 

were designed to govern deprives them of the work that they were created to 
do, and besides, the cutting of them is a direct violence. Hence they gradu- 
ally die from the severed ends toward the spinal cord, and then through the 
cord to the brain. This accounts in part for the morbid and melancholy 
condition of a castrated woman. The integrity of the nervous system is im- 
paired, and thus the source of all healthy physical and mental activity is 
weakened. 

Again, every organ in the body has a special space allotted to it. Extra- 
ordinary and ingenious compactness is observed upon opening the body. All 
the internal organs are dependent upon the others in a mechanical sense to a 
greater or less extent. Each organ needs exactly its own natural space, no 
more, no less, for its perfect functional health. If this space is either in- 
creased or diminished, the harmony of the body is destroyed, and the entire 
body must suffer. If an organ be removed its suspensory ligaments are sev- 
ered, partially or wholly ; this weakens the entire body. Other parts of the 
viscera, especially those just above the removed organs, sag down out of 
place; others, just above them, also sag, and so on, until all the viscera 
become displaced more or less. 

The severing of the abdominal walls is also a very serious feature of 
these operations, but that will be discussed in the chapter on the Abdominal 
Walls, it being so important a subject as to demand separate and thorough 
treatment. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES 275 

Castrated women are prematurely, and therefore unnat- 
Other Effects of ura u y> forced into the change of life. When this change 

Castration occurs naturally, an exquisite readjustment of all the 

bodily functions takes place gradually. In the process every nerve, every 
fiber, every cell is called upon to do its particular share of the work ; but in 
this elaborate process the presence of the ovaries is necessary, as it is through 
these organs that the genital life is largely established, and through them that 
it is normally given up. Many of the ills that a castrated woman suffers 
come from her being forced unnaturally into the change of life. 

Women generally undergo this fearful ordeal when their vitality is at 
the lowest ebb, and when they have the least strength to resist the evils that 
it creates. The stitches do not absorb. Often they fester out through the 
tissues, causing not only suffering and pain, but also leaving large festering 
holes in the abdomen or buttocks, which refuse to heal. 

Many women die from the shock of the operation for 
Death Is Always ^e remova i O f their ovaries ; some while on the operat- 
Threatened ; >, ing ta bi e> others at varying intervals of time afterward. 
Those who do not die never entirely recover. With all these risks to life, 
and considering the gloomy prospects, is it to be wondered at that so great an 
army of women, instructed by the Viavi movement, are in rebellion against 
the surgical treatment of ovaritis and defending a rational treatment in 
preference ? Viavi advocates emphatically deny that inflammation of the 
ovaries and its expected results are always a menace to life, and they as emphat- 
ically declare that ovariotomy is neither a rational cure, nor any cure at all. 
The unparalleled extent of Viavi in the civilized countries of the world is 
ample attestation of the good work that it is doing in overturning the dan- 
gerous fallacies of the old methods of treatment. Here, as elsewhere, the 
power of the treatment in rendering Nature the assistance needed to overcome 
the inflammatory condition in the ovaries, is as fully established as any fact of 
human experience. To expect a cure by surgical means is to expect something 
wholly at variance with all knowledge of the working of natural laws. Both 
its ineffectiveness and its evils have been established bej'ond all possibility of 
doubt by the vast experience and observation of those engaged in the Viavi 
movement. Suffering is the natural and unavoidable consequence of these 
operations, as of all other violations of natural laws. Any one who claims 
that a cure can be effected by surgical means is going contrary to all experi- 
ence and analogy. 

We recall a case, among thousands of others, in which each of the 
ovaries was as large as an orange. They gradually returned to their natural 
size and condition under the Viavi treatment. An operation had been advised, 
the condition having been declared incurable otherwise. This sufferer after- 
ward became pregnant and gave birth to a fine male child. 



276 VIAVI HYGIENE 

So far as we can find, there has been but one systematic 
roved by inquiry i nto the ultimate effects of the castration of wo- 
men, surgeons generally being content to castrate a 

woman, patch her up, and then dismiss her as "cured." It seems to have 
occurred to one eminent physician to follow up one hundred cases of castra- 
tion performed in the Broca and St. Louis Hospitals, Paris. The result of his 
investigations, published in 1897, were as follows : " Of castrated women, 78 
per cent, subsequently suffered a notable loss of memory ; 60 per cent, were 
troubled with flashes of heat and vertigo ; 50 per cent, confessed to a change 
in their character, having become more irritable, less patient, and some of 
them so changed as to give way to violent and irresponsible fits of temper ; 42 
per cent, suffered more or less from mental depression, and 10 per cent, were 
so depressed as to verge upon melancholia. In 75 per cent, there was a dimi- 
nution in sexual desire, and some of these explained that they experienced no 
sexual pleasure ; 13 per cent, were not relieved of the pain from which they 
suffered ; 35 per cent, increased in weight, and soon became abnormally fat. 
Some complained of a diminution in the power of vision ; 12 per cent, noted 
a change in the tone of their voice to a heavier, more masculine quality. 
Some 15 per cent, suffered from irregular attacks of skin affections ; 25 per 
cent, had severe headaches, as a rule increased in intensity at the catamenial 
period. Equally as many complained of nightmare, more or less constant, 
while about 5 per cent, suffered from insomnia. In a few cases there existed 
a sexual hyper-excitability not present prior to castration. I particularly noted 
a few cases presenting chiefly gastric reflexes, where without any premonitory 
symptoms or apparent cause the stomach would reject food or refuse to prepare 
it for intestinal digestion, and the subsequent distress following the fermenta- 
tion compelled the patient to seek relief. It should be noted that usually 
these troubles were more marked in women under thirty or thirty-three 
years of age." 

This showing is remarkable enough, but it will be noted that some very 
important things are omitted. It fails to show that a single one of these cases 
escaped one or more of the troubles enumerated, and the presumption is that 
not one of them did. Such, in fact, is the result of careful observation on the 
part of Viavi advocates. Thus, of the 50 who did not "confess" to having 
"suffered a change of character, becoming irritable and giving way to violent 
fits of temper," we may be certain that 39 suffered a "notable loss of memory," 
that 5 were so depressed as to verge upon melancholia, and so on. In other 
words, if one of these castrated women escaped one of these afflictions here 
mentioned, we may be certain that she did not escape one or more of the others. 

Of course the foregoing report fails to show also deaths among castrated 
women from diseases that gained a foothold as the result of the weakened and 
deranged condition of the nervous system from the violent outrage of the 
operation, and also deaths that occurred during or soon after the operation.' It 



INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES 277 

was only the women alive at the time the investigation was made who were 
included. 

Countless women are cut open on a wrong diagnosis of 
Surgical Diagnosis ovarian inflammation, and then it is discovered that the 

Considered 

cutting was unnecessary. 

Infinitely worse than cutting open on an erroneous diagnosis is what is 
termed "exploratory surgery." This is when a woman is cut open simply to 
find out what the trouble is ! This may sound incredible to the uninformed, 
who know nothing of the harm done by opening the abdomen, but it is 
not only a fact it is a very common one. *' 

Under the Viavi treatment it makes little or no difference whether the 
diagnosis is correct or not. Special directions are given for what are assumed 
to be particular diseases. The common sense of any one will show that the 
following of these directions can do no harm whatever, but invariably good. 
As no natural laws are violated by them, it is impossible for them to do harm. 

Ovaries that are displaced, sensitive and swollen yield 
How Women Are in some cases rapidly to the viavi treatment, others 
.Frightened mO re slowly, but the results are always the same suc- 

cessful. This, of course, means here, as elsewhere, that the condition has not 
progressed until it has become malignant, which is not of frequent occurrence. 
Many women are frightened into operations by hearing that there is a col- 
lection of pus somewhere within the pelvic or abdominal regions, and that a 
speedy operation will be necessary to prevent blood-poison; but as we have 
taken large numbers of these patients at such times directly under the Viavi 
treatment and brought them out safe and sound, it has given positive evidence 
that even though there be a formation of pus within these cavities, it does not 
warrant an operation in a large number of these cases; besides which, the 
diagnosis two-thirds of the time is guesswork. These cases are simply pro- 
nounced incurable outside of surgery, and the diagnosis is made with the 
knife. Under the Viavi method of treatment there is no cutting, no mutila- 
tion, no humiliation, no castration. 

In ovarian troubles it is not at all uncommon for the 
The Significance Sll ff erers to f ee i decidedly worse after commencing the 
of Pains viavi treatment. The inflammatory process has been of 

a destructive nature, and the tissues and nerves are largely devoid of feeling in 
many cases. As a healthy reaction is established, the sense of feeling returns, 
the terminal nerve filaments resume their function, and the brain is notified 
by the signal, pain, that an abnormal condition exists.? The part of the ner- 
vous system here implicated acts independently of our will, and the brain 
becomes the overseer, so to speak, while the repair work progresses to a finish; 



278 VIA VI HYGIENE 

hence these pains which arise are simply signals and a part of the curative 
process in such cases. Often great amounts of diseased tissue and black, 
offensive clots of blood are expelled from the vagina and rectum after the 
sufferer has been under the treatment for several months, the sufferer, previ- 
ously to this time, having felt bad, or much worse than she did before coming 
under the treatment. New pains, aches and disagreeable symptoms appear, 
and the patient who does not understand that the Viavi treatment simply 
strengthens the body and enables it to do this work, becomes bewildered and 
cannot account for her seemingly growing worse. But this fact, that patients 
often feel worse while under the Viavi treatment than before employing it, has 
come to be well understood as a favorable symptom ; hence when this extensive 
reactive process is not necessary, some patients, not understanding this fact, 
are apt to wonder if results are being accomplished in their cases. 

__ _ The various parts and organs will take up of the remedy 

S- fl aSCS what the y cai * aG <l use it to the best interests of the 

body. Patient No. i has ovarian trouble, but her cure 

will vary greatly from that of patient No. 2, who also suffers from diseased 
ovaries. So we could select one hundred cases, all of ovarian troubles, not 
two of the patients having exactly the same experience while under the treat- 
ment; but the results were all the same a perfect cure. Here the Viavi 
treatment differs from all other forms of treatment. If the inflammatory 
process has extended a little further in one case than in another, causing an 
entirely different form of suffering, it can be overcome by exactly the same 
treatment, as the cause is the same. A different remedy for each ache and 
pain is not required, but if we remove the cause, as we do with the Viavi 
treatment, the results will be the same a cure where the treatment is 
properly used. (For ovarian tumors see chapter on Tumors.) 

f The Viavi treatment for diseases of the ovaries consists 
Treating Ovarian of the uge of viayi capsules and cerate unless C omplica- 

Diseascs tions are present. If the bladder is implicated, the 

Viavi liquid should be used in conjunction with the capsules and cerate ; if the 
rectum, the Viavi suppositories ; if the stomach, the Viavi tablettes ; if consti- 
pation is present, the Viavi laxative, etc. 

The patient should read carefully the Rules of Abdominal Massage. 

A douche of moderately warm water should be taken every night just 
before retiring, unless copious leucorrheal discharges are present, when a 
douche both night and morning should be taken. (See Reclining Douche, so 
that this hygienic aid may be used intelligently.) 

As adhesions are frequently present, the pendant abdominal massage 
^see Pendant Abdominal Massage) should be used at least twice a week, so as 
to help as far as possible to break loose these adhesions, as by the Viavi treat- 



INFLAMMATION OF THE OVARIES 279 

tnent the curative process is a gradual absorption of this adhesive tissue. 

The use of both hot and cold compresses (see Hot Compress and Cold 
Compress) will prove beneficial adjuncts, and should be used alternately, one 
of each a week. When the compresses are omitted, the pendant abdominal 
massage should be used. 

The Viavi cerate is to be used daily over the region of the spine (see 
Cerate on Spine); also over the region of the entire back, and down over the 
buttocks. When the legs and groins are painful, here also should the cerate 
be applied daily. 

The capsule is to be used daily per vagina, unless too great a reaction is 
at first brought about, when all symptoms seem to be aggravated ; then only 
half a capsule should be used for about two weeks or one month. As soon as 
the system accommodates itself to the half capsule, then the whole capsule 
is to be used. If the sufferer's condition seemingly comes to a standstill, the 
double-strength capsules should be used, so as to push the cure, so to speak, 
by natural means, to as speedy a termination as possible. 

One very ecsential thing for such patients to observe is to avoid sexual 
excesses, and it would be much to such patients' interest if coition be entirely 
abstained from until the cure has well progressed. Rest in bed during the 
menstrual period will also greatly hasten the patient's recovery. A light diet 
at the approach of the menses is also advised. 




CHAPTER XLI. 
INFLAMMATION OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. 

(SALPINGITIS) 

!HE closest structural and functional relationship exists among the Fallo- 
pian tubes, uterus and ovaries; hence an inflammatory process that in- 
volves one is very apt to involve the others. The tubes are liable to 
displacements the same as the ovaries and womb. A full description of 

the tubes, their position and functions, will be found in other chapters. 

Inflammation of the Fallopian tube is called salpingitis, of which there 

are three kinds, the acute, the chronic and the catarrhal. 

The tube, from inflammation, may become displaced, en* 
Th * R . csu larged, elongated, and twisted or bent into knuckles. 

Salpingitis when very severe inflammation exists, the ends of the 

tubes become closed, and the secretions, which may be abundant, will accu- 
mulate within the closed tube ; hence its distension and prolongation, which 
are often great, and which will cause it to become convoluted and to hang 
down by the side of the uterus in a sausage-like body. 

Sometimes inflammation renders the tube very easily broken, and the 
small fimbria which connect it with the ovary become severed. Stricture of 
the tube also results from inflammation. Where a collection of pus forms and 
is held in the tube it is then regarded as a pelvic abscess. In salpingitis, 
unless it is held in check by rational treatment, extensive adhesions may 
form, and the tubes become adhered to adjacent parts. 

The onset of salpingitis may be very severe, and again 
The Symptoms of mild The causes are much the same as those producing 

Salpingitis inflammation of the womb and ovaries. The symptoms 

are very similar. The fact should not be lost sight of that the Fallopian tubes 
are simply prolongations of the womb, that they are only four inches in 
length, and that the ovaries are not only attached to the tubes, but to the 
womb as well, a perfect loop being thus formed on either side of the womb 



INFLAMMATION OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES 281 

These organs, being closely connected and held within a very small space, 
cannot be considered nor treated separately ; they must be considered and 
treated as a whole. 

Where the Viavi treatment is closely followed up, here, 
The Treatment for as elsewhere, excellent results are obtained. If obstruc- 

Salpingitis tions are p resent> t b e y are overcome, and the tube dis- 

charges itself into the uterus, its natural outlet. In other instances an active 
suppuration is arrested and the secretions are gradually absorbed. A catarrhal 
condition here yields as readily as the same condition elsewhere. 

If the tube rupture and empty itself into the peritoneal cavity, the 
results necessarily will be serious ; hence the wisdom of commencing the use 
of Viavi in the beginning, so as to prevent such a result, and at the same time 
to save a great amount of pain, which necessarily accompanies salpingitis. 
When salpingitis has become chronic, the cure will necessarily be slow. When 
employing the Viavi treatment for this disease, the patient should understand 
that she is not experimenting. The treatment has cured salpingitis in the 
past, is doing so at the present time, and will continue to do so in the future ; 
but the length of time to perfect a cure depends entirely upon the extent of 
the inflammatory process and the care with which the treatment is employed 
and followed up. 

An interesting case, among many others, was that of a 
ouccessiul ^ures middled-aged woman who came under the Viavi treat- 
ment for a complication of uterine troubles. After using 

the treatment for a time the complete cast of one of the Fallopian tubes was 
expelled, and this was followed by a sense of great relief. The time consumed 
in this cure was about two years, but to the patient's knowledge she had been 
ill ten years. 

Another case was that of a patient who came under the treatment while 
suffering intensely from an abscess of the Fallopian tube. An immediate 
operation had been advised- but the patient preferred the Viavi treatment to the 
operation. The abscess discharged itself into the cavity of the womb, and the 
recovery was both rapid and perfect, with no return of the disease up to the 
present time, after the lapse of a little over three years. 

Curetting the womb is an operation by which great and 

1 ne Dangers ot almost irreparable injury is done the minute and delicate 

Curetting uterine openings of the Fallopian tubes. When the 

membranes surrounding these openings are cut away by the curette, a sharp 

spoon-shaped instrument, they are left raw and bleeding, and frequently cloae 

up in healing, leaving either no opening, or a thickening of the membrane 

that causes partial closure. The opening of the tube is so small that it will 



282 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



scarcely accommodate a small bristle. From this it can be easily understood 
bow inflammation of either the womb or tube may close these minuteopenings, 
and how their closing is followed by so many painful symptoms and often fatal 
results. (See chapter on Curetting.) 

The treatment for salpingitis is the same as that given for inflammation 
of the ovaries and womb. 




CHAPTBR XLH. 
DISEASES OF THE VAGINA. 



*^NFLAMMATION of the vagina (vaginitis) may be either acute or chronic. 
^$jj It may be caused by exposure to cold and dampness, excessive intercourse, 
"^ local irritation from pessaries, excoriating discharges from the uterus, 
retention of bits of sponge, medicated or astringent douches, extension 
of inflammation from below or above, childbirth and gonorrhea. 

The symptoms depend entirely upon the severity of the 
The Symptoms of attack< The sec retious, or leucorrheal discharges, are at 
vaginitis first scanty, but soon become profuse and often puru- 

lent, which are its chief symptoms. It is accompanied with a burning heat 
and a throbbing sensation in the vagina, and sometimes severe pelvic pain. 
There are often an aching and a sensation of weight in the perineum, or floor 
of the pelvis^ and frequent urination. . Painful sensitiveness is characteristic 
of vaginitis which often renders coition extremely painful or impossible. 
The mucous membrane of the vagina becomes red and congested, showing raw 
patches here and there, or it may progress to ulceration. 

In granular vaginitis, the walls feel to the examining finger as if they 
were covered with millet seed, which condition may extend up over the neck 
of the womb. This form of vaginitis is extremely painful and is stubborn to 
treat. 

In adhesive vaginitis the walls bleed easily. The leucorrheal discharge 
is watery and tinged with blood. As bloody discharges point to grave condi- 
tions, as a rule, adhesive vaginitis is likely to be diagnosed wrongly, thus 
placing the trouble under malignant diseases. The flowing of the excoriating 
discharges in vaginitis over the parts often produces extreme soreness about 
the vaginal orifice and external genitals, and is often accompanied with pru- 
ritus, or intense itching of the parts, and discomfort. Painful contractions of 
the sphincter muscles also occur. 

In chronic vaginitis the red appearance of the vaginal walls and an ex- 
cessive leucorrhea may be the only noticeable symptoms. As vaginitis means 



284 VIA VI HYGIENE 

inflammation of the vaginal walls, it comes within the clinical range of the 
Viavi treatment, as does all other inflammation. As the inflammation is 
reduced the discharges become gradually lessened ; also the burning, soreness, 
etc.; while its extension to other parts is prevented. 

During the acute stage, rest in bed is imperative. The 
The Treatrneni r vagina should be washed out at least twice daily with a 

Vagimtis copious hot-water douche, taken in the reclining posi- 

tion. Twenty drops of the Viavi liquid should be added to each pint of water 
used. Even though the attack may not be severe, after the morning douche 
the patient should remain in the recumbent position for about one hour. 

A hot sitz bath should be taken once a day. (See Hot Sitz Bath.) 

The Viavi cerate should be used externally over the region of the abdo- 
men, spine and floor of the pelvis, once a day, while a Viavi capsule should 
be inserted both morning and evening, immediately after taking the douche. 

When the symptoms have moderated somewhat, the walls of the vagina 
may be kept separated by a fold of gauze, which should be well covered over 
with dissolved Viavi capsules. To dissolve the capsules, take the contents of 
three and mix well with one tablespoonful of vaseline or olive oil. With this 
saturate the gauze well before inserting. To insert, the gauze can be laid over 
the vaginal tube of the syringe. As the tube is withdrawn the gauze will be 
left in the vagina. It should be well pushed up with the tube, high in the 
vagina, and should be of sufficient length to protrude well down between the 
labia. 

The external parts of the genitals should be well covered over with the 
above mixture. 

By vaginismus is meant a painful spasmodic contraction 

The Nature of of tjae musc i es O f the vaginal opening. These contrac- 

Vagimsmus tions may be so severe and painful as entirely to prevent 

coition. Even the introduction of the syringe may be accompanied with 

severe pain, as also the introduction of the examining finger. 

The cause may be an erosion or rawness at the entrance of the vagina, 
or the remains of the hymen, which contain inflamed nerve filaments. In- 
spection frequently reveals no cause for the painful condition, showing that it 
is plainly of a nervous origin. 

A Viavi capsule should be placed in the vagina daily, 
The Treatment for j ust w i t hi n the vaginal orifice. The contents of a cap- 
Vaginismus sule sho uld be used freely several times a day, exter- 
nally over and about the vaginal sphincter. 

A cold sitz bath should be taken once a day. (See Cold Sitz Bath.) 

As all diseases of the vagina are accompanied with extreme nervousness, 



DISEASES OF THE VAGINA 285 

the use of the Viavi cerate over the spin.e is always a necessary part of thi? 
treatment. (See Cerate on Spine.) 

Prolapsus of the vagina is a weakness or disease fre- 

rolapstis the q uent i y encountered among women. It is caused by a 

Vagina weakness or abnormal relaxation of the vaginal walls 

which permits of the walls rolling outward or protruding downward through 

the vaginal sphincter. 

When the posterior wall rolls out it brings with it the anterior wall of 
the rectum, and a swelling is produced of variable size at the orifice. This is 
known as rectocele. 

When the anterior vaginal wall prolapses it brings with it the posterior 
wall of the bladder or its base ; and this is known as cystocele. 

Both of these conditions interfere with the functional activity of the 
parts involved. In rectocele the expulsive powers of the rectum are greatly 
diminished. In cystocele the pouching downward of the base of the bladder 
causes a retention and decomposition of the urine ; hence cystitis, or inflam- 
mation of the bladder, is a frequent result of cystocele. 

A relaxation of the vaginal walls is frequently brought 
Some Causes of about by retaining the urine unt ii tne bladder is dis- 
Prolapsus tended and weakened. The anatomical relations of the 

bladder in men and women greatly differ ; hence the different habits of the 
sexes. For social and conventional reasons it is comparatively easy for men 
to empty the bladder frequently ; but not so with women , who are often forced 
to hold the urine until the bladder is so distended that its walls become 
relaxed, and prolapsus of the bladder and anterior wall of the vagina results. 
This weakness is progressive and is not discovered until the "lump" is notice- 
able, which is the prolapsed bladder. 

Other causes are external lacerations and getting up from the lying-in 
bed too soon. Weak, flabby abdominal walls also aggravate a loss of tonicity 
in this region. 

Here is the case among many others of a woman fifty- 
An Interesting Case three years of age> who had suffered for many years f rom 

cystocele, or prolapsus of the vagina, and cystitis (in- 
flammation of the bladder). The protruding bladder resembled a good-sized 
egg. From inflammation and by strangulation and irritation its appearance 
was angry and of a purplish dark color. There was present also great abdomi- 
nal weakness, with exaggerated relaxation of the abdominal walls. This 
patient had no faith whatever in being cured when coming under the Viavi 
treatment; but, fearing that the bladder would become ruptured, she employed 
the treatment simply for the purpose of reducing the inflammation, and thus 



286 VIA VI HYGIENE 

preventing, if possible, such an accident. She was under the treatment but 
about two months, when she suffered severely from an attack of la grippe. In 
spite of this, the recovery was made in a reasonable length of time. 

*,. -, r The forms of Viavi to be used in such cases are the cap- 

The Treatment for 8ules> cemte and Hquid 

Prolapsus of the vagina is greatly favored by relax- 
ation of the abdominal walls; therefore such measures as will make firm and 
tense .the abdominal walls will have most marked and beneficial effects on the 
vagina. 

The cold compress (see Cold Compress) should be used twice a week, or 
one cold compress and one cold sitz bath (see Cold Sitz Bath) may be used. 

The cerate should be used daily over the abdominal region. (See Rules 
for Abdominal Massage.) 

A hot vaginal douche, both morning and evening, is to be taken in a 
reclining position. (See Reclining Douche.) After the morning douche the 
patient should remain in a reclining position for at least an hour afterward, as 
heat greatly relaxes the parts for the time being. 

The cerate on the spine is to be used daily. (See Cerate on Spine.) 

The Viavi liquid should be taken in the stomach, three times daily, in 
from five to ten drop doses, about twenty minutes before each meal. The 
liquid acts directly and beneficially upon the whole urinary tract. 

The bladder should be emptied frequently. 

The pendant abdominal massage (see Pendant Abdominal Massage) 
cannot be too highly recommended for this weakness, and where the patient is 
so situated that an attendant can give this massage daily, it greatly curtails the 
time consumed in curing. 

Pruritus means an intense itching of the vagina or 
e JNatui vulva. I^ike leucorrhea, it ir, not a disease, but a symp- 

tom which indicates the existence of some abnormal 

condition, which is not always confined to the generative tract. Pruritus may 
yield quickly to treatment, but as a rule it proves one of the stubbornest con- 
ditions to overcome. Its successful treatment has long baffled the best medical 
skill. There is no abnormal condition that exists, which, without threatening 
life, succeeds in making a woman more utterly wretched than pruritus. 

The distress is generally increased by warmth in bed. The itching and 
burning may be so intense that the sufferer cannot refrain from scratching or 
rubbing the tender parts, which relieves for the moment only, but by thus 
breaking the tender mucous surfaces she intensifies her sufferings. She con- 
stantly makes use of the douche, bathes the external parts with first one medi- 
cated wash and then another, but all to no avail. The itching may extend to 
the anus and even down over the thighs, causing women to become hysterical 



DISEASES OF THE VAGINA 287 

and to suffer from nervous prostration. The annoyance and discomfort are 
great. 

Women approaching the change of life are more fre- 
uises of q U ently afflicted than others, but pruritus is not infre- 
Pruritus quently found in children and young women. In chil- 

dren it may be caused by an acrid leucorrheal discharge that irrritates the 
vaginal tract and external parts, or by worms that creep from the anus into 
the vaginal orifice. 

It frequently accompanies leucorrhea where that discharge is of such a 
character that it irritates the surfaces over which it passes. Tumors also in- 
duce pruritus by the abnormal secretions that at times accompany them. 

When it appears at the change of life it is frequently due to an abnormal 
condition of the urine. Upon analysis the urine will be found to contain a 
substance resembling sugar. The term "climacteric diabetes," which has 
been given this abnormal condition of llie urine, is most excellent. An ab- 
normal condition of the urine at any time of life may cause pruritus. 

Nothing has so far been discovered by which this pain- 
jstbe f u j an( j i rr it a ti n g condition can be quickly cured un- 
moved less the cause of the trouble lies within easy curative 
reach. The cause must be sought out and overcome; then pruritus can be 
permanently cured. It frequently occurs in women who have suffered from 
uterine diseases for years, or from functional derangements of various parts 
of the body, whereby the system has been poorly nourished for some time 
before the approach of the change of life or independently of the change. 

Patients suffer such tortures from pruritus that they usually demand in- 
stant relief, which is often beyond the skill of those of great experience. The 
cause must be sought for and skillfully treated. If the cause is a leucorrheal 
discharge that arises either in the womb or the vagina, these parts must be 
treated intelligently and for a sufficient length of time. If it comes from an 
abnormal condition of the urine (diabetes), the kidneys must receive atten- 
tion, etc. 

When pruritus occurs near the change of life the Viavi 
The Treatment for j^a i s a i wa ys advised, the kidneys being, as a rule, at 
Pruritus ^is time more or less involved. The liquid should be 

taken into the stomach three times daily, about twenty minutes before each 
meal, in from five to ten drop doses. The Viavi capsules and cerate also are 
advised. The hygienic treatment to be followed up as an adjunct is the same 
as that given for inflammation of the womb. If pruritus is caused by a dis- 
charge aggravated by the presence of a tumor, then the advice given in such 
cases is to be followed. 



288 VIA VI HYGIENE 

A cold sitz bath (see Cold Sitz Bath) will prove grateful and beneficial to 
the patient before retiring at night. 

On account of the extreme nervousness always present, the cerate should 
be used daily over the region of the spine. (See Cerate on Spine.) 

If pruritus is caused by worms, a cold salt-water rectal douche should be 
taken twice daily, while the Viavi liquid internally is again advised. For 
children the dose is reduced to from three to five drops, three times daily, 
about twenty minutes before each meal. A cold sitz bath will also prove 
beneficial for children so afflicted. 

The external parts should be kept covered with the cerate. A piece of 
clean white linen cloth, such as a piece of a soft linen handkerchief, may be 
covered over with the cerate and pushed into the vagina over the vaginal tube 
of a syringe. When the tube is withdrawn the linen will be left in the vagina, 
and will thus separate the walls and greatly alleviate the itching and burning. 
The linen should be long enough to separate the labia as well. 

Three or four vaginal douches or more may be taken daily, in the reclin- 
ing position. From five to ten drops of the Viavi liquid should be added to 
each pint of water used. The water may be hot or cold. Cold water with 
some proves grateful, while with others, hot water, as hot as can be comfort- 
ably borne, gives relief for the time being. 

Where an itching of the parts follows the treatment for a 
Good Symptoms u terine disease, it should be looked upon as a favorable 

symptom, as we then know that poisonous secretions are 

being eliminated. So long as these impurities remain in the system the patient 
will continue ill; hence their elimination, although annoying for the time being, 
should be welcomed by the patient. The itching and burning are caused by the 
secretions excoriating the surfaces over which they pass. Where too great a 
reaction is brought about but half a capsule, or even a quarter, may be used 
for a time. The cure will in this way consume more time, but the patient will 
be much more comfortable during the period. 

It requires considerable perseverance tinder these circumstances for the 
patient to continue the treatment, but she may rest assured that the best is 
being done for her that can be done. The source of the trouble is being 
reached, and when that is overcome to some extent, she will then begin to 
feel much better. To apply ointments to the parts, externally, will only alle- 
viate at best for the time being, when the trouble will again appear with 
renewed force. Unless the treatment is aimed directly at the cause, permanent 
results cannot be looked for 

Among the many cases of pruritus that have yielded to 

Interesting Case of the viayi treatment the following may be cited : One of 

the most stubborn cases of pruritus that have come under 



DISEASES OF THE VAGINA 289 

the Viavi treatment was the wife of an eminent lawyer. The treatment had 
done much for her, so much that her husband would not consent to her using 
other means of allaying the itching even temporarily, for fear that her recovery 
might be interrupted. The itching and burning were so intense that nearly all 
of one night she would lie first upon one side and then upon the other, keep- 
ing up a thorough massaging of the buttocks and external parts with the 
Viavi cerate. She dropped to sleep toward morning and slept until noon. 
When she awakened the itching had entirely ceased, but the parts she had 
massaged so long and thoroughly with the cerate were very painful to touch 
and almost black in color. This soreness continued so severe for about ten days 
that she could scarcely sit except upon a very soft cushion. This gradually 
disappeared, but the itching and burning, the pruritus, never again appeared 
from the night of the thorough massaging of the parts. The pruritus in this 
case had been present continuously for eighteen months, being more or less 
intense at times. 



CHAPTER XLIIT. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER 

(CYSTITIS) 

CYSTITIS (inflammation of the bladder) is of the same nature as inflam- 
mation of other mucous membranes lining cavities and organs in other 
parts of the body. Inflammation of the bladder is named according to 
the extent and degree of the inflammatory process, such as acute, sub- 
acute, chronic; catarrh of the bladder; interstitial; pericystitis, membranous 
cystitis, etc. If it will be remembered that these names simply indicate steps 
or stages in one general inflammatory process of the bladder, they will not 
confuse. The acute and subacute will, if permitted to continue, develop into 
the chronic form, or catarrh of the bladder (catarrhal cystitis). 

The bladder has four coats: the mucous membrane that 
Kinds and Causes lines the orgaa> t b e submucous that lies next to it, then 

of Cystitis t j ae muscu i ar C oat, and lastly the serous coat, which also 

forms its outer covering. 

When chronic cystitis has progressed until ulceration exists and the 
.mbmucous and muscular coats are involved it is known as interstitial cystitis. 
If the inflammatory process extends to the serous coat, or the outside of the 
bladder, it is then known as pericystitis, which means that the part of the 
peritoneum forming the partial outer covering, or coat, around the bladder is 
involved in the inflammatory process. In membranous cystitis large frag- 
ments, or even casts of the interior of the bladder, are passed through the 
urethra. If cystitis is permitted to continue the inflammatory process will in 
time extend up the ureters to the kidneys, involving these organs. 

The causes of inflammation of the bladder are many. One in women is 
overdistension of the organ from a false delicacy to empty the bladder at 
proper intervals when traveling, shopping or in public places; displacement of 
the womb; an abnormal condition of the urine; injury at childbirth; the use 
of the catheter; colds; calculae (stone); extension of inflammation from other 
org 13, *s the womb, t^bas, vagina, peritoneum; uretritis, urethritis, etc. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER 291 

In acute inflammation of the bladder the lining mem- 
The Symptoms of braue is swollen anc | re laxed; its color is a bright or 
Cystitis deep red, and the membrane is partially or wholly 

covered with a thick mucus. The symptoms are frequent and painful urina- 
tion. The relief afforded by passing a few drops of urine continues but a 
few moments, until, iu bad cases, the desire becomes almost constant. Strain- 
ing becomes extremely severe and the patient quivers from head to foot from 
the great muscular effort, while the bowels may move involuntarily at the 
same time. The burning sensation also frequently becomes intense. The 
pain extends to the perineum, into the loins and down the thighs. If the 
condition has progressed into the chronic state, the skin is generally sallow 
and lifeless. There is sweating of the hands and feet, and the sweat at times 
smells of urine. The circulation is poor. The nervous system also becomes 
involved. The patient is "blue" and hopeless, and there often develops a 
suicidal tendency. The sufferer is able to procure but little rest at night, being 
driven from the bed so frequently to urinate. The urine is turbid, and con- 
tains a heavy deposit of mucus at first; then it becomes scanty and blood- 
tinged, and often pure blood will follow urination. 

In chronic cystitis the painful symptoms are not nearly so severe as 
those accompanying the acute stage, but the urine is heavily loaded with a 
thick, tenacious mucus, which sometimes forms more than half its bulk. 
When such a condition is present it is generally known as catarrh of the 
bladder. 

If the bladder is simply irritable from a displaced womb, 
The Treatment for the treatment g i veu f or anteversion is to be followed 
Cystitis closely, while the Viavi liquid should be taken in- 

ternally; but where the bladder is inflamed, instead of being only irritable, 
rest in bed also, for a time, is imperative. 

The diet should consist largely of milk and broths, and the bowels 
should be kept open with the Viavi laxative. Stimulants of all kinds should 
be avoided. 

The Viavi liquid is to be taken in the stomach three times a day, in a 
little water, in from ten to fifteen drop doses. The liquid acts beneficially and 
directly in helping to reduce inflammatory conditions in the whole urinary 
tract, including the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. 

The Viavi capsule is absorbed by the tissues of the vagina and bladder, 
as the anterior wall of the vagina forms partially the posterior wall of the 
bladder. The cerate is also applied over the abdomen daily. It is absorbed 
by the external absorbent vessels, and by the blood carried directly to the 
inflamed parts. 

The cold compress (see Cold Compress) should be used daily until the 
painful symptoms have somewhat subsided ; it may then be used twice a week, 



92 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The cerate also should be used daily over the region of the loins, thighs 
and spine. 

Hot sitz baths will also prove beneficial in cystitis, and when tney are 
employed the cold compress may be omitted. (See Hot Sitz Bath.) Tnis bath 
will help to relieve the tenesmus and sensation of fullness and pressure in the 
bladder. 

In severe cases of cystitis it may become necessary to wash out the 
bladder, or to make use of the bladder douche. 

TVw , A very simple and successful syringe or appliance for 

A Douche for the wash i n g out t h e bladder is made from a soft rubber 

catheter attached to a piece of rubber tubing, these being 

joined by a piece of glass tubing, the whole being about two feet in length. 
A small glass funnel introduced into the end of the rubber tube completes 
the syringe. 

Great care should always be exercised in washing out the bladder. The 
catheter should be perfectly clean and sufficiently soft and flexible to be in- 
capable of injuring the urethra or the bladder. The bladder should always be 
emptied slowly, especially as the last of the contents escapes, otherwise it will 
close down abruptly and in this way be injured. The bladder should always be 
distended very slowly, or injury, with great pain in the organ, will follow. The 
quantity of water used should not be more than the patient can tolerate with- 
out pain. An ounce of warm water is sufficient for this purpose, and less will 
suffice if more gives pain. Five drops of the Viavi liquid to an ounce of 
water should be used for the douche. 

This syringe can be used first to empty the bladder by introducing the 
catheter and lowering the funnel over a vessel ; and while still in place the 
washing may be accomplished by pouring the solution of warm water and 
Viavi liquid into the funnel, raising it high enough to make the solution flow 
into the bladder. The funnel is then lowered and held over a vessel, which 
will permit the fluid to escape. This process should be repeated as often as 
necessary before withdrawing the catheter from the urethra. 

It is very imperative indeed that no air be admitted into the bladder. 
This can be avoided by not completely emptying the bladder, allowing suffi- 
cient of the urine to remain to fill the catheter, and filling the funnel before 
elevating the fluid. If the bladder is emptied in the first place the catheter 
should be filled before introducing it in the urethra and the air excluded in 
this way. 

Three important things in taking the bladder douche are necessary: 
First, the bladder should be emptied very slowly ; second, the bladder should 
be distended very slowly ; and third, air should be carefully excluded. 

Betore the catheter is used it should be cleaned by scalding, and then 
^axeiully lubricated with <* Uttle vaseline, not oil. 



INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER 293 

Once a day is sufficient for the bladder douche to be used. 

Cases ranging all the way from slight acute attacks to complicated 
chronic conditions have alike come under the Viavi treatment and been suc- 
cessfully reached. 

If the condition has not become ' malignant, such patients have every 
reason to hope for a permanent recovery. 

A patient six years ago came under the Viavi treatment 
An Instance of for i n fl amma tion of the bladder, caused by a chronically 

the Cure anteverted womb. The inflammation had extended to 

the serous coat ; hence it was a case of pericystitis, as that part of the peri- 
toneum covering the bladder had become involved. The patient urinated 
blood, and her sufferings were intense. Extensive adhesions had formed. She 
had not stooped over for four years, neither could she straighten her legs in. 
bed. An operation was advised, but the sufferer, preferring diseased organs 
to none, did not submit to the operation. A special support was devised to 
prop the womb up from the inflamed bladder, but it could not be worn. This 
patient was cured in 1893 by adopting the Viavi treatment. A letter from her, 
written five years afterward, gives the information that there has been no 
return whatever of her old trouble. This is but one of a vast number of cures 
under the Viavi treatment that have been effected. 

The most excellent results have followed the use of the Viavi treatment 
for inflammation of the bladder, and the most convincing argument as to the 
virtues of the treatment is the enormously extensive use that it enjoys and 
that is constantly widening. 




CHAPTER XLIV. 
INFLAMMATION OF THE URETHRA 

(URETHRITIS) 

?HE urethra, in a woman, as previously explained, is the small, r 1 ^ort canal 
through which the urine is conveyed from the bladder out of the body. 
It is composed of three coats, the middle one cor.laining a large supply 
of blood. The female urethra, from the soft, yielding character of the 
tissues surrounding it, is capable of great dilation or distension, which permi* 
the passage of large calculse or stones from the bladder through this ordinaril; 
small duct. 

The urethra is frequently the seat of inflammation. The inflammatory 
process may extend from without inwardly or from within outwardly. The 
acute form, if not overcome, develops into the chronic. The lining membrane 
may gradually peel off, leaving the surface red and raw, and a flow of blood is 
likely to follow urination, as the second coat, as above described, contains a 
large number of blood vessels. When inflammation of the urethra is accom- 
panied with a discharge of mucus, it is known as catarrh of the urethra. 

The causes of inflammation of the urethra are much the 
The Causes of same a9 t b ose O f inflammation of the bladder. Instru- 
Urethtttis mental or tedious delivery is responsible for a large 

amount of urethral trouble, this little duct being bruised and dragged down- 
ward to such an extent at this time that a healthy reaction is tedious and the 
patient suffers exceedingly afterwards. Frequently the injury to the urethra 
is so extensive at this time that a woman becomes an invalid for life, keeping 
herself constantly under treatment for kidney and bladder troubles. The 
injury is caused by the advancing head remaining wedged against the pubic 
bones for so long that the urethra is fairly stripped and paralyzed. Anything 
that implicates the lower part of the vagina is very likely to involve the ure- 
thra to a greater or less extent, as it is imbedded in the anterior vaginal wall* 



INFLAMMATION OF THE URETHRA 295 

The chief symptom of inflammation of the urethra is 
The ^Symptoms of painful ur ination, with a sharp, scalding sensation as the 

urine passes over the sensitive surfaces. There is often 

a frequent desire to urinate, but not so frequent as in inflammation of the 
bladder. When there is a retention of urine it is caused by a dread of pain IB 
voiding it. 

Tumors or growths that are found in the urethra are known as urethral 
tumors or caruncles. They are of a bright or dark red color, and hang from 
the urethral orifice like little tongues or beech nuts, one corner alone being 
attached. Frequently they bleed easily. They may be extremely painful, or 
again may cause no pain whatever for long periods of time, when an inflam- 
matory condition or slight injury will cause them quickly to become ex- 
quisitely painful. When the urethra is diseased coition often becomes painful 
and sometimes impossible. 

Any treatment that acts beneficially upon the vagina will 
ic Treatm r act likewise upon the ure thra; hence the same treatment 

is advised for urethritis as for vaginitis, or inflammation 

of the vagina. The capsule used per vagina is dissolved and becomes absorbed 
by the surrounding tissues. Thus the urethral tract is successfully reached. 
If caruncles are present, three Viavi capsules should be dissolved in 
a teaspoonful of olive oil or vaseline, and the external parts anointed several 
times a day, especially after urination. A frequent bathing of the external 
parts with cold water will also prove grateful and beneficial, after which the 
parts should always be anointed with the dissolved capsule. 

Inflammation of the urethra yields readily to the Viavi 
The Treatment for treatment, but caruncles sometimes are very slow in dis- 
appearing. They are, as a rule, a long time in forming, 

and so require a continued treatment to be overcome. Outside of Viavi the 
treatment for caruncles is surgical, but as nothing is done to relieve the cause 
producing them, they quickly grow again and in an exaggerated fogn. When 
caruncles are present the capillary circulation is always greatly impeded, and 
the capillaries are found to be greatly overdistended throughout the whole 
tract. By the use of the Viavi treatment the capillary circulation is estab- 
lished, and although the cure may require considerable time, it is permanent 
and complete. 

A most barbarous and inhuman treatment that is often employed is the 
cauterization of the parts. This often so injures the delicate membranes that 
they refuse to heal, leaving a raw, exquisitely painful sore, which gradually 
enlarges. 



CHAPTER XLV. 




PREGNANCY. 



now approach a subject of the greatest magnitude in the life-history 
of a woman. In setting in motion the chain of events that lead to 
the introduction of another human life to encounter the struggle for 
existence, a woman assumes the crowning responsibility of her life. 
It is then that she accepts a partnership with God. To the extent that she un- 
derstands her obligations and wisely and patiently meets them, will she add to 
her own happiness and secure that of the life that she is to bring forth. In 
conception, pregnancy and childbirth we come face to face with the awful 
mystery of creation, and are instruments for the working out of its immutable 
laws. It is needful that we approach the subject with all reverence, and un- 
derstand as much of it as is possible to limited human intelligence. Upon a 
woman's conduct during pregnancy depends largely the momentous question 
as to whether her child will be a useful and happy member of the great human 
family, or one of the vast army of wretched incompetents who stand as a 
reproach and a menace to society. It is the mother's wisdom or the lack of it 
that will cause her child to enter life properly equipped to overcome its obsta- 
cles and win its victories, or fall miserably in the struggle. Upon her will 
largely depend the question as to whether the child shall be to her a blessing 
or a curse, a stay and comfort throughout her life, or a burden and reproach. 
The womari who masters the truths set forth in this volume, and who ear- 
nestly and conscientiously strives to make them a part of her life, will receive 
a reward of immeasurable value. 

The processes involved in pregnancy have been outlined 
The Processes of elsewhere. It is necessary here to state them more fully. 
Pregnancy They are ovulation, impregnation, gestation and parturi- 

tion. Ovulation is the extrusion of the ovum (egg) from the ovary. Impreg- 
nation is the contact and mingling of the male germ with the egg. Gestation 
is the development of the egg in the uterus through all the stages of embry- 
onic and fetal life. Parturition is the birth of the child. Conception takes 
place at the moment when the male and female principles unite ; that is the 



PREGNANCY 297 

moment of the origin of the new life. Pregnancy begins with impregnation 
and ends with parturition. A gravid womb is a pregnant one. These defini- 
tions are given for convenience. 

So much mystery and uncertainty surround many of these processes, 
particularly with reference to ovulation and the time and place of conception, 
that the assertions made herein with reference to them have only the value of 
the latest and most expert opinion. Even here differences of opinion occur. 
The subject is not of vital importance, as it bears no relation to the efficiency 
and detail of the Viavi treatment, nor to the conduct of a woman during preg- 
nancy. Hence they have no great value, and are introduced in this chapter 
for their profound interest and the instruction that v/ill come from considering 
them. As they will be put in a very simple and direct form, easily understood 
by all, they will have a special interest, in view of the fact that this knowledge 
is not accessible to the public, being buried in heavy technical works that only 
an expert could comprehend. 

The relation of menstruation to the childbearing func- 

The Relation of tiou need not be di scusse a minutely here. Indeed, the 

Menstruation subject is involved in so much obscurity that hardly 

more than speculation could be indulged in. The subject of menstruation is 

fully discussed in another part of this volume. Menstruation generally ceases 

when conception occurs, though there are exceptions. The point is important 

only for the reason that a cessation of the menstrual function may occur from 

causes other than conception, and hence that such cessation cannot safely be 

taken as an indication in all cases that conception has occurred. 

During pregnancy the ovaries are relieved of the monthly disturbance 
that they experience in menstruation, and all the activities of the generative 
system are centered in the womb, whose important duty it is to nurture the 
new life and prepare it for entrance into the world. The natural expectation 
would be for the menstrual function to be suspended during pregnancy, for the 
reason that the womb has far more important work to do ; all of its energies 
are needed for another purpose, the healthy development of the fetus. 

It may be assumed, also, that the menstrual fluid is needed for the 
growth of the fetus. This assumption seems to be borne out by the fact that 
menstruation remains suspended after parturition, the nutrient elements of the 
menstrual flow presumably contributing to the production of milk. All these 
matters have merely a speculative interest, and have no bearing on the vital 
things with which we are concerned. 

It was universally believed until within a few years that 

menstruation depended upon ovulation; that if ovulation 

did not take place, the menses would not appear. Since 

the removal of ovaries has become a common practice, occasionally a woman 



298 VIAVI HYGIENE 

is found who menstruates normally in every way, after the extirpation of both 
ovaries. This fact led to further investigation, which caused many to dis- 
pute the theory of menstruation depending upon ovulation. Even in cases 
where both ovaries, tubes, and a part of the uterus had been removed, 
women were known to menstruate regularly. Such cases are the exception, 
but are frequent enough to establish a belief in the independence of menstrua- 
tion and ovulation. The latest theory advanced is that menstruation is con- 
trolled by the tubo-uterine plexus of sympathetic nerves. If this plexus or 
its trunk escape injury in operating for the removal of ovaries and tubes, 
menstruation will not be suspended nor interrupted. We notice that some 
surgeons understand this fact, and aim to suspend menstruation by cutting a 
large nerve trunk that runs in an angle between the round ligament and the 
tube. That menstruation depends largely upon the nervous system, but not 
entirely so, is as far as observation and study have taken any one at the present 
time. 

Another much discussed subject is the location of conception. The 
question as to where conception occurs still remains unsatisfactorily answered. 
Impregnation of the egg while it is still in the ovary seems to be the most 
probable. We know that there are three essential factors for fecundation 
ovulation, the passage of the impregnated egg through the Fallopian tube to 
the womb, and the preparation of the lining membrane of the womb for its 
reception. This insures its nutrition, and later the formation of the placenta. 

The duration of normal pregnancy is nine calendar 
Reckoning Time 3^^^ ten i unar mon ths, or about two hundred and 
of Delivery seventy-five days. To obtain the exact date of parturi- 
tion is very difficult and uncertain. The best rule is as follows: First deter- 
mine the exact day when the last menstruation appeared; then count back- 
ward three months and add seven days. Although this rule is uncertain it is 
the best by which the date of delivery can be reckoned. For instance, a 
woman's last menstruation appeared on the 2oth of August. Counting back- 
ward three months would take her to the 2oth of May, and adding seven days 
would make her date of delivery the 2yth of May, or very close to it. The 
shorter the period of gestation, as a rule, the less the vitality of the child. 

When conception occurs and the ovum lodges and de- 

)thcr velops in the cavity of the womb, we have what is 

Pregnancies known as a normal, or uterine, pregnancy. Uterine 

pregnancy is single when the uterus contains a single fetus; double when it 

contains two; triple, three; quadruple, four, etc. Complicated pregnancy is 

when, in addition to the fetus, there is present a tumor, dropsy or other 

abnormal condition. 

There are four varieties of extra-uterine pregnancy: ovarian pregnancy, 



PREGNANCY 299 

where the ovum develops within the ovary; peritoneal pregnancy, where the 
impregnated ovum fails to pass into the tube, and thus lodges in the folds of the 
peritoneum and there develops; tubal pregnancy, where the ovum lodges in the 
Fallopian tube and is there developed; interstitial pregnancy, where the ovum 
penetrates and develops in the wall of the womb instead of within its cavity. 
Extra-uterine pregnancy terminates disastrously unless relieved by Caesarian 
section (delivery by abdominal incision). False pregnancy means an enlarge- 
ment of the abdomen from the presence of hydatids or other tumors, when 
no living fetus is present 

, From the time of the impregnation, the womb begins to 

Preparation for pre pare its lining for the reception of the precious 
-Egg guest that it must guard and nurture for nine months. 

We may imagine a delicate and complicated nervous action by which the brain 
and spinal centers governing the generative organs have become aware of the 
inception of a new life, and then sending to the uterus the unusual forces that 
direct its special activities. These are greatly out of the ordinary. The egg is 
so delicate and minute that extraordinary provision must be made for its care. 
By the time that the egg, in its slow passage through the Fallopian tube, enters 
the womb, it finds the lining of that organ specially prepared to receive it. 
The lining has become greatly thickened, and is arranged in soft, velvety folds 
to serve as a bed for the honored guest. This transformed lining mucous 
membrane of the uterus constitutes what is termed the decidua vera. The 
membrane that later envelops the ovum is called the decidua reflexa. - The 
ovum throws out villi, or hair-like projections, which take root in the uterine 
lining, forming a firm attachment to that organ. 

The marvelous ingenuity and solicitude of Nature to 

e Marvels ol cherish the new life rouses wonder and reverence in 

the intelligent mind. In contemplation of the perfect 

working of these mysterious forces we recognize our own immeasurable infe- 
riority and the splendid wisdom of Nature. We realize how impossible it 
would be for us to accomplish a single one of the miracles attending concep- 
tion, pregnancy and childbirth. We cannot see the Divine hand that guides 
this procession of activities, but we can see that some force utterly beyond the 
greatest power of our comprehension and discovery is marshalling them. It 
is then that we realize the infinite shortcoming of human power in setting in 
motion the giant forces of creation, and can understand only that natural 
laws command our reverence and obedience, and that our interference with 
them is a foolish challenge to Omnipotent power, which mercilessly punishes 
the least infraction of its laws. It is then that our highest wisdom and con- 
science are called into exercise to understand what Nature desires and to assist 
her purpose with all the intelligence that she has given us for that use. To 



300 VIAVI HYGIENR 

violate the purpose of Nature by producing an abortion is to commit an 
of the gravest character, with no possible escape from punishment. To live 
irrationally, so that the embryonic life comes crippled into the world, is tc 
insure punishment that more lives than one must suffer. To live wisely, 
to foster the designs of Nature with conscience and intelligence, is to bring a 
train of blessings that will endure throughout time and eternity. 

t It is unnecessary to go into the intricate story of the de- 

:Iow to Acquire ve lopment of the ovum in all its amazing and puzzling 

details. It is essential to call attention only to some of 

the more wonderful steps of the process. We are so accustomed to the birth 
of children and the production generally of all species after their kind, in 
both the animal and vegetable worlds, that we take it all too much as a matter 
of course, instead of a constant succession of miracles bringing us face to face 
with the deeper wonders of Nature. The egg of a domestic fowl is so common- 
place that we never stop to study its marvels and mysteries. We see plants 
produce seeds, and these seeds in turn produce plants after their kind, and 
never stop to ponder the majesty of the subject as a basis for a reverential atti- 
tude toward Nature and Nature's God. It is impossible to approach the feet of 
the Almighty with true wisdom and reverence without a deep pondering of 
these wonderful processes of Nature. 

After impregnation the ovum rapidly undergoes remarkable changes. 
Within the minute egg the small germinal female spot unites with the male 
germ that has penetrated the egg, and from this union the inscrutable forces of 
Nature in bringing forth a new life are put into operation. A woman's whole 
yrganism responds to the new impulse. Astonishing readjustments of her 
powers are made, for her life has now become dual ; the responsibility of 
nurturing two lives instead of one is now thrown upon her. 

As pregnancy requires the mother to nourish two lives, 
Changes m the important changes occur in different systems and organs 

of the body. These activities, as all others, being con- 
trolled by the nervous system, we find functional modifications in that direc- 
tion. The new life within her womb must live as she does, except to the 
extent of taking air into the lungs. Its processes of growth involve nourish- 
ment, circulation, repair, waste and a kind of respiration. These cannot be 
performed without the assistance of the mother, and they will be performed 
well or ill according to the mother's condition. The manner in which they are 
performed determines the future life of the child. 

Both the quantity and the character of the mother's blood are altered in 
pregnancy, the quantity being increased and the character changed to meet 
the new conditions. As the heart has much more work to do than ordinarily, 
It increases in size about one-fifth. If the mother nurses the child after birth. 



PREGNANCY 301 

the heart still remains large, for the work of preparing and storing milk re- 
quires more blood than usual, and a stronger heart to keep it properly moving. 
The spleen and liver increase in size. The mechanical pressure of the enlarged 
uterus produces certain changes in the position of the lungs and gives rise at 
times to palpitation of the heart. The power of the lungs to eliminate impu- 
rities is increased. The mother must furnish nutriment for the child as 
well as herself; hence she must eat and digest more food, which the digestive 
system must prepare and pour into the blood. In the earlier months the appe- 
tite is likely to be capricious, but as the system becomes better used to the 
great change, it steadies itself, and the appetite and digestion increase. The 
body gains in weight besides that represented by the contents of the womb, 
this increase being ten to fifteen pounds in the whole nine months, and greatest 
in the last two months. The gait changes, by reason of the center of gravity 
being altered. The skin undergoes a change, probably due to an increase in its 
eliminative powers. The urine becomes more abundant, possibly for a similar 
reaK>n, and hence it is supposed that the kidneys enlarge. 

The nerves become highly keyed, so that a pregnant 
The Nervous System womau is highly impressionable. For this reason she 
Affected requires the greatest care and comfort possible, mental 

and physical. A woman may become fretful, peevish, irritable and unreason- 
able. This shows the demand of her whole nature for the best tenderness, 
consideration and sympathy that can be given her. If she is not constitu- 
tionally perfect in every way, her digestion may suffer, giving rise to imperfect 
nutrition. This will likely produce depression of spirits, acute melancholia, 
or mania. There is nothing sadder than a mentally deranged woman in the 
act of childbearing. 

It was never intended by Nature that undue distress of any kind should 
be sunered during pregnancy. If it occur, there is evidence of an unsound 
Heredity or irrational living. The Viavi treatment, by placing all the functions 
in a natural condition, measurably does away with troublesome and dangerous 
conditions, and brings unspeakable peace to innumerable women. 

An understanding of the preceding chapters will show 

How the 1 reatment how aud wby the viavi trea tment is so great a blessing 

Operates to women during the trying experience of pregnancy 

and parturition,, As Nature designed that all her processes should be painless, 

it follows that where there is pain or distress there is a departure from natural 

conditions. This is as true with pregnancy as with all the other natural 

processes of the body. The Viavi treatment necessarily producestin piegnancy 

the natural conditions that under other circumstances eradicate disease. The 

treatment contemplates and achieves the following ends in pregnancy: It 

*nai>les the mother to undergo without undue distress the wonderful changes 



302 VI A VI HYGIENE 

that occur in her organism. It places her digestive system in good order, so 
that her blood may be properly furnished with nutriment. It renders the cir- 
culation full and regular, to the end that nutrition both of mother and child 
shall be complete. It tones and feeds the nerves, so that the nervous system, 
which controls all the functions, is enabled to discharge all its multifarious 
duties properly. It assists the proper nourishment of the fetus, to the end 
that it shall be born with the strength that it must have to battle successfully 
with life It produces in the mother a nervous stability that promotes her 
peace and strength of mind, and prevents erratic mental conditions from inju- 
riously affecting her own organism and that of the child. It establishes a 
healthy balance between mother and fetus, and thus prevents the growth 
of the fetus at the expense of the mother's strength. It promotes the healthy 
enlargement of the uterus, so that pains are avoided. It gives to the uterus 
the strength that will be required to expel the child naturally at term, thus 
avoiding prolonged and exhausting labor, and the use of instruments, which 
is always dangerous both to mother and child. It makes the tissues of the 
womb and cervix elastic, and thus prevents laceration. It enables the mem- 
brane uniting the placenta to the womb to disintegrate normally, so that the 
placenta is naturally expelled after the birth of the child, instead of being 
torn away with instruments e It enables the womb to contract normally after 
delivery, so that the blood vessels ruptured by the separation of the placenta 
from the uterine walls are promptly closed, a dangerous or fatal hemorrhage 
being thus avoided. It enables the womb, after delivery, to return naturally 
to its proper size, by the absorption of the great extra amount of tissue that it 
has taken on during pregnancy, thus preventing subinvolution, or the failure 
of the womb to return to its natural size, and flexion or other form of displace- 
ment, due to its enlarged and softened condition and the weakness of its 
sustaining ligaments. And last, it enables the mother to furnish milk ; and the 
mother's milk is the only natural food designed for her infant. 

All these processes are natural processes. They are just what Nature 
would do were the system of the mother in perfect order. The Viavi treatment 
merely lends to Nature the assistance that she requires to make all the processes 
natural. 

The Viavi treatment does much for the pregnant woman, 
Good Effects on but it also does much even more) for ^ unborn child> 

the Child b y giving it the greatest of all privileges, that of being 

well born. "Viavi babies" are well-developed, healthy and strong. Especially 
is this noticeable in the firm muscles and strong spinal column of the 
child whose mother had a thought for its welfare as well as her own 
before its birth. Here is the fact forcibly demonstrated that Viavi is a food, 
the Viavi baby showing that it is born well-nourished, with a spinal col- 
umn so strong that in a few weeks it s making efforts to sit up. One 



PREGNANCY 303 

mother reported that her Viavi baby boy at five days lifted his head clear off 
the pillow. Its flesh is firm, its eyes bright, its appetite and digestion good, 
its lungs strong, and it sleeps well at night. The "Viavi baby" put in its 
appearance somewhat late in the present century, but as it has come into the 
world unhampered by a diseased body or a brain clouded before birth by the 
broodings of an unhealthy mother, we shall hear from it often in the coming 
century. 

The Viavi treatment takes a woman up to the time of 
When Confinement Delivery. When that time comes the services of a skill- 
Arrives f n | obstetrician are necessary. If the labor is perfectly 
normal, as it will be under ordinary circumstances after a thorough course of 
the Viavi treatment, the services of the obstetrician will be merely those of an 
intelligent attendant, whom every woman must have at such a time. It is 
necessary to have one who is skillful, for the reason that it is beyond human 
power to know exactly what the mother's condition is, or what kind of pres- 
entation will occur even when the mother is in a perfectly sound condition. 
A difficult presentation of the child requires high obstetrical skill, in order to 
avoid injury both of mother and child. 

We shall now trace in outline the wonderful processes 

The Uses of the ^y W j 1 i c i 1 t b e nourishment and development of the new 

Placenta life is acc0 mplished in the womb. We shall see how 

ingenious, how absolutely perfect, how clearly indicative of supreme powers 

beyond our comprehension, is the whole marvelous plan. 

Nature provides for the nourishment of the fetus by the development of 
the placenta, or afterbirth. This has distinctly a maternal and a fetal side. 
The maternal, or mother, side of the placenta is closely attached to the uterine 
walls. To the fetal side is attached a cord which contains two arteries and one 
vein. This is the umbilical cord. The arteries carry the impoverished arte- 
rial blood from the child toward the placenta, which serves the double purpose 
of a respiratory and nutritive organ. The vein carries it back to the child, 
purified and laden with nutriment sufficient for its growth and development. 
When the placenta has attained its full size it is about six inches in diameter, 
three-fourths of an inch thick in the center, and tapers to a thin edge. 

The fetal blood constantly communicates with the maternal blood in the 
placenta by a process known as endosmosis (the commingling of two fluids 
by passing through a separating membrane), but never directly commingles 
with it. The cord arises in the placenta and terminates in the child at the 
navel, or umbilicus, where its blood vessels communicate directly with the 
blood vessels within the child's body. The average length of the cord is from 
twenty-one to twenty-three inches, but it has been found to vary from a fe-tf 
inches to five feet. 



304 VIA VI H\(2IKNE 

As the child depends entirely upon the mother's blood for nourishment^ 
it becomes evident that to bring forth a healthy, well-developed child the 
mother's blood must not only contain a sufficient amount of nutriment, and 
be properly purified, but that it must also circulate normally. We are now 
beginning to obtain a glimpse of the wonderful value of the Viavi treatment 
during pregnancy, as it not only insures the proper nourishment of the bloo^, 
but its perfect circulation and aeration. 

t During pregnancy the womb undergoes important 

w*" changes in character, size and position. During the 

first three months the gravid womb remains in the pelvic 

cavity, a little lower than usual, especially if the pelvis is large. By so doing 
ttie navel may be drawn inward, by traction on the urachus. Approaching the 
fourth month, the enlarging uterus is inconvenienced in the small pelvic 
cavity, and it gradually forces itself upward into the false pelvis above, which 
is more commodious, and at four and a half months it lies entirely within 
the false pelvis above. Then "quickening" is experienced, or life is felt, which 
as a rule indicates that half the period of gestation has expired. Life is 
present from the moment of conception, but it is not perceptible during the 
first months of gestation, by reason of the situation of the womb within the 
bony pelvic basin. 

The growth of the child is rapid during the second half of the period 
of gestation, and the abdominal walls yield progressively to accommodate th? 
child in the uterus. If, however, the abdominal walls lack their natural 
elasticity, they suffer numerous ruptures of the tissues, leaving the abdomei. 
scarred, unsightly and pendulous. The use of the Viavi cerate during preg. 
nancy gives to the abdominal walls strength and elasticity, so that this disfig- 
urement and displacement of the walls are prevented, and the abdomen regains 
its normal condition shortly after delivery. (See chapter on Abdominal Walls. ) 

If the womb is unhealthy, the placenta is very likely to 
If the Placenta adhere. A short time before delivery fatty degeneration 
Adhere of the membrane that lies between the uterine walls and 

the placenta takes place. This disintegration, or softening, causes the placenta 
to be easily shed from the womb at labor,, just as Nature makes provision for 
the ripe fruit or nut to drop from the tree. If this fatty degeneration does not 
occur, the placenta adheres and the hand must be introduced to tear it loose. 
This is both painful and dangerous. If the operating hand is unclean, or par- 
tides of the placenta be left adhering to the uterine walls, blood poisoning 
results, and there is always danger of hemorrhage by a delay of the con- 
tractions that close the open blood vessels. 

Even if these dangers do not present themselves, the uterine lining, 
particularly that part from which the placenta has been torn, does not form 



PREGNANCY 305 

naturally, but grows in the form of a scar tissue. Women with a womb in 
that condition will be heard complaining of "that sore spot in the side" as a 
result. The failure of the placenta to shed itself properly lays the foundation 
for a great amount of pain and uterine trouble. A placental adhesion, having 
once occurred, will more than likely occur again at each succeeding pregnancy. 
The use of the Viavi treatment has a special value in preventing these adhe- 
sions and promoting the natural disintegration of the tissue connecting the 
placenta with the uterus. Further information on this subject is given in 
other chapters, particularly those on Inflammation of the Womb, Laceration, 
and Menstruation. 

t t Pains in labor are so universal in civilized races that 

Origin of Pains they haye come to be regarded as natu ral. Thus they 

disclose the singular anomaly of a natural process 

accompanied with pain. This presents a situation so at variance with the 
established order of things in other directions that it deserves special attention 
here. 

I/abor proceeds as follows: The muscular fibers of the body of the 
womb contract for the purpose of expelling the child, and at the same time 
the muscular fibers of the mouth of the womb relax, thus removing the re- 
sistance to the escape of the child. The pressure of the uterine walls is great, 
but of course not so great as to injure the child. Let us take our left hand in 
our right, pressing the left to a degree that we judge would be just short of 
that which would injure a child at birth. We find that our left hand suffers 
no appreciable pain under the pressure. That is partly because the hand is 
used to all sorts of exercise; but if the left hand is diseased or swollen, we 
experience very acute pain from very little pressure. The womb is placed 
under a severe strain in parturition, but evidently it was intended to bear the 
strain without pain, just as a healthy man may shoulder a heavy weight with- 
out pain. The buttocks bear constant pressure from sitting, and they never 
suffer pain, but if a boil appear upon them, sitting becomes excruciatingly 
painful. Thus we find, in what direction soever we look, that all the parts of 
us designed to bear pressure or strain can do so without causing pain if they 
are healthy, but cannot do so if they are diseased. The inference from this 
is that labor pains are evidence of disease, even though it may be impossible 
to find any trace of disease otherwise. 

In their native state the North American Indians were a 

LOW oavaj n nonia( ji c people, spending much of their time in moving 

Deliver about the country. Let us see what a wonderfully kind 

and intelligent guardian Nature is with her creatures that have not gone astray 

from her. These Indians were heartiest and strongest in the autumn, because 

then nuts were ripe, and game abundant and fat. Hence the sexes naturally 



3 o6 VIAVI HYGIENE 

sought each other. This arrangement brought the time of delivery in the 
early summer, when the child had the most favorable conditions 'for existence. 
That in itself is all wonderful enough, and sufficient to make us venerate and 
re&pect Nature, but that is not all. In the spring and early summer was the 
time when the Indians were likely to be on the march. Hence the women 
ha to be confined seemingly at the most inopportune time. Nature wisely 
provided against that, however, by making delivery easy. A pregnant woman 
would keep her place in the marching column until the very hour of delivery, 
and then with a female companion would step aside into the brush, deliver her 
child, do a!l that was necessary to be done, and rejoin the column, which had 
not halted a moment to accommodate her. No one had the slightest anxiety 
concerning her. Even her husband gave no heed to the affair, but marched 
on with the others. Before long the mother, with her attendant and babe, 
would overtake the column. 

We were personally cognizant of the following circum- 
Instructive Case of stance . A g ne ne gro g^ nineteen years old, was brought 
a Negress to confinement with her first child. She had been ac- 

customed to work daily in the fields' with her parents and husband. When 
her day came she was left at home, entirely alone, her mother having given 
her all needful instructions. As the girl was industrious, she utilized the 
time by doing the week's washing. When her hour came she alone attended 
to the delivery, and soon was again singing blithely at the washtub, her babe 
asleep near by. If she suffered any pain she made no mention of the fact. 
The closer women are to Nature, the less they suffer. 

Yet some pain is to be expected. Often domestic animals are seen to 
suffer pain in delivery, but it must be borne in mind that they are civilized 
animals. Civilized women must expect to suffer some pain, but if it is exces- 
sive or exhausting, much more if anything abnormal or dangerous appears in 
childbirth, we may know that it is because an unnatural condition exists. 
Hence, to the extent to which we restore natural conditions pain will be les- 
sened and dangers removed. That is what the Viavi treatment accomplishes. 

If the womb is in a healthy condition its contractions 

Contraction in occur in regu i ar i y recurring periods, the system of the 

Childbirth patient employing the intervals to gather strength for 

the next effort. If the womb lacks strength and tone, the contractions will 

be too feeble to expel the child, and mechanical delivery may be necessary. 

Or the tissues may be too rigid to obey the contractile force readily. In either 

event delivery is delayed and the suffering prolonged. Sometimes there is a 

premature breaking of the bag of waters, thus causing a dry and painful birth. 

If the fibers of the cervix are rigid, they may not relax sufficiently to permit 

of the passage of the child without injury. That is how laceration occurs 



PREGNANCY 307 

It seems to be a tendency of Nature to care more for the 
Nature s Care for new life than the old Possiblv this is because without 

the production of new life a species must perish. In 

the lower forms of life, as the mushroom, a plant will produce millions of 
spores, each of which, under favorable circumstances, is capable of giving 
rise to a new mushroom; but the chances against the sprouting and growth of 
a single mushroom spore under ordinary conditions are very great; that is 
why so many are produced. As we ascend in the scale, we find that as a rule 
plants and animals produce a greater or less number of offspring in proportion 
to the greater or less difficulty in rearing them. At the end of the scale we 
find human beings, who as a rule bring forth only one offspring at a time, and 
even then at long intervals apart. Among different human races we observe 
that the more primitive are usually the more prolific. Even in the same race 
we see that those of the highest intellectual development produce the smallest 
number of children. Further, we find that the simpler the life led by a woman 
of any given race, the more children she will likely bear, and the sounder they 
and she will be. All this means that the more natural our lives the happier 
we shall be. The highest use to which intelligence can be put is to learn 
the meaning of natural laws, and the highest exercise of conscience is to obey 
them. 

It often happens that Nature, in her efforts to guard the 
The Cost to the welfare of the new life> will sacr i nc e the health of the 
Mother mother in order to secure that of the child. Thus it is 

that a strong child may have a mother whose health was wrecked at its birth. 
Many a woman's lifelong invalidism has begun with her confinement. Again, 
we often see apparently healthy girls who, after marriage, give birth to two or 
three sickly children, and then become semi-invalids for the remainder of 
their lives, few of them surviving the change of life. Of course some explana- 
tion must exist for such a state of affairs, even though we may not be able to 
find it. Nature has wonderful and mysterious ways for accomplishing her 
purposes; but we may be sure that these purposes are intelligent. In the 
cases of such women it may be that Nature has discovered a hereditary taint 
or weakness that, although it is seemingly having no injurious effect upon 
their lives, will surely crop out in their offspring, or even further along. If 
in her wisdom Nature decides that such a woman should not be permitted to 
contribute to the grand purposes of the world, she cripples her with disease. 
The best that a woman can do is to understand all that is possible, to regard 
herself as a mighty factor in the marvelous processes and purposes of the 
Almighty, and to fit herself as perfectly as possible for them. Unless she does 
so she cannot get out of life the happiness that it was intended she should 
have, and cannot transmit the capacity for happiness to others, nor advance it 
among her associates. 



308 VIAVI HYGIENE 

. We have seen how the Viavi treatment enables the tis- 

Sr j 068 sues of the womb to S row and expand with the growtl 
of the fetus, ana how the treatment gives the womb 

strength to expel the fetus naturally at term. There are other very important 
tissues involved, and upon their condition serious things depend. We have 
shown that while the womb is contracting to expel the fetus, the cervix is* 
relaxing to permit the escape of the fetus. It is evident that if there is any 
rigidity of the cervix, relaxation will not be thorough, and that hence the cervix 
must tear as the womb forces the fetus through it. This is laceration, one of 
the commonest and most distressing conditions following confinement, and 
one of the most prolific sources of cancer. The Viavi treatment renders the 
cervical tissues elastic, so that laceration is avoided. Outside the Viavi treat- 
ment there is not nor ever has been any thought of preventing a laceration by 
rational treatment; all thought and science have been' concentrated upon the 
operation to heal, not upon means to prevent. The only treatment for this 
condition outside the Viavi treatment is stitching, a painful and injurious 
operation that will be discussed more fully in the chapter on Laceration. 

The other tissues involved are those of the abdominal walls. These walls 
are greatly stretched during pregnancy. If they are rigid it is impossible for 
them to stretch without injury. It is common to find women with a number 
of small white scars under the outer skin of the abdomen. These are the evi- 
de^ce of the injury to which the tissues had been subjected in pregnancy. 

Another affliction that the abdomen is likely to suffer is a loss of tone 
during pregnancy. After confinement the mother finds her abdomen lying in 
thick folds. Besides being highly disfiguring, the flabby condition of the 
abdominal walls denies to the abdominal viscera (intestines, etc.) the support 
that healthy abdominal walls give them, and that is necessary for their perfect 
health and function. 

In both these cases the Viavi treatment, if used during pregnancy, gives 
the tissues the elasticity that they require. Injury to the tissues, and lax 
abdominal walls, are thus avoided. There is no natural reason why a woman 
should not be as shapely after maternity as before. The Viavi treatment 
assures the preservation of her figure. 

It has been stated elsewhere in this volume that women 
Benefits to the suffering with ovarian troubles are often, and most un- 
wisely, advised to invite pregnancy as a cure for the 

ovarian disease. If, however, it happen that pregnancy has occurred in the 
presence of ovarian disease, it offers an excellent opportunity for employing 
the Viavi treatment to overcome it during the nine months of rest that th' 
ovaries enjoy in pregnancy. The cure progresses without the interruption 
and aggravation of menstruation. 

Should adhesions be present as <fte result of previous inflammation. 



PREGNANCY 309 

they become absorbed rapidly during pregnancy if the Viavi treatment is em- 
ployed. As they become softer and thinner under the treatment, they are 
absorbed more rapidly, because the greater the normal movement of the in- 
ternal organs during pregnancy. It has occurred in many cases that women 
who had been invalids emerged from pregnancy, after using the Viavi treat- 
ment, with perfect health, the first that they had enjoyed in years. 

The mental condition of a pregnant woman seriously 
Effects of Mental affects the progress and end of her condition. Some wo- 

men are naturally light-hearted when in that condition, 

taking the keenest interest in their domestic and social life. Others show an un- 
accountable departure from their normal mental state, becoming morose, moody, 
irritable and peevish beyond the control of their will. The happy condition 
is the natural one. It is designed by Nature that a woman should take joy in 
being permitted to perform so great and divine a task in the majestic scheme 
of life. If any departure from that mental standard appear, the situation 
calls for the finest tact and wisdom on the part of the husband. He must un- 
derstand that his wife is ailing, and that the utmost tenderness and solicitude 
are required. Her way should be made as pleasant as possible. Agreeable 
diversions should be studied out for her. She should be kept as far as possible 
from brooding in solitude. She needs bright, cheerful companions and a 
variety of scenes. If she has burdensome domestic cares, she should be 
relieved of them. Nothing to fret her or cause her the least anxiety should be 
permitted to exist. 

Sometimes the senses of sight, taste, smell and hearing 
Special Senses become perverted, dulled or otherwise affected in preg- 
Affected nancy. From this we judge that the nutrition of the 

system by means of the blood is not normal. If such aberrations are caused 
by an unsound condition of the sexual organs, which prohibits their bearing 
well the strain that pregnancy has placed upon them, the use of a treatment 
that will enable them to do so is indicated. It is a familiar fact that tne 
sensory and motor nerves are frequently found perverted. These may produce 
structural alterations in the fetus resulting from unsound maternal impressions. 
In this way idiots and monstrosities are produced. As the condition of the 
mind affects that of the mother's body in many unexplained ways, so does it 
also that of the fetus. During all the years that the Viavi treatment has been 
used during pregnancy in many hundreds of thousands of cases, not one idiot 
nor monster, not one child deformed or imperfect to the slightest extent, to 
our knowledge, has been born where the treatment has been used. The expla- 
nation of this is the effect that the treatment has on the nervous system and 
the mautal state of the mother. 

Sudden unpleasant news, fright and physical shocks are to be carefully 



310 VIA VI HYGIENE 

avoided. Feelings of apprehension must be banished. The slightest fear of 
danger in confinement must be instantly and peremptorily suppressed. Kind 
and firm assurance should be given that Nature knows her business well. 

If an unhealthy woman should become pregnant, the 

treatment 



U 

Unhealthy during the term. In this way many a woman who had 

long been an invalid has risen from her confinement in much better health 
than she ever had before. But by far the better plan is always to be ready for 
maternity. There is no telling when it may come to a married woman. Al- 
though such a woman, most unfortunately, may not desire children, and 
although her physical condition may be so bad as to prohibit conception or to 
induce miscarriage if conception occur, she may rest assured that she is in in- 
finitely a worse condition than if she were able to bear children and thus 
become a mother. Unless a woman is fully competent for maternity she is 
not a perfect woman ; she cannot be a perfect wife ; she cannot enjoy life as 
she should. If she is perfect for maternity, the probabilities are that she will 
have a very strong desire to be a mother. When we see women with a repug- 
nance for maternity, we know that there is something seriously and radically 
wrong, reaching to the highest attributes of their nature and impoverishing 
what is best and noblest in them ; and we may safely assume that the cause 
of their mental attitude resides in some imperfection of their generative 
nature. Intelligent use of the Viavi treatment is the one and only way to put 
a woman in perfect condition for maternity. Maternity under any domestic, 
financial or other extraneous condition that may seem to render it ill-advised 
is a thousand times better than physical inability for it. 

Before the discovery of the Viavi treatment there was 
Meaning of the no thing in existence that could fit women for maternity, 
Discovery an( j ren( j er them competent to bear it where such com- 

petence did not exist. Up to that time professional abortion to relieve sickly 
women of the dangers of pregnancy thus choosing the less of two evils, but 
a serious evil notwithstanding had been the only resource of science. No 
way whatever was known for giving the muscles of the abdomen and pelvis 
the strength and elasticity needed to support the gravid womb. The possibility 
of finding a way to secure the muscular integrity of the womb, by which its 
proper contraction in delivery would be natural and sufficient, had never been 
dreamed of. Nothing to prevent placental adhesion and the hemorrhages that 
often follow delivery had ever been found. Nothing had ever been discovered 
to prevent nausea, leucorrhea, pruritus, inflammation of the bladder, varicose 
veins, lameness, dropsy or miscarriage. It had never been deemed within the 
reach of science to assure for the child a bountiful supply of mother's milk. 
All these things are accomplished by the Viavi treatment, every day in every 






PREGNANCY 3 it 

part of the world. This alone makes it a discovery of immeasurable value, a 
blessing of inconceivable magnitude. It has demonstrated to the world that 
childbearing is not a disease, but a natural and acceptable function, capable of 
being performed without undue distress, without risk to life, without appre- 
hension or repugnance, and without the medical or surgical interference which 
increases its dangers, adds to its terrors, and places the life of child or mother, 
or both, in jeopardy. 

It would be a pleasure to give a large number of the 
Illustrations of Its many thousau( } s of pregnancies in which the value of 
.rower ^ Q Viavi treatment has been demonstrated, but only a 

few will suffice. One was that of a woman who had been injured at childbirth 
to such an extent that the best physicians in Seattle, Washington, U. S. A., 
declared her condition incurable, and asserted that if she again became preg- 
nant she could not live through it. She did become pregnant again, used the 
Viavi treatment during the entire term, passed through her delivery with 
comparative ease, and made a rapid and perfect recovery. 

Another exceptionally easy birth was that in the case of a lady in Utah, 
U. S. A., who had been compelled to remain in bed during the first three 
months of her four previous pregnancies. She became pregnant the fifth time, 
with twins, employed the Viavi treatment, and was delivered of two healthy boys 
easily and naturally before the arrival of nurse and physicians. During her 
previous confinements she had been in labor from five to twelve hours. Both 
the twins were delivered inside an hour. 

i * Another case is that of a lady who had been in labor for thirty hours at 
her first confinement. The child's head was crushed with instruments before 
delivery was effected; this left the patient in an extremely debilitated and 
critical condition. During her next pregnancy she used the Viavi treatment. 
At this time she was living on a small farm, one hundred miles from a settle- 
ment. To this place her husband started with her in a comfortable convey- 
ance, that she might have proper care. When within twenty-nine miles of 
their destination she was taken with labor. They halted shortly afterward, 
and in fifteen minutes she gave birth to a fine boy under a tree, without 
assistance. Six hours afterward they resumed their journey and complete 
recovery followed. > 

Another case is that of a lady who had suffered with intense pain in the 
back for three months before the birth of her first child, and for eighteen days 
afterward. Added to this was soreness of the breast and nipples, for which she 
could find no relief. When hernext pregnancy occured she placed herself under 
the Viavi treatment. There was no recurrence of any of the former symptoms, 
although when the case was reported the child was three months old. The 
labor was not so severe as formerly, nor so prolonged, and. at delivery there 
was only a nurse in attendance. This patient was exceedingly grateful to be 



HI2 VIAVI HYGIENE 

able to lie in peace after delivery, free from the pains that had formerly racked 
her. 

As has been already stated, the Viavi treatment takes a 
Condi ions after W0 man to the time of her labor, when she must secure 
skillful attendance. Delivery is only a step in the splen- 
did scheme of maternity. Not only must the physical condition of the 
mother be brought back to its normal standard after confinement, but she 
must be competent for the duties of motherhood. One of the most important 
of these is the furnishing of abundant and healthy milk for her child. This 
the Viavi treatment assures. (See chapter on Lactation.) In other ways 
competent motherhood is assured by the treatment. As the mother is made 
healthy and strong, she is enabled to give her child the sympathy, affection 
and guidance that it requires for development into a happy and useful man or 
woman. 

To accomplish all of these things is a wonderful triumph, the full mag- 
nitude of which can hardly be comprehended. To assert that it has been won 
and is being won in thousands upon thousands of cases, without the most con- 
vincing reason and overwhelming evidence to support the assertion, would be 
disastrous folly. The experience and observation of Viavi advocates in this 
matter, extending as it does over all civilized countries, enable them to speak 
with a confidence that nothing can shake. 

The use of the Viavi treatment after delivery is explained in other 
chapters, particularly those on Inflammation of the Womb, Displacements of 
the Womb, and Lactation. 

, All the intelligence that a woman and her husband can 

ie * bring to bear are needed during her term of pregnancy, 
rregnancy It j s a ^ me w j len every fine sentiment of manhood is 

appealed to, when every resource of manhood should be employed. Every- 
thing disagreeable or burdensome should be removed from her life as much as 
possible. Generous allowance should be made for any fretfulness or discon- 
tent that may appear. The direct happiness of two lives is involved in the 
care that a woman receives at this time. While the strongest possible obliga- 
tion rests upon the husband to do all that a man can do, the woman herself is 
in no sense relieved of the obligations that Nature has imposed upon her. It is 
her own conduct, more than that of any other, that determines the happy or 
wretched issue of her condition. In pregnancy the Viavi treatment contem- 
plates and requires intelligent living in all ways, for at no other time of life is 
It so urgently needed. 

Diet. The appetite is generally poor during the early months of preg- 
nancy, and there are cravings for certain kinds of food. These cravings 
should be satisfied, for generally morning sickness is thus avoided. The diges- 



PREGNANCY 313 

tion improves and the appetite returns after the fourth month. If nausea 
appear, the Viavi liquid should be taken into the stomach in five drop doses 
three times a day, about twenty minutes before each meal. Nutritious animal 
and vegetable foods that can be \vell digested and that the patient desires 
should be supplied freely as they are wanted. There should be no inflexible 
rules about what to eat and what to avoid. The idea is to give the patient 
what she desires in reason, to give her all she wants, and to know that the 
food is not indigestible. 

It was the fad at one time to place pregnant women upon a fruit and 
vegetable diet, so that the bones of the child should be soft and easy delivery 
assured. Such a procedure we cannot condemn too forcibly, as it is not 
soft-boned, weakly children that we desire, but fhe heartiest, healthiest and 
most robust that can be produced. It has been demonstrated thousands and 
thousands of times over that when prospective mothers place their bodies in 
such a condition of health by means of the Viavi treatment that their appetite 
is good and their digestion sufficiently normal to assimilate a good, variable, 
nourishing diet, they need have no fear of suffering unbearable tortures by 
giving birth to a hearty, robust child. 

After the womb has risen into the false pelvis, there is some compression 
of the stomach. This reduces its capacity, necessating the taking of food in 
smaller quantites and oftener. At times a milk diet will be required. 

Albuminuria is caused, so far as is now known, by mechanical pressure 
upon the renal blood vessels, the bladder, ureters or kidneys; hence the Viavi 
treatment proves efficacious in preventing this grave disease, and also in over- 
coming it by righting the displacement and so relieving the pressure. 

The Viavi liquid taken internally acts beneficially upon the whole 
urinary tract, promoting healthy functional activity. It also largely helps to 
overcome the distressing nausea of pregnancy. It should be taken in the 
stomach three times daily, about twenty minutes before each meal, in from five 
to ten drop doses, in a little water. 

Clothing. The clothing should be loose, so as not to bind the abdomen 
and chest, also be warm, and as light as the season permits. A most astonish- 
ing thing, often seen, is tightly-laced corsets on pregnant women. It would 
be unreasonable for them not to expect serious consequences from such folly. 
Corsets should not be worn at all. Even tightly-fitting skirts and bands 
around the waist are injurious. All such practices impede the circulation and 
digestion, and lay the foundation for suffering. Clothing is best suspended 
from the shoulders. If the abdominal walls are flabby from previous preg- 
nancies, they shouM be supported by a flannel bandage about the abdomen. 
Besides lending needed support, it will give comfort. 

Resi t Sleep and Exercise. It is highly essential that a pregnant woman 
Should have abundant sleep, and at a certain time every day sbs should lie 



3 i4 VIAVI HYGIENE 

down and rest for an hour or two for complete rest and, if possible, sleep. The 
shoes should be removed and perfect comfort secured. At first it may be 
difficult to induce this sleep, but gradually the habit will be established. 
Great benefits will be derived from it. Violent and excessive physical exertion 
should of course be avoided, but moderate and pleasant exercise is highly bene- 
ficial. If a woman is accustomed to walking, she should walk a certain dis- 
tance every day. If this prove disagreeable or detrimental, she should drive, 
if possible. Abundant fresh air and sunshine should be had. 

. Bathing. Bathing should be done during pregnancy as well as in its 
absence. If the cold bath has been used before pregnancy, it should be used 
during the term. Of course the season of the year and common sense will 
largely determine this matter. Established habits in this regard may be safely 
followed as a rule. A free use of the bath and thorough applications of the 
Viavi cerate will maintain the functional activity of the skin. 

The Bowels. If there is an inclination to be constipated during preg- 
nancy the use of the Viavi laxative is advised. If one pill does not establish 
a normal movement, two should be taken every night before retiring. The 
use of the Viavi tonic will be beneficial if the blood seems to show the need of 
iron. The Viavi liquid is excellent for irregularities of the digestive system. 

Sexual Relations. It is exceedingly important that sexual relations be 
entirely suspended during pregnancy. Human beings seem to be the only 
creatures who violate a most sacred law of Nature in this regard. It is a very 
frequent cause of miscarriage, is often painful to the wife, and may be the cause 
of distressing pelvic troubles. To some women the act is repugnant; others 
desire it. It is in this regard that the wisdom, manliness and forbearance of 
husbands are seriously called into play. Indulgence at this time implants 
within the unborn child tendencies that will poison its whole life. 

Use of the Cerate. The Viavi cerate is to be used daily during preg- 
nancy, upon the abdomen and hips, and at least three to six times a week over 
the spine by an assistant. The skin should be properly prepared, and if the 
cerate is applied for one hour each day it is not too much. The more cerate 
that is absorbed, the better the results. A good plan is to apply it thirty 
minutes in the forenoon and the same at night. In this way its beneficial 
effects will reach the entire system. 

Use of the Capsules. The Viavi capsules are to be used in the vagina to 
within a few days of confinement, and their use resumed fifteen days after- 
ward. If a patient is using the treatment when she becomes pregnant, she 
may continue the use of the whole capsule. If she begins the treatment after 
becoming pregnant, only half a capsule should be used for a time from two 
weeks to a month and after that the whole capsule. 



PREGNANCY 315 

The Sitz Bath. A sitz bath will prove beneficial to both mother and 
child. She should sit in the bath about ten minutes, beginning with the water 
moderately warm, and decreasing the temperature by the addition of cold 
water, until the bath becomes moderately cold. At the same time the feet 
should be placed in warm water. The shoulders should be well covered, to 
prevent chilling. After the bath the entire body should be rubbed with a 
coarse towel until a good glow is produced. The sitz bath should be taken 
once or twice a week, as the strength permits. 

The Douche. The use of the syringe should be discontinued after the 
fourth month, but the parts should be flushed regularly by hand, to secure 
cleanliness. During the period when the douche is used, the water should be 
only moderately warm, never hot. 







CHAPTER XLVL 



THE ABDOMINAL WALLS. 



|NE thing that is an imperative necessity to health is firm, tauf abdominal 
walls. When we find a patient suffering from a loose, flabby abdomen 
we know that both the abdominal and pelvic contents are displaced, 
that they are not properly supported, and consequently that they are 
sagging downward and out of position. This includes the liver, kidneys, in- 
testines in short, the whole pelvic and abdomiual viscera. The important 
function of the abdominal walls has been practically overlooked in the past, 
and one may read volume after volume of medical works both old and new and 
find nothing whatever on this important, this vital subject. In fact, the ab- 
dominal walls are cut and slashed to-day with the knife as if their function ex- 
tended no farther than that of the skin covering a part of the leg or arm. 
Tense, firm abdominal walls are just as necessary to health as a strong spinal 
cohimn, even more so; and no time, care nor attention can be too lavish to 
preserve their tonicity. 

Failure to recognize the symptoms that accompany a 
Walls Injured by loss of touicity in this reg ion has led surgeons to per- 
ourgery form all kinds of operations, from plastic surgery down 

to the removal of both womb and ovaries. Just as soon as a patient loses the 
temporary benefit derived from a few weeks of enforced rest in bed, where the 
operation places her, she finds that she is no better, but that her condition is 
much worse. The old symptoms return in an aggravated form headaches, 
backache, dragging-down pains, indigestion, constipation, mental depression, 
extreme irritability of the nerve centers of the abdomen, and inability to 
stand upon the feet for any length of time. Nothing has been done to 
strengthen the abdominal walls, but the treatment has been such as irreparably 
to destroy their strength and function. 

Disappointments never follow the Viavi treatment for lax abdominal 
walls, as through the medium of the Viavi cerate and its manner of applica- 
tion, great strength and elasticity, and hence functional activity, are given 
the walls. 



THE ABDOMINAL WAtLS 31^ 

The muscles of the abdomen have been wonderfully and 
Vital Uses of the beautifully arranged by the Creator for the purpose of 

securing great strength and harmony of functional ac- 
tivity. The good effects resulting are not confined to the abdominal region, 
as these walls are very "closely connected, functionally, with many remote 
parts of the body. Strong, healthy, elastic abdominal walls are necessary to 
health, as they assist largely in the performance of many vital functions, 
besides -supporting the abdominal viscera. These wails are powerfully exer- 
cised in all expulsive efforts. They help to expel the child during labor, the 
feces from the rectum, the urine from the bladder, and the contents of the 
stomach in vomiting. They are also largely used in breathing, laughing, 
coughing, sneezing, singing, talking, and in all movements of the trunk. As 
they so largely assist in the performance of all these functions and many 
more, we see the necessity of their possessing not only strength^ but great 
elasticity also, as their action must be both powerful and prompt. 

Displacement of the womb and ovaries but seldom exists alone, but as a 
rule there will be present also a sagging downward of the abdominal viscera. 
The only rational method for curing displacements of the generative organs 
is to include in the treatment the displaced abdominal contents as well, and 
restore to both the pelvic and abdominal viscera their healthy, elastic muscu- 
lar supports, of which the muscular abdominal walls form the larger part. 

The pelvic and abdominal cavities are not separated by 
Benefits if Wa-ls a p art i t i orij but really constitute one cavity; hence, what 
Are Strong affects the contents of one affects the contents of the 

other. When the abdominal walls cannot assist the many organs to perform 
their various functions, the whole body is weakened; the whole body is ailing. 
Here is where some of the grandest results are obtained in the Viavi treament 
through the medium of the cerate, which we advise applied in so thorough 
a manner over the abdominal region. This is why, under this treatment, 
weariness disappears and the general health improves, as by making healthy 
the abdominal walls so many organs of the body are assisted in performing 
their special functions, while the viscera receive their proper support. 

Weak abdominal walls produce also constipation, dyspepsia, palpitation 
of the heart, impeded respiration, kidney trouble and other functional 
disturbances. 

_., Every one is familiar with the great weakness that exists 

Jlttects ot Ruptor wheQ the w&Us Qf the abdomen break . This is ktlow u 

as abdominal hernia, or rupture. The smallest rupture 

will necessitate the wearing of a truss, or heavy harness, for it can be likened 
to nothing else, to keep the viscera in place. Abdominal incisions completely 
destroy the beautiful mechanism of these walls, as a long, thin, puckering 



3i8 VIAVI HYGIENE 

scar is left. The line of juncture which it represents is inadequate to 
proper support to the abdominal contents; hence the necessity for the use o^ 
a bandage for the remainder of a woman's life. It is wide knowledge of the 
fact that the Viavi treatment is non-surgical that brings so many patients of 
this class under the treatment, placing us in a much better position to judge 
as to which treatment will prove the most efficacious, also to determine the 
effects of abdominal incisions even better than the operators themselves. 
After abdominal incisions patients are indeed left in a most pitiable condition, 
as the main support offered by the strength of the abdominal walls has been 
destroyed, while many times large, festering holes remain as a constant menace 
to life. Physical degeneration is the result every function is more or less 
disordered, and hence every nutritive process lessened. 

The abdomen is greatly weakened by the wearing of heavy skirts, 
corsets, tight waist, bands, etc. ; hence the first step is always to remove the cause. 
An erect, strong spinal column to hold the body in normal position is also 
of so much importance in helping to overcome the weakness abovementioned 
that we have devoted one chapter to this subject. (See chapter on the Back.) 

The accumulation of fat, or adipose tissue, in the abdominal region, 
either within the cavity or within the abdominal walls, is caused by forced 
inactivity or a loss of healthy reaction. This function, thus impaired, is not 
irreparably suspended nor lost. It can be regained and the abdomen made to 
resume its normal size when a sufficient quantity of Viavi has been taken up 
by the nerves and tissues. This healthy reaction so obtained causes this 
abnormal accumulation to be thrown from the body as are other forms of 
waste products that may be retained in disease. (See chapter on Obesity.) 

A woman has given birth to a child; from that event she 
Why Surgery Docs dates her iu ness> ^ n examination is made and a cervical 
Not Relieve laceration found to exist. She is led to believe that under 
the ordinary treatment an operation to stitch up the rent will relieve her of 
all painful symptoms and thus restore her to health. The operation is pro- 
nounced a surgical success, but there is no relief from the aches, pains and 
nervousness that were present before. The abdominal walls in this patient's 
case had been weakened at pregnancy. They were left without sufficient 
tonicity to support the abdominal and pelvic contents, and although the lacer- 
ation was stitched, the great cause of her suffering was entirely overlooked. 
The Viavi treatment is very different. The capsule is placed against 
the lacerated cervix, and while the rent is being healed the cerate is being 
used over the abdominal region, so that it may regain its normal strength and 
thus be enabled properly to support the displaced abdominal and pelvic con- 
tents. Its beneficial effect is felt by the whole body. It gives tone to the 
nerves, strength to the muscles and greatly increases the general vital energy. 
That the abdominal walls assist in so many vital functions, and that they must 



THE ABDOMINAL WALI 319 

possess extraordinary strength to enable them to do so and at the same time 
properly hold the viscera in place, constitute one of the most important facts 
considered in the Viavi treatment, and one that is never lost sight of. As a 
rule, women possessing strong, elastic, healthy abdominal walls are free from 
the ordinary aches and pains from which most women suffer. 

A woman some time ago came under the Viavi treatment 
Splendid Results who> prior to her marr i age> h a & been a very successful 
Secured trained nurse. She insisted upon using the capsules 

alone for inflammation and displacement of the womb, but as she had given 
birth to four children her abdomen was found to be large and flabby, and she 
derived but very slow and discouraging results from the use of the capsules 
alone. We finally refused to furnish her with capsules without the cerate 
Almost from the first application over the region of the abdomen she obtained 
remarkable results. The abdominal walls regained their normal tone and 
elasticity, and the distressing symptoms that had been previously present 
quickly disappeared. Then having been brought to realize fully what healthy 
abdominal walls mean to the body, she taught her four little girls how to apply 
the cerate every night upon the abdomen after retiring. (See Reclining Ab- 
dominal Massage.) The children have all become robust and hearty, and 
their powers of endurance are greatly increased. It can be easily imagined 
what this means to the mother as well as the children. 

Simply to rub the cerate quickly or carelessly over the 
The Treatment for a bdomen -will not bring about the results desired. The 

abdomen shor.ld be sponged off with a little vinegar and 

water; then a small quantity of the cerate should be applied and well ruboed in 
with a circular upward movement until absorbed, and then a little more applied 
in the same way. From twenty minutes to a half hour this rubbing in of the 
cerate should be continued. At first the absorption may be poor, but it will 
gradually increase from day to day, and in time large quantities of the cerate 
will be absorbed and made use of by the abdominal nerves aud tissues. (See 
rules for Abdominal Massage.) When the cerate is absorbed, no matter how 
great the quantity, it is never wasted. It is wasted only when more is applied 
than the absorbents will take up. It may consume some time and patience to 
massage the abdomen with the cerate, but the time could not be better ex- 
pended, nor can the same results be obtained from any other treatment nor in 
any other manner. After thoroughly rubbing in the cerate, the surplus 
amount left on the skin should be wiped off with a towel, so that the clothing 
may not be soiled. It is the amount absorbed that accomplishes the results, 
not the amount left upon the body to be absorbed by the clothing. As an ad- 
junct to the use of the cerate over this region we refer the reader to hot and 
cold compresses. fSee Hot Compress and Cold Compress.) 



320 VIAVI HYGIENE 

,_, ~ A breaking of the abdominal walls is known as abdominal 

* _ rea hernia, or rupture. It is generally in the region of 

Rupture the nave j or low a own t b e gro in. Under many condi- 
tions hernia, or rupture, may be cured. There are some cases that are incur- 
able, but they are generally of long standing and where the vitality and recu- 
perative powers are at a low ebb. The great difficulty that we have encoun- 
tered in treating cases of this kind is the lack of patient persistence and of a 
realization on the part of the sufferer that the seriousness of this condition is 
great and that very slow progress must necessarily be made toward recovery. 
The success of the Viavi treatment in this department has beeen so marked 
that we believe that wherever it ib possible to cure this condition it can be 
cured by the Viavi treatment; and in order that special directions may be given, 
correspondence with the Hygienic Department of the most convenient Viavi 
office is invited wherever the case is an extremely serious one. 

The treatment for rupture consists of a thorough application of the Viavi 
cerate over the abdominal region. The patient should assume the reclining 
position. (See Reclining Abdominal Massage.) 

' The hot compress b to be uc^d three times a week. The patient should 
lie upon the back without a pillor- under the head, the thighs flexed toward 
the body, so that the abdominal muscles will be relaxed; when in this position 
the compress should be applied, (^ec Hot Compress.) The compress is to be 
taken at night, just before retiring, and it is much better if the patient does 
not stand upon her feet for several hours after using it. The cerate is to 
be used daily, but the compress three times a week. 

It may be found necessary to wear a truss or properly fitted belt for 
some time after commencing the treatment, but it may be gradually left off if 
the patient's progress is favorable. 

A child suffering from hernia should never be placed upon the incur- 
able list until the Viavi treatment has been given a thorough trial, as most 
excellent results, especially in children, are obtained. 

Mrs. B. came under the Viavi treatment when pregnant. 
From an extensive rupture she had suffered four miscar- 
riages. Her condition was very grave at this time, and 

she came under the Viavi treatment simply because the physicians promised 
nothing, not even that she would survive delivery. Not only did she give 
birth at full term to a nine-pound child, but the rupture healed. We last 
heard from her when the child was five months old, and her health was perfect. 
Another case was that of a patient suffering from a double rupture, one 
of which healed. 

Another case was that of Miss B., who wore a truss for two and a half 
years for a right femoral hernia. In seven months the rupture had healed, 
and there has been no roturn of the trouble since 1894. 



CHAPTER XLVII. 



NOURISHING THE INFANT 

(JACTATION.) 

N all the works of Nature there is nothing more instructive and beautiful 
than the provision that she makes for the development of the young 
In the mammalia, to which human beings belong, the mother furnishes 
milk for the sustenance of the young after birth. Outside the mammalia 
we find remarkable illustrations of the physical dependence of the young 
upon the nutriment furnished by the mother's body. Thus, in the hatching 
of a fish's egg the head and the tail protrude from the egg, and for a consid- 
erable time the young fish subsists entirely upon the substance of the egg. 
By the time it has absorbed and used all this substance, its development is suffi- 
ciently advanced for it to feed on the ordinary food of its species. In fowls, 
freedom of movement is prohibited the young until it has converted all the 
substance of the egg into the formation of a creature that is able to feed on 
the ordinary food of its species as soon as it is given freedom ; but in both 
these cases we find an illustration of the law in mammals that the young sub- 
sist on the food furnished by the mother until it is sufficiently developed to 
seek and use the ordinary food of its species. 

It is the same in plants. Take a bean, for illustration The fleshy lobes 
of the seed contain the nutriment upon which the young plant subsists until 
it has gained sufficient strength of root and leaves to draw its sustenance from 
outside sources ; but these lobes were prepared by the mother plant for the 
express purpose of furnishing the young plant with food until it should be 
sufficiently developed to seek and use the food of its species, which it finds in 
the ground and air. In the case of marsupials (kangaroos, opossums, etc.), 
the young are born at a very early period of their development, and. are carried 
in a pouch in the mother's abdomen ; into this pouch there open milk glands, 
which furnish the young with food until they are able to seek the proper food 
of their species. 

Thus, in whatever direction we turn, we find that from the beginning of 
the new life to the time it has developed sufficiently to subsist on the ordinary 
food of its species, it depends wholly upon the food furnished by the mother. 



322 VIAVI HYGIENE 

In the case of a chick we find an egg millions of times 
The Principles of larger t h an a human egg, although the chick's mother 
Nourishment is a great deal sma n er t i ian a wom an. The germinating 
and impregnation principles of the two are alike. The difference is this : In 
the case of the hen's egg the nutriment designed for the development of the 
young life is all stored within the egg, whereas the nutriment for the young 
human life is supplied in the womb by the mother, through the medium of 
her blood, as the development of the young life requires it, and then after 
birth through the medium of her milk. In both cases, however, it is the 
mother that supplies the nutriment the hen does it beforehand, the. human 
mother continuously as it is needed. The mother bean-plant proceeds exactly 
as the hen does. The reason why the hen's egg is so vastly larger than a 
human egg is therefore clear ; it is because it must have in a stored form all 
the food that the chick requires for its development up to the time that it is 
able to seek and use the food appropriate to its kind. In a chick this time is 
when it is hatched ; in a human being it is at weaning time. Thus, a chick 
at the time of hatching is far more advanced in development than a child at 
the time of birth. 

t In the case of mammals, those that deliver their young 

The Peculiarity of before the latter are able to seek from other sources the 

Mammals food p ecu ii ar to their kind, Nature provides that the 

mother shall furnish milk. Here we see a beautiful and wonderful principle. 
While the young life was in the womb of its mother it drew its sustenance 
directly from her blood, the circulatory systems of the two being in commu- 
nication* After birth the same blood, bearing the same nutriment, is trans- 
formed in such a way as to be available as milk. Hence we see that the birth 
of a mammal occurs before its development has reached a point where it is 
able to seek the ordinary food of its kind. It is the same with young fishes 
and bean-plants, but it is not the same with chicks. Thus we see that different 
creatures come into the world at different stages of development. Therefore 
we realize the great importance of the mammalian mother being able not only 
to furnish milk, but just the right kind of milk, for her offspring. If she 
does not do so, a law of Nature is violated, and we know that punishment in- 
variably ensues. In the case of wild animals, the young die of starvation. In 
that of human beings we find a superior intelligence that is able in a measure 
to supply the deficiency by furnishing the young with artificial food, but we 
are all perfectly aware that no artificial means employed for any purpose can 
fully take the place of a natural one that human skill is inferior to that of 
the Creator. 

The giving of milk by a mother is called lactation. We 

r In have read sufficient to see that lactation is merely a con- 

JLactation tinuation of the principle involved in pregnancy. The 



NOURISHING THE INFANT 323 

principle in pregnancy was the protection and nourishment of the young life 
up to a certain point the time of delivery. But at that point the helplessness 
of the infant is so great that the principle of protection and nourishment must 
be continued for a considerable time until the child is able to eat the food 
appropriate to independent human beings. Hence there is no essential differ- 
ence between pregnancy and lactation, for they are the two stages in which 
the same principle operates. 

Interruption of this wonderful scheme may occur at any time in its 
progress. It may come from abortion, miscarriage, the death of the fetus, the 
death of the infant, the failure of the mother to furnish milk, or its deliberate 
suppression by her after it has appeared. We have learned sufficient from this 
volume to know that the interruption of any scheme of Nature is a violation 
of her law, and that punishment will result. Contemplating, for the present, 
the effect of such interruptions on the mother, we shall find in the chapter on 
Miscarriages what she will suffer from those forms of the interruption, and 
shall now consider what she suffers from failure to furnish milk, and from 
its suppression when it appears. 

Instead of employing the superior intelligence that Nature has given 
us for understanding and obeying her laws, the most of us employ it for the 
purpose of violating them. How any conscience thus involved is able to find 
peace, surpasses the understanding of the wise. 

As the breasts are a part of the mechanism designed by 

Breasts Affected Nature f or the nourishment of the young, and may be 

regarded, therefore, as a part of the generative system, 

it is to be expected that if there is a disease or weakness of the generative 
organs, the function of the breasts will be impaired through the close sympa- 
thetic relations that exist by reason of the intimate nervous connection here 
found. It is a familiar fact that the breasts do sympathize with disordered 
conditions of the generative organs. In lactation the breasts take up the 
work that the womb has been doing in pregnancy. The condition of the 
womb is affected to a greater or less extent by that of the other generative 
organs; so likewise is the condition of the breasts. (See chapter on Inflam- 
mation of the Breasts.) If there has been great distress during pregnancy, we 
may expect absent or defective lactation after confinement. Contrawise, if 
pregnancy has proceeded easily and parturition has been devoid of abnormal 
conditions, we may expect healthy lactation. Further, if by intelligent treat- 
ment we overcome abnormal conditions in pregnancy and avoid them in 
confinement, we may expect the breasts to perform their natural function 
properly. As the Viavi treatment accomplishes those results with regard to 
pregnancy and delivery, it naturally, by reflex action, places the breasts in a 
condition to perform their work satisfactorily. This happy result may be 
more fully assured by applying the Viavi cerate gently to the breasts during 



324 VIAVI HYGIENE 

pregnancy, in the manner described in the chapter on Inflammation of the 
Breasts. 

Constipation is a retardation, or partial interruption, of 
the natural process of passing along the contents of the 
Interruption intestines. It produces a number of ills, which will be 

best understood by reference to a later chapter in this volume. A checking of 
the menses by taking cold or by other means produces serious evils that are 
discussed in the chapter on menstruation. If we tie a string tightly round the 
finger, we check the circulation, and if this is long continued, the finger will 
die. Congestion, as we have seen in the chapter on that subject, is a retarda- 
tion of the circulation of the blood, and its serious consequences are there 
made clear. So we might go on indefinitely citing instances in the human 
economy in which the interruption of any natural function or process, or any 
serious interference with it, inevitably produces injury to the economy. 

Hence we rightly reason that any interruption of the principle involved 
in the nourishment of the young by the mother must have an injurious effect 
upon her. Not alone reason, but observation as well, supports this assertion. 
If we find that a mother is unable to furnish milk for her child, we know that 
a serious interruption to the natural course of events has occurred, and that 
evil consequences must be expected and will invariably appear. 

The failure of the mother to furnish milk may be due 
to some disease or weakness of the generative organs, or 
Interruption to ft d e pi e ti n of nervous force. This depletion may 

take the form of inability to digest and assimilate- food in a way necessary to 
furnish the blood with nutriment that the mammary glands (breasts) may 
transform into milk. Hence we conclude that if the nervous system is in per- 
fect order, the proper secretion of milk will result. As the Viavi treatment 
has a special value in assuring the integrity of the nervous system, the natural 
result of its use during pregnancy is an ability to secrete milk. 

If the lack of nervous integrity explains the absence of milk, we may 
be certain that the injury which the mother suffers is by no means confined to 
the milk-secreting powers. Every other function of her system must suffer, 
likely one more than another. Her digestion may be poor, or she may be 
constipated, or her mind may be weak, or her special senses involved. She 
may be irritable, peevish, discontented or melancholic. Rheumatic pains, par- 
ticularly lumbago or a weakness of the back, may afflict her. Her hair may 
fall out, through inability of the nervous system to furnish nutriment to its 
follicles. Any one or more of innumerable afflictions may make her life a 
burden. It may be taken for granted that if she is unable to furnish milk she 
is in an unnatural condition, and that she has either some present affliction or 
is drifting into one. There is no escape. 



NOURISHING THE INFANT 325 

One of the most shameful and pitiful spectacles in the 

world is the deliberate suppression of the milk after it 

Suppressed has appeare( i j j f the ch ji<i can take the breast. When 

the interruption of a natural process occurs through weakness, the tendency of 
Nature is to restore the strength needed for a resumption of the process. It is 
for this reason that the Viavi treatment is so efficacious it furnishes Nature 
with the material upon which she may build her own strength and thus 
resume her process. When, however, there has been a resort to violence to 
check the process, Nature resents the outrage in the most summary manner. 
Swollen and broken breasts are to be expected from intentional suppression of 
milk. These are minor indications of the harm that has been done. The 
entire nervous system has received a heavy shock, its orderly way of attending 
to its duties has been deranged, and it being all at sea, the mischief that its 
derangement must do may take any form and direction. For a time the 
mother may experience no serious consequences of her rash act, but sooner or 
later the punishment will come ; some disease eventually will appear and its 
original cause never be suspected. 

In cases where the child dies, and lactation is normal, Nature seems to 
lend a wonderfully kind hand to ease the situation. The problem offered for 
solution in such cases is so complex, and reaches so deeply into the subject of 
human affections and sensibilities, and to their effect upon the physical nature, 
that we can do no more than say that Nature meets natural conditions intelli- 
gently. It seems to be a fact that lactation suppressed by the death of the 
child rarely produces the evil results, to so serious an extent, that are notice- 
able in cases where mothers refuse to put the child to breast, when the milk- 
secreting powers are normal. 

Some women of fashion are guilty of this crime against Nature because 
of the inconvenience of nursing or the supposed flabbiness that may be in- 
vited. At the other extreme of the social scale are poor women whose babies 
would be a burden and hindrance in the work that they must do. In either 
case the profoundest commiseration is roused. 

The woman who "dries up her breasts" for the sole pur- 
pose of securing her convenience denies herself the 

Affections softening and expanding influence that comes from hav- 

ing the confiding and affectionate little life pressed close to her heart and 
drawing its nutriment from her. This is the sweetest phase of maternity. It 
is the one more than all others that brings the mother and her child into the 
closest relations, that gives her a power over its destiny, and that awakens the 
deepest and finest emotions of her nature. Deliberately to deny herself the 
operation of this elevating and refining force is to thrust aside the most 
precious offering that Nature has placed within her reach. 

For a similar reason, no higher obligation rests upon a pregnant woman 



326 VIAVI HYGIENE 

than to employ every possible measure calculated to assure healthy lactation 
after her confinement. Outside the Viavi treatment there is nothing whatever 
that she may employ to bring about this happy result. 

It was the mother's blood that contained and conveyed 
Injury Done to to the unborn ch i 1( i t h e nutriment employed in its devel- 
opment. It is still the mother's blood that furnishes the 

nutriment in the form of milk. To make any change whatever in the char- 
acter of the nutriment designed by Nature for the sustenance and development 
of the child, either before or after birth, is to violate Nature's intention and 
defeat her purpose. The mother who is able to furnish milk, but instead of 
doing so dries up her breasts and employs a wet-nurse for her infant, is giving 
it a food that Nature does not design it to have. We can understand this when 
we reflect that no two human beings are alike ; it follows that the milk 
of no two women is identical in character. For the mother to employ a wet- 
nurse belonging to an alien race, is still more seriously to violate the natura) 
law. 

The infant who is compelled to subsist on artificial foods, or the milk of 
inferior animals, such as cows, is indeed an object of pity. A radical law of its 
development is violated, and it must suffer the penalty. Unfortunately, its 
helplessness prohibits its refusal to submit. It must suffer the outraged im- 
posed upon it by the superior force of those charged by the Creator to supply 
its needs intelligently. 

The mother's milk, the milk of the woman who bore the child, is its 
only natural food. Nature would not have designed the breasts of women if 
she had ever contemplated the likelihood of the employment of any other 
food. Nature knows best. Her ways are infinitely better than those that any 
human being can devise. 

m t The bowels of a new-born child contain a substance 

The Cl First calkd mec onium. This has a useful purpose in the fetal 

Experience state ^ but must ^ got rid of after birth> TQ meet this 

contingency here mark the wonderful wisdom of Nature the first milk given 
by the mother is scant, thin and watery; it contains little nutriment, but 
carries the very laxative that is needed to act properly on the infant's bowels 
to rid them of the meconium. If this is not removed, the digestive system of 
the child will be seriously impaired at the very threshold of its life. No arti- 
ficial laxative can possibly be identical with that contained in the first milk of 
the mother, and hence if the child does not receive this laxative from its 
mother's breasts, it will sustain an injury of greater or less moment. 

If the mother is able to furnish milk, the giving of anything else to the 
new-born child, such as tea, diluted cow's milk and the like, is a violation of a 
natural law, and consequently injures the child. This is mentioned because it 



NOURISHING THB INFANT 327 

is a veiy common practice, and displays a most reprehensible ignorance that is 
exceedingly prevalent. There seems to be a perverse quality in ignorance 
that leads it to expend an enormous amount of ingenuity in devising ways for 
outraging natural laws. Superfluous and irrational solicitude for the welfare 
of the child is the chief explanation of these pernicious manifestations of 
ignorance. 

The milk of every mammalian species is intended for 
Quality of Milk the young O f t j, at S p ec ies, and not for the young of any 
ns r other species. The secretion of milk by each separate 

species is more than a natural measure of convenience for the young of that 
species. We can understand one reason for this when we reflect that the 
young of different species require different periods for the completion of their 
infantile development, and that the milk of each species undergoes steady 
changes throughout this period. We have seen, for instance, that the first 
milk furnished by a human mother contains a laxative, but hardly any nutri- 
ment. This is because a laxative is required, while hardly any nutriment is de- 
manded, for the reason that at first the infant does not need it. Its digestive 
system remains dormant for a time after birth, and to give it nutriment, as is 
the common practice, is to give it work it was not intended to do, and cannot 
do properly nor without injury. 

As the child rapidly develops, the character of the mother's milk 
changes in quality to meet the changing demands of the child's system. This 
change in the quality of the milk is progressive, Nature enabling the mother 
to furnish, at any given time, milk containing the ingredients that the child's 
developing organism requires at that time. No human skill can possibly 
approach Nature's in devising so wonderful a mechanism. For this reason it 
is impossible to find cow's milk, or the milk of any other animal, that con- 
tains exactly the ingredients demanded by the infant's needs. 

The first act of volition on the part of the new-born child 
The Craving of is to seek its mother > s breast. Before being placed 

thereto, it gives signs that indicate its desire. When 

placed to the breast it will know what to do. Nature had implanted in it both 
the desire for the breast and the knowledge of what to do when placed to it. 
If there is no milk for it, or if the breasts are too sore and tender to bear its 
application, or the mother denies it from selfish motives, it cannot be reasoned 
with. It cannot be made to understand that the gratification of its intense 
longing is impossible. No explanation can be made to it that the mother 
charged with the most sacred of all duties is unfit to perform them, or that she 
has neglected the means whereby she might have fitted herself for them, ot 
that she is moved by selfishness to sacrifice the child's welfare. It will be 
many, many years before its intellect will have been developed to that point. 



328 VIA VI HYGIENE 

Meanwhile it must suffer the first and most serious of all the disappointments 
of its life. The one craving of the little soul must be denied. Could anything 
be more pathetic, more pitiful, more cruel ? Is there anything in all the world 
that could more strongly appeal to every susceptibility of the human heart, to 
every gentle emotion, to every one of the finer qualities that distinguish the 
highest of God's creatures? 

No imaginative pen is needed to depict the dumb suffering that the little 
life must endure, the crippling of its whole nature that must ensue. One of 
the most urgent and sacred of Nature's laws has been violated, one of the most 
pressing obligations resting upon conscience has been ignored. Who shall be 
the sufferer ? 

t A picture of the babe at its mother's breast, drawing its 
A Most Beautiful sustenance from her> is the most beautiful in the world. 

It is here that we see the marvelous scheme of Nature 

carried out in all its sublimity. The tender little life has found the harbor for 
which every instinct of its soul so eagerly yearns. It continues still to enjoy 
the protection and nurturing to which it has been accustomed in its mother's 
body. It still remains a part of her, body, blood and soul; it still depends 
upon her wisdom and kindly care. In addition, it has something infinitely 
more precious the mother-love, in full blobm and fragrance, the noblest, the 
tenderest, the most touching, the most enduring thing in life. From her body 
it draws the one and only nourishment that its all-wise Creator designed it to 
have. In the warmth of her body it enjoys infinite comfort and satisfaction, 
and the best of all aids to its digestion and the other natural functions of its 
little life. For it there is no other haven in all the world, no other nest so 
sweet and comfortable. There are no other breasts that it can caress so 
lovingly, no other arms that hold it so gently, so comfortably, so tenderly. 
There is no other heart that can so expand and mellow, no other hands that 
can do so much and be so soothing, no other head that can plan so well, no 
other aspirations that can sow the seed of hopes and efforts to fill the coming 
life with strength and gladness. 

Just as a mother's conduct and the condition of her 
xidents To Be health> as well as her state of m i n & t a ff ect tne quality of 

the child's nutriment and the manner of its supply 



she is carrying it in her womb, so will similar conditions have a like 
effect upon the food supply the milk after birth ; and just as these variations 
from the normal while the child is in the womb affect it injuriously to the end 
of its life, so will like departures from the normal during lactation produce 
similar injurious effects. It therefore behooves a mother to exercise the greatest 
care while she is nursing her child. Many cases are recorded in which the 
child was poisoned through the medium of the milk by the mother's giving 



NOURISHING THE INFANT 329 

way to some violent passiou. Innumerable children have actually starved to 
death because, although the quantity of the mother's milk seemed sufficient, 
the fluid was lacking in proper nutritive elements, due to unwise eating or 
other conduct on the part of the mother. The one safe rule to follow is for the 
mother to keep her mind and spirits cheerful, to guard her health in every 
possible way, to preserve her strength, and to eat abundantly all the nourish- 
ing food that she desires and that she finds to agree with her. Countless thou- 
sands of drunkards are made from the use by mothers of beer, wine or spirits 
while nursing their children. Fondness for tobacco, tea, coffee, sedatives and 
other nerve stimulants or hypnotics is thus implanted. 

The use of the Viavi treatment during pregnancy, be- 
Effects of Viavi gides accO mplishing all the good that it produces in that 

condition, assures a natural condition after delivery that 

makes lactation complete and enables it to meet all the demands of the young 
life. The resumption of the treatment fifteen days after confinement is a 
further aid to that end. It furnishes to the body the material and strength by 
which all the functions of the reproductive economy, in all its stages, are 
made natural. The power of the remedy in furnishing Nature with the 
strength and order by which she may assure normal lactation is demonstrated 
in thousands of cases annually throughout Christendom. The happiness that 
it has thus brought to mothers and the strength that it has thus implanted in 
infants are conspicuous and gratifying, and of inconceivable value. 

Lying in wait for infants are numerous diseases that sweep them off 
annually in appalling numbers. Dysintery, due to improper nourishment, is 
the most frequent cause observed. This is easily explained by the condition 
of the mothers. There are many other diseases that they may be expected to 
have, such as measles, whooping cough and the like. If they have sufficient 
strength and vitality, they will come safely through all these afflictions of 
childhood. The Viavi treatment enables mothers to impart to them the 
strength that will bring them through to competent manhood or womanhood. 



CHAPTER XLVIIT. 

INFLAMMATION OF THE BREASTS. 
(MASTITIS) 

> 

^NFLAMMATION of the breasts generally occurs during lactation (nurs* 
ing), and is most frequent at the beginning of lactation. It less fre- 
quently occurs at weaning. As it is a very distressing condition, and if 
neglected will lead to serious results, besides cutting off the infant's 
natural food supply or poisoning it by the infection of the products of inflam- 
mation, it requires prompt, intelligent and thorough treatment. In these 
affections we see the Viavi treatment operating with as perfect and permanent 
results as in all other inflammatory conditions. 

The inflammation may arise within the breast, or one of 

'M*! ' dl kS mi " k tubeS> by the sta S nation of milk > genially 

induced by a sore or imperfect nipple. Another cause is 

a weakness of the child which prevents its emptying the breast thoroughly. 
The undue pressure of ill-fitting clothes or corsets may be the cause ; this will 
serve as a mechanical obstruction in a number of tubes, the obstruction leading 
to inflammation. It is almost impossible for some women to nurse a child 
without suffering from a gathered breast. 

The two kinds of inflammation are the external and the internal, each 
developing into both forms. Inflammation of the milk ducts, or tubes, 
presents us with the internal form. This will have a tendency to spread out- 
ward and involve the surface. External inflammation begins on the surface, 
or rather in the tissue just beneath. It is of an erysipelatous character (resem- 
bling or partaking of the nature of erysipelas), and spreads inwardly, involving 
the substance of the breast, with its ducts, and producing caking. This exter- 
nal form is caused by injuries, such as bruises, or it may be caused by fright 
or exposure to cold. Such a condition frequently results in the formation of 



When it is found that the milk cannot be drawn in the 

When to Draw na tural way, whether by the absence or weakness of tha 

the Milk child, or from an obstruction of the milk tubes, or some 



INFLAMMATION OF THE BREASTS 331 

defect of the nipple, no time should be lost in making every effort to draw it 
by other means. Another infant may be secured for the purpose, or the service 
may be performed by a friend, or by young puppies. Means must be found for 
relieving the condition. Good protection should be given the inflamed breast 
in cold weather. 

If the Viavi treatment is followed up regularly during 
The Treatment for p re g nancv> these distressing afflictions of the breasts are 
Mastitis avoided. If from cold or other adventitious circum- 

stance an inflammatory condition has appeared, and the breast gathers or 
threatens to gather, the use of hot compresses (see Hot Compress on Breasts), 
followed by a thorough application of the Viavi cerate two or three times a 
day, will successfully reduce the inflammation and prevent the formation of 
abscesses. After nursing, the nipples should be sponged off with a little warm 
water, in which have been placed a few drops of the Viavi liquid. Then dry 
with a soft linen cloth, and dust over with corn starch, which will absorb all 
moisture and keep the nipple dry. Before placing the child at the breast the 
particles of adhering starch should be removed with warm water. Every time 
the child is removed from the breast this process should be repeated, until the 
nipple becomes sufficiently toughened. 

If the breasts become inflamed at any time independently of pregnancy, 
the hot or the cold compress should be used once or twice daily. (See 
Hygiene of Breasts.) The Viavi cerate is to be applied in a thorough manner 
over the breasts and under the arms immediately following the compress. It 
is but seldom that it will be necessary to lance a gathered breast if this treat- 
ment is begun in time and followed up. If an open sore exists see Hygiene 
of Breasts, No. 3. 




CHAPTER XLTX. 



MISCARRIAGE. 



i BORTION is the separation and expulsion of the immature ovum from 
the uterus, and may be either spontaneous, accidental or intentional. 
In the common acceptance of the term, it means the procurement of 
premature delivery. Under this acceptance there are two kinds of 
aborption the non-criminal, or that which is done in cases of maternal mal- 
formation, or for other cause to save the mother's life, and the criminal, or 
that which is produced at the solicitation of pregnant women who wish to 
escape either the burden or the shame of maternity. Criminal abortion is a 
subject so repulsive that it calls for no discussion here. In scientific usage the 
expulsion of the ovum during the first three months of pregnancy, from what- 
ever cause, is generally termed abortion. If the expulsion occur between the 
termination of that period and the viability (ability to live) of the fetus, it is 
generally termed miscarriage, or immature delivery. If it occur between the 
appearance of viability and the maturity of the fetus, it is called premature 
delivery. For convenience, in this chapter we shall speak of them all as mis- 
carriage; that leaves no room for popular doubt as to the meaning intended. 

Almost anything capable of affecting a woman to a 
marked degree, whether it proceed from internal or 
external sources, may produce miscarriage at any time 

during pregnancy. No two women are alike in this regard. Within certain 
limitations, what may easily produce miscarriage in one woman will not have 
that effect in another. A great deal depends upon the strength of the indi 
vidual, her constitutional peculiarities, and her susceptibility to externa. 
injuries and impressions. Any unhealthy condition, constitutional or local, 
may produce miscarriage in one woman and not in another. Some women 
pass safely through pregnancy with the severest acute or chronic disease, while 
a slight attack of illness will produce miscarriage in others. Some women 
bear the heaviest sudden strain or most serious accident in safety, while the 
slightest mishap, such as a misstep, the lifting of a light object, fright, joy and 
the like, will produce miscarriage in others. Almost any disease of the uterine 



MISCARRIAGE 333 

organs will lend to cause miscarriage. The only rule that should govern 
women is to exercise the greatest care under all circumstances and at all times, 
and to secure health as c. safeguard against any untoward contingency that 
may arise. 

The causes of miscarriage are many. In habitual pro- 
bpccinc Causes lapsus the impregnated womb may become impacted in 

the true pelvis, thus preventing its rising into the roomy 

false pelvis above. As the womb enlarges in this small space it gives rise to 
great irritation and is followed by abortion. Retroversion may be followed by 
the same results, and also anteversion, where the bladder is greatly irritated. 
It is on account of the liability to these accidents and their serious results to 
the pregnant woman under such circumstances that we never advise a woman 
suffering from displacements to invite maternity as a cure. 

Other causes are inflammation, ulceration, cancer, leucorrhea, placenta 
previa, induration or hardening of the cervix, irritable uterus, etc. Physical 
exertion may have the same effect, such as driving over rough roads in a car- 
riage, riding horseback, excessive intercourse, laborious occupations, fatiguing 
exercise, etc. One of the most frequent causes of miscarriage is the failure 
of the womb to expand properly, or a rigidity of its muscles. Rigid uterine 
walls oppose all advance of the growth of the ovum within ; hence it must 
die. The fetus must not only live, but it must grow, and thus an unyielding 
womb may be the cause of miscarriage after miscarriage, until a veritable 
habitual miscarriage has been set up. Under the Viavi treatment the cause, 
upon being recognized, is overcome. The treatment restores to the muscles of 
the womb their natural tone and elasticity, enabling gestation to proceed to 
its natural termination. The treatment tones up the whole muscular system, 
but its most marked properties consist in the specific tonic influence it exer- 
cises on the female organs of generation, imparting tone to the uterus, thereby 
not only promoting its healthy functional activity, but also preventing that 
morbid condition that leads to miscarriage. 

Miscarriage is the interruption of an elaborate plan put 
Eva rjiects 01 j n O p era tion by Nature for her own wise purposes. To 
Miscarriage check this progress of natural events is to overturn the 
numerous complex laws whose operation has been set in motion ; and we know 
that to interfere with the operation of natural laws is inevitably to incur pun- 
ishment. In miscarriage the penalties are very severe for the reason that so 
many important natural conditions are overturned. Miscarriage is not simply 
a matter of the womb expelling its contents before its time. 

Pregnancy is a condition to which every element in . woman't organism 
is a contributor. Everything that constitutes her a living creature has beejr 
called upon and fitted to perform its share of the mighty work that Naturs 



334 VIA VI HYGIENE 

has undertaken wftn the woman as an instrumentality. She is in the hands 
and under the dominion of powerful and mysterious forces that no human 
intelligence is able to comprehend. She has been taken in hand by the Cre- 
ator of all things, and all her powers and activities have been arranged upon 
a new and wonderful plan. Hence in a pregnant state a woman is a being far 
different from her normal self. All her forces have entered upon a series of 
changes that are intended to continue till the end of lactation beyond that, 
even, for her finer and higher nature is already being prepared to meet the 
great duty of caring for her child, of loving it, of leading it safely through 
the mazes of childhood into the broad way of adult life. Hence we can under- 
stand what violence everything which makes her a woman must suffer when 
this splendid chain of occurrences is suddenly and rudely snapped. 

We have seen that in pregnancy the heart is enlarged to 
Study o d() the extra work j mposed upon i t . that the digestive 

system undergoes important modifications in order that 
it may be able to sustain two lives instead of one ; that the uterine organs, 
particularly the womb, have adapted themselves to the intelligent discharge of 
the wonderful duty that they are called upon to perform ; that the entire ner- 
vous system has undergone important modifications that enable it to direct the 
new and complex forces called into play ; that the character and circulation of 
the blood have been greatly changed, to meet new conditions. It is intended 
that all of these complex forces should continue in operation for a certain 
length of time, and undergo modifications as the various stages of the great 
creative miracle are met. t 

All at once a wheel snaps in this marvelously complex and ceaselessly 
busy machine. All the splendid purposes that Nature had in view are rudely 
dashed to the ground. Every one of the readjusted forces in the system finds 
itself violently checked and turned aside. Could any but serious consequences 
be expected ? And yet there are women who look upon miscarriage as a trifiing 
affair, and some (be it said to the infinite shame of humanity) who welcome 
it as a release from an impending burden. 

Miscarriage strikes at the foundation of everything that makes a woman 
a woman. She suffers not alone physical harm that will endure to the end of 
her life, and that will give particular evidence of its presence at the change of 
life, but her mental and moral nature has received a blow from which it can 
never recover. Every obligation that rests upon womanhood impels her to 
guard against so grievous a misfortune. 

Elsewhere in this volume, particularly in tLe chapter on 

iTp Regular Habits, we have seen how easily habits are 

formed and how tenaciously they hold. Nature is a 

creature of habit. It is for this reason that the habit of miscarriage is so 



MISCARRIAGE 335 

jeadily formed. All persons familiar with the subject are aware that if a mis- 
carriage occur at any stage in pregnancy, a repetition of the mishap is likelv 
to occur when that stage arrives in a subsequent pregnancy. For that reason, 
a woman who has suffered a miscarriage and again becomes pregnant, should 
be on her guard. Upon the approach of the critical time she should keep to 
her bed or couch as closely as possible. 

The Viavi treatment used during pregnancy has a remarkable effect in 
reducing the tendency to a repetition of the misfortune, but it should receive 
the intelligent assistance of the patient. If the tendency is overcome in the 
first subsequent pregnancy, it will be greatly weakened in the second. On. 
the other hand, if it is permitted to occur the second time, its tendency to 
occur the third time is greatly strengthened. Every one of these occurrences 
is highly injurious. The evil effects are cumulative, so that if the habit has 
been permitted to gain headway, the strength to overcome it will be progres- 
sively decreased. While the victim is still a young woman she finds herself a 
physical and mental wreck, unfit for the duties of wifehood. Many young 
women can bear a great deal of such injury without showing any serious 
immediate results ; but Nature never fails to inflict the punishment in time ; as 
the vigor and resisting power of youth gradually weaken, Nature finds the 
opportunity for which she has been waiting, and inflicts the serious punish- 
ment that she has held in abeyance. 

At the first indication of miscarriage a woman should 
The Treatment for ret j re an( i rem ain perfectly quiet until all symptoms 

Miscarriage have disappeared. A woman so predisposed should take 
tio violent exercise whatever, neither should she allow herself to become over- 
heated or excited, but should live as quiet a life as her circumstances will 
permit until delivery at full term. 

The Viavi capsule should be used per rectum instead of per vagina when 
miscarriage is threatened; discontinue douches. Use the Viavi cerate lightly 
over the abdominal region daily, but its use over the spinal column should be 
particularly thorough twice a day. The Viavi tonic is always advised to build 
the patient's strength. The cold or the hot compress once a day over the 
abdomen will be followed by marked beneficial changes. It should be con- 
tinued from twenty minutes to one-half hour at a time. (See Compress.) 

In miscarriage, as in labor, the great danger arises from hemorrhage after 
the fetus has been expelled from the uterus by the retention of bits or all of 
the membranes or placenta. Not uufrequently the membrane will remain for 
weeks, thus causing a constant hemorrhage more or less profuse. 

If miscarriage should occur, the situation is similar to 

Abortion Rarely that of con fi nemen t, and the attendance of a skillful 

Necessary obstetrician is required. The Viavi treatment for the 



3^6 VIA VI HYGIENE 

resulting inflammation or subinvolution of the womb is given in the chapter 
on Inflammation of the Womb. The Viavi treatment for breaking up the 
habit of miscarriage is the same as that for Pregnancy (which see). This is 
the only treatment known or ever employed for overcoming habitual mis- 
carriage. 

We have an abundance of proof that under the Viavi treatment no state 
nor condition of health outside of malformation of the pelvis demands the 
production of abortion to save the mother's life, as we deem "a child con- 
ceived a child born." Abortions, whether spontaneous, accidental or inten- 
tional, not only destroy the life of the embryo, but greatly lower the standard 
of the mother's health as well as endanger her life. 

Some of the most brilliant work that the Viavi treat- 

ew instances men t has done in its happy mission throughout the 

civilized world has been in the complete overcoming of 

habitual miscarriage. It has thus not only relieved many thousands of women 
from an affliction that was destroying them, but has made it possible for the 
strong and beautiful maternal instinct to be gratified. Only a few of these 
cases can be mentioned here. 

One was that of a sufferer who had miscarried four times before using 
the Viavi treatment. After coming under the treatment she carried her fifth 
child to full term and gave birth to a well-developed, healthy infant. 

Another case was that of a lady living in Utah, U. S. A., who had mis- 
carried twice from severe ulceration and prolapsus. After using the Viavi 
treatment four mouths she became pregnant, and in nine months gave birth to 
a healthy, perfectly-developed daughter. 

One sufferer had miscarried at two months. In her next pregnancy she 
carried the child six and a half months and was then delivered prematurely. 
In four months she became pregnant again and at two months narrowly 
escaped miscarriage; she could scarcely walk about the house. When four 
months advanced, she began the use of the Viavi treatment. She felt worse 
for a time, but gradually grew better. At nine months she gave birth to a 
nine-and-a-half-pound child. She had an easy delivery. 

A more complicated case was that of a patient who had suffered six pre- 
mature births, caused by retroversion, inflammation of the ovaries and leucor- 
rkea. After adopting the Viavi treatment she gave birth to a ten-and-a-half- 
pound child at full term. 



CHAPTER L. 
STERILITY. 

(BARRENNESS.) 



the technical term used to describe the condition of ba'rren- 
1||| ness, or infertility. Both women and men may be sterile, but the term 
:| is here employed to denote the sterility of women. There is no differ- 
ence between the meaning of the words "sterile" and "barren"; they 
have merely come into our language from different sources. The use of the 
word "barren" in the Bible has probably given rise to its current acceptance in 
Inscribing the sterility of women. In Viavi literature the words "sterile" and 
"sterility" are employed instead of "barren" and "barrenness." 

All living creatures were designed to reproduce their kind. That is the 
only way in which species can be perpetuated. If any living thing, whether 
plant or animal, is sterile, or unable to reproduce its kind, it has lost its funda- 
mental place in the great scheme of the Creator. There are sterile men and 
women of noble character and the highest social usefulness, but it is denied to 
them to impress directly upon heredity the superior qualities that distinguish 
them, and thus become physical factors in the elevation of humanity. They 
may do much to affect favorably the present and the future of mankind by 
indirect means, but they cannot exercise the splendid power of a wholesome 
heredity. And after all is said, the sterile man or woman is physically imper- 
fect. We all know that physical perfection is the basis of the highest mental 
powers and moral influence. In other words, sterility is a disease, whether 
congenital or acquired. It is always a reproach. 

It is generally admitted that in every ten cases of child- 
More witix Women less marriages> the ste rility of the husband accounts for 
than Men QUe and that of tlie wife for nine> Thig means to say 

that for every imperfect man there are nine imperfect women. Nature never 
designed that this remarkable difference should exist. We have seen in former 
chapters why there is so great a prevalence of disease and weakness among 
women, and why these conditions are comparatively so rare among men. 
We can now understand why sterility is so much more common among 



33 8 STERILITY 

women than men, and why there is so great a need of such a reformation ar 
that represented by the Viavi movement. 

There are many women who for valid reasons apart from 
How It Affects considerations of health never marry. This discussion 

has nothing to do with them. We are considering only 

married women, and those with whom marriage is probable. It is evident 
that marriage is one of the vital steps in the great plan of Nature for the per- 
petuation of our species. If men and wonen marry with the deliberate 
intention of refraining from having children, while being competent to pro- 
duce healthy children, they are violating one of the most sacred laws of 
Nature, and will suffer in more ways than they will likely ever comprehend. 
There are many wives, and fewer husbands, who fear that the advent of chil- 
dren will serve as a weakening of the affection that led to the marriage. This 
is an unwholesome, unnatural and shortsighted view. There are some hus- 
bands who resent pregnancy in their wives, from any but manly motives; the 
wives of such men deserve the profoundest pity. There are many women who 
avoid maternity because it will hamper their freedom and their enjoyment c/ 
trivial pleasures; they should understand that no pleasure that life can offer 
is so great as maternity. There are other womon who welcome a disease that 
renders them sterile; they should reflect that no woman can be a wife in the 
full sense unless she is competent for maternity. There are others who resort 
to the most shameful violations of natural laws to escape maternity; they 
should remember that every violation of a natural law is punished, and that 
in such violations vastly more is lost than gained. 

Children are the stay and bond of the marriage relation. They give 
strength and stability to the borne. They are the inspiration of the highest 
endeavor, the brightest hopes. They make man and wife partners in the 
truest sense, and lend to their mutual affection a tenderness, an unselfishness, 
a mutual interest and solicitude that are impossible in a childless marriage. 

It will probably be found upon a study of divorces that 
Injury t ^y f ar t jj e g rea ter number of them occur in cases where 

there are no children. If so, this will show not only 

that the greatest strengthener of the bond between husband and wife has been 
absent, but also that the natures of both, and particularly the nature of the 
wife, have suffered in numerous ways of which they may be unconscious, but 
which operate against the firmness of the conjugal bond. Marriage places a 
woman in a position far different from that of a single woman. In the nature 
of a married woman moral and mental qualities have been awakened that 
must lie dormant in the woman who does not marry. The awakening of these 
qualities is the natural preparation for maternity. It is very often observed 
that the maternal instinct is exceedingly strong even in ^oung women whose 



fERIUTY 339 

circumstances nave never permitted them either to love or to marry. It must 
therefore be verv much stronger and more general with women who have 
married. 

The suppression of any natural and wholesome inclination, particularly 
one that reaches to the foundation of one's life, is bound to work an impov- 
erishment of the character. It is the turning aside of the operation of a 
natural law, and we may not do that without suffering in one or more of an 
infinite number of ways. Aside from the injury suffered by the higher nature, 
is that to which the physical nature is subjected. It is designed by Nature that 
maternity should follow marriage. It is her expectation, her plan. The 
physical being of the wife is fitted for that high function. If it is denied the 
exercise of the function, weakness or disease naav be expected. 

Our observation has shown that while maternity, In tne 
What Observation absence of a wise understanding of the conditions 
nas onown required for its perfection., gives rise to numerous dis- 
eases from which childless wives are free, there is far greater suffering among 
wives who have denied themselves the maternal function or lacked the strength 
to perform it. That is what might have been expected. It is better for a 
woman to be fit for maternity, and to become a mother, than to be unable to 
experience it, or to evade it if she is able. It is an eloquent fact that however 
unwise it may seem to invite children by reason of discouraging extraneous 
circumstances, when they do appear there is nearly always a way for giving 
them the attention they require. This is because it is all a part of the natural 
plan, and because upon the advent of children the internal resources of the 
parents are developed to meet wisely all the contingencies that arise. 

An ailing mother has a greater incentive to be well and strong than a 
childless woman. As it is absurd to assume the possibility of any conflict 
between conjugal love and maternal affection, but as they both are parts of a 
natural whole, each strengthening the other, the mother's mental condition 
becomes a powerful influence for securing the soundness of her physical 
nature. 

Throughout all animate nature we see the intense desire 
atural Law f or eac ^ S p ec i es to reproduce its kind, and the great 

pains and labor employed to secure that end. It remains 

for human beings, the crowning handiwork of the Creator's power, to exhibit 
inferiority in this regard. It has become the fashion in many quarters to 
assume that as we are so far above plants and animals, we are beyond the 
operation of laws governing them, or may bend them to suit our will. This is 
the fatal error of the age. We have, it is true, qualities and attributes immeas- 
urably higher than those of the humbler creatures of Nature, but these are 
only additions to the attributes that they enjoy, and by no means substitute* 



340 VIA VI HYGIENE 

With regard to reproduction, we are under the same iron law thr.t governs the 
conduct and destiny of the humblest weed. Instead of employing our added 
and higher qualities to an understanding and obedience of that immutable 
'aw, the most of us pervert and degrade the. use fulness of our powers, and 
employ them for our own destruction instead of for the securing of our greater 
happiness. It is incumbent upon us not only to follow with absolute strict- 
ness the law of reproduction governing the humblest of the Almighty's creat- 
ures, but in addition to understand the law and bring to its operation the high 
intelligence and conscience with which we have been endowed. 

. Many women, from disease, weakness or congenital im- 

perfection, are unable to conceive. Many others con- 
y ceive, but are unable to carry the child to full term. 

(See chapter on Miscarriages.) A woman who cannot conceive is said to be 
absolutely sterile, and one who has borne one or two children, and then devel- 
ops an inability to conceive again, is said to be relatively sterile. During the 
early period of nursing (lactation) most women are sterile, though there are 
exceptions. Such a condition is termed temporary physiological sterility ; as 
it Is natural, it represents no harm, but an evident benefit, to the economy. 
After a woman has passed the change of life, her condition is called permanent 
physiological sterility. That also is a natural condition, established by Nature 
for evident wise purposes. Thus there is a great difference between sterility 
caused by weakness, disease or other imperfection, and that which is natural. 
This is the difference between disease and health. 

Sterility may be congenital that is, a woman may be 
Some Causes of born with such imperfections as render her sterile. 
Sterility These may or may not be of a kind that affects her sex- 

ual nature. As the ovaries are the center and source of the sexual nature, if 
they are fully developed and perform their functions properly, the sexual 
nature does not suffer a serious impairment, even though conception is impos- 
sible,. This impossibility may exist in such an arrangement of the ovaries 
and the fimbriated ends of the Fallopian tubes as to prohibit the tubes from 
catching up the eggs as they leave the ovaries and conveying them safely to 
the womb. Or there may be deformities of the tubes, womb or vagina. 

If the cause of sterility is referable to disease or non-development of the 
ovaries, the sexual nature is imperfect, and the wife is physically unfitted for 
the conjugal relation. This renders it exceedingly important that the normal 
development of young girls should be watched and guarded with the utmost 
solicitude. (See chapter on Non-development.) Even in many cases where 
non-development had been neglected until marriage, and had thus seemingly 
become a permanent condition, the use of the Viavi treatment has made the 
wife perfect for the functions of wife and mother. 



STERILITY 341 

Ofteii sterility is due to a general weak condition, or a 
Disease rroouces chronic disease not situated in the generative organs. 
Sterility Most generally the cause is to be found in those organs. 

In the act of conception all the organs of generation are concerned the vagina, 
the womb, the Fallopian tubes and ovaries. Therefore the health of them all 
must be perfect, or at least not so badly diseased as to prohibit conception. 
Diseases of the ovaries are the most frequent cause. Chronic ovaritis prevents 
the ripening of the ova (eggs) by interfering with their nutrition, or the 
ovaries may become so deeply imbedded in inflammatory deposits that the 
eggs are unable to push their way through in ovulation. Changes in the struct- 
ure of the ovaries, such as are caused by cancer, cystic tumors and the like, 
generally produce sterility. The ovaries may become so fastened down by 
adhesions as the result of ovaritis that the eggs cannot be taken up by the 
Fallopian tubes. 

t Inflammation of the Fallopian tubes (catarrhal salpin- 

Tubal Diseases gltig ^ is a f requent cause of sterility, and accounts for a 
a Cause large number of extra-uterine pregnancies. (See chapter 

on Pregnancy.) In the chapter devoted to the anatomy of the uterine organs 
the form, function and calibre of the tubes are described. If the diameter 
of the tubes is much re ""uced by inflammation, the egg cannot be carried 
forward to the womb by t..e hair-like processes lining the tubes. As a conse- 
quence, the impregnated eggs lodge in the tubes, causing the dreadful condi- 
tion known as tubal pregnancy. 

It may be here stated that it is only to the unhealthy woman that preg- 
nancy should have any terrors. As pregnancy is a condition that may arise at 
any time in the married state, its dangers may be avoided by securing perfect 
physical soundness. 

Foreign growths in the tubes will cause sterility, as will also any disease 
that impairs their function or structure. In a diseased condition of the tubes 
the discharge into their canals is likely to be acrid, thus destroying the life of 
the male germ before it impregnates the ovum, or destroying the life of the 
impregnated ovum on its way to the womb. The tubes may become sealed at 
the uterine ends by inflammation or curetting, thus preventing the passage of 
|he eggs. 

In the chapters on Pregnancy and Miscarriages the effect 

Diseased Womb Is of the womb s condition on the childbearing power are 

discussed; they throw much light upon the subject of 

sterility. If the womb is absent or imperfectly developed, or the cervix is 
abnormally long or constricted, or if there is a tumorous or cancerous condi- 
tion of the womb, or subiuvolution is present, there will likely be sterilitv. 
Inflammation of the womb or its surrounding tissues is a frequent cause of 



342 VIA VI HYGIENE 

sterility. (See chapter on Inflammation of the Womb for the various forms of 
that condition.) Accompanying the inflammatory conditions may be secre- 
tions destructive to the male germ. 

We have found in our experience that the most frequent cause of sterility 
is an unhealthy condition of the endometrium, or lining membrane of the 
womb ; this prevents the secure lodgment of the fecundated egg. (See chapter 
on Pregnancy.) Further, if the lining is diseased, its placenta-forming power 
is weakened, so that death of the impregnated ovum may occur from that 
cause, even though it has found lodgment in the lining. 

Flexures of the womb (see chapter on Displacements of the Womb) 
give rise to a diseased condition of the lining membrane that renders successful 
pregnancy impossible. Curettements and dilatations are worse than useless in 
the treatment of such cases. 

A diseased condition of the vagina may cause sterility by giving rise to 
a destructive secretion fatal to the life of the male germ. 

In every civilized country the Viavi treatment has 
The. Treatment for brought the c hiid bearing capacity to thousands of 
Sterility women who had yearned hopelessly for children and 

who had been unable to find relief at the hands of the most skillful attendants. 
In accomplishing that result it has made women all that they should be 
wives in every sense and true companions and partners of their husbands. 
Many women who had accepted a dictum that they were incurably sterile have 
been surprised and gratified to see that maternity was possible with them. No 
woman should take it for granted that she is incurably sterile. In view of the 
remarkable achievements of the Viavi treatment in this direction, hope is 
extended to all whom the surgeon's knife has not utterly deprived of the most 
valuable attribute of womanhood. A woman's inability to bear children pro- 
claims her an imperfect woman, and hence constitutes a reproach and becomes 
a source of humiliation and embarrassment. Under the Viavi treatment the 
vital forces are renewed and strengthened, displacements overcome, inflam- 
mation reduced, ovarian disorders eradicated, adhesions absorbed, leucorrheal 
discharges removed, impoverished and impure blood made rich and pure, the 
circulation firmly established, the nerves fed, and all the other causes of 
sterility traceable to disease or weakness overcome in ninety-nine out of every 
hundred cases. 

So many cases of women cured of sterility by the Viavi 
A Few Cases of treatment might be cited that it is difficult to make a 
Recovery selection. It is believed that the following will serve 

as types: 

A lady in the State of Oregon, U. S. A., had been married six years, and 
although very anxious to become a mother had never conceived. She believed 



STERILITY 343 

herself to be sterile, but after a five months' use of the Viavi treatment to 
right a displacement and cure a leucorrheal discharge, she conceived, and at 
term gave birth to a ten-and-three-quarter-pound daughter, being in labor but 
one hour. 

Another case was that of the wife of a gentleman living in San Francisco, 
U. S. A., who called at our office to inquire about the Viavi treatment and its 
efficacy in overcoming sterility. He stated that he had been married five 
years, that seemingly his wife was in perfect health, but that the best of physi- 
cians in the city had pronounced her hopelessly sterile. A very careful exam- 
ination revealed no apparent cause for sterility, but she came under the Viavi 
treatment and used it regularly for six months. Then she conceived, carried 
the child to full term, and was delivered easily, with no complications whatever, 
although about thirty-two years of age and of extremely slight build. 

Another case was that of Mrs. M., who had suffered with painful men- 
struation and leucorrhea since thirteen years of age. After marrying she 
suffered several severe attacks of peritonitis, and her condition was such that 
she also was pronounced hopelessly sterile. After coming under the Viavi 
treatment an ovarian abscess broke and discharged through the bowels. After 
this her recovery was rapid. She not only conceived, but in time gave birth 
to a well-developed son. 

We recall a case where parents had been married and childless eighteen 
years. The wife, after employing the Viavi treatment, gave birth to a child 
that was healthy and strong. 



CHAPTER LI. 



A WOMAN'S REST PERIOD. 



<N the chapter on Activity, Rest and Sleep we showed that rest is an essen- 
tial step in natural processes, in order that recuperative forces may have 
an opportunity to restore the energy consumed in activity. A beautiful 
illustration of this is seen in the immunity of a perfectly healthy mar- 
ried woman to conception for a certain period every month. The operation 
of this law is seen in the lives of all living things. We can readily understand 
why this must be so. The exercise of the reproductive function requires an 
enormous expenditure of force. If plants and animals possessed the power 
at all times to reproduce their kind, reproduction would be so enormously 
rapid as soon to overrun the earth. If the ability to exercise this power were 
uninterrupted, living things would exist for no purpose other than that of 
reproducing their kind. We have learned that reproduction is only one of the 
purposes of all living creatures, though a very important one ; and that unless 
they are perfect for that duty, they are perfect for none. The same law applies 
in full force to human beings. 

In a wild state, plants in the temperate zone generally 
Illustrations from have but one time j n a year ^en they can reproduce 
Nature their kind. It is so generally with birds, fishes and 

mammals. It is so with the most primitive savage human tribes as well, as 
we have seen in the chapter on Pregnancy. Departures from the operation of 
this law are seen in domesticated plants and animals, and the reason is that 
they have departed from the primitive natural conditions of their being. In 
this sense civilization is a sort of domestication ; that is, we find that civilized 
people, not being wild animals nor savages, are not governed by the law fixing 
certain seasons of the year as the proper time for reproduction. Nevertheless, 
so extremely jealous is Nature of the perfect integrity of the reproductive 
function that in the case of civilized races she has merely modified the law 
governing it. This she has done by bringing the rest period once a month, 
itistead of once a year. She has not made the terrible mistake of making the 






A WOMAN' vS llEST PERIOD 345 

reproductive function continuous, uninterrupted, in civilized women. Instead, 
however, of leaving the operation of the law to instinct, as she does in the 
lower animals, she requires the intelligence of civilized women to know what 
the rest period is, what its purposes are, when it occurs, and what are the 
conditions necessary for its perfect usefulness. 

The period of rest is that time occurring between the 
menstrual periods when conception in a perfectly 
healthy married woman is impossible. It has been 

shown elsewhere that menstruation and ovulation (the extrusion of an egg by 
an ovary) are independent of each other. Hence we may assume that impreg- 
nation may occur at any time, but that unless the conditions are right for the 
development of the impregnated ovum (egg), pregnancy will not ensue In 
the chapter on Menstruation we learned that this function is due largely to 
certain conditions arising monthly in the womb, and in the chapter on Preg- 
nancy we saw the intimate relations existing between menstruation and preg- 
nancy. It seems reasonable, therefore, to assume (though the subject is in- 
volved in great obscurity, and hardly more than speculation may be indulged) 
that the descent of an impregnated ovum to the womb must occur at a time 
when the uterine condition existing for a few days after menstruation is favor- 
able to the retention, sustenance and development of the ovum, if pregnancy 
is to result. If not, the egg, whether impregnated or not, passes away. 

The seemingly evident purpose of the rest period is to enable married 
women to determine whether or not it would be wise for them to invite mater- 
nity by abstaining from the conjugal act until the period of rest arrives. 

Women will be found who will positively declare that 
The Experiences of there is nQ suctl ^^g as tne rest p er i d, but their state- 
women ments are not reliable, such women never having been 
in a perfect physical condition. Many will be found, however, who will as 
positively affirm that the rest period does exist, and they know to a day when 
the maternity period is suspended and the rest period begins. The writer has 
questioned thousands and thousands of women on this subject for many years, 
and the majority affirm that the rest period exists and that it has even been 
taken advantage of by their mothers and grandmothers. In the healthy woman 
this period arrives with as great regularity at a certain time of her individual 
month as does her individual menstrual period. The regularity of her period 
is her protection, as in just so many days thereafter will her period of rest fol- 
low and continue until its appearance and cessation. 

Menstruation is governed largely by the nervous system, 

Why C< >tion Is as has been p rev i ous i y shown, as are the other vital func- 

impossi tions ; hence the necessity of placing the whole system 



346 VIAVI HYGIENE 

in a perfect condition, so that the regularity of the menstrual period, the 
maternity period and the rest period may be assured in every woman's case. 
During the maternity period the lining membrane of the womb is receptive. 
During the rest period, by reason of the preparation that is going on by which 
the membrane will be cast off at the menstrual period, conception will not 
occur. 

In delicate women frequent childbirth is greatly dreaded, as they in no- 
wise regain their strength before forced to undergo a severe drain upon the 
system again and again. Women so placed are greatly to be pitied. Invited 
maternity every four or five years would add much to their happiness without 
endangering their life or health. So great is an unhealthy woman's dread of 
accidental or enforced maternity that we have heard large numbers of them 
declare that they were never perfectly happy except when menstruating, living 
in dread from one period to another. 

The highest duty of a married woman is to be fit at all 
Maternity May Be times for mate rnity. If she is not, she cannot be a per- 
Ul-Adviseo ect w jf e Qr mo ther. Many reasons may exist for mak- 

ing maternity little less than a crime. It may be so if either of the parents 
is a drunkard, or insane, or a habitual criminal, or if either is scrofulous or 
Syphilitic, or if either comes from a line in which consumption or cancer has 
appeared from generation to generation, or if disease or weakness of the 
mother's generative nature would render pregnancy dangerous to her and a 
probable cause of serious infirmities in the child, or if the mother has any hinder- 
ing malformation of the pelvic bones or generative organs, or if former experien- 
ces have shown beyond doubt that it will be impossible to carry the child to 
term. Nature has imposed upon the intelligence and conscience of parents, 
particularly the mother, the duty of knowing when these conditions exist, 
and has informed them through their observing and reasoning faculties that 
if they ignore these conditions and invite maternity in spite of them, they will 
be violating one of her most sacred and essential laws, and will be visited, with- 
out fail, with the severest punishment. 

The regular and orderly occurrence of natural events de- 

If a Wife Is pends upon perfect health. We have seen elsewhere 

Unhealthy jjow true j^is j s j n menstruation and the other functions 

of the generative system. It is true in every other function of the body. The 

chapter on Regular Habits throws much light upon this subject. Just as an 

unhealthy woman may be troubled with irregularity of the menses, so may she 

expect irregularity in the appearance and duration of the rest period. If the 

rest period does not appear and continue as Nature intended that it should, 

the whole economy of the woman will suffer, and, worst of all, pregnancy 

jnay occur at any time. Many women are never certain that they are free 



A WOMAN'S REST PERIOD 347 

from that condition, and experience mental peace only during the menstrual 
flow. We have shown elsewhere, however, that even this indication of free- 
dom from pregnancy may be illusory, especially with women who are not 
perfectly healthy. Fear of impregnation generally leads such women to em- 
ploy unnatural, and therefore injurious, means for preventing pregnancy. 

No such dread will poison the life of a perfectly healthy 
It the wile Is w jf e who knows what the rest period is and what its pur- 
Healthy poses are. In the first place, if is a perfect woman 
she will more than likely desire to bear children, an ^ hence will be haunted 
by no fears of pregnancy. It is the unsound woman who is vitally interested 
in this subject, and often for excellent reasons. 

In the perfectly healthy woman the rest period *>' ~*ves generally about 
the twelfth day after the cessation of a menstrual period, though in some cases 
it does not arrive until the twelfth to sixteenth day after the cessation of the 
flow. This will continue until the next menstruation. Hence the rest period 
extends over ten to twelve days every month. In a healthy woman it occurs 
with the perfect regularity of menstruation. If she desires children she will 
therefore know that the marital act performed before the twefth, fourteenth 
and sixteenth day after menstruation is the only time in which it can render 
her pregnant. It does not necessarily follow, however, that pregnancy will re- 
sult, even though all the conditions may seem favorable. There must be other 
conditions, though invisible. For instance, there must be a proper coincidence 
between the time of impregnation and the arrival of the impregnated ovum in 
the womb. It has often happened that perfectly sound women, married to 
virile husbands, did not become pregnant for years after marriage, seemingly 
because the proper conjunction of essential conditions had not occurred. 

. As we have learned in preceding chapters the remark- 
Effects of Viavi able effectiveness of the Viavi treatment in placing the 
Treatment generative nature of a woman in perfect condition, it is 

easy to understand why health secured by its use assures the regular and nat- 
ural appearance and duration of the rest period, and thus places it in the 
power of healthy wives to limit the number of their offspring for proper rea- 
sons, and women who are not fit for maternity to avoid it by natural means. 
Regularity and health of function are secured by the treatment. This applies 
to all the functions of the generative nature> including the period of rest. 

Even with parents who are perfectly sound and yet who fail to have 
children by reason of a lack of coincidence of all the conditions essential to 
pregnancy, the treatment overcomes the slight but fatal barrier to the enjoy- 
ment of the highest of life's blessings, and brings the light and gladness of 
childhood into the home. 



CHAPTER LII. 



LACERATION 



Y a cervical laceration is meant a tearing of the os or mouth of the neck 
of the womb. The orifice of the womb, the same as all other orifices 
of the body, is a wonderful anatomical arrangement. It is surrounded 
by muscular rings or bands which are capable, when healthy, of enor- 
mous distension. The mouth of the womb is bountifully supplied with the 
most delicate nerve filaments, which are largely under the control of the ova- 
rian nerves ; hence the many painful and reflex symptoms felt in the ovarian 
region from cervical laceration. 

( The mouth of the womb is so small that to the finger it 

Examination With feels like a dent> It is abnormally large when the end 
the Finger of the Httle finger can be i nse rted. If the os (mouth) 

feels elongated or like a slit to the examining touch, a laceration exists. Com- 
pare an opening that would admit a small pea with one that would accommo- 
date an infant's head, and a very good idea can be obtained of the enormous 
expansion that must occur to allow the passage of the child through the 
mouth of the womb at parturition. It is opened from within outward by the 
gradual downward pressure of the bag of waters, which precedes the presenting 
of the child's head. When the womb is diseased it is either hard, rigid and 
unyielding, thus tearing or lacerating at childbirth instead of expanding, 
or it is soft and easily torn from the lack of normal elasticity. In the healthy 
womb the muscular rings or bands are elastic, and this condition is its only 
protection against laceration or injury at childbirth. 

In laceration, part of the womb is not torn away, but the 
Why No Tendency rent is similar to a tear made by the tearing of the mouth 

backward into the muscles of the cheek. The raw sur- 
faces do not remain together, but roll away from each other as the ends of a 
split stalk of celery turn outward ; hence there is no tendency to spontaneous 
cure. As the womb is greatly enlarged at pregnancy, the raw surfaces of lac- 
erations are sometimes very extensive; hence the discharges (lochia) immedi- 



LACERATION 349 

ately following delivery, and leucorrhea at other times, irritate the exposed 
surfaces. After the lapse of a few days these discharges decompose, becoming 
more or less offensive; hence the liability to blood-poisoning, the much 
dreaded childbed fever that so often proves fatal to the lying-in woman. The 
irritation from the laceration causes and keeps up inflammation ; hence the 
womb remains large. This is known as subinvolution. Following delivery, 
the very substance of the womb itself undergoes great changes, under healthy 
circumstances, and through these changes the womb is restored or reduced to 
its natural unimpregnated size and condition. In other words, it involves or 
reduces properly. 

Where lacerations occur these changes are interrupted, often never 
occurring. Such women date their invalidism from childbirth. The delicate 
membrane lining the neck of the womb in health is so protected that it is 
never irritated by friction, but when lacerations exist this membrane is exposed 
to the irritating secretions of the vagina, as well as brought in contact with 
the vaginal walls, which is a very pronounced source of irritation. 

Nature's efforts to heal the rent cause the formation of 
How Scar Tissue much scar tissue A large part o f th i s t i ssue forms in 
Is Formed the ang i e O f the reatt j a t ^ Q lorm O f a ^ ar ^ plug. Im- 

mediately beneath and around the scarified tissue, the parts become exceed- 
ingly tender and exquisitely painful, from the contracting or pinching of the 
numerous injured nerve filaments between and within the hardened muscular 
fibers. In extensive lacerations a great amount of scar tissue forms, so much 
so at times that it partially or completely surrounds the os, forming a com- 
plete or partial stricture, and the womb remains enlarged aud hard, or 
indurated. 

A lacerated womb, from enlargement, is always displaced, and so follows 
a train of ills, among them menstrual anomalies, ovarian, rectal and bladder 
diseases, leucorrhea, headaches, nervousness, cancer of the cervix from irrita- 
tion, etc. 

When a patient comes under the Viavi treatment for 

^ orc laceration the womb is perhaps four times its natural 

size from inflammation, and the tear one inch in length. 

So long as the womb remains this size, just so long will the laceration remain 
one inch in length. By the use of the Viavi treatment the inflammation is 
gradually reduced ; as a consequence the womb becomes smaller and smaller, 
and so must the laceration. Before the enlarged cervix has been reduced to 
something like its normal size, the hard, cicatricial tissue must have become 
absorbed, and the tear is proportionately reduced in size. The tear was one 
inch long at the beginning ; the womb foisir times its natural size. It is now 
reduced to one-quarter of its enlarged size ; hence the tear has been reduced to 



350 VIAVI HYGIENE 

about one-quarter of an inch in length, breadth and depth. The circulation of the 
blood in the parts has become normal, and healthy granulations now form and 
fill out the small remaining rent, just as Nature heals external injuries of the 
muscular tissues of the body where the Viavi treatment has been used for in- 
juries. (See chapter on Wounds, etc.) The rent heals up by a natural process, 
and the cure is so complete and perfect that many times inspection reveals no 
trace of the laceration. 

A patient came under the Viavi treatment for an exten- 
An Illustration of the siye i acerat i onf t fc e examining physician having staled 

that it would take about six stitches to repair the rent. 

This patient, wishing the best medical treatment, visited her sister in New 
York City for the purpose of having the laceration repaired while there. The 
sister, knowing of the virtues of the Viavi treatment for laceration, having 
been cured herself by its use, insisted that the sister also come under the treat- 
ment, which she did. She remained about a year and a half. When she re- 
turned to her home she visited her old physician and asked him to make an 
examination. He did so and could find no trace whatever of the laceration, 
stating that it was one of the best operations for laceration that he had ever 
seen. Inspection here did not reveal the slightest trace of even a scar, so per- 
fectly was the rent filled in and healed. 

There is no part of the body that, from a comparatively 
How Cancers are injury, can give rise to so much suffering or lead 



to such fatal results as a cervical laceration, a slight 

laceration often causing as serious complications as an extensive one. As pre- 
viously stated, a lacerated womb is responsible for many painful and reflex 
symptoms over the entire body, but one of the most serious results of this in- 
jury is the increased susceptibility to cervical cancer, which is caused from the 
continued irritation of the scarified, hardened cervix from friction. In previ- 
ous chapters it has been explained at length that the womb is not a stationary 
organ, but that it is moved constantly by the function of other organs of the 
body, and largely by respiration and locomotion. The aggravation or the 
irritation is much the same as that of the stem of a pipe, which is often the 
cause of cancer of the lip. The continued irritation of any mucous surface by 
friction is the most frequent cause of cancer. Tumors are caused by a stagna- 
tion of the blood, cervical cancers, as a rule, by an inflamed surface subjected 
to continued friction and irritation. 

Only a small percentage of cancer patients are found among unmarried 
women, and only a small percentage in married women who have not borne 
children ; hence the conclusion that injury followed by friction is the most 
frequent cause of cervical cancer. Additional danger lies in the constant irri- 
tation to which the sensitive surfaces of the laceration are subjected in coition 



LACERATION 351 

and locomotion, besides the other normal movements which have been above 
referred to. 

f A lacerated cervix may give but little trouble for many 

anger in v^nange y ears> or until a woman enters or nears the change of 

life, when a great rearranging of the system occurs for 

the giving up of the menstrual function and the termination of the genital life. 
Then many alarming and distressing symptoms will arise one after another, 
until the whole body becomes implicated. Upon examination a cancerous 
condition is discovered, which has developed in the location of a trifling lacer- 
ation to which no thought nor attention had been given for perhaps twenty or 
thirty years. 

We recall the case of one patient who had married very early in life and 
given birth to but one child, suffering a small laceration at delivery. The 
laceration was so small that no attention had been given it. The patient knew 
that the womb had been somewhat enlarged, sensitive and displaced during 
this term of years, but supposed that at the approach of the change of life the 
womb would naturally shrink and the laceration give no trouble. ' Like many 
other women she found that she did not pass through this doorway, the change 
of life, as easily as she had been led to suppose by her medical advisers. 
When she came under the Viavi treatment her condition was quite critical, 
and she was obliged to remain under the treatment over two years ; but a per- 
fect recovery was made ; the laceration healed perfectly, and she was enabled 
to pass through the change of life with safety and ease. 

The specific action of Viavi upon any and every part of the body is to 
reduce inflammation. If the tissues have been bruised, torn or cut, it gives to 
them the material with which they rapidly rebuild. (See chapter on Wounds, 
etc.) 

, . The reflex symptoms from laceration are so numerous 

eftexC itions that the cause is too frequently overlooked. The injury 

never permits the womb to regain its normal size ; hence 

it presses upon surrounding parts, injuring the bladder and rectum, and affect- 
ing the nerves, tissues and blood vessels in its vicinity. If the rectum is en- 
croached upon largely, there will result hemorrhoids or piles, which will drive 
a woman to seek relief from this one trouble, the cause being entirely over- 
looked. ^-Or the pressure upon the nerves will cause intense headaches and 
backaches, and the patient will resort to plasters for the back and remedies to 
relieve the headaches. If the enlarged organ rests upon the bladder, the 
patient seeks relief for kidney troubles. And so the various reflex symptoms 
are treated for years, while the cause remains overlooked and neglected until 
a malignant condition (cancer) is developed, which places the patient beyond 
all hopes of a cure. 



352 VIAVI HYGIENE 

( This clinical claim of curing cervical laceration by 

means of the Viavi treatment, a non-surgical treatment, 
is one of the most important that comes within its cura- 
tive range. Here, as elsewhere, time alone settles the question of the useful- 
ness of any therapeutic agent or procedure. That thousands of women to-day 
in all parts of the world are using the Viavi treatment for cervical laceration 
because thousands and thousands have been cured in a like manner, is suffi- 
cient evidence of its virtue. Women suffering from laceration have used the 
treatment to reduce the existing inflammation and overcome the displacement, 
and to put off the much dreaded operation as long as possible. They could 
not be made to believe that the Viavi treatment would cure laceration. When 
they at last were sufficiently strong to undergo the operation, they learned 
that no laceration existed that it had been cured by non-surgical means, the 
Viavi treatment. 

This is illustrated plainly in the case of Mrs. G., who was badly lacer- 
ated at the birth of her first child. Extensive ulceration followed, with an 
exaggerated degree of displacement. The ulceration was so extensive that an 
operation could not be performed until this difficulty was partially overcome. 
Dreading the operation and hearing of the Viavi treatment, the patient adopted 
it. In a few months she again called upon her family physician, who stated 
that no ulceration existed, that the laceration was healing up, and that the 
operation would not now be necessary. She continued the treatment until 
cured. 

The contents of the Viavi capsules are held around and about the neck 
of the womb in the cul-de-sacs, completely protecting the raw surfaces from 
the excoriating discharges. Their nature is such that they at once also allay 
the irritation from friction. 

In the healthy, sexual instinct invites sexual commerce 

Harm Arising From for one p urpose( the perpetuation of the human race; 

5urgery hence the necessity of a normal condition of the entire 

generative tract. Surgical operations for cervical lacerations irreparably impair 

this most important human function by cutting away parts of the womb. By 

so doing, as previously stated, the size of its neck is greatly lessened, while 

the muscular bands encircling the os, or mouth, are very largely impaired, 

and sometimes their elasticity entirely destroyed. 

In our extensive experience we have yet to encounter the first woman 
who has escaped extensive laceration in pregnancies following the surgical 
treatment. It could not be otherwise. In the first place, the womb was torn 
because the os was too small to permit the child to pass through it. It was 
rigid and unyielding, or soft and easily torn. Where surgery is employed, 
nothing is done to bring the abnormal tissues to a normal condition, but a part 
of the unhealthy organ is pared away and the raw edges drawn up together. 



LACERATIOM 353 

Sometimes they heal and sometimes they do not. When the stitches tear out, 
the laceration is greater than before, more of the mucous membrane lining 
the cervix is exposed to the acrid secretions of the vagina, and more extensive 
raw surfaces exposed to friction. If the pared edges do unite, the neck is 
much smaller than before, and also more rigid. It is a very simple and plain 
fact to understand that if the womb was rigid and small in the first place, it 
will surely be much smaller and more rigid after parts of it have been cut 
away aud the edges have been drawn together and united. A shrinking and 
contracting scar always remains after this operation. The equilibrium, or 
perfect balance, of the womb is also impaired. Parts of this perfectly bal- 
anced organ cannot be pared away and it still retain its equilibrium. It has 
been too finely adjusted by Nature in the beginning to admit of any trimming 
or paring away. 

The process by which the Viavi treatment cures a lacer- 
Curative Process in ated cerv j x j s exactly the same as in the case of an ex- 
ternal injury. There is no reason why in this particular 

location it should be otherwise, as the neck of the womb will as actively repair 
itself if given the chance as any other part of the body. It will also become 
healthy, elastic and easily expansive under the Viavi treatment, when the 
treatment is employed during pregnancy, so that a woman's life is not placed 
in jeopardy during her lying-in period. 

The case of Mrs. L., who had suffered from extensive laceration for 
twelve years, shows the efficacy of the treatment in not only healing lacerations 
but also in preventing subsequent lacerations. The laceration in this case was 
caused by the instrumental delivery of twins. The patient's condition was so 
serious when she commenced the Viavi treatment that she could scarcely cross 
the room unassisted. A perfect recovery was made, and the patient has since 
given birth to two children without again suffering from laceration, which 
always results, as above stated, where the edges of the laceration have been 
trimmed and stitched together. 

There is nothing outside of the Viavi treatment that a 
No Other Means woman cau C ;mploy during pregnancy that will render 
Accessible t ^ e p ar j- s healthy and elastic, thus preventing lacerations; 

likewise there is nothing else that a woman can use to cure lacerations. Our 
advice is always that it is better to prevent than to cure ; consequently it is 
setter for women who are situated so that at any time they are liable to preg- 
nancy to place the generative organs in as perfectly healthy a condition as 
possible. The time is now past when women are willing to be left to take 
desperate chances unassisted. If the treatment is employed during pregnancy, 
laceration will not occur. (See chapter on Pregnancy.) If the treatment is 
employed after laceration has occurred, a perfect cure can be obtained. 



354 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Aside from the Viavi treatment, operations are always advised for lacera- 
tion. Women who have been so advised and who have been cured by this 
treatment often wish to know from former advisers their opinion of the pro- 
gress made. They submit to examination, and the diagnosis of those who 
have advised an operation previously is that a perfect cure has resulted. When 
the Viavi treatment has been used sufficiently long to reduce the existing in- 
flammation and overcome the displacement that accompanies laceration, it will 
have been used long enough to show that an operation will not be necessarv 
to cure the laceration. 

Where external lacerations are not extensive, the tissues 
f Lacei ition Is are rendered firm alld elastic by the treatment, so that 

little or no inconvenience results. In external laceration 

the parts should be daily massaged with the Viavi cerate. (See Perineal Mas- 
sage.) 

A cold sitz bath (see Cold Sitz Bath) should also be used twice a week, 
and the treatment given for inflammation of the womb should be followed. 

The Viavi treatment for cervical laceration is identically 
The Treatment for the same as that gj ven f or inflammation of the womb, 

as inflammation always exists. This treatment should 

be combined with that given for whatever form of displacement exists ante- 
version, retro version or prolapsus. 

Every night, when not menstruating, a capsule is placed in the vagina 
against the neck of the womb. From the heat of the parts it is dissolved, 
and becomes an oily substance, which is held about the enlarged cervix in the 
cul-de-sacs. It acts as a non-irritant, not only protecting the exquisitely sen- 
sitive parts from the acrid vaginal secretions, but reducing the inflammation. 
The hard scar tissue is softened and becomes absorbed, while the tissues make 
use of the remedy in this vicinity to rebuild the injured parts. The cerate at 
the same time is being absorbed by the external absorbent vessels in the region 
of the spine and abdomen. The external absorbent vessels give this nerve 
food to the blood, and through the medium of the blood it is carried to the 
deep tissues. As the abdominal walls become elastic and strong from the use 
of the cerate, just so in proportion is the displacement of the womb and the 
whole abdominal viscera (which are implicated always more or less) overcome. 

We again call attention to the passing of the trunks of the uterine and 
ovarian nerves into the spinal column, and to the fact that the cerate applied 
over the spine in a thorough way has its beneficial influence upon the terminal 
nerve filaments situated within the injured cervix. 

Intercourse must be abstained from, or be very moderate indeed. We 
would also advise that pregnancy be not invited until the rent has entirely or 
partially healed. 



LACERATION 355 

Rest in a recumbent position for one hour in the afternoon is also ad- 
vised. 

The patient should employ the bath best suited to her surroundings, so 
that a good circulation of the blood may be established. (See Baths.) 

If inflammation of the bladder exist, the Viavi liquid also should be 
used in conjunction with the capsules and cerate. Likewise, if the rectum is 
implicated the Viavi rectal'suppositories also are advised. The Viavi tonic 
should always be used where the patient is under the Viavi treatment for a 
lacerated cervix. If the bowels are constipated the laxative is indicated. 

The time to cure a laceration will depend entirely upon the patient's 
condition when she comes under the treatment, the extent of the laceration, 
the inflammation and the displacement, and the thoroughness with which the 
treatment is followed up. When the patient's progress seemingly comes to a 
standstill, the double-strength capsules should be used. 




CHAPTER LIII. 



THE CHANGE OF LIFE. 



N preceding chapters we have explained fully certain natural changes thai 
take place in a woman's organism, among them puberty, ovulation, 
menstruation, etc. Now we have arrived at the last and one of the 
most important of these changes ; it is known as the menopause, or the 
change of life. 

When a girl arrives at the age of puberty her whole body undergoes a 
complete change. The generative organs rapidly develop, as do also the 
breasts, which are but accessories of the ovaries and womb. She has now 
arrived at a stage of functional activity where the body manufactures not only 
a sufficient quantity of nutriment for its own subsistence, but a surplus quan- 
tity, which at any time may become necessary for the functions of gestation 
and lactation during her genital life. 

When the organism is not performing these two functions (gestation 
and lactation) it maintains its healthy equilibrium by purging itself of this 
surplus supply of nutriment in the form of a bloody discharge at stated inter- 
vals ; this is known as menstruation, which is really a vascular purification of 
the body. (See chapter on Menstruation.) 

The change of life indicates a period that is just the 
A Reversal of opposite of puberty. It means that the childbearing 
Puberty period has passed and that this surplus blood supply will 

not henceforth be manufactured. The woman, hitherto fruitful, henceforth 
will manufacture no surplus supply of nutriment, but only a quantity sufficient 
for her own needs. Just as great a readjusting of her body now occurs in 
giving up the menstrual function as there occurred at puberty in acquiring it. 
The ovaries cease their functional activity; they shrivel, becoming smaller 
and smaller from inactivity. The monthly influence of the nervous system 
upon the generative tract is suspended ; there is no monthly congestion, and 
the womb becomes smaller and smaller until in time it resembles the uterus of 
infancy. The calibre of the vagina becomes lessened and its length shortened. 
The external genitals lose their fullness and shrivel, becoming flabby. The 



THE CHANGE OP LIFE 357 

breasts may remain large and full, but their firmness gradually disappears. 
Carefully note how each change is just the opposite of those occurring at 
puberty. 

The change of life is a normal function and not a disease 
The Change Should that attac k s W0 man and threatens her life. Just as men- 
struation is looked upon as a sickness by unhealthy wo- 
men unacquainted with the normal, painless function, just so also is the change 
of life regarded by those who have not had a speaking acquaintance with 
perfect health for some time before arriving at this station in life, which 
should be passed without undue nervous excitement, without one particle of 
friction or pain. 

The numerous painful, disfiguring and fatal diseases that develop at the 
menopause do not commence at this time. They have been long lurking in 
the body, and now from the great change within the organism they, too, have 
changed form, and we see developing the hot flashes, tumors in various parts 
of the body, hemorrhages, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, pruritus, etc., 
with which so many women are familiar. In the chapter on Menstruation we 
explained that through the medium of the menstrual discharge a purifying of 
the organism occurs, and that if this function is abnormal a purification does 
hot occur, and that in consequence certain constituents are held within the 
body that will develop into disease in the future. Disease depending upon 
retained menstrual impurities varies greatly in intensity and in the length of 
time it takes to develop. ) 

A woman with the menstrual function firmly established regularly and 
normally in every way carries within her organism the greatest health-preserver 
and life-promoter that can be secured, the normal function throwing away 
^.beased products and acting as a safety valve to the system. Such women are 
healthier than men a fact proved by their longer lives. The menses are an 
outlet during the genital life for diseased products. The function may be par- 
tially or completely performed. If only partially performed, at the approach 
of the change of life symptoms begin to appear which show that the system is 
overburdened with body waste, the proper name for disease that now develops. 

We gather from the health stories of women seeking 
Beginning of the medical advice at ^ change of life that the cause of 
Trouble tlleir troubles at this time dates far back in their lives, or 

perhaps in the lives of their parents. As we many times have repeated, we 
cannot break the laws of Nature without paying the penalty sooner or later. 
If vengeance is not wreaked directly upon the offender it will be upon the gen- 
erations to come ; many a woman is called upon to suffer at the change of li fe 
for the indiscretions of the mother. There are more sufferers, however, who 
owe their condition to their own irrational conduct. 



&8 VIA VI HYGIENE 

We frequently encounter women who, having suffered from leucorrhea 
the better part of their lives, claim that when the menses ceased at the meno- 
pause so did the leucorrhea in other words, that they were cured. But not so, 
for these same women come seeking relief for other abnormal conditions, 
knotty fingers (rheumatoid arthritis), for instance, the disease having changed 
from the leucorrheal form to this. 

t The change of life does not come suddenly upon a 

woman. The organism prepares for its appearance 
gradually, and if not hampered by body waste (disease) 

a woman is not aware of the change going on within until the menses cease. 
They simply leave off. The unhealthy woman is not so fortunate. When this 
change commences within the organism and the great readjusting begins by 
which the menses are given up, the waste with which the body is loaded com- 
mences to change as well, and we find disease and distressing symptoms begin- 
ning to develop. These are so-called characteristics of the change of life, but 
it would be much better to say characteristics of an abnormal change, as the 
normal change is free from pain, suffering or abnormal conditions of any kind. 

For instance, observe the woman who has suffered with 
a lacerated cervix for years. The womb, in consequence, 
has never gone back to its natural size since the injury ; 

in other words, it did not properly involve from its great size and weight ; it 
has also become chronically displaced, and menstruation, in consequence, has 
never been normal, although it may have been painless. I^et us sum up all 
of these abnormal conditions and then ask how this last great function, which 
involves the whole body, is going to be performed. Such miracles do not occur. 
It would be just as reasonable for a totally blind man to expect his vision to be 
restored when he reached a certain age, restored just because he calculated on 
regaining his eyesight at that time. Our clinical records show that ninety per 
cent, of cervical cancer cases develop from cervical laceration at the approach 
of the menopause. 

TV TY> * n *k e cases * women w ^ have repeatedly submitted to 

Diseases Developed cauterization for an ulcerated cervix, and in those who 

have suppressed leucorrhea by astringent washes, may 

we especially look for stormy demonstrations at the menopause. These con- 
ditions, instead of being suppressed, should have been regarded as local ex- 
pressions of a diseased condition within, which acted as a safety valve or out- 
let for the time being. The treatment should have been systemic, as it is un- 
der the Viavi treatment ; then no sequelae would have appeared at the meno- 
pause. We all know full well that the test of all doctrinal medicine must be 
clinical ; along this line has the Viavi treatment successfully stood the test for 



THE CHANGE OF LIFE 359 

years. It removes and systemically overcomes an existing abnormal condition 
instead of suppressing it and thus forcing the waste back upon the system 
with the inevitable result that it will appear in another form at some future 
time, and so be given another name. A suppression of a leucorrheal discharge 
and the development of another disease are generally assumed to have no con- 
flection whatever, but in reality it is the suppression of the one that causes the 
development of the other. 

Again, we notice the behavior of the menopause when occurring in 
a woman who has bled profusely at her periods. She is utterly exhausted 
when it arrives. It now becomes a hemorrhage. It has got started, and it 
cannot be controlled by the ordinary methods of treating. The tone of the 
womb is gone, the vitality of the nerves which govern the generative organs 
is exhausted, the blood vessels remain relaxed and overdistended, the very 
substance of the womb is in so abnormal a condition that it becomes impos- 
sible for it to grow a healthy lining membrane ; so this woman's life goes out 
when she has but half lived it out and her usefulness to her family and the 
world should be at its height. 

It is a prevalent and most hurtful belief among women 
A Very Injurious suffer i ng with various afflictions of their sex, and with 
Misconception increased miseries as the result when they enter upon 
the change, that the climacteric will relieve them of all their troubles. From 
suffering in the change they acquire the belief that the change itself is a dis- 
ease. Thus their minds are clouded to the great truths, first, that the change 
only intensifies, develops, transforms and renders dangerous any unhealthy 
condition of their generative system that may be present when the change 
arrives, and, second, that the only way to assure a safe and comfortable passage 
through the change is to secure perfect health before it arrives. From not 
appreciating nor even knowing the existence of these grand truths, women 
neglect unhealthy conditions existing prior to the change, and depend upon 
the change to rid them of all their troubles. Such a belief is contrary not 
only to all reason, but to the experience of every intelligent observer. Let 
every woman understand that the change of life is not an open doorway 
through which she may escape from the ills that burden her life, but a gateway 
from one form of suffering to another that is far more painful and dangerous. 
The healthy woman passes through the doorway so easily into the free and 
useful life beyond that she never fully realizes the fact until the threshold has 
been crossed. The unhealthy woman endures her sufferings in the change 
with martyrlike resignation, pitifully hoping, waiting and longing in her igno- 
rance for the peace that never comes. She would not do this were she better 
informed. The Viavi movement informs her why it is all unnecessary and 
how the greatly desired relief may be secured. And it is all so simple as to 
impose no hardships, and so rational as to appeal to every mind. 



360 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The imperfect menstrual period bales out, so to speak, 
Health Essential to from the body a part of the bodily waste> but nofc alu u 

has gradually accumulated for years, weakening every 

part; hence when the baling-out process (the menses) ceases or attempts to do 
so, the nerves, tissues and organs all give evidence by painful symptoms and 
loss of function that they are overburdened, and a complication of both unpleas- 
ant and painful conditions arise. 

It is necessary that a woman be vigorous when she approaches the 
change, and not to be in a generally fagged condition from, menstrual anoma- 
lies, nervous collapse, uterine and ovarian troubles, etc. The contents of this 
volume show in a simple, practical manner how health can be maintained, 
and how it may be regained if lost. Upon those who have not entered the 
change of life we would urge that if an abnormal condition exists the Viavi 
treatment be employed intelligently to bring the body back to a state of health 
in the shortest time possible. Upon those who have entered this period, their 
bodies hampered with waste (disease), we would urge that they too employ 
the full Viavi treatment to bring about a healthy reaction of the whole body 
without loss of time. Every organ of the body should be assisted with this 
great nerve and tissue food, Viavi, to regain its healthy functional activity. 
This is the only rational method of assisting the system to unload itself of wa?te 
that is, by strengthening the organs of excretion, which are the blood purifiers 
of the body. 

It is impossible to lay down a certain routine line of 
Treatment at the treatment tor climacteric women that is, aside from the 

use of the Viavi capsules and cerate. They are always 

to be used, as it is mainly upon their faithful use that restoration to health de- 
pends. As Viavi is taken into the body, just so in proportion will waste *st 
disease be driven out. Nutriment and waste cannot occupy the same space at 
the same time, and our vast clinical experience has demonstrated to us thous* 
ands of times that the system prefers nutriment to waste if given the opportun- 
ity to absorb it. This opportunity is amply given under the Viavi treatment, 
as millions and millions of absorbents are offered this food in various parts of 
the body. At first some absorbents are unable to make use of it, but they are 
assisted and strengthened in an indirect way by those that can, until in time 
they too drink it in, and the whole body responds to the treatment and sings 
out its glad song of health, happiness and contentment. The Viavi capsules 
and cerate first and always are the main reliance, as they constitute the back- 
bone of the Viavi treatment for women ; then the Via\i rectal suppositories if 
the rectum is implicated, the Viavi tablettes for the liver, the Viavi liquid for 
the stomach and for catarrhal conditions, the Viavi laxative for the bowels, the 
Viavi tonic to restore the strength, etc. Due attention should be given to the 
habits, with special regard to rest, sleep and exercise. 



THE CHANGE OF LIFE 361 

A few cases will be given to illustrate the different 
Cases Illustrating Sym ptoms that develop in the unhealthy climacteric 
the Cure W0 mau. Mrs. S. at the age of fifty became aware that 

she had entered the changing period by parting with quantities of blood. For 
a period of five years she suffered intensely in all parts of her body, no one 
part being exempt from pain for any length of time. She flowed almost con- 
tinuously, clots passing as large as an ordinary-sized cocoanut. The abdomen 
was greatly enlarged, and her condition was diagnosed as pelvic tumor. In a 
short time after adopting the use of the Viavi capsules and cerate the abdomen 
regained its normal size, all indications of a tumor disappeared, and in one 
year she was sound and well, and still remains so, four years having passed 
since she was discharged as cured. 

In striking contrast stands out the case of Mrs. D., who, at the age of 
forty-five, suddenly ceased menstruating. Immediately following there devel- 
oped a burning, throbbing pain in the abdomen, which became intensely pain- 
ful, especially at night. In time a very painful lump the size of a hen's egg 
formed in the region of the right ovary, and cancer was feared-. Dreading the 
knife, this patient did not seek medical advice. Her attention was called to 
the Viavi treatment, and when it was explained to her that her trouble was 
caused by retained secretions which were harmful to her system and that 
through the medium of Viavi a reaction could be brought about by which these 
secretions could be eliminated, it appealed to her common sense, and at the 
age of sixty-nine she came under the treatment of Viavi capsules and cerate 
after having suffered for twenty-four years. After using the Viavi treatment 
for six months she menstruated quite normally, and then followed a yellowish 
brown discharge that was extremely offensive. The pain and the lump in the 
abdomen disappeared. The discharge continued for one year, when it ceased, 
and a perfect recovery followed. It is now four years since this patient was 
cured, and she remains sound and well. This case should surely give courage 
to women who have not passed the change normally, even though they be well 
advanced in years. 

Another case was that of a woman of the South, who apparently at the 
change of life was going into quick consumption. She was completely fagged, 
smd the lungs gave way first. The results from adopting the Viavi treatment 
were the same as in the cases above given, a cure that has stood the test of 
several years. 

Mrs. W. came under the Viavi treatment for climacteric diabetes or 
climacteric pruritus. She was almost insane from the intense itching. A pro- 
fuse watery discharge almost constantly escaped from the womb, burning and 
excoriating the genitals and thighs in a shocking manner. It was several 
months before the intense itching ceased, but as the patient's strength gradu- 
ally returned she was encouraged to continue. An eighteen months' treat-* 
ment of the Viavi capsules and cerate icstored her to perfect health. 



,62 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



These widely differing cases are given to show that by the Viavi treat- 
ment the whole body, not one part alone, is strengthened. No plugging was 
employed to suppress the flow in the first case, no knife to remove the tumor 
in the second, no cod liver oil nor terrifying diagnosis of incurability in the 
third, no palliative measures in the last. Our one aim was, through the use 
of the Viavi capsules and cerate, to bring about healthy functional activity, 
by which the body was enabled to. unload itself of waste, and we succeeded. 



CHAPTER LIV. 



CANCER. 



)N early diagnosis of cancer, which is one of the most terrible afflictions 
from which humanity suffers, is utterly impossible. From close obser' 
vation we are led to believe that cancer is yearly becoming more fre- 
quent. For us, upon examination, to find, to all appearances, a robust 
woman in the very prime of life, suffering from a cervical cancer, is a frequent 
occurrence. We know that there is a pre-cancerous stage of every cancer case, 
and that if a patient come under the Viavi treatment at that time happy 
results will follow. This has been repeatedly proved by large numbers of 
patients coming under our treatment, whose diseases had been diagnosed as 
cancer by eminent physicians. That they were cured shows one of two things 
either that the diagnosis was wrong, or that the disease had not progressed 
beyond the curable stage. 

The os (mouth) of the womb and the cervix are the 

Where the Disease parts most f requent i y attacked by cancer. The disease 

Appears most commonly develops between the ages of thirty and 

sixty. In its incipient stage it causes no pain, although the most excruciating 

pain may be developed as the disease advances. Here is where the knowledge 

of what a normal condition is becomes a woman's safeguard. The cancerous 

cervix feels to the touch quite different from the small, smooth, normal cervix. 

As a woman would detect from touch an abnormal condition of the end of the 

nose, so should she be able to tell for herself the normal condition of the 

cervix and os. 

As this fatal disease is becoming alarmingly prevalent, 
Causes of Cervical Qur Qne ob j ect has been for years to ascertain, if possible, 

its cause, and so, by nipping it in the bud, remove the 

cause and in this way suspend or prevent its development. Our observations, 
which have been most extensive, have proved beyond a doubt that inflamma- 
tion, depending upon mechanical injury for its development, is the true incit- 



364 VI A VI HYGIENE 

ing cause of cervical cancer. The inflammation need not be intense, but of a 
low form kept up for a long period of time, thus bringing to the parts, contin- 
uously, an abnormal quantity of blood. Bvery cancer case has a history, 
which can generally be found if care and patience be exercised. Unmar- 
ried women but seldom suffer from uterine cancer, and women who have given 
birth to children suffer more frequently than those who have not. This again 
is proof that injury followed by friction or irritation causes its development. 
A bleeding womb is at best a serious menace to health and even life. A 
womb that bleeds on touch may speedily develop into a condition that will 
place a woman beyond all remedial assistance. Women as a rule are so prone 
to menstrual anomalies and the habitual irregular appearance of a bloody 
flow, that the presence of a bloody discharge, unaccompanied by pain, disturbs 
them but little. It is only when the discharge becomes offensive and copious 
that they seek relief, only to be told of a well-developed cancerous condition. 

The slightest cervical laceration or abrasion places a 
Cause by (Cervical woman > s jif e j n jeopardy. The chapter on Displace- 
ments shows that the womb is allowed more freedom of 

motion than any other organ in the body. This motion is produced by breath- 
ing and locomotion, and the exercise thus given this organ not only brings to 
it its nutriment by means of arterial blood, but causes to be carried from it 
impurities and waste by means of the venous blood. Its neck is constantly 
sweeping against the vaginal walls. If it is lacerated, or its surface is raw 
from erosion or abrasion of any kind, a constant irritation is kept up. (See 
chapter on Laceration.) It is the small injuries, to which no heed is given, on 
account of the absence of pain, that are most frequently the cause of a can- 
cerous development. Coition greatly aggravates the conditions existing in 
cases of cervical laceration. 

Where no cervical laceration exists, but the surface is 
Other Causes of raw> as j n eros i onS) an irritation is kept up by locomo- 
tion and by coition, thus laying the patient liable to the 

development of cancer in this region at any time after the age of thirty. A 
persistert flowing at the change of life is always a suspicious symptom. If it 
occurs frequently after the change of life has apparently taken place, it is one 
of the strongest indications of the presence of cancer. 

From the foregoing it will be s*en that among the most frequent causes 
of cancer are laceration of the cervix; excessive "intercourse, or moderate in- 
tercourse if the cervical surface is lacerated or abraded ; long-standing leu- 
corrhea or cervical catarrh ; erosions, ulceration or any other diseased condition 
of the cervix that renders it irritable to the normal movements of the body, 
which are necessary to its healthy functional activity. Heredity also exerts a 
considerable influence in its causation. 



CANCER 365 

It will not be necessary to enumerate the different forms 
Phases of the j n wn i cn cancer shows itself, nor to give their technical 
names. They may be soft or hard, may grow to exces- 
sive size, or the parts may increase in size little or not at all. Some forms of 
cancer are accompanied in the beginning with discharges and hemorrhages, 
while in others the discharge is so slight as not to attract attention, and it is 
only when the cancer sore has gained great headway that symptoms develop 
which drive a woman to seek remedial assistance. At first the discharge 
may be serous and devoid of odor, but when ulceration has taken place, the 
discharge becomes offensive. It varies in color, being grayish yellow, black, 
green or brown. 

When pain does develop it is of a lancinating, pricking and burning 
character, but as the disease progresses the pain all through the pelvic and 
abdominal region becomes intense. 

As already stated, the early stages of cancer cannot be recognized, and 
we find that it frequently attacks large and strong women who claim to have 
seen but few or no sick days. Such patients seemingly remain in an excellent 
physical condition until the disease has gained great headway. 

> 

The progress of cancer of the tongue can be observed. 
Cancer of Tongue, It . g g enera iiy induced by a jagged tooth, which keeps 

Breast, etc. u ^ a cnron { c inflammation of the surface of the tongue, 

this finally terminating in a malignant condition and ending life. The con- 
tinual use of a pipe may cause cancer of the lip, the stern keeping up a con- 
stant irritation. The progress here can be daily observed, as can also the pro- 
gress of cancer of the breast, which is, as a rule, caused by a bruise or mechan- 
ical injury of some kind that gives rise to an inflammatory process. Unfortu- 
nately, cervical cancer excites no suspicion of its presence, from the absence of 
pain, and many times discharges, until the disease is well developed. 

Ca icer develops also in the body of the womb, causing it to enlarge but 
little and producing no sensitiveness, even though the cavity of this organ be 
filled with cancerous degeneration. It attacks also the vagina and external 
generative organs, the esophagus (gullet), stomach, liver, scrotum or rectum, 
but its favorite seat of development is, as before stated, the uterine cervix. 

Extirpation, or removal, of diseased tissue by surgery is 
Cutting Always worse tnan tlse l e ss. Such patients easily collapse from 
shock. If the disease proves to be a well-developed can- 
cer, the cutting of the parts starts up a greatly increased activity of the disease, 
and life is speedily terminated. If the patient survives the operation the fact 
shows that cutting was unnecessary, and that she would have yielded to rational 
treatment without resort to surgery. 

The microscope has been of little or no use in the diagnosis of cancer. 



366 VIA VI HYGIENE 

Where careful microscopical examinations have been made and the case pro- 
nounced malignant cancer, the patient has recovered, and, again, where 
microscopical examinations have placed the patient upon the curable list, she 
has died of malignant cancer. 

. There is a turning point in each patient's case which de- 

Viavi Treatment cides whether her individual case is amenable to the 
Viavi treatment. As we have as yet been unable to de- 
termine which cases are curable and which incurable, after plainly explaining 
to the patient her condition we use every effort to save her life if possible. If 
this privilege proves to be beyond our reach, we do the next best thing, and 
that is to render her condition as comfortable as possible and also to prolong 
her life. 

An intensely interesting case of this kind came under the Viavi treat- 
ment seven years ago for what had been diagnosed as a well-developed cervical 
cancer. Extensive ulceration, copious hemorrhages and the characteristic 
cancerous cachexia were present. As the patient would not submit to an 
operation she commenced the use of the Viavi treatment as a last resort. Dur- 
ing the seven years that she has used it we have heard from her at irregular 
intervals. She is still alive and her condition is quite comfortable, very much 
more so than when she came under the treatment. We have greatly desired to 
keep track of this patient, but her life is migratory, her husband being a travel- 
ling minister, she accompanying him constantly and assisting him in his nin- 
isterial duties. She writes that she has used the Viavi capsules and cerate with 
religious regularity for the past seven years, but has had little time to allow 
her mind to dwell upon her physical condition, which fact has been of consid- 
erable assistance, perhaps, to the treatment. The mental symptoms of des- 
pondency which weigh down upon a cancer patient greatly hasten the devel- 
opment of the disease. This patient's migratory life, bringing constant change 
of diet and social surroundings, has had a great deal to do with the success of 
the Viavi treatment. We believe that, in time, a perfect recovery in this case 
will follow. The hemorrhages have long since ceased and there is d decided 
change in her condition for the better. 

< We do not wish it to be understood that the cure of can- 

The Curability of cef comes w j t hi n the clinical range of the Viavi treat- 
ment. It is a fully established fact, however, that the 

treatment has cured many cases diagnosed as cancer. The beginning of the 
disease is so obscure that any diagnosis of it in its early stages is unreliable, 
and is not made sure until it has developed beyond all remedial assistance. 
Whether the cases diagnosed as cancer that have yielded to the Viavi treatment 
were really cancer, or whether an error had been made in the diagnosis, it is 
impossible to determine. The two important things to consider in this con- 



CANCER 367 

nection are these : First, a diagnosis of cancer in its earlier stages means its 
cutting out under the ordinary method of treatment ; second, the Viavi treat- 
ment enables the system to rid itself of conditions out of which cancer is 
developed. In well-established and clearly defined cancer the Viavi treat- 
ment incurs none of the risks to life that are engendered by surgical treatment, 
and brings a comparative ease and prolongs life to an extent impossible to the 
ordinary method. As there is doubt concerning the correctness of the diag- 
nosis in the obscure stages of the disease, the Viavi treatment gives the patients 
the benefit of the doubt and builds them up systemically, and the results 
secured for many years have been not only successful, but exceedingly 
gratifying. 

The profuse and offensive discharges in incurable diseases, as cancer, etc., 
are favorably modified by Viavi. It contributes materially to the comfort of 
the patient. 

We give no hygienic measures for cancer, as every case of this kind must 
come directly under the care of one of the Viavi Hygienic Departments, which 
will give great care to every individual case of this kind, so that no time may 
be lost and that the proper remedies may be used. Such patients should follow 
the advice given for inflammation of the womb until advice is received, which 
will be forwarded immediately to such patients upon receipt of their health 
statements. 

Although cancer is one of the most horrible of diseases, 
** it will be noticed that it proceeds from simple inflam- 
Inflammation mation not the intense, acute inflammation that throbs 
and burns and that forces the patient to seek relief, but the low chronic form 
that has existed for a long period of time. Cancer is not accidental, but causal, 
and if we seek the cause it can be found. A woman may marry early in life, 
give birth to one child, and suffer at that time a small injury of the womb. 
Such a woman may enjoy good health, but at the change of life a cancer of 
the cervix may develop and terminate life in a horrible manner. The inflam- 
mation extended over a period of many years, but was so slight and of such a 
nature that it gave little or no manifestation of its presence. 

The tissues of the body are soft. If the blood is kept in 
When Circulation its p roper channels, the tissues cannot be injured by it, 

but if it is allowed to remain constantly in the vessels in 

abnormal quantity, it will pass through the walls of the vessels and find its 
way into the tissues themselves. Here a chemical change takes place which 
causes the tissues to degenerate, and when they have passed beyond a certain 
stage they have passed also beyond all remedial assistance. A constant irrita- 
tion of any mucous surface by chemical or mechanical agencies can produce 
a form of inflammation that may develop cancerous degeneration. As the 



368 VIAVI HYGIENE 

specific action of Viavi is to establish the circulation, by employing it in 
time we prevent an inflammatory process from developing into cancerous 
degeneration. 

The important question remains, What are the indications from which 
it may be determined that the use of the Viavi treatment is advisable to prevent 
the development of cancer? The answer is, that if any abnormal condition 
of the uterine organs is present, we have the conditions from which cancer 
develops, and that by removing the abnormal condition by means of the Viavi 
treatment we remove the possibility of a cancerous development. Cancer does 
not appear except as the result of pre-existing abnormal conditions. The only 
trouble is that many women declare themselves unable to determine the pres- 
ence of an abnormal condition. Some with cancer have asserted that they 
were never aware of the presence of such condition before the development of 
their cancer. Close questioning, however, developed the fact that they cer- 
tainly had experienced some distress, and that they deemed it too trivial to 
deserve attention. Any woman who studies this volume carefully will know 
whether an abnormal condition of any kind exists in the uterine organs. It is 
only the great ignorance of women concerning these subjects that makes it 
possible for them to overlook existing symptoms. It is a woman's duty to 
know herself. If she does, she will know how to avoid disease and suffering^ 




CHAPTER LV. 



CANCER OF THE BREAST. 

(CARCINOMA.) 

IANCBR in the breast is, like cancer elsewhere, one of the most severe and 
fatal affections to which suffering humanity is subjected. Not all lumps 
or swellings of the breast are by any means cancerous. It is a common 
occurrence for these lumps, which vary from the size of a pea to that 
of a pigeon's egg, to appear, be very painful or disappear without causing 
serious trouble or inconvenience. If the patient has received a blow or bruise 
in the mammary region, and one of these lumps forms as a result, it will not 
be likely to disappear spontaneously, but will call for a continued and intelli- 
gent treatment to cause it lo do so. 

The cause of all such growths in the breast, both those 

The Origin of that give trou bi e and those that do not, is weakened 

Carcinoma vital action, such as removes waste substance from the 

body instead of allowing it to accumulate. These lumps in the breast in their 

first stage are easily dispersed, but a great persistency of treatment is required 

later, in the second and third stages. Uterine and ovarian diseases are, 

ninety- nine times out of a hundred, the cause of painful, enlarged and inflamed 

breasts, these parts being closely connected through the nervous system. In 

such cases the Viavi capsules should be used with as great regularity as the 

local application of the Viavi cerate over the region of the breast and spine. 

Operations for the removal of a diseased breast rarely or 
The Futility of never p rov e entirely successful. If after the removal of 
Operations tbe b reas t the disease does not reappear, the operation 

was unnecessary and the disease could have been cured otherwise. If the 
breast is cancerous, the operation does not prolong life, but the fatal termina- 
tion of the disease is hastened ; hence surgery should never be resorted to for 
any diseased condition of the breast. A physician of limited experience and 
skill will resort to surgery at once in such cases, but a physician who has had 
extensive experience and knows full well from observation the results of 



370 VIAVI HYGIENE 

surgical treatment advises that no cutting be done, that no irritant be employed 
as a remedial measure. 

In the first stages of lumps in the breast, when they are 
movable and give but little tronble, the hot treatment as 
a hygienic aid, with the use of the Viavi capsules, cerate, 

liquid and tonic, is employed. On account of the close connection of the 
breasts with the generative tract, the capsule is to be used daily, per vagina, 
the cerate daily over the, region of the spine and abdomen, and several times 
daily over the region of the breast. (See Hygiene of Breast, Hot Treatment 
for First Stage.) 

In the second stage we find the breast rapidly increasing 
econ i ana j n s j ze> JJQ^ hard, painful and swollen, perhaps discharg- 

ing at the nipple. The glands under the arm and in the 

neck may be enlarged, while the arm on the diseased side may be painful and 
lame. The condition may now be malignant and it may not be. Here, as in 
cancer of the cervix, it is impossible to determine accurately whether it has 
progressed beyond that point when it is curable. If it is on the curable side 
of the turning point, the patient may rest assured that if she will follow advice 
closely her life will be saved ; if beyond it, by building up the general health, 
life can be greatly prolonged and the patient's condition rendered comfortable. 
If the patient does not intend to exert herself and follow the advice laid down 
in such cases for a sufficient length of time, we do not wish her to commence 
the treatment, as it would be money wasted on her part, and a great injustice 
would be done to the treatment. 

It is very much better in such cases to employ an assistant to come daily 
and give the treatment, for it is very likely that if the patient depends upon 
her own individual exertion the treatment will be neglected or slighted. Such 
patients should not unduly exert themselves, overheat their blood nor allow 
themselves to become excited. The mind should be pleasantly occupied and 
not allowed to dwell upon a probable fatal termination of the disease, but 
should be hopeful. The preceding chapter on Cancer should be carefully 
read, as this disease is described and its treatment carefully given therein. 

When these cases of so-called cancer of the breast have 

Before Malignancy progressed and it is yet impossible to determine whether 

Develops malignant or not, the cold treatment is to be used instead 

of the hot, which is employed in the first stage. (See Hygiene of Breast, 

Cold Treatment, Second Stage.) Here also the use of the Viavi capsules, 

cerate, liquid and tonic is advised, in conjunction with the use of the Viavi 

laxative if the bowels are inclined to be constipated. 

A soft cancer runs a much speedier course than the hard or withering 



CANCER OF THE BREAST 371 

kind, but both prove fatal if they do not come under the Viavi treatment be fore 
the disease has progressed to a malignant point. This point, as before stated, 
cannot be determined even with the aid of a microscope. 

A so-called case of malignant cancer of the breast came 
Some Cases That under ttle yiavi treatment several years ago. The tissues 

Recovered ^ad broken down, and altogether, taking into account 

the low state of the patient's health, the case looked hopeless. Relief from 
pain was all that we expected to obtain from the treatment, but the represen- 
tative who discovered and brought this patient to the office felt otherwise and 
worked accordingly, employing the cold treatment so cold that the diseased 
tissue was almost frozen. Viavi was used so freely in various ways that the 
patient's system was literally saturated with it; consequently the hold that the 
disease had upon the system was broken and a healthy reaction took place, 
sufficiently strong to produce a perfect cure. 

Another interesting case was that of a patient whose breast was so large 
and heavy that she could not even assume a sitting position. While under the 
treatment the whole breast gradually sloughed off and a perfect recovery fol- 
lowed. Of course, the cure in this case consumed considerable time and great 
quantities of the remedy were used, sometimes a large box of the cerate being 
used in three or four days. In this case, Nature emphatically demonstrated her 
ability to remove diseased tissue with the assistance of the Viavi treatment. 
If assisted by mechanical means, the growth took on increased activity. 
As the pieces of tissue became gradually loosened they were sometimes picked 
or snipped off, but invariably they grew quickly again, while if left to fall off, 
unassisted, no new growth took their place. 

Where the disease has progressed until the tissues have broken down 
and the surface is raw, cracked and deeply fissured, see Hygiene of Breasts, 
Stage 3. 

Tumors in the breast spring into existence, as a rule, from a diseased 
condition or irritation within the ovarian and uterine regions; hence while we 
wish the treatment herein advised for tumors of the breast to be closely fol- 
lowed up, the uterine treatment of Viavi capsules and cerate should be the 
main reliance, as herein the ax is applied at the root of the tree and the source 
of the disease is so removed. 



CHAPTER LVI. 



TUMORS. 



'UMORS are becoming alarmingly prevalent among women. They are sit- 
uated most frequently within the pelvic or abdominal region. By a 
tumor is meant an abnormal or exaggerated growth of a part or organ. 
Such growths have no tendency to spontaneous cure, but continue to 
enlarge slowly or quickly throughout the whole life of the sufferer. Tumors 
have no useful function, their origin depending upon abnormal conditions. If 
internal, they interfere more or less, according to their size and location, with 
the various vital functions of the body by crowding upon the organs. Their 
pressure upon nerves within close proximity also gives rise to extremely pain- 
ful and varying symptoms, which are sometimes quite remote from the seat of 
the trouble, the tumor. 

The cause of these growths, which by inspiring terror 
The Origin of drive so many women to a premature death by way of 
Tumors t jj e operating table, is so simple a thing as a poor circu- 

lation of the blood. Tumors are caused by a stagnation of the venous blood ; 
or in other words, an obstruction to the filtering of the liquid part of the blood 
through the capillaries. 

This important discovery on our part has swept away the mist that has 
always surrounded this subject and enabled us to accomplish the most remark- 
able cures; remarkable only because cures, previously to this discovery, be- 
longed exclusively to surgery. Surgery upon women has become so fashion- 
able and is so remunerative that physicians find entirely too little inducement 
to seek and employ rational curative measures. Radical and desperate meas- 
ures are demanded at once, and for them large sums are paid. The results can 
be read in the hopeless and pain-drawn faces of those who have survived these 
shocking ordeals. 

The question naturally arises as to why the medical profession have not 
made this simple discovery. It is because they have been too busy classifying 
these abnormal growths, according to their erroneously supposed origin, until 



TUMORS 373 

the classification has become so extensive and bewildering that the cause has 
been entirely overlooked. 

While the profession have been theorizing and classify- 

The One Rational ing> the viayi trea tment has been going out quietly into 

Treatment countless homes, perfecting cures in all parts of the 

world by establishing normal capillary circulation, which is the basis of all 

bodily activity, and in this way overcoming stagnation (impeded circulation), 

from which condition all tumorous conditions arise. By so doing, not only 

has the formation of these growths been prevented, but they have been caused 

to disappear in various ways according to Nature's methods employed in the 

the individual cases. 

Assimilation is always weak when growths appear ; hence capillary circu- 
lation is always greatly impaired by a weakening of the walls of the capillaries, 
which must have strength to relax and contract continuously in order to keep 
up the onward movement of the blood, from which the tissues constantly take 
nutriment. 

The name of a tumor is derived from its nature and loca- 
1 he Varieties ot ^ on an ^ ^ Q tissues involved, as an ovarian cyst, a uterine 
Tumors fibroid, a nasal polypoid, etc. Notwithstanding their 

numerous technical names and their enormous classification, it frequently 
happens that growths are discovered which cannot be classified, as they partake 
of nearly all the varieties. Thus it often becomes not only impossible, but 
entirely unnecessary, to name or classify a tumor before curative measures are 
employed, as even a fatty tumor is caused by stagnation, it being a very simple 
thing when understood. The fat that lies near the surface of the body is 
manufactured largely by the glands within the skin. There is always a con- 
stant stream of fat-bearing lymph that flows into the blood vessels of the skin, 
and there it is gradually taken up by the blood. When this fat current is 
obstructed, the fat accumulates, and so forms a fatty tumor. 

A tumor or a tumorous condition may be present in the 
-. umors bnow a system for years before becoming sufficiently large to be 
Condition noticeable or to cause serious functional disturbances of 

the viscera. 

If we find a tumor under the arm or in the breast, uterus or ovary, it 
does not indicate that the tumerous condition is confined to that particular 
part of the body and that a woman is otherwise perfectly healthy. If so, the 
tumor never would have formed. The whole body is implicated, and before a 
cure can be effected the whole body must be made healthy and the condition 
out of which the tumor arose entirely eliminated. If the blood is pure, tumors 
will never develop ; if it be made pure, and to circulate freely, through the 



374 VIAVI HYGIENE 

medium of the Viavi treatment, a tumor receives no nutriment and conse- 
quently cannot grow nor thrive. 

By surgery, the enlargement, or only a part of the 
Inadeqi acy of tr ' ou ble, is removed, while the source of the trouble 
Surgery receives no more attention than if it did not exist ; hence 

the appearance of the recurrent tumor. That the Viavi treatment has cured 
tens of thousands of tumors of all kinds (malignant growths excepted) is, 
when understood, not at all wonderful nor miraculous, as by the faithful usa 
of the treatment, Nature is simply assisted, and collateral conditions estab- 
lished that enable the organs to functionate normally. To be sure, many 
times this is a slow process, but the formation process in the first place was 
slow, and if a patient expects to be cured, and the cure to be made sure and 
permanent, she must be patient and follow hygienic advice, together with the 
use of the remedies indicated in her individual case, for a sufficient length of 
time to entirely eliminate the tumorous condition from her system. It is 
much easier to allow one's body to fill up with waste than it is to remove it, 
for the organs are then hampered and cannot functionate as they should. 
Many times there is but little vitality and strength, and it is very tiresome 
work to regain health and strength, for even the mind at such times is in sym- 
pathy with the diseased body, and the will not sufficiently strong to follow any 
plan or regular routine duty ; hence the patient gives up and allows herself to 
drift along regardless of consequences. The greater the inclination to drift, 
the greater the effort a patient should make to overcome it, and the closer she 
should follow directions. 

The cure does not depend upon the location of the tumor. 
Some Remarkable It is our p r i v ii eg e to witness constantly some of the 
Cores Made most wor ,derful cures along these lines. One was that 
of a tumor about the size of a lemon, situated in the right broad ligament and 
attached to the outside of the uterus, just above the neck, by a pedicle an inch 
in length and the size of the small finger. The tumor had been present for 
twelve years, but after a six months' use of the Viavi treatment the pedicle 
had disappeared and the tumor was found to be closely attached to the outer 
wall of the uterus. Quite profuse flooding occurred about this time, and after 
the treatment had been continued for about a month, the tumor passed com- 
pletely through the walls of the womb into the cavity. The patient felt the 
change of position and described just where the tumor would be found before 
the examination was made, and she proved to be correct. The suffering was 
moderately intense. The tumor remained wedged iu the neck of the womb in 
view for several days, then drew back into the cavity of the womb. The time 
consumed in its entire expulsion was about one year from this time. Follow- 
ing the passage of the tumor through the walls of the womb, a decided 



TUMORS 375 

change for the better in the patient's condition occurred, as she gained in 
strength and flesh rapidly for a time. But this again was followed by a very 
trying period, which lasted about eight months. Then came a decided change 
for the better. This was permanent, as the heavy repair work of the system 
had been accomplished and the remedy was now made use of to strengthen the 
body. During the time that the tumor remained wedged in the mouth of the 
womb, the opening made by the passage of the tumor through the walls grad- 
ually closed, showing that Nature, assisted by Viavi, not by manual or surgical 
interference, can dispose of tumors. 

< This is one of thousands of cases which go to prove that 

The Migration of by the use of the viayi trea tment tumors can be caused 

to migrate from the system, instead of transplanting 

themselves from place to place in various parts of the body. That tumors 
were migratory we discovered many years ago, and have taken advantage of 
the fact very successfully by causing first migration, and second expulsion. 
That all tumors were caused by stagnation, and that they were migratory, be- 
came an accepted fact with us, as above stated, many years ago, these facts 
being obtained through an extensive gynecological practice and enormous 
clinical experience. So busy and successful have we been with our own ex- 
tensive and exclusive practice along the lines of uterine diseases, that we did 
not fully realize until of late what wonderful strides we have made forward, 
until we noticed that eminent specialists have just discovered these two facts, 
that tumors were caused by stagnation and that they could be transplanted. 
We noticed a case reported and considered most wonderful in a recent medical 
publication of a young woman in whom a fibroid tumor of the uterus disap- 
peared during pregnancy, was afterward felt on the outside, and was found to 
be attached to an ovarian tumor, thus showing that these tumors can be trans- 
planted. The progressive physician who reported his observations in this case 
advised that the profession at large devote their attention to the prevention of 
the formation of umors instead of performing operations to remove them. 
This indicates that at last the fact that Nature, if properly assisted, can accom- 
plish that which is not only inexplicable, but with surgery impossible, is be- 
coming recognized by careful observers in addition to Viavi advocates, who 
started and now lead the reform. 

This case is in striking contrast to a similar one that 

Strange Conduct came un( j er the Viavi treatment some time ago. The 

of Tumors sufferer was about thirty years of age and the mother of 

one child. Three fibroid tumors were discovered outside of the womb one in 

the pelvic region and two in the abdominal region. After using the Viavi 

treatment six months she gave birth to a five-months fetus. Two of the tumors 

had migrated from the abdominal cavity into the cavity of the womb, and 



376 VIAVI HYGIENE 

came away adhering to the placenta, or afterbirth. This is one of many cases 
that have come under our observation and that have given ample clinical proof 
that tumors situated outside the womb, or even within its walls, can be made 
to migrate from the body as a whole or in pieces. 

That Viavi cures are established daily, which can never be explained 
theoretically, is a recognized fact the world over not one nor a few, but 
many thousands of them. 

When we first claimed to expel ovarian tumors through the uterus, or 
to cause abdominal or pelvic tumors situated outside the uterus to be expelled 
through the anus or vagina, it was deemed a physical impossibility, but the 
proof is now so extensive and world-wide that, wonderful as it may seem, it 
cannot be disputed. 

The fact, so universally understood, that Viavi is a simple, 
cm cystic harmless vegetable compound, has led to many and 

varied experiments among patients suffering from tumors 

of all kinds. The gravity of large abdominal cystic tumors, from great 
liability to rupture, producing blood poisoning, with fatal results, has caused 
us to promise but little in these cases, and to require the patient to have 
the attendance of a local physician ; but the stand we have taken in regard 
to cystic tumors has not in the least discouraged its use in these desperate 
cases, as many have been cured. Patients are willing to use it, and if death 
ensues while under the treatment, they and their physicians fully understand 
that the case was hopeless. It should always be remembered that when we 
are assisting Nature, as we are doing when the Viavi treatment is used, the 
very best is being done, and that no one could do more. 

The kinds of tumors most frequently encountered are 
Various I ids of the fibroi ^ cystic, fatty and glandular, and polypus 

growths. A fibroid tumor is one that is formed of fibrous 

tissue, a cystic tumor is one that contains fluid, or liquid, encased in a capsule, 
or pouch. A fatty tumor is composed of fat. A glandular tumor is one grow- 
ing in or near a gland and resembling it in structure. The polypoid is one 
that grows from a pedicle or stem, whatever its situation or nature. A 
floating, or movable, tumor is a movable mass in the abdomen about the size 
and shape of a kidney. It may be a movable kidney, a loosely attached 
ovarian cyst, a collection of fecal matter, etc. A malignant tumor is one that 
threatens life, without reference to its nature or situation. 

Tumors develop most rapidly in those parts of the body 

>m l, Ct where the blood supply is the greatest, as in or near the 

generative organs of a woman. Anything that interferes 

with the free circulation of the blood, as tight or heavy clothing suspended 



TUMORS 377 

about the waist, all kinds of displacements, menstrual derangements, chronic 
constipation, inflammatory processes, adhesions, etc., tends to the development 
of foreign growths. 

Growths are not always accompanied with pain in the beginning, but 
pain sooner or later will develop. Women sometimes carry these growths for 
a long time without being aware of their presence, but a large majority do not 
escape suffering. They may be exempt from pain for months or years, but 
whatever happens to impair the general health or to lower the vital resistance 
may start up a train of symptoms such as seriously to involve all functional 
activity. 

The constant nagging of the tumor upon surrounding 
on jf, parts often so irritates them that a woman becomes a 

nervous wreck and fears insanity. A tumor pressing 

upon the ovary not only causes extreme pain, but great irritability and hys- 
teria. The sufferer is sad without knowing why, often cries without reason, is 
discouraged and weary, impatient and irritable. The tumor may press upon 
the bladder, and even though it be small, the irritation and nervous symptoms 
become intense. It may press upon the ureters, and thus impair the function 
of the kidneys, or it may be in such a position that it will interfere with the 
work of the stomach or the rectum, and even cause paralysis of the legs and 
other parts from pressure upon certain nerves. More or less inflammation is 
present, greater at some times than at others. This inflammatory process 
causes the formation of adhesions, which interfere with the normal movements 
of the parts. Such patients complain of great dragging pains unless lying in 
certain positions. Here lies the great danger in delaying treatment, as after 
a time the adhesions may become so extensive as to bind the contents of the 
pelvis and abdomen into a solid mass. (See chapter on Adhesions.) 

A case showing a fatal lack of persistency in the use of the Viavi treat- 
ment was that of Mrs. Van H. She was making splendid progress under the 
treatment, and was so delighted that she wrote a strong testimonial setting forth 
the benefits that she was receiving and the happy progress of her case. Shortly 
afterward, becoming weary of the delay or yielding to importunities, she sub- 
mitted to an operation to hasten her recovery, and died from the operation. 
There is no doubt whatever that a perfect recovery would have been secured 
had she persisted or been left alone. A desolate home instead of a happy one 
was the result. 

Mrs. A. was of another sort. She had been a sufferer from local troubles 
for seventeen years or more. At the end of that period she began to grow 
large, and her physicians told her that she was pregnant. After nine months 
had passed, however, they changed their minds and informed her that she was 
afflicted with ovarian tumors, and urged her to go upon the operating table at 
once, To this she strenuously objected, having a wholesome dread of the knife. 



378 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Her friends said that she was the largest woman they had e7rr seen. All 
other measures of relief having failed or been refused, she went nnder the 
Viavi treatment. Every means that could be devised to discourage her was 
employed, but she had a determined character and persisted. In a week she 
began to feel better, and took more interest in her household affairs. Her size 
gradually lessened, and the severe and weakening hemorrhages that she had 
suffered from while the tumors were growing ceased. In six week she passed 
the first of the tumors, and in three months the second came away, besides a 
large number of polypi from the womb. Her recovery was complete and per- 
manent. 

The constant interference of kind-hearced but mischiev- 
Interference With ous friends who persistently try to shake the purpose 
Recovery of ^ p at i ent| an( j especially those who have a well- 

developed mania for surgical methods, often drives these tumor patients to the 
most desperate measures, when if left alone they would be contented to follow 
up the Viavi treatment for a sufficient length of time to bring about noticeable 
results. When this period arrives the patient is safe. She knows within her- 
self the wonderful changes that are taking place. 

A pitiful case of this kind we recall. The patient was the second wife. 
There were grown sons in the family who were children of the first wife. 
These stepsons constantly urged that the mother submit to a surgical ope ration. 
A number of times she came to the office white with terror. She would walk 
the floor and wring her hands, saying over and over that sometime when she 
should be weak and could not resist, they would cut her open and that she 
would be killed. She was right. When the heaviest repair work was going 
on within her body and the tumorous growth was coming away daily in great 
quantities, and when she most needed the loving care and intelligent sympathy 
of her husband, the stepsons decided upon an operation. The husband con- 
sented. She was placed upon the operating table at II A. M., and at 4 P. M. 
of the same day she was dead. 

Tumor patients coming under the Viavi treatment are 
Length of Time anx ious to know just how long it will take in their cases 

Required to p er f ec t a cure. This cannot be told, as no two patients 

have exactly the same experience ; one is cured quickly and another slowly. 
The time consumed depends upon the nature, size and location of the tumor, 
and largely also upon the patient's general health and the regularity with 
which the treatment is used. 

Sometimes a tumor is expelled as a whole. It is born like a child, be- 
ing expelled from the womb by muscular contractions resembling labor pains* 
When the remedy has been used for a sufficient length of time to cause it tc 
become foreign to the body (as does the child that has been part of the mother 



TUMORS 379 

until the end of the ninth month), Nature will then exert herself to cast it 
out. Others are eliminated in small pieces at the monthly period, and in such 
cases menstruation may become very painful. In others, the discharges vary, 
occurring at irregular intervals. 

Labor-like pains are always excellent symptoms when tumor patients 
are under the treatment, as also are pains that patients describe as a feeling 
that something had broken loose or was tearing loose. Large tumors also dis- 
appear entirely by absorption, not a fiber-like shred making its appearance. 

Patients frequently feel the change in position of a tumor when a change 
occurs. This change always means a curative progression. Great relief may 
ensue, and again there may follow a great downward pressure, as if the organs 
would protrude through the vaginal orifice. 

One singular case was that of a woman forty years of age, who was suf- 
fering from a large abdominal growth. Five eminent surgeons had advised a 
speedy operation. She came under the Viavi treatment and was entirely 
cured in two years. No vaginal discharge made its appearance, but when she 
had used the Viavi treatment about a year she suddenly began to bleed violently 
at the nose ; this continued for five hours with greater or less severity. After 
the hemorrhage had ceased the patient discovered that her abdomen was of 
normal size ; and it has remained so. 

Discharges under the treatment vary greatly according 

Discharges under to the character o f the tumor and the systemic changes 

that occur by which they are caused to migrate from the 

system. They may resemble small pieces of fibrous meat, or liver, black 
offensive clots, pure blood, boiled beans, gruel, worms, or profuse watery dis- 
charges varying greatly in color ; frequently there pass pieces of the tumor, 
furnished with small white roots. The entire cast of the womb, greatly thick- 
ened, may be thrown off, or bunches of cysts resembling grapes may be fre- 
quently expelled. So varied are these discharges that it would be impossible 
to give them all, but one that is extremely interesting must be illustrated. It 
was in the case of a teacher of fancy work. She discharged from the rectum 
bluish balls, which, when opened, were found to be filled with pieces of silk 
thread that she had bitten off and swallowed. Her trouble was all in the left 
ovarian region, and had been diagnosed as an ovarian tumor, an operation 
having been advised. 

Under the Viavi treatment not one part alone is ben- 
lole System eficially a ff ec ted, but a purging of the whole system 

takes place. Every expulsive effort of the body exhausts 

the patient more or less. After vomiting, the patient lies back exhausted for 
a time, as after labor ; and so, with long-continued expulsive efforts on the 
part of the body to throw from it an abnormal growth, it is only natural to ex- 



380 VIAVI HYGIENE 

pect that the patient will become thin, weak and much exhausted. The ex- 
pulsion should be looked upon as a wonderful and heroic operation performed 
by Nature, entailing need of rest. Even though the patient become exceed- 
ingly thin and emaciated, and her mind, aa well as body, weak, we know the 
happy results that will follow the treatment when it is used as advised to the 
final accomplishment. 

The first essential and imperative advice is to promote 

Viavi Treatment a b sor ption by establishing a normal circulation of the 

blood, to bring the remedy to all parts of the body. 

Viavi must be supplied to the system in three forms the capsules, cerate and 
liquid. To establish the circulation we shall give in the latter part of this 
volume the formulae for several kinds of baths. The Vapor Bath will be found 
very beneficial if the patient's strength permits. The Viavi Brush Bath also is 
excellent, but if a patient chills easily, the Salted Towel may be employed. (See 
Salted Towel Rub.) The patient should use her own judgment in selecting 
the baths best suited to her case. If absorption is very poor and the patient 
suffers from cold hands and feet, this showing that the circulation is greatly 
impeded, the Vapor Bath should be used until the skin absorbs well; but if the 
absorption is fairly good, the Salted Towel or Dry Salt Rub may be used daily, 
in conjunction with the Viavi Brush Bath twice a week. As all tumorous 
growths are caused by stagnation, it should always be remembered that estab- 
lishing a normal circulation is the first step necessary to overcome tumorous 
conditions. 

Compresses over the affected parts are advised, and the best results are 
obtained where the hot and the cold compresses are used alternately (see Hot 
Compress and Cold Compress), especially where the tumors are situated in 
the abdominal and pelvic cavities. The compresses should be used sufficiently 
long at a time to secure beneficial results that is, to restore reactive powers 
sufficiently to re-establish the contraction and relaxation of the walls of the 
blood vessels. They should be applied for from thirty minutes to an hour at a 
time, twice a week, according to the patient's strength and the gravity of the 
case. (See Rules for Abdominal Massage.) 

It is also very essential that the Viavi cerate be applied daily over the 
region of the affected parts, after sponging the skin with vinegar and water, so 
that the surface may be thoroughly cleansed and the cerate more readily 
absorbed. But little of the cerate should be used at a time, and it should be seen 
to that this quantity is well absorbed before more is applied. At first absorp- 
tion may be very limited, but as the various parts of the body are affected in 
the treatment from the different forms of the remedy used, the weakened parts 
will be strengthened and absorption promoted. We have seen patients who, 
although apparently at first absorbing no more than if the cerate had been rubbed 
over a china plate, in time take it up almost as rapidly as if it were being 



TUMORS 381 

rubbed through a fine sieve. A failure to absorb the remedy at first should 
never discourage, as it is quite sure eventually to be taken up from one or 
more of the forms used, until in time all parts are responding. 

The daily use of the cerate over the spine in all tumorous conditions is 
very essential, as the whole nervous system may be fed in this region. As the 
nerves control the blood supply, and as Viavi is a perfect nerve food, it is quite 
evident that marked results must be obtained^from its use in this region. (See 
Cerate on Spine.) 

A capsule should be used per vagina every night when the patient is not 
menstruating, after she has taken a warm vaginal douche in a reclining posi- 
tion, and just before retiring. 

When the system has accommodated itself to the single-strength cap- 
sule, the double-strength capsule should be used. The cure may be further 
hastened, if the system will permit, by using a double-strength capsule both 
night and morning. 

When the tumorous growth is so situated or is of such a nature that it is 
accompanied with discharges or floodings, so that the use of the capsule is 
prevented per vagina, it should be placed in the rectum as high as possible 
with the finger. 

It" the discharges are copious and debilitating, rest in a recumbent posi- 
tion is imperative, also the use of the cold compress; if extremely profuse, 
hot vaginal injections of vinegar and water may be used. They should be 
exceedingly hot and their use protracted. (See Hot Douche.) The effect of 
the heat is to produce a stimulation of the vaso-motor constrictor nerves, thus 
narrowing the blood vessels contributing to the hemorrhage. 

Copious discharges while under the Viavi treatment need not alarm. If 
the tumor is being driven out rapidly and is accompanied with profuse dis- 
charges, the use of the capsules should be discontinued for a week or longer, 
but the use of the Viavi liquid and cerate should not be discontinued. Perfect 
rest under such circumstances in a recumbent position is imperative. 

The Viavi liquid should be taken into the stomach three times a day in 
from five to fifteen drop doses, in a little water, about twenty minutes before 
each meal. 

A patient suffering from abdominal or pelvic tumors should never eat 
great quantities of food at one time, but small quantities frequently. Large 
quantities cannot be accommodated at one time without producing pressure 
and uneasiness. Gas is sure to accumulate and thus give the sufferer further 
distress. ,- 

For all tumorous conditions that have not become malignant, the Viavi 
remedies, in conjunction with the hygienic advice given, will prove successful 
if continued for a sufficient length of time. When speedy results are not 
obtained, it should be remembered that the reactive powers are greatly weak- 
ened and that the system, not the remedy, is to blame ; for if the remedy is 



382 VIAVI HYGIENE 

absorbed, and the circulating blood carries it through the system to all parts 
and organs, beneficial results are bound to follow. 

If a tumor is so situated that it can be expelled as a whole, Nature will 
dispose of it in her own way, and more or less pain will accompany its expul- 
sion. It may come away in pieces with the monthly flow, or it may disappear 
entirely by absorption. Or it may migrate from the system in small particles 
so continuously that it closely resembles the monthly flow. Ovarian tumors; 
uterine tumors, whether inside the cavity, in the walls, or outside the walls ; 
tumors of the vagina and Fallopian tubes ; fatty, cystic or fibroid tumors in 
fact, tumors of all kinds in all parts of the body are treated successfully by 
the Viavi method. 

For tumors of the rectum see chapter on Diseases of the Rectum. For 
tumors of the breast see chapter on Cancer of the Breast. 

Strong drugs, advised to be taken in the stomach to stop the growth of 
tumors, destroy the tone of the nerves of the digestive system, and the morbid 
growth increases in proportion as they do so. They act far more strongly in 
crippling the healthy parts than in melting away diseased growths. The un- 
successful and fatal results of operations are well understood. 




CHAPTER LVII. 



DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. 



preceding chapters the diseases peculiar to women only have been con- 
sidered and their cure by means of the Viavi treatment discussed. The 
usefulness of the treatment by no means ends there. The rest of the 
volume will be devoted to a discussion of other diseases. These are not 
peculiar to either sex, but affect both sexes, and are not related to the genera- 
tive system, The effectiveness of the Viavi treatment in overcoming certain 
diseases of both men and women diseases not necessarily associated with the 
generative nature of either sex has been as fully established as in the diseases 
of women. Such diseases are principally those of the mucous membrane in 
various parts of the body the air passages of the nose, head and chest ; the 
lining of the stomach, intestines, rectum and urethra. All these afflictions are 
common to men, women and children, and the Viavi treatment is equally effi- 
cacious with all. (See chapter on Catarrhal Conditions.) The treatment has a 
particularly high value also in nervous disorders, and in diseases to which they 
give rise, in both sexes. 

There are still other afflictions discussed herein, and a way to overcome 
them is shown. Some of these will have a particular interest for men whose 
powers have waned when they should be in their prime. 

The term, "The Viavi Treatment," means tke Viavi 
Diseases Suffered treatment for the disease for which the treatment is 
by Men intended. As there is a considerable range of diseases 

thus reached, there are consequently various forms of the Viavi treatment. 
Thus, there is one for the diseases of women, with details varied to suit the 
particular form and character of the disease ; there is another for hemorrhoids, 
or piles, equally efficacious with both sexes ; there is still another for stomach 
and intestinal troubles, of equal efficacy in both men and women ; still another 
for colds, catarrh, bronchitis, lung troubles, etc., all equally valuable to 
men, women and children. There is likewise a Viavi tonic for improving the 
condition of the blood, particularly where it is lacking in iron. In all of these 



384 VIA VI HYGIENE 

various forms of the Viavi treatment there is an exact adjustment of the form 
and character of the treatment to the requirements of the disease. In all cf 
the forms of the remedy the Viavi principle appears, because of its remark- 
able and widely useful properties ; but in addition there are other elements 
having a special and additional value in the particular diseases for which the 
various forms of the Viavi treatment are intended. It is very important to 
keep this in mind, as it will check any tendency to regard the Viavi treatment 
as a "cure-all," or as one remedy for all kinds of disease. 

The diseases just enumerated are common to men and 
Diseases Common W0 men; children have some of them. A great many 

men suffer incredible tortures from piles and from 

stomach and urinary troubles. Many of them rapidly deteriorate in nerve 
force upon reaching middle life, and are discouraged to find their physical and 
mental powers waning at the very time when the desire to employ them most 
effectively is strongest. The special form of the Viavi treatment for these 
conditions impairing their efficiency or their enjoyment of life is the greatest 
imaginable boon to them. The original Viavi treatment was for the diseases of 
women only. Its experimental use in other directions gave so good results 
from the action of the Viavi principle contained in the treatment, that the 
founders deemed it wise to meet the demand for an enlarged range of its useful- 
ness. To that end they combined the Viavi principle with other agencies in 
the various forms of the remedy as it exists to-day, and elaborated hygienic 
aids suited to the various diseases for which the treatment is intended. 

No form of Viavi treatment for the diseases of the gen- 
Sexual Diseases erative organs of men has as yet been put forth. It is a 

very interesting fact, however, that husbands who have 

become interested in the treatment of their wives under the Viavi method 
have employed the same treatment for non-venereal diseases of their own gen- 
erative organs, and have secured the most gratifying results after the best 
medical skill had been exhausted without avail. We recall particularly the 
case of a man suffering with wasting of -the testicles, who secured a perfect 
recovery from the Viavi cerate applied to the scrotum. Men are liable to a 
number of serious and exhausting afflictions of their generative nature, partic- 
ularly in middle life and old age. When they arrive at the age of forty-five or 
thereabout the prostate gland undergoes a physiological enlargement. If they 
are perfectly sound this occurs generally without their knowledge ; if they are 
not, the change is a critical time for them. Many of them die and many 
others suffer for the rest of their lives. Inflammation of the prostate (prosta- 
titis) is always a serious matter, and it may occur at auy time after youth, 
from sexual excesses, drinking and the like. As the prostate lies against the 
urethra, prostatiiis involves the urethra in inflammation, and this condition 



DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN 385 

will extend to the bladder, producing grave, painful and annoying conditions. 
Many men have to empty the bladder regularly with a catheter. Orchitis 
(inflammation of the testicle) is a condition entailing inconceivable agony, and 
consumption of the testicles is often seen. Varicocele and hydrocele are com- 
mon afflictions. 

While no Viavi treatment for the diseases of the genera- 
Some Suggestions tiye organs o f men has as yet been formulated and tested, 
to Men j t seems reasonable to expect the best results in such 

cases from the use of the Viavi treatment for piles (which see), as the remedy 
used for that purpose comes in almost immediate contact with the prostate and 
the spermatic cord. This cord carries the nerves and blood supply of the 
contents of the scrotum, and hence the nerves and blood vessels of the testicles 
receive the benefit of the remedy. At the same time the application of the 
Viavi cerate upon the scrotum, the abdomen and the lower part of the back 
may be expected to reach the internal generative organs and bring the greatest 
benefit. The natural expectation is that the remedy will act with men 
as with women supply the nerves and tissues with needed building and 
strengthening material, enrich the blood, render the circulation sufficiently 
strong to enable it to remove the products of disease, bring rich, healthy blood 
to the diseased parts, and thus eliminate inflammatory conditions. 

While this would be the natural expectation, we are not ready to make 
an offer of any form of the Viavi treatment for diseases of the generative 
organs of men. The reason is that there has been and is so vast a field in the 
diseases of women, and there are so many more women than men who suffer 
with diseases of the generative system, that there has not yet arisen an oppor- 
tunity for giving special attention to the diseases of men. At the same time, 
many men have secured the most gratifying results with regard to abnormal 
conditions of their generative organs, some by using for those diseases the 
treatment for hemorrhoids, others unexpectedly experiencing recovery from 
diseases of their generative organs from, employing the treatment for catarrh. 
It is left to the choice of afflicted men to employ the treatment for hemor- 
rhoids to cure diseases of their generative organs if they so desire. We should 
be grateful to receive reports from men using the treatment for such purposes. 
The Hygienic Department of the most convenient Viavi office will cheerfully 
furnish, without charge, hygienic advice in such cases when desired. 



An understanding of many of the preceding chapters will 
be highly valuable in the study and treatment of the 
general diseases now to be considered. Particular atten- 
tion is called to the chapters on The Circulation ; Absorption ; Activity, Rest 
end Sleep ; Sunshine and Air ; Regular Habits ; Mental States ; The Nervous 



386 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



System, and Congestion, Inflammation and Ulceration. While tnose chapters 
were written with special reference to the diseases peculiar to women, they 
contain much information of the greatest general value, and of special value 
in all diseased conditions. For that matter, all the chapters preceding this 
should be understood by every man and woman. Not only do they contain 
much valuable instruction concerning natural laws, an understanding of which 
is necessary to every person, whether well or ill, but they will broaden the un- 
derstanding and contribute to the usefulness and happiness of life. It is im- 
possible for men and women to know too much about themselves and each 
other. 

After the discussion of the general diseases to which the Viavi treatment 
is applicable, will come the hygienic aids employed in the treatment of all the 
diseases coming within the range of the treatment. 




CHAPTER LVIII. 



NERVOUS DEBILITY. 



L E shall consider debility with reference to a general lowering of vigos 
and nerve force, and with reference to diseases to which it gives rise. 
Much valuable knowledge on this subject may be gleaned from the 
chapter on the Nervous System. We shall now discuss some of the 
prevalent manifestations of a lack of nervous integrity and its consequences ; 
and while much of the chapter is equally applicable to men and women, it is 
aimed more directly at conditions affecting men. In foregoing chapters we 
have seen the evil effects of an impaired nervous condition in women, as both 
the result and cause of their diseases. 

t On every hand, in every walk of life, and particularly in 

Nervous Failures the higher wa ik Sj we find multitudes of men suffering 

from a deterioration of their powers long before the 

natural time for that to occur. A man ought to be in his prime between his 
fortieth and his sixtieth years. Every one of his physical and mental capabili- 
ties should respond promptly to any judicious demand made upon it. His 
ability to enjoy all the wholesome pleasures of life should exist without em- 
barrassing impairment. Instead of that, we too often find him virtually a 
wreck. Too much of his vital force has been prematurely consumed. At the 
time of life when he needs great physical and mental strength, vigor and en- 
durance, he finds distressing conditions overtaking him. He discovers himself 
to be less a man in every sense than he ought to be. Minor, as well as serious, 
annoyances arise to fill his life with discomforts. He becomes bald, without 
stopping to reflect that baldness is an indication of impaired nervous integrity. 
He grows stout without reflecting that obesity is an unnatural and unhealthy 
condition, and that it seriously interferes with his activity and good appear- 
ance. Dyspepsia appears and brings its torments. Hemorrhoids begin to sap 
his strength and destroy his comfort. His bladder gives him trouble. Neuralgia, 
headaches, insomnia or rheumatism may add their miseries. " Gout may bring 
him excruciating agonies. Prostatic and other troubles of his sexual nature 



388 VIAVI HYGIENE 

may completely unman him. Diabetes, Bright's disease, asthma, stone in the 
bladder and other afflictions may attack him. In short, before he realizes it, he 
is either a partial or total wreck, certainly an imperfect man, and all of the 
best pleasures of life are beyond his reach. 

It is easy to find the causes of the premature decay of 

m y * manhood. At the head of the list probably stands sexual 

excess. Next in importance comes the use of alcoholic 

stimulants and tobacco, their evil effects aided by tea and coffee. Next comes 
overwork, principally mental, and last unintelligent living with regard par- 
ticularly to rest, sleep and regularity ot habits. 

A glance will show that every one of these errors represents a direct 
attack upon the nervous forces. Men,, like women, in their younger years can 
stand, without apparent injury, an incredible amount of abuse; but every 
irrational act, every unnatural strain upon the vital forces, will be punished in 
the years to come, and there is no escape whatever. The punishment arrives 
when the vital forces are beginning to wane and are no longer able to hold out 
against the unrelaxing demand oi Natuie for her pound of flesh. 

The number of men leading lives that are perfectly rational is very small. 
That a larger proportion of them do not fail utterly, instead of being only 
crippled, is because of their inherent strength and the regularity of the habits 
imposed upon them by the exigencies oil heir lives. But this strength was not 
given them to be squandered with crimina 1 recklessness a fact that they learn 
with exceedingly bitter regrets in the latrr years of their lives. 

It is too much to hope at present that men in their 

low an .emergency voun g er years will exercise the wisdom which brings 

health, strength and content in middle life and old age. 

Not only are many of them born with a heredity that largely unfits them for 
the exercise of prudence, but the prevalent methods of their rearing and edu- 
cation fail to give them needed instruction and inspire them with ideals of 
purity and wisdom. There is the strongest reason for believing that sons born 
of mothers who have imbibed the philosophy of the Viavi movement will be 
properly equipped at birth to bear the rational strains of life, and will receive 
maternal guidance sufficient to make them beware of the pitfalls of youth. 
That, however, brings no comfort to the great army of men who, having had 
none of those advantages, and finding themselves now grievously crippled at a 
time when they should be in full possession of all the rugged qualities of man- 
hood, cast about eagerly, many of them despairingly, for relief. They have 
consumed their forces in excess of a judicious limit, and are suffering the 
consequences. 

We believe that after studying the practical suggestions contained in this 
volume they will sec a way to secure a large measure of the relief that they so 



NERVOUS DEBILITY 389 

earnestly crave. Their eyes will be opened to many simple truths that appeal 
to the common sense of all, and that must be understood before any man can 
exercise wisdom in the pursuit of health 

Under a serious and almost universal misconception, 
Unsound Methods that wea k ness or disease is a special and restricted con- 
Employed dition, and that medicine can cure it, incredible amounts 
of money are annually wasted, and the mind kept closed to the grand truths 
of health and disease, by resort to medication. If a man finds his hair grow- 
ing thin, he will generally think first of providing himself with some prepara- 
tion to "make it grow," ignorant of the fact that his increasing baldness is 
really a symptom of nervous depletion that extends to every vital element of 
his nature. He dreads baldness because it is disfiguring or uncomfortable, not 
because the disappearance of his hair removes a natural protection of great 
importance to his brain, the central force of his life. If he has rheumatism, 
it is the cure of rheumatism only that concerns him, for he imagines that 
rheumatism is a local trouble, and does not reflect that it is merely a symptom 
of a condition that impoverishes every force of his life. If he has indigestion 
or dyspepsia, he thinks only that his stomach or his bowels are "out of order," 
ignorant of the fact that it is merely a specific and local indication of a general 
weakness that has found in certain organs and functions an inherent predis- 
position to break down before the others; so he unwisely " takes something " 
that his physician may prescribe to "tone up" his stomach or bowels, or, 
what is worse, relieve them of the work that Nature intended them to do and 
that they must do in order that their vigor may be conserved. 

The man who reads this entire volume, including that 
Rcad part of it devoted to the diseases of women, will see run- 
Intelligently ning all through it these truths : that disease originating 
within the sufferer, as distinguished from disease caused by injury from 
extraneous sources, represents a condition that is not confined to the part, 
organ or function affected; that treatment directed solely to the local or specific 
condition is irrational; that health and recovery from disease impose certain 
obligations upon one's conduct; that Nature is the only agency possessing 
the power to maintain health and overcome disease; that the only value 
which any treatment can have is in furnishing the aid which Nature requires 
where it is evident that the natural powers of the system have lost their inherent 
tendency and power to overcome disease without assistance; that any resort to 
haste or violence in the treatment of disease is irrational and futile because 
unnatural; that as the healing processes of Nature are slow or rapid in pro- 
portion to the gravity of the disease and length of time that it has been present, 
the only rational treatment is one whose time of cure is the natural time; that 
the whole tendency of ordinary methods of treatment is to ignore those funda* 



390 VIA VI HYGIENE 

mental truths, and to depend upon medicine, surgery and other artificial and 
violent measures to force results, and to ignore both the healing power ot" 
Nature and her resentment of every attempt to thwart her laws or force her 
processes; that in consequence of all this, men and women are blinded to the 
great truths that underlie health and disease; that until the advent of the 
Viavi treatment there were no means whatever by which Nature could be fur- 
nished with the assistance which she requires to overcome some of the most 
important diseases that afflict humanity; that the unequalled merit of the 
Viavi treatment lies in the fact that it does offer the assistance that Nature 
requires, that by means of it recovery from disease is secured by perfectly 
natural means, that the time of cure secured with its assistance is governed 
strictly by the natural requirements of the case, and that this time is long or 
short as the disease is grave and of long standing, or the opposite. 

t With this understanding of the philosophy of the Viavi 

Profiting ^by the treatment (it is abundantly elaborated throughout this 
Knowledge volume) readers will be in a position to realize its value 

in alleviating or overcoming the distressing conditions that have overtaken 
them. In subsequent chapters the various forms of weakness common to men 
and women will be discussed. They and the diseases to which they give rise 
seriously cripple every life afflicted with them, and if neglected may lead to 
premature death. The important point that we desire to make here is that it 
is highly essential for men and women to understand the origin and nature of 
disease, to realize its extensive effect upon the entire economy, and to appreci- 
ate the importance of making intelligent conduct serve as an aid to the treat- 
ment of disease. 

There is no foreseeing the form of disease to which weakness or debility 
will give rise. With one it may be dyspepsia, with another nervous prostra- 
tion, with another anything else. All depends upon what part has the greatest 
inherent weakness. 

The subject in which we are particularly interested now is nervous 
debility. As we pursue it further we shall see how interesting it is, how inti- 
mately it is associated with disease, and how a restoration of nervous integrity 
will produce the happiest results in all directions. Fortunately, there is a form 
of the Viavi treatment for nervous debility, and it is one of the greatest boons 
ever offered to humanity. It is evident that if the soundness of the nervous 
system can be restored, conditions antagonistic to weakness, debility and dis- 
ease are established. 

The ideal man in business and the home circle is patient 

liability and an( j cons id era te under all circumstances. The man who 

Incapacity worries and frets is not a good businessman. He is 

consuming his vital forces rapidly without getting any equivalent. If he is 



NERVOUS DEBILITY 393 

cross and irritable with his associates or employees, he keeps them in a con- 
stant state of discomfort or apprehension, and thus cripples their usefulness to 
the business. If he is at all times and under all circumstances in perfect com- 
mand of himself, his judgment will be far clearer, his strength far greater and 
his influence much more helpful to his associates or employees than if he were 
nervous and petulant. 

A man who is irritable in business is peevish, mean, overbearing, selfish 
and fault-finding at home. Instead of being the solid rock upon which the happi- 
ness and stability of the home are founded, he is an element of weakness and 
disintegration. His wife and children fear him and dread his coming. His 
children leave home, or desire to do so, before they have sufficiently developed 
to fight the battle of life. He fails to exercise the deep and steady ing influence 
that means so much to the safety of the household. 

In business he suffers the loss of an influence whose power is so great, 
so essential to success. His development is prohibited where it should be 
progressing. Many a brilliant career has been destroyed by what appeared to 
be so simple a disease as nervous depression. A man cannot hope to stand 
with other men in the world if he suffers from a depletion of nerve force. 

It was never intended by Nature that a man should be otherwise than 
patient, composed, strong in his sense of power, competent for every rational 
strain, ready for every emergency. If he is all that, he is a gentleman; if he is 
not a gentleman, he has no place in the ranks of men. If he is not, he may 
know that he is in an abnormal condition, and that every demand is made upon 
his intelligence to raise himself to the proper standard of manhood. 

. We observe that living things are provided with greater 

low Strains Hurt strength than they need for the ordinary purposes of 

their lives. This is to provide for emergencies, for an 

extraordinary strain may come at any moment. In building a bridge we pro- 
vide it with more than sufficient strength to bear its own weight and that of 
ordinary traffic, for we know that at any time it may become heavily crowded, 
and that if we do not make it sufficiently strong to bear this heavy strain, it 
will fall and destroy many lives. That is following a natural law. 

Strains of greater or less severity are constantly occuring in the lives of 
all. The strain imposed upon women in parturition is enormous, and the fact 
that some of them have not the natural strength to bear it without danger or 
undue suffering shows that they have permitted themselves to drift from a 
natural condition. The strains under which a man may come are of infinite 
variety. There may be a sudden financial panic or crash; a loved one may die; 
an epidemic may appear; a serious injury may be accidentally received. If he 
does not have the reserved strength to meet any and all of them, he will go 
down; and he cannot have such strength if his nerve forces have been depleted. 
He must be always ready there is never any knowing when the blow may fall. 



392 VIA VI HYGIENE 

The man who bears one strain successfully is thereby rendered all the 
stronger to bear other strains. This is an application of the familiar principle 
that the sources of power are increased by exercise. 

It is at middle age that the responsibilities of men be- 
come the most serious. If they have married and be- 
Responsibilities CQme f atherS) their elder sons and daughters are grown. 

The sons need the wisest advice and assistance in starting life, and the daugh- 
ters in establishing themselves as new centers of domestic usefulness and happi- 
ness. If a man find himself crippled at this time, he is unable to give his 
children all the help that wise considerations of their welfare demand. If a 
father's powers fail him at this critical time, or if weakness or debility appear 
to any extent, or some physical malady overtake him if, in short, he fall 
below the standard of the highest manhood he cannot properly discharge the 
heavy responsibilities that have come into his life, and whose proper discharge 
means so much to other lives. 

The normal man, the man whom Nature intended to 

How Moi b Are create> g n( j s wholesome pride and worthy ambition the 

anchor and inspiration of his life. Within bounds, he is 

proud of his power to achieve, to overcome, to conquer ; he is proud of his 
victories ; he is proud of his wife, children and home; he is proud of his work, 
business, profession or art. In addition to this natural and wholesome pride, 
he has an ambition that constantly urges him on. He welcomes obstacles, 
because his pride will be gratified and his interests advanced by overcoming 
them. He is proud of his friends and of their admiration of him and confi- 
dence in him. As a consequence of the operation of all these influences, he 
leads a pure and helpful life, and his influence is good in every direction. 

If he is not a sound man, if his nerves lack full integrity, or he is weak 
or diseased, his pride and ambition will be correspondingly weak. His sense 
of shame will not be so easily outraged. His tastes and appetites will be 
naturally depraved to a greater or less degree. His responsibilities will not 
operate so strongly for his good and that of his family, friends and business 
associates. He will easily drift under the influence of damaging associates 
and ruinous practices. At first he may suffer remorse for every departure from 
the ways of a man and gentleman, but gradually he will become hardened by 
indulgence, and by the same means will become more and more weakened and 
hence unable to resist. Countless men have thus gone to pieces in middle age. 
Every man who ebserves and thinks will see the truth and reason of all these 
assertions. 

Every normal person, whether man, woman or child, 

The Pleasure of en j oys the mere act of living. That is Nature's law, for 

Living - t | s evident that if the opposite were her law, all races 



NERVOUS DEBILITY 393 

would quickly disappear. When, therefore, we see a person who does not 
enjoy living the mere being alive we may know that there has been a seri- 
ous and fatal departure from the law. Inability to enjoy life at the highest 
may rightly be called a disease. 

The normal person enjoys not alone the mere act of living, but also the 
many casual and incidental pleasures that come into life, and in addition 
pleasures that may be sought. The normal man enjoys his business, his 
home, his wife and children, his friends; he enjoys the more extraneous pleas- 
ures that the talent and skill of others have provided, such as books, paintings, 
music, amusements and the like; he enjoys pleasures arising out of the grega- 
rious and social nature of his species, such as dinners, banquets, and other 
occasions for social assemblage. He enjoys wholesome sports and games, and 
must be old indeed to be too old to participate in many of them; he enjoys 
picnics and other outings that bring him in touch with gentle and bountiful 
Mother Nature, whose works and beauties are to him exhaustless sources of 
wonder and admiration. 

In whatever direction a man may turn to get instruction 
Natural Love of from Nature) tne great source O f wisdom, he will find 

that love of life and its pleasures is a universal and 

fundamental law. Among the lower animals and primitive human races we 
find that no more work is done than is needful to secure sufficient food and com- 
fort; all the rest of the time is given to the simple enjoyment of living. In some 
cases the struggle for food is hard, either constantly or at certain seasons; but 
rarely is it so hard but that abundant time is left for pleasure, at one time or 
another. The higher we search in the scale of intelligence among animals and 
primitive races, the stronger we find the tendency to seek pleasures additional 
to the pleasure of simply living, ' Among savage tribes we find the number 
and ingenuity of their sports determined by the degree of their intelligence. 
When we come to civilized races, we observe a marvelous number, variety 
and complexity of ways for securing pleasure. 

All of these are expressions of a natural impulse and desire. Those of 
us who are inaccessible to their full enjoyment, are imperfect. There are in- 
numerable men who withdraw themselves from these pleasures, not reflecting 
that their inclination to do so proclaims an internal condition that might well 
give cause for apprehension. 



Great Value of 
Pleasures 



The wisdom of Nature is nowhere morestrinkingly man- 
ifest than in this implanting of a fondness for pleasures. 



The playful instinct is deeply rooted in the young of all 
mammals, the evident purpose being that it shall be employed as a valuable 
aid to development. In adults it serves an equally useful purpose. It intro- 
duces a wholesome variety in everyday experiences; it lends a healthfu* 



394 VIAVI HYGIENE 

?u muins to nervous action, and thus promotes mental expansion, good digestion, 
a rree circulation of the blood, full integrity of the organs of elimination, 
physical strength and endurance, functional activity that is able to resist dis- 
ease, a cheerful acceptance of the conditions of life as they are found, and 
added ability to cope with whatever obstacles may present themselves. This 
law operates with as unfailing certainty in the highest civilized races as in the 
lowest mammals. Those of us who are outside its operation are imperfect, and 
fail to receive the benefits that it can bring. 

. The stimulation produced by the pleasures of life is 

1 r ^ g * icial natural, and therefore beneficial. No artificial stimula- 
tion can possibly take its place, any more than medicine 

or surgery can take the place of natural laws in the cure of disease. It is in 
losing sight of this fact that we invite most of the ills that afflict us. Any 
artificial stimulation is a forcing of natural processes, a violation of natural 
laws, and punishment for such acts never fails to come. We have the stand- 
ard artificial stimulants, alcohol, tobacco, tea and coffee, which are bad 
enough; in addition, a vast amount of human energy is constantly expended in 
seeking new forms of self-injury. With distressing frequency announcements 
are made generally by the medical profession through medical journals of 
some new nerve stimulant, some new way of impoverishing, crippling and 
wrecking the lives of men and women. Charlatans, seeing this mad tendency, 
profit by it, and foist upon the public injurious or dangerous nostrums for 
innumerable purposes associated with nervous deterioration. It would seem 
that unwise and unnatural indulgence in the grosser appetites are sufficiently 
pernicious and prevalent, without calling upon the resources of science further 
to poison the bodies and minds of an already crippled public. 

It is not only the enjoyment of the pleasures of life that 
dnds of atural giyes the natural st i mu lus so essential to health. It is 

lent by the pressure of business exactions, by association 

with helpful friends, by the complex influences of the home, and by the 
variety that occurs daily in the different directions of mental application. 
Monotony is one of the most wearing things in life. It is one thing that makes 
prison life so terrible. Army life in time of peace wouM be injuriously monot- 
onous were it not for the numerous and frequent diversions that soldiers are 
encouraged to devise. The man who finds himself drifting into a treadmill 
life devoid of the variety that the normal man enjoys and that brings him so 
much benefit, may be sure that something is radically wrong, even though he 
may suffer no physical distress, and that suffering will be his portion sooner or 
later. A man's necessities or duties may require hard, long and wearing 
exertion, but within bounds that will not hurt him if he retain his fondness 
for wholesome pleasure and variety. It is tliese that lend to his nervous sys- 



NERVOUS DEBILITY 395 

tern the natural stimulus that it requires 10 assure the healthy working of all 
the bodily functions. 

When a man finds that he has become a slave to some 
A Fondness for ar tificial stimulant, such as alcohol, tobacco, tea or 
Stimulants coffee, and that he suffers discomfort from abandoning 

it temporarily, he may be certain that something is wrong with him, and that 
intelligent treatment is demanded. Such fondness may result merely from a 
careless acquiring of the habit. If so, his realization that he has become a slave 
to it should imform him that by the indulgence he has established an abnor- 
mal condition in his nervous system, and that such a condition is an invita- 
tion to weakness, debility or disease. If, on the other hand, the fondness has 
come as the result of nervous weakness or debility, it means that the appetites 
have lost their integrity, have become a source of danger instead of help to his. 
economy, and that a depraved craving of the system in one direction is an 
indication that depraved tastes in any direction are very likely to arise. 

In either of these events, the wise man will leave nothing undone to 
take the fault in hand and overcome it. 

It is evidently intended by Nature that the capacity for 
Importance of the a ff ect i on should reside in every human heart, because 
Affections we know its great yalue in developing the finer and 

deeper qualities. The normal man loves or has loved some woman, because 
that is natural. He has a fondness for children, because he is one of their 
natural providers. He will want his wife to become a mother, if it is wise 
for reasons personal to her and the child that she should. He will be 
considerate of his wife, and will have no inclination to indulge his grosser 
appetites at the expense of her comfort, inclination, health and affection. He 
will venerate the worthy aged. He will respect the religious and other opin- 
ions and beliefs of his acquaintances. He will have a feeling of sympathy for 
all mankind. He will be touched by grief, poverty and other forms of suffer- 
ing in others. He will be kind to all animals, to all helpless things that can 
feel. 

If he is lacking in any of these qualities, he is the less a man, the less a 
gentleman ; and as it is not natural that he should be so lacking, it behooves 
him to examine himself unsparingly and with the utmost minuteness, find the 
fault, and seek with all the earnestness of serious manhood to overcome it. If 
his fault is hereditary, he should aim to prevent its transmission by putting 
forth a strong effort to overcome it. If it has come, as is most likely, from a 
deterioration of his powers as the result of his own conduct, he should lose no 
time in seeking a remedy. The misanthropic, suspicious, cruel, selfish, nar- 
row, intolerant man is an unnatural man, a diseased man. Nature never 
intended that he should have a place in her wonderful scheme. 



396 VIAVI HYGIENE 

t Other things being equal, a disease is serious in propor- 

hc Seriousness tion to the exte nt to which it affects the general economy. 
of Disease ^j^ two principal ways in which the general economy 

is affected by disease are in a disturbance of nutrition and in an extensive im- 
pairment of nerve function. Thus, dyspepsia prevents the proper digestion of 
the food, and hence the system is not properly fed ; as a consequence, its 
strength is not maintained, and hence disease finds lodgment. The effect upon 
the nervous system in that case is secondary. It should be remembered, how- 
ever, that dyspepsia would not have occurred if the nervous system had been 
sound. Hence nervous weakness caused the dyspepsia, and dyspepsia in turn 
further increases the nervous weakness. 

On the other hand, one local disease may injure the nervous system 
much more than another. In former chapters we have seen why the diseases 
of women have so serious an effect upon their whole nature ; it is, in brief, 
because the nerves centering in their generative organs are so sensitive and 
abundant that large and important nerve centers in the spinal cord and brain 
are affected, these in turn affecting all the rest of the nervous system through 
the close sympathy existing throughout it. . 

- Men show a similar condition. If there is a weakness or disease of their 
generative nature or organs, the whole economy, the integrity of the mind 
itself, is seriously affected. 

If a man is weak in his generative nature, his inability 

Significance of to be a per f ect man i n t b a t respect is the least of the evil 

Weakness conditions that afflict him. As perfect ability rn that 

particular is the center and sign of his manhood, he is the less a man in every 

respect as he is weak in that one. The extent of such weakness measures his 

inability to handle all the problems of his life, to overcome the obstacles and bear 

the annoyances of his occupation, to discharge his duty as husband and father, 

to exercise his proper usefulness in the world. It is so, to a greater or less 

extent, with any disease that may afflict him. It is so if he has dyspepsia, or 

catarrh, or piles. 

Appendicitis, a steadily increasing and always dangerous 
How Appendicitis affliction, is traceable to nervous deterioration. The 
Occurs vermiform appendage (appendix vermiformis) is a rudi- 

mentary closed tube leading out of the cecum, or lower bowel. In the lower 
animals it is a pouch, in which additional digestion is performed after the 
food has undergone digestion in the stomach and bowels. The higher efficiency 
of the digestive powers of the human stomach and bowels has done away with 
the need of this pouch, which exists in a rudimentary form. If anything is 
forced into it from the cecum, inflammation, called appendicitis, results. In 
good health there is hardly any dangei of an object being forced into it ; but 



NERVOUS DEBILITY 397 

If the bowels have become weak or diseased, or if constipation be present, 
small objects, as seeds or fecal matter, may be forced into the appendage. It 
is unnecessary to dilate on the dangers of the condition which such an occur- 
rence creates. Things go wrong in the human economy only when some 
weakness exists. If such weakness is present, anything may go 'wrong. 
There is no foreseeing what particular form of affliction will appear, because 
we cannot see which of the organs is weakest. It is the weakest that is first 
attacked. 

Paralysis, paresis ("softening of the brain"), locomotor 
Numerous Fatal a t ax i a , asthma and palsy are common afflictions among 

men in middle age and past. Next to insanity, to which 

they are all closely allied, they are the most dreadful afflictions imaginable. All 
of them are due directly to nervous debility, and that in turn to irrational 
indulgences or habits. Palsy, or an unsteadiness of the hand or head, or their 
Blight vibration the symptoms of the affliction are familiar to all steadily 
progresses toward extensive paralysis and death. The paretic a senile, half- 
witted, maundering creature in the prime of life is one of the most wretched 
and unpleasant objects that sound human beings are compelled to see. A 
paralytic is an object of pity, and his doom is already sealed ; it is a matter 
merely of the next stroke, or the next, or a steady decay of his mental and 
physical powers, to bring a miserable death. 

All of these afflictions, and many more, proceed from a depletion of 
nervous force from nervous debility. 

The extent of the good that can be accomplished by the 
Nervou: Debility V iavi treatment for nervous weakness or debility depends 

upon the foundation that Nature finds for her building 

work. The wise course is not to wait until the more alarming symptoms have 
appeared, but to put the treatment in thorough force at the earliest moment. 
If the nervous system is thus built up, conditions are established that prohibit 
the advent of disease, or greatly modify or completely cure diseases that have 
already found lodgment. At the same time, every phase of life is made brigh- 
ter when the nervous system is strengthened. There is greater capacity for 
work, and for good and effective work; obstacles are more easily overcome; 
the tendency to be irritable is banished; the home, with all the affections and 
interests that center therein, comes to mean more and to bring added joys; the 
tendency to drift into pernicious habits is avoided. At the same time, it is in- 
cumbent on a man or woman adopting the treatment to live most circum- 
spectly, and to make every act of life contribute to recovery. 

An understanding of preceding chapters in this volume 

V fi! f ? atment will render easy of comprehension the way in which 

the Viavi treatment for depleted nervous forces operates. 



398 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Briefly, it furnishes needed nutriment for the nervous system directly; it 
enriches the blood; it establishes normal digestion, by which the food is 
converted into life-giving nutriment; it makes the circulation full and strong, 
so that the nutriment is properly distributed and the waste products of the 
system removed. These are conditions antagonistic to the advent of disease, 
aud to the persistence of disease if it is already present. 



The treatment for debility requires the copious rubbing 



The Treatment for of the viayi cemte Qver the body for thirty minutes> 
Debility particularly over the abdomen, stomach and back, once 

a day, or twice in severe cases, and the regular use of Viavi Royal, whose 
remarkable tonic, strengthening and building effects are set forth in a later 
chapter. Its action is prompt ; it at once begins the reconstruction and rehab- 
ilitation of the wasted and depleted forces, making one strong, vigorous and 
hopeful, and lending to life a new and pleasing aspect. One of its great advan- 
tages is that the benefits imparted by it are permanent, and that, unlike ordi- 
nary tonics and stimulants, no need for its continued use indefinitely is 
established. 

An important adjunct is baths (see Baths), which should be of the kind 
that the sufferer finds most beneficial. Baths that might be expected to pro- 
duce shock, such as very cold or very hot baths, are to be strictly avoided, as 
they are in themselves very debilitating. All stimulants are to be avoided, 
particularly alcohol and tobacco. If the sudden leaving off of tea or coffee 
produces great nervous distress, it should be used in steadily diminishing 
quantities, and finally abandoned altogether ; but tobacco and alcoholic drinks 
are not to be temporized with ; they must be dropped at once and forever. 
Should there be any derangement or weakness of the digestion, the Viavi 
liquid should be taken in five to ten drop doses, in water, three times a day, 
twenty minutes before each meal. All other complications should receive 
similar special care. Thus, if hemorrhoids are present, the treatment for that 
complaint should be adopted. (See Hemorrhoids.) If the bladder is affected, 
the treatment given elsewhere for affections of the bladder should be employed, 
etc. The bowels must be kept regular by the use of the Viavi laxative. 

There are additional hygienic adjuncts and special forms of the treat- 
ment for men, which will be furnished by the Hygienic Department of the 
most convenient Viavi office upon application by letter or in person. 

It will be understood that all irritating, wearing or disagreeable influ- 
ences are to be avoided as much as possible, that the bright side of every- 
thing be sought, and that intelligent attention be given to diet, rest, sleep and 
the regular evacuation of the bowels and bladder. If all these things receive 
intelligent and faithful attention the sufferer will soon find himself in a con- 
dition to enjoy life as it was intended by Nature that he should. The Viavi 
treatment has a wonderful efficacy in such cases. 



CHAPTER LIX. 



INSOMNIA. 



>HE chapter on Activity, Rest and Sleep explains the uses of sleep and its 
relation to health. We shall now discuss an exceedingly important 
branch of the same subject insomnia, or an inability to sleep. It is 
unnecessary to enlarge on the discomforts and sufferings that accrue 
from sleeplessness ; those who are afflicted with it are sufficiently informed on 
that subject. It is much more important that we discuss the causes, nature 
and cure of insomnia, and show the incomparable value of the Viavi treatment 
in the premises. An almost universal lack of knowledge concerning the 
causes, effects and rational treatment of insomnia accounts for its stubborn- 
ness, the great harm wrought by ordinary methods of treating it, and the serious 
consequences to which it gives rise. 

Insomnia may be a disease in itself, or it may come from some other dis- 
ease. In either event it is one of the worst, most annoying and most injurious 
maladies that afflict humanity. The great popular error is to regard it as an 
isolated condition. The truth is, it is a highly complex condition and demands 
thorough and intelligent attention. It is far more serious than headaches. 

By observing the habits of the lower animals, we find 
caches a that i nsonin i a i s practically unknown among them. We 

find this to be true with regard to savages also. Then 

we rightly conclude that insomnia is a disease of civilization. This means to 
say, first, that we should not be afflicted with it had we not departed from a 
rational, or natural, way of living, and hence that a rational way of living lies 
at the foundation of its cure. We find that when animals want sleep they 
find no difficulty in securing it ; that many of them sleep soundly under what 
appear to be the most unfavorable conditions as, for instances, horses, which 
sleep standing in their stalls. In the case of infants, we see that for several 
weeks after birth they spend most of their time sleeping. 

We all know that sleep is a condition in which recuperation of used-up 
forces is secured; that it is normally desired when fatigue arrives; that after it 
the forces of the body are fresh and strong; and that if it is not secured, a 
feeling of weariness and depression is experienced, often accompanied with 
pain, such as headache. 



400 VIAVI HYGIENE 

In the chapter on the Nervous System we showed 
^Assimilation and broadly that there is a special system of nerves whose 

Kepair wor> it is to direct what are called the vegetative func- 

tions of the body. This is the sympathetic system. Its forces have to do with 
nutrition and growth. It takes care of assimilation the preparation of the 
food for the uses of the body, and the proper distribution and use of nutri- 
ment. Thus we see that it is the most vital part of the system. It is in the 
closest relations with the higher nervous forces, those that govern motion, 
thought, sensation and emotion, and it yields to these higher forces when they 
demand the right of way. 

It is impossible for all of the forces of the body to be exercised to their 
full or even normal powers at the same time. Thus, when the higher forces 
of the nervous system are in full activity that is to say, when va work, think 
or feel the powers of the lower elements cannot be exercised to their normal 
extent ; the assimilative powers, upon which depend nutrition and recupera- 
tion, are not fully exercised, and hence consumption is greater than repair. 

The sympathetic system will yield the right of way to 
When a Halt Is the bigher syste m up to a certain point only, and then 

it calls a halt and assumes control. It has its own 

necessities to provide for. It, as well as the higher forces, deteriorates while 
the higher forces are consuming the general powers of the body. Its recu- 
perative powers are needed for its own health and safety as well as for the 
health and safety of the higher forces. Therefore, when the consumption of 
the energy that it has stored up reaches a point when the general economy 
would suffer if the consumption were uninterrupted, it imposes a demand for 
sleep, and the higher forces must yield. If they refuse through a perverse 
exercise of the will, or are unable to yield because of a derangement that 
places them beyond control, sleep is kept at bay, the sympathetic system can- 
not do its recuperating work, and a general breaking down ensues. Hence it 
is exceedingly important that we understand the demands of the sympathetic 
system and do all in our power to grant them. If we do not, we shall suffer 
with disease or succumb to death. 

We may illustrate the wonderful resisting powers of the 
Great Resisting; sympathetic, or vegetative, nervous system by observing 
Powers t k e e ff ec t s O f a f ata i dose O f some narcotic alcohol, for in- 

stance. We observe in a case of ordinary intoxication that the victim first suffers 
in respect to his locomotive and mental powers. He grows unsteady on his feet ; 
his mind is greatly weakened ; his special senses are dulled. These conditions 
become worse until he is unable to move, and unconsciousness supervenes. 
If he has not taken a fatal amount, he will lie helpless in this comatose con- 
dition for a certain length of time. All of his brain and spinal centers governing 



INSOMNIA 401 

his voluntary motor forces, and all the centers upon which thought and the emo- 
tions depend, have been overwhelmed by the power of the poison. The sympa- 
thetic system, however, keeps steadily at work, somewhat disturbed, but not 
seriously. It is striving with all its might to throw out the poison, which it 
does through the lungs, skin and bladder. If it can keep its own strength 
from being overwhelmed, it will save the life. It is the humble servant of the 
organization, the one that claims no recognition in the social economy of the 
system, the one that never makes its presence felt if it is permitted by the 
higher powers to discharge its duties properly. It is this servant that is now 
working with might and main, with marvelous intelligence and fidelity, to 
undo the harm wrought by the higher and nobler forces in taking the poison 
into the system. It works so long as it can stagger under the tremendous bur- 
den, and it yields to death only when it finds that it has been murdered by the 
higher, but perverted, God-like forces that had been charged with the respon- 
sibility of preserving the integrity of the whole organism. 

The foregoing illustration explains the purpose of sleep. 

Nature of Sleep There - s this difference. In the case of the alcoholic 

Explained poisoning the sympathetic system tries to overcome the 

evils of a desperate situation ; in that of sleep it lays a hand upon the higher 

forces and says in effect : "Thou hast done enough; thou hast used up all 

the strength that we can spare. Compose thyself, therefore, and sleep, so that 

whilst thou sleepest I may recuperate thy strength for further effort." With 

that it waves its magic wand ; a feeling of drowsiness steals over the senses, the 

eyelids grow heavy, and slumber puts the body to rest. 

But what if there is so great a disturbance that the demand cannot be 
complied with? What if the strain has gone so far that the sympathetic 
system itself has become weakened, and cannot enforce its demand ? What if 
the assimilative and recuperative powers have been so lowered by injudicious 
conduct that they cannot make the demand for sleep sufficiently imperative 
cannot create an overmastering desire to sleep ? Then we have insomnia. 

If we cannot sleep, we cannot recuperate ; hence both 
the higher and the lower powers of the nervous system 
are crippled. Insomnia aggravates all the conditions 

that created it. It lowers the power of the sympathetic system to enforce its 
demand for sleep. In doing this, it impairs the assimilative powers of the 
sympathetic system, and thus the entire system suffers for nutriment. A sys- 
tem afflicted with insomnia is a bankrupt system. Its assets have been ruin- 
ously drawn upon and its liabilities piled up. With an impoverishment of 
nutrition the door of every organ is opened to any disease that may choose 
to enter. 

Meanwhile, the higher powers, those that are generally responsible for 



402 VIAVI HYGIENE 

the evil, are impaired, because the sympathetic system is not permitted to 
repair the waste that they have suffered. Being awake, they keep ou working* 
we may say, on an empty stomach. Even though we lie in bed and are not 
exercising the voluntary motor forces, consciousness remains, and it is a 
drain upon the forces of the system. So long as consciousness is present we 
know that more is being consumed than is stored. We know that blood is 
going to the brain, bearing nutriment from every part f the system, and that 
every part is thus being deprived of its due. We know that the tissues of the 
brain itself are wearing out more rapidly than they are being repaired. We 
know that no matter how vacant the mind may be, so long as we are awake 
we are consuming more strength than we are storing. And worst of all, we 
know that this is a strain that the mind itself cannot bear very long, and that 
insanity must result. Insomnia is almost invariably present in acute mania. 
In short, insomnia and insanity are closely related symptoms of the same 
condition. 

It is in confounding sleep with other forms of uncon- 
Unconsciousness consciousness that a fatal and very common error is 
Is Not All made. The intense longing for sleep leads the ill- 

informed and the reckless to seek unconsciousness at almost any cost. With 
many, death is preferable to insomnia, as the statistics of suicide abundantly 
show It is feared less than insanity, another of its consequences. The use of 
drugs to induce a stupefaction resembling sleep, really produces a condition 
radically different from sleep, and one that is generally worse than wakeful- 
ness. It is another application of the law that efforts to force natural pro- 
cesses create a greater harm than the condition that they are employed to 
better. Narcotics are a form of violence to tho brain functions; their effect is 
that of paralysis, which is the opposite of health and vigor. They create an 
abnormal condition in the brain that is to say, a diseased condition. 

The only rational course, the only one that can bring healthful sleep, 
with unconsciousness as an incident of it, is one that brings about natural 
sleep in a natural way. That is what the Viavi treatment for insomnia does. 

^^ If some general or special weakness develop in the 

brain, the harmonious action of that organ is disturbed. 
A number of phenomena may result, including paraly- 
sis, insanity, loss of memory, insomnia, etc. The cause of the condition pro- 
ducing those effects may be an injury to the head, the rupture of a blood 
vessel in the brain, or deterioration of the brain substance (as in paresis). 
More likely it has come from undue mental strain or a derangement of the 
nervous system from some disease or some habit of life. Anything that 
throws deleterious elements into the blood or that interferes with assimila- 
tion may cause it. Fevers, indigestion and the like are causes. Any dis- 



INSOMNIA 



403 



ease of the internal organs may bring it on. The habitual use of alcoholic 
drinks will almost inevitably produce insomnia. Bitters, tonics and other 
medicines containing alcohol will have a tendency to caiise it. One of the 
most prevalent of all causes is the habitual use of tea or coffee. Tobacco is 
probably as bad. Bxtreme physical exhaustion may bring on a temporary 
attack. That common malady known as "nervousness" is the direct cause of 
most cases of insomnia, but nervousness is a disease. Weakness or disease of 
the generative organs of either sex induces insomnia. 

If there is any error in the sufferer's conduct, the first 
How to Overcome thiug to do is to correct j t< If there is worry> anx i et y O r 

overwork, it must be stopped ; no cure is possible unless 

that is done. The diet should be made as simple and wholesome as possible, 
and the stomach given just as little work as is compatible with strength and 
comfort. The use of tea, coffee, tobacco, sedatives and alcoholic and other 
stimulants must be abruptly and permanently abandoned. No matter what 
discomfort may arise from stopping their use, the reward will immeasurably 
overbalance it. Under alcoholic stimulants may be mentioned brandy, whisky, 
wine, beer, ale, porter and all bitters and "appetizers" containing any of those 
ingredients. Abundant exercise should be taken every day in the open air. 
A sun bath (see Sun Bath) should be taken twice a week. The habits must be 
made perfectly regular, with regard particularly to evacuating the bowels 
every morning ; this is highly essential, as constipation or other irregularity 
in this regard poisons the blood and through it the brain tissue. 

. If there is indigestion, the Viavi liquid should be used, 

Viavi. Treatment in five to fifteen drop doses in water three times & ^ 

about twenty minutes before each meal. If constipation 

is present, the Viavi laxative should be employed. The Viavi tonic will be 
beneficial in all cases. If there is any disease for which there is any form of 
the Viavi treatment, it should be cured by employing the proper Viavi treat- 
ment for it. The bed should be sought at a regular hour every night (see 
chapters on Regular Habits, and Activity, Rest and Sleep.) Before going to 
bed, take a bath, neither hot nor cold, rub the body vigorously all over until a 
good glow is secured (in these daily baths use soap only once or twice a week), 
get immediately into bed, and have a strong attendant rub the Viavi cerate 
vigorously into the skin over the whole length of the spine, and over the abdo- 
men and chest. The cerate is readily absorbed, and as it is a wonderful food 
for the nerves, it puts them in a condition to perform all their functions ; upon 
the healthy performance of these functions depends every condition favorable 
to health and antagonistic to disease. This treatment will very likely produce 
sound and sufficient sleep the very first night. It should be persisted in, how- 
ever for several months, until permanent nervous soundness is established. 



404 VI A VI HYGIENE) 

If the case prove refractory, the rubbing in of the cerate should extend 
to the legs throughout their entire length. 

. A good night's rest often follows the use of a cold compress over the 
region of the spine. (See Cold Compress on Spine.) This compress may be 
employed every night or every other night before retiring. 

Another very excellent hygienic measure in conjunction with the use of 
the Viavi treatment is the cold spinal douche, taken at night just before retir- 
ing. (See Cold Spinal Douche.) The cold compress or cold spinal douche 
directs the nerve force into other channels, and helps as well to equalize the 
circulation. 

P T R Sufferers from insomnia will see floating paragraphs in 

ac ices c ^ e newS p a p ers ma king all sorts of suggestions to over- 

come their affliction. Some of these purport to come 

from eminent physicians. Among the suggestions thus found the following 
may be mentioned: Counting numbers ; counting an imaginary band of sheep 
jumping over a fence or hedge ; breathing deeply, so as to aerate the blood 
more freely, and thus rid it of noxious elements ; depressing the carotid arte- 
ries, to diminish the flow of blood to the brain. It will be seen that all of these 
absurd devices impose work upon the brain attention and effort whereas 
perfect mental indolence is eminently desired. They have no effect whatever 
in overcoming some habit or disease that may have caused the insomnia, but 
are harmful because they divert the mind from the true character of insomnia 
and from intelligent efforts to overcome it. Insomnia is a symptom of a seri- 
ous derangement of the entire system, and it cannot be cured until that 
derangement is corrected. At the same time, intelligent control of the mind's 
drift in bed is advisable if there is present some cause for worry. It should 
be remembered, however, that hardly anything can worry a perfectly normal 
mind to a point that renders sleep impossible. On the contrary, worry will 
have a tendency to produce a condition of exhaustion that is promotive of 
sleep, if the nervous system and brain are healthy and the body sound. Even 
the bitterest grief or remorse, or the worst apprehension, will not keep a per- 
fectly sound person awake beyond a wholesome limit. If we find ourselves 
lying awake and worrying, we may know that it is not the worry that is keep- 
ing us awake, but the condition of the brain and nervous system. At the same 
time, if the mind, by an easy effort of the will, can be diverted from unpleas- 
ant subjects, it is well to have it to do so. All constructive thoughts, however, 
must be avoided. We must not work out a plan of anything ; we must not 
try to follow out any train of thought. It is better to let the mind drift into 
unpleasant thoughts than to do that. In time, under the Viavi treatment, 
worry will disappear as the health oi ibe brain and nervous system is secured. 
All the conditions that promote healthful sleep will be thus naturally produced, 
and will therefore be permanent. 



INSOMNIA 



405 






Cases Yielding: to 
Treatment 



Were there room, an interesting chapter might be givet 
on the many thousands of cases of insomnia that have 
been overcome by means of the Viavi treatment. The 
gratitude of those who have received this blessing is profound. When it is 
seen that the Viavi treatment is perfectly natural, that no effort whatever is 
made to force natural processes, and that the cure is effected by Nature with 
intelligent human assistance, the lack of a need to introduce cases showing a 
cure under the treatment is evident. Only one will be mentioned that of a 
woman, although the treatment is just as efficacious with men. 

A woman had suffered with insomnia for a long time. She had rarely 
slept more than fifteen minutes during the night, unless something was taken 
to deaden the senses. She was greatly depressed. A complication of troubles 
existed, all of which were gradually overcome by the treatment, the sleepless- 
ness included. Nothing whatever was used to deaden the senses and render 
the patient unconscious, but the treatment was directed to overcome the abnor- 
mal conditions upon which the insomnia depended. 




CHAPTER LX 



HEADACHES. 



>HERE is no form of suffering so universal as headache. It is no respecter 
of persons, attacking the rich and the poor, young and old, male and 
female, alike. Only one class of human beings are exempt and they 
are the healthy and robust. . Many persons are rarely free from pain in 
the head, the degree varying from a slight annoyance to intense suffering. 
The vital mistake commonly made with regard to it is that it is a special and 
local condition instead of what it really is, a symptom of something deeper 
and more important. In consequence of this, sufferers constantly dose them- 
selves for headaches, taking something to stop it instead of seeking to overcome 
the condition that causes it 

,_,, j. Many are perfect martyrs to headaches. Half their time 

or more is passed in suffering, until mentally and phys- 
ically they become unfit for domestic, business or social 

duties. A headache of any kind is a serious trouble, but repeated attacks of 
severe headaches become a serious menace to health and often to life, independ- 
ently of the cause or origin. From it the nerve centers become exhausted, 
and a general weakness gradually creeps over the sufferer, and from it the 
whole system in time becomes permanently impaired. Every headache leaves 
the patient in a worse condition, until there is a giving way both physical 
and mental. If the patient is in doubt as to the cause of the headache, corre- 
spondence with the Hygienic Department of the nearest Viavi office should be 
resorted to. Each case will be given careful attention until the cause of the 
headache is not only found, but overcome. 

The various kinds of headaches receive their names from the conditions 
causing them, as rheumatic, neuralgic, bilious, sick (stomach), sun, nervous, 
congestive, malarial, gouty, menstrual, ovarian, uterine, uremic, hysterical, 
periodical, etc. 



It should be remembered that headache is pain, that pain 
is notice to the intelligence of the presence of an abnor- 
y mal condition somewhere within the body, and that 



The Harm Done 



HEADACHES 407 

deadening the pain does not remove the condition. Palliative measures to deaden 
or relieve the aching will never remove the cause nor permanently cure the 
ache. A cure must be through curative measures employed for the express 
purpose of restoring lost function to the part or organ impaired. Drugs that 
will stop a headache have a doubly pernicious effect. They not only direct 
the mind from the cause of the suffering to the suffering itself, and thus pre- 
vent the use of intelligent means of curing it, but they are all either deadening 
or stimulating, and thus attack the integrity of the vital forces at their very 
center, increasing the evil that the headache represents. 

Many illustrative cases of both men and women might 
l ne v^ause Must be gj ven showing patients who had suffered for years 

from various kinds of headaches and who have been 

cured by means of the Viavi treatment, but space permits of but few. We 
wish the patient to ascertain the cause, if possible, and not to dwell upon one 
painful and prominent symptom remote from the seat of the trouble. When the 
head aches at the menstrual period it is a headache that must be overcome by 
proper treatment of the uterine organs ; if it is a bilious headache, the liver 
trouble must be overcome ; if a sick headache, the stomach must have atten- 
tion ; and so on. A careful study of the diseases of .various organs given 
herein will enable any one to remove successfully and permanently the excit- 
ing causes of the various kinds of headaches. 

Nervous headaches will yield to the Viavi treatment, 
Cure of Nervous bu( . to giye an i ntelligent understanding of the way in 

which the cure is accomplished we refer the reader to 

the chapters on the Nervous System and the Back. Many women are in such 
a condition of nervous collapse that going down town to do a little shopping, or 
taking a short drive, will be sufficient to start a severe nervous headache, from 
which complete prostration perhaps for days will result. While the head is 
aching little can be done in the way of curing, but the treatment that will cure 
ihe headache is to feed and build the whole system sufficiently with Viavi, so 
that the patient can stand the wear and tear of ordinary life without suffering 
martyrdom from any little exertion. 

So many cases of nervous headache have been cured by means of the 
Viavi treatment that it is difficult to make a selection. That of M. W. may be 
cited. She had suffered for many years with pain in the back of the head, 
the neck and the spine. She was entirely and permanently cured under the 
Viavi treatment in a short time. 

Sick headaches come from a deranged stomach. This 

>IC organ demands, as is shown by the repeated attacks of 

pain in the head, and by nausea, rational treatment and 



408 VIA VI HYGIENE 

natural assistance to enable it to perform its function of properly digesting the 
food. When such assistance is given the stomach, the headaches will cease to 
appear. When sick headaches are caused by gastritis (catarrh of the stomach) 
the Viavi liquid and cerate are advised. (See Gastritis elsewhere.) If from 
dyspepsia or indigestion, see chapter on Diseases of the Stomach. 

An interesting case of this kind, cured under the Viavi treatment, was 
that of Mr. F. T. K. He had suffered for twenty-five years with indigestion, 
sick headache and attendant ills. The attacks of headache were often so 
severe as to wake him from a souncl sleep, continuing from six hours to 
twenty-two days. For eighteen months in 1891-2 he was completely disabled, 
and spent a great deal of money for relief, to no avail. He secured permanent 
relief by means of the Viavi treatment. 

Similar results were secured in the case of Mr. G. H. T., who for several 
years had suffered with stomach troubles and headaches. The least exertion 
would cause a cold sweat to start all over him, and he was so weak at such 
times as to be unable to stand. Every means that he employed failed to pro- 
duce satisfa'ctory results until he took a course of the Viavi treatment, which 
brought a perfect cure in seven months. He was fifty-seven years of age, and 
regained a keen appetite and an ability to attend to his affairs perfectly. 

Similar cures have been effected in thousands of other cases of both men 
and women. 

Ovarian headache can be cured only by restoring to the 
Cure of Ovarian ovar i es a healthy condition. (See chapter on Inflamma- 
tion of the Ovaries.) Although the pain is experienced 

in the head, it has been transmitted from the ovarian nerves ; hence the treat- 
ment must be directed to the source. 

Among the many cases of headache arising from ovarian troubles and 
thoroughly cured by means of the Viavi treatment was that of Mrs. E. W. 
She had suffered for fifteen years with anteversion and ovarian troubles, and 
had been unsuccessfully treated by a number of eminent physicians. In four 
months she secured a perfect recovery of her displacement and ovarian trouble, 
and with their cure her headaches disappeared. 

Another case was that of Mrs. O. E. R. Her trouble was of ovarian 
origin, with irregular menstruation and severe pains, including a burning 
headache, and a soreness of the lung that prevented her lying on the right 
side. She secured a perfect recovery of her ovarian disease under the Viavi 
treatment, and all other unpleasant accompaniments, including the head' 
aches, left her. * 

Many other cases of headache from irregular menstruation, leucorrhea, 
laceration of the cervix, etc., all of which disappeared upon a cure of the dis- 
eases causing them, could be cited. As w^men are the greatest sufferers from 
headache, the Viavi treatment is a boon to them on that account alone. 



HEADACHES 409 

Menstrual headaches occur at the menstrual periods. 
Cure of Menstrual They i n( j icate that t hi s f unc tion is abnormal; hence to 

cure a menstrual headache the menstrual anomaly must 

be overcome, whatever it may be. (See chapter on Menstruation.) Then the 
menstrual headaches will disappear. 

Headaches arising from irregular menstruation are so common and 
familiar that it is unnecessary to give instances of their cure from overcoming 
the menstrual difficulty. The efficacy of the Viavi treatment in assisting 
Nature to cure menstrual troubles, and with them all the reflexes to which 
they give rise, is one of the most firmly established features of its worth. 

In congestive headache, where too much blood has 
Other Kinds of cen tered in the blood vessels of the brain and head, the 

Headaches feet &re tQ be p | aced j n wa t er a s hot as can be borne, 

while a hot-water bag should also be placed between the shoulders or at the 
small of the back, and all such hygienic measures employed as will draw the 
blood from the head to other parts of the body. A cold compress on the head 
and forehead will prove grateful, but to effect a cure the whole nervous system 
must be strengthened by an intelligent use of the Viavi treatment, as through 
the nervous system alone can the blood supply be regulated. (See chapters on 
the Nervous System, the Circulation and the Forms of Viavi.) 

Bilious headaches are caused by a deranged liver. This organ gives 
various demonstrations, besides the aching of the head, of its inactivity, such 
as a bad taste in the mouth, bilious vomiting, bilious diarrhea, or a constipated 
condition of the bowels, a sallow skin, etc. For treating diseases of the liver, 
of which bilious headache is but one symptom, the reader is referred to the 
chapter on Diseases of the Liver. 

For the treatment of rheumatic headaches, see the chapter on Rheu- 
matism. 



CHAPTER LXI. 



OBESITY. 



BESITY extreme fatness is just as distinctly a disease as consumption, 
diabetes, insanity or any other disease. This point is insisted upon, for 
the reason that obesity, in spite of its disfiguring and distressing effects, 
is by many regarded as a sign of uncommon good health. This is 
because corpulent persons of both sexes often have ruddy cheeks, whereas we 
generally associate disease with pallor and a wasted appearance. Yet obesity 
is a disease, and a very common one ; nevertheless, while it is known to be 
such by the best-informed persons, it receives hardly any general attention as 
a disease. We see uncomfortably fat men and women sometimes resort to 
measures for the "reduction of the flesh" because it is uncomfortable and 
renders them ungainly ; but it is rarely that they recognize it as a disease and 
strive to overcome it for that reason. If they should understand that it is a 
disease, and one that, besides bringing great distress, is leading them inexor- 
ably to premature death, they would have a stronger incentive to cure it, and 
would secure better results in treating it. The Viavi movement recognizes and 
treats it as a disease ; in curing the disease it removes all the discomfort, suf- 
fering and ungainliness to which it gives rise. 

There are less than half as many fat men as fat women,. 
Women the Chief The reason j s t k at meu as a ru i e n ve more rationally 

than women ; hence the inference that the disease is, in 

large part, brought on by unwise conduct, as most other diseases are, though 
in many cases obesity is hereditary. We often see it running in families and 
appearing very early in children. 

Among the causes making so many more women than men obese are 
these : Women as a rule wear shoes and other garments (including tight cor- 
sets) that prohibit, impair or render undesirable the free, abundant and enjoy- 
able exercise that the body requires for health. They restrict the circulation 
and other vital processes by tight corsets or other garments, thus aiding the 
processes that store fat and hampering those that eliminate it. By tight lacing 
they reduce the expansion of the lungs, in this way producing the same results. 



OBESITY 411 

They are more inclined to lead sedentary lives, which are naturally productive 
of fat animals to be fattened for slaughter are always deprived of their free- 
dom. Women generally eat far more abundantly of fat-producing food, such 
as cake, candy, bonbons and other starchy and sweet articles. Irregular or 
suppressed menstruation is a prolific cause of obesity, and removal of the 
ovaries may be expected to have the same effect. 

Like other diseases, obesity may be either acute or 
Acute or Chronic chronic. It often accompanies convalescence from some 
Ubesity infective disease, and may pass away with complete 

recovery of the strength. In such cases it is generally mistaken for a favorable 
indication, when it is evidence merely of weakness. Generally obesity is found 
in the chronic form and has come on slowly. Like all other chronic diseases, 
it is obstinate, and the laws governing its cure are similar to those operating 
in the cure of other chronic diseases. Like all other chronic diseases, it is 
steadily sapping the vitality and shortening life. It rarely kills outright, but 
by constantly eating into the natural disease-resisting powers of the system 
goes forward in its work to a point where some vital organ or function breaks 
down. When a vital disease is developed in such cases the sufferer is likely to 
lose flesh and die emaciated. The fact is then generally lost sight of that 
obesity was the cause of the fatal disease. This is the case in many other dis- 
eases that are rarely charged with the death and that therefore are neglected. 

Grown persons of medium height are said to be in the 
What Constitutes firgt stages of obesity if they weigh from two hundred 

\Joesity Q j. WQ hundred and twenty pounds. If the weight rises 

above that, the condition is more serious. When, therefore, we see a fat man 
or woman in a museum, we are beholding a person in an advanced stage of the 
disease. 

The foregoing rule with regard to weight is very unreliable. Not every 
person is of medium height, and a woman may be obese at a much lower 
weight than a man. The best rule is to ascertain if the amount of fat (gener- 
ally miscalled "flesh") goes beyond the ordinary standards of symmetry and 
e omfort, or if it impedes freedom of movement and produces shortness of breath 
from exercise. If the slightest discomfort in any of these respects is notice- 
able, we may know that the disease has gained a foothold, and that it will lead 
to serious results unless taken promptly in hand. Like other diseases that 
slowly come on and firmly establish themselves, there is no tendency to a 
spontaneous cure. On the contrary, the tendency, as in all other chronic 
diseases, is for the condition to grow steadily worse. After it has thus pro- 
gressed for years, and then begins to disappear, it is a safe assumption that 
some vital disease has attacked the body as the result of the obesity, for the 
reason that after about the fortieth year the natural powers gradually wane 



412 VIAVI HYGIENE 

atid thus lose more and more of their ability to resist diseases invited by weak- 
ness of any kind. The one safe course with obesity is to take it in hand at the 
earliest possible moment, and persist in treatment and intelligent living until 
a cure is effected, and until the cure is so well established that there is no 
danger of a recurrence of the disease. Under the ordinary systems of treat- 
ment such a thing as a permanent cure is rarely attempted or expected. The 
main idea with them is to "reduce the flesh." The idea of the Viavi treat- 
ment is to cure the disease, and cure it permanently. 

The normal amount of fat in a healthy person is about 
Why Son Fat Is one . tw entieth of the whole weight. Its principal natu- 
ral purpose is to serve as a reservoir of food in case the 

ordinary supply from outside sources should happen to be seriously diminished 
or completely stopped. That is to say, if we should find ourselves without 
sufficient food or any at all, there would be nothing to keep our vital organs 
at work nothing to keep us alive unless a considerable amount of nutriment 
were stored within our bodies for just such an emergency. Our bodies then 
draw upon this store and thus keep alive until we haply secure food from out- 
side sources. An illustration of similar wonderful provisions of Nature was 
shown in the last preceding chapter, where it was pointed out that she has 
provided us with a reserve vital force sufficient to meet severe and unexpected 
strains, and that unless we have conserved this force we give way when the 
strains come. Persons in comfortable circumstances, and keeping within civil- 
ization, rarely are required to call upon their reserve of fat for temporary 
sustenance, though the very poor frequently are. Still, an accident may hap- 
pen at any time even to those most comfortably situated. There may be a serious 
injury to the digestive tract that temporarily suspends the digestive function, 
or a violent attack of gastritis. There are numerous ways in which it may 
become necessarv to call on the reserve store of fat. 

The fat cells are united by connective tissue, a structure 
How the Fat Is that exists throughout the body. The fat may be more 

or less evenly distributed, or appear in greater abund- 
ance in some parts than in others. Thus, the abdomen of a man and the 
thighs, abdomen and breasts of a woman are most likely to be the receptacles 
of fat. In such cases it lies in greatest abundance immediately under the 
skin; but it also penetrates the muscles, filling the sheathes in which their 
smaller and larger bundles are enclosed, and investing all the internal organs, 
the heart being the greatest sufferer, the kidneys next, and the spleen, stomach 
and bowels next. In some persons it pouches out the cheeks ; in others the 
cheeks remain thin. In extreme cases it hangs in folds from the abdomen and 
the under part of the arms. In all cases it is disfiguring. When it invades the 
face and thickens the eyelids, ears and nose, it destroys all semblance of good 



OBESITY 413 

looks. Its distribution is determined by the peculiarities of the individual. 

We have already called attention to the fact that more 

Some Causes of t ^ an twice as many women as men are fat, and given 

Obesity t ^ e reasons> There are causes of a general nature that 

produce fat in both sexes. The digestive system derives fat from the fatty, 

starchy and sweet foods that we eat, but more from the starchy and sweet than 

from the fatty. Thus, we get more fat from such articles as bread, potatoes 

and sugar than from fat meat. Acid dyspepsia (sour stomach, heartburn) is a 

very common cause of obesity. 

Nature provides that the system shall be constantly getting rid of the 
surplus fat that is always being stored, by furnishing the tissues with the 
power to oxidize the fat and pass out its elements through the organs of elim- 
inationthe skin, lungs, bowels, etc. When this oxidizing power weakens 
through a loss of integrity of the nervous system, the fat accumulates. 
Hence anything that lowers the oxidizing power of the tissues causes an ac- 
cumulation of fat. One of the commonest practices producing that condition 
is the use of alcoholic drinks. The oxidizing power of the tissues is greatly 
stimulated by exercise ; hence sedentary habits prevent the operation of a 
natural stimulant (exercise) that increases this oxidizing power, and an ac- 
cumulation of fat is the result. Excess in eating and drinking accounts for 
nearly half of all cases of obesity. Nervous disorders produce many cases. 

Obesity loads the vital organs with a burden that they 
The Consequences were not i nten ded to bear and that they cannot bear 
of Obesity without serious injury. The pericardium, or covering 

of the heart, becomes packed with it, and hence the freedom of the heart's ac- 
tion is impaired. In this way the circulation of the blood is interfered with at 
its very source. The substance of the heart itself is invaded, and it becomes 
large, heavy and unresponsive. Obese persons usually have a slow pulse. 
The whole cavity of the body becomes packed with fat, so that much of the 
space intended to be filled by the lungs in breathing is occupied, with the re- 
sult that the purification of the blood is imperfect and the nutrition of the 
blood disturbed. The massing of the fat about the stomach and bowels inter- 
feres with digestion and cripples the peristaltic action of the bowels, which 
is designed to keep their contents moving on. In young girls it generally ren- 
ders menstruation irregular. It greatly impairs the sexual appetite of both 
men and women, but women more than men. By filling the pelvic cavity it 
prevents the free movements of a woman's generative organs, so essential to 
the healthy condition and function of those organs. By crowding upon the 
glandular structure of the breasts, it causes that structure to diminish in vol- 
ume, and thus reduces the milk-giving capacity/ It often produces a feeling 
of suffocation, some extremely corpulent persons finding it impossible to lie 



4T4 VIAVI HYGIENE 

down. It causes muscular weakness that produces an incapacity additional to 
that caused by the heavy and unnatural burden imposed upon the muscles. 
It often gives rise to bleeding piles. It causes a stagnation of blood in the in- 
testines. It interferes generally with that action of the walls of the blood ves- 
sels which keeps the blood in free and constant motion, and this leads to van" 
cose veins. There is a bad odor from the body, due to the imperfect oxidation 
of the fat. Heat is exceedingly oppressive and debilitating. The sweat is 
copious and disagreeable. A condition of anemia is induced, and eruptions 
on the skin may ensue. A sufferer may have all or only a certain number of 
these afflictions and discomforts. 

It is evident that in beginning the treatment of obesity 
low to Regain two j m p Ortant things have to be attended to diet and 

exercise. At the same time, great caution must be ex- 
ercised. It is not sufficient to reduce the fat; the conditions producing it 
must be reached. Hence all the strength of the system is required, and for 
that reason plenty of nourishing food is demanded. To reduce the fat by any 
means that impair the strength is to augment the unhealthy condition pro- 
ducing the fat, and to lead to more serious complications. Hence to reduce 
the quantity and quality of the food to a point where weakness is induced is 
to aggravate the evil. Less than half the persons who are obese eat too much ; 
ten per cent, of them eat less than is required by a normal person. Over a 
third of the cases are due to a lack of exercise. Then, the first thing to do 
is to be certain that there is not too much eating ; but it is equally necessary 
that there should be sufficient eating. The next thing is to take regular exer- 
cise, in amount just short of exhaustion, and to increase it from day to day. 
These precautions are essential. 

It should be borne in mind that once the weakness producing obesity is 
removed, and a normal condition established, the conduct of the patient may 
be that of a normal person. That is what the Viavi treatment assures. Hence 
after a perfect cure has been effected the rules of conduct to assist in over- 
coming obesity need not be persisted in, so long as slothfulness, overeating 
and other irrational acts are not indulged in ; if they are, the conditions pro- 
ducing fatness will return. After a cure it is required merely that a person 
shall exercise the prudence and common sense that normal persons must exer- 
cise to keep well. 

The system shown as Banting for the reduction of fat 
Foods Used and ^as p rove( j highly injurious, as it contemplates the with- 
holding of food of sufficient quantity, variety and value. 

The use of vinegar and other free acids as a remedy is highly injurious. The 
great fat-producing foods are bread, potatoes and sugar. Therefore potatoes 
and sugar should be abandoned. If bread is toasted, its fat-making properties 



OBESITY 415 

are largely destroyed ; hence the bread should be toasted, or only the crust of 
the loaf eaten. All pastries, sweetmeats and alcoholic drinks must be strictly 
avoided. Tea and coffee should be drunk without sugar. Meat, fat and lean, 
may be eaten in moderate quantities, and butter also. Soups are not recom- 
mended, as they are mostly liquid, which, besides probably aiding the fat-stor- 
ing process, dilutes the gastric juices and thus retards digestion. All liquids at 
meals should be avoided, unless a very small cup of unsweetened tea or coffee 
is found necessary. It should be drunk after the meal is finished. Cabbage, 
beans and peas may be used, but sparingly. Fish, eggs, fresh vegetables and 
fruit may be used freely. Fowls and game may be employed for variety. 
Oranges are the best fruit. Meat should be well cooked, and either boiled or 
roasted, and from four to six ounces may be eaten at dinner, mostly fat. The 
heartiest meal should be in the middle of the day. Water may be taken 
moderately between meals. 

A bath should be taken once a day, the kind most agree- 
The Treatment for able to the p atient being best After the bath and a 

Ubesity vigorous drying .with a rough towel, the Viavi cerate 

should be rubbed thoroughly and extensively over the body, particularly on 
the abdomen, chest and back. It should be rubbed in, not merely rubbed on, 
and much strength and vigor should be put into the work. If there is any 
sluggishness of the bowels, the Viavi laxative should be used ; if indigestion 
is present, the Viavi liquid, five to ten drops in water twenty minutes before 
each meal. The Viavi tonic should be taken in all cases. If hemorrhoids are 
present, the Viavi treatment for that affliction should be employed. 

It will thus be seen that no hardships on the score of diet are imposed, 
and that the details of the treatment are all simple. The skin readily absorbs 
the cerate, and by restoring the oxidizing powers of the tissues enables them 
to eliminate the fat. While the fat is thus being removed, the nervous system 
is being built up, the blood fed, the circulation rendered normal, the digestion 
healthy, and the strength of the organs of elimination restored. For these 
reasons the cure is permanent. 

There should be no impatience in carrying out this treatment. The 
sole object is to remove the condition producing the excessive fat. By this 
treatment the fat is not worked upon directly, as it never should be. It is 
only by removing the conditions causing it that it can be properly disposed of. 
When healthy conditions are established the fat will disappear. The length of 
time for the cure will depend altogether upon the condition of the patient, 
the length of time the disease has been present, the patient's age, and the 
intelligence and thoroughness with which the treatment is persisted in. The 
Viavi treatment imposes no strain on the vital forces, but on the contrary over- 
comes the disease by lending to Nature the power to establish natural con- 
ditions. 






CHAPTER LXII. 



AN OFFENSIVE BREATH. 



is hardly anything so offensive in the physical condition of a 
w person as a tainted breath. Unfortunately, most persons thus afflicted 
(p> are unaware of their condition. S^ery one should have a friend who 
may be relied upon to be perfectly candid in reporting the presence or 
absence of this condition, and care should be taken to see that the friend per- 
forming this valuable service has an acute sense of smell. The strongest ties 
of friendship are often broken by the presence of this affliction. It has weak- 
ened the affection of many a married couple, caused the estrangement of many 
a lover and the maid of his choice, and erected a barrier between many a child 
and its parents. 

The important thing to be borne in mind is that an offensive breath rep- 
resents an abnormal, unwholesome or diseased condition. Most persons thus 
afflicted employ some absurd odorous substance to conceal their offensive 
breath, when they should be finding and overcoming the cause. Fragrant 
dentifrices cannot cure an internal disease. 

Decayed or badly cared for teeth receive more blame for 

Causes of This thig Disgusting affliction than they deserve. If the cause 

Affliction is so s i m pi e as that, a tooth brush and a dentist can 

easily overcome it. If the teeth are not kept perfectly clean the food lodging 

upon and between them will decompose. Antiseptic and genuinely cleansing 

tooth washes are much better than those that depend upon a perfume for their 

popularity. ~% 

A much commoner cause is a catarrhal condition of the air passages of 
the nose and head. If this condition extends to the bronchial tubes, producing 
a low form of chronic bronchitis, a bad breath is inevitable. 

The most frequent of all the causes is probably impure blood. The 
function of the lungs is to aerate the blood and thus remove its impurities, 
which are cast out with the breath. In a normal condition of the system these 
impurities are not offensive ; on the contrary, the breath of a perfectly healthy 
person is pleasant, as all who have handled healthy infants are aware. In a 



418 VIAVI HYGIENE 

healthy person the impurities cast out by the lungs are impurities on!y in the 
sense that if retained they would be injurious to the economy. They are, like 
dirt, merely " matter out of place," and are not disagreeable to the senses. It 
is very different with impurities coming from unhealthy conditions. Such 
impurities generally represent decay or decomposition, and are offensive to 
our senses for the same reason that a decomposing dead animal is. Hence we 
realize that when we find an offensive breath arising from disgusting impur- 
ities of the blood, we have an important symptom of a serious condition that 
calls for intelligent treatment. 

In a catarrhal condition of the air passages of the head 
' ities and chest, inflammation is present. This is a diseased 

condition of the mucous membrane of those passages. 

Some of the products of the disease are forced to the surface, where they are 
taken up by the breath, and others are absorbed by the blood, to be cast out by 
the lungs. How to overcome this disease and its unpleasant symptoms is 
shown in the chapter on Catarrhal Conditions. 

Any disease may load the blood with impurities, and hence may cause 
an offensive breath. Some diseases seem to have a more evident effect in that 
direction than others, and the reasons seem clear. In constipation, for instance, 
the fecal matter is unduly retained. As the forces of the system are not ade- 
quate to get rid of it in the normal way, through weakness of the intestines, 
the blood is set to work to get rid of as much of it as possible. It absorbs the 
liquid parts of the fecal matter and distributes them throughout the system. 
The lungs send it out through the breath, and thus the breath is tainted. It is 
evident, therefore, that if the constipation is cured, as it is so easily by means 
of the Viavi treatment, the foul breath to which it gives rise will disappear.^ 

Dyspepsia and other forms of indigestion, both of the stomach and 
bowels, will give rise to decomposition of the food. This is the origin of very 
offensive products, gaseous, liquid and solid. They find their way into the 
circulation, and are thus sent out by the lungs, tainting the breath. The 
Viavi treatment for indigestion (which see) completely overcomes the trouble. 

t t Any fault of nutrition is likely to cause a tainted breath. 

1 b Such a fault exists in all forms of impaired digestion, 

Deranged and in nervous disorders. (See chapter on Nervous De- 

bility.) Whether the nervous disorder arises in the nervous system or is pro- 
duced by disease of the organs or derangement of their functions, nutrition is 
disturbed and an offensive breath may be the result. 

If such organs of elimination as the skin, the kidneys, etc., are unable 
to perform their share of the work through weakness of the nerves control- 
ling their activity,' their duties are thrown upon the lungs, which are thus re- 
quired to get rid of tle sweat, urine, etc. These elements taint the breath. 



AN OFFENSIVE BREATH 4*9 

In short, an offensive breath offends the mind as well as the sense of 
smell. It represents a condition of internal disease or uncleauliness. One 
reason why it is so offensive is that it is poisonous to those who inhale it from 
others. 

A healthy menstrual function accompanied by cleanliness of the person 
cannot be detected by a very acute sense of smell, but the unhealthy period 
not only betrays the presence of the function by the odor of the discharges 
and of the invisible perspiration of the body, but most prominently in the 
odor of the breath as well. We know of one very eminent dentist who refuses 
to work upon the teeth of menstruating women. Both men and women 
should always remember that a bad breath always betrays the presence of an 
abnormal condition of the body, sometimes to a most disgusting extent. 

In this affliction the Viavi treatment contemplates a dis- 
Fne Treatment for covery of the cause and then seeks intelligently to re- 
move it. If through the kindly offices of a trusted 

friend we find that we have an unpleasant breath, and are not aware of any 
abnormal condition within the system, we may know that the bad breath is 
positive evidence that some abnormal condition exists, and we should proceed 
at once to search it out and overcome it. Generally this is an easy task. Per- 
fect digestion, freedom from headaches, nervousness and constipation and reg- 
ular and healthy action of the bowels and kidneys will very likely assure a 
sweet breath. The Viavi treatment for establishing perfect health in these 
and many other particulars will be found in its proper place in this volume. 



CHAPTER LXIII, 



VARICOSE VEINS AND ULCERS. 



VARICOSE condition of the veins is one in which the walls of the veins 
have become relaxed and overdilated, in consequence of which they 
are holding an abnormal quantity of venous blood. The term "vari- 
cose veins" is restricted in general use to the veins in the extremities, 
especially the lower extremities. 

The veins in this part of the body possess valves, which are formed 
from their inner coat, or lining. These valves support the column of venous 
blood as it ascends, and prevent its running downward, just as the valve in a 
pump prevents the water from passing downward. These valves are very 
numerous in the veins lying near the surface, especially in the lower extremi- 
ties. In the veins of the liver and the rectum there are no valves ; this fact 
has an important bearing upon the development of piles, or hemorrhoids. 
(See chapter on Diseases of the Rectum.) If the portal (abdominal) circula- 
tion is impeded, there being no valves to support the column of blood, the 
vessels dilate ; this condition in the rectum is known as hemorrhoids, or piles. 
When the veins near the surface of the skin become greatly dilated, the 
circulation is rendered sluggish and is carried on by the deep veins, but it 
occasionally happens that the deep veins are first affected. This brings about 
a deplorable condition. 

Varicose veins begin by a slow dilation of the veins. 
Many C itions This gra( i ua iiy progresses until they become enlarged in 
Observed calibre and tortuous (crooked). The normal lining 

membrane of the vein becomes altered and the valve shortened, or the valve 
is not sufficiently long to close the overdistended vessel ; hence it becomes 
unable to retain and support the column of blood. Varicosity of the capilla- 
ries frequently appears upon the surface of the skin like the roots of a tree. 
When the larger vessels are involved the veins become dilated, tortuous 
and knotty, standing out boldly above the level of the skin. Sometimes the 
vessels burst when the walls become thinned, and serious and even fatal hem- 
orrhage results. Instead of the veins standing out boldly above the skin le^el 



VARICOSE VEINS AND ULCERS 421 

there may be a slow, gentle exudation, or oozing, into the surrounding tissues 
of the limb ; this causes it to become -edematous, or dropsical. It does not 
appear as an ordinary dropsical condition from obstructed venous return, but 
the skin has a solid, non-resisting, white, marble-like appearance and does not 
pit under pressure. An eczema, or eruption, may develop when such a condi- 
tion is present. If the eruption is permitted to progress without any treatment, 
it will degenerate into a superficial ulcer, which will become chronic and 
frequently extend down into the tissues, and thus give rise to stubborn "vari- 
cose ulcers." These ulcers may involve a vein and give rise to hemorrhages, 
which sometimes prove fatal. Coagulation of the blood may occur, ending in 
the formation of pus or abscess. 

The predisposing causes of varicose veins are enlargement of the uterine 
organs from any cause ; displacements ; advancing age ; any obstruction pre- 
venting the free return of blood in the veins of the legs to the body, as tight 
garters, etc.; occupations that require much standing. Among the exciting 
causes are tumors ; diseases of the heart and lungs ; pregnancy ; habitual con- 
stipation. There are still other causes. 

The Viavi treatment for varicose veins is first to remove 
Preliminaries of the cause> whatever it ma y be. If it is displacements, 

tumors, etc., see the chapters on those subjects. In nine- 
tenths, of the cases that are brought to our notice we find the condition pro- 
duced by diseases of the uterine organs, or by some disease within the pelvic 
or abdominal region, by reason of which pressure is brought to bear upon cer- 
tain veins, thereby impeding the circulation within them. Close attention 
must be given to the general health. There should be enforced quiet and rest 
in a recumbent position ; this favors venous return circulation. The extremi- 
ties should be kept elevated as much as possible, so as to favor a retuun circu- 
lation, thus relieving greatly the overdisteuded walls. Regularity of the 
bowels is an absolute necessity, as constipation seems to exert no small 
provoking influence. For constipation we advise the use of the Viavi laxative. 

While the legs are elevated they should be sponged with 

The Treatment for warm wa t e r and vinegar, according to special directions 

Vancosity ^ a t accom p anv the Viavi cerate ; after they have been 

dried with a soft cloth or towel a thorough application of the cerate should be 

made, rubbing from the feet toward the body. It is very essential that the 

rubbing be done toward the body, as the venous circulation is in that direc 

tion. If the rubbing is done in the opposite direction, from the body toward 

the feet, the flow is greatly impeded and the varicose condition made worse. 

, n Great relief and beneficial results will follow placing the legs in a hot 
pack. This is done by wringing a piece of blanket or heavy flannel from water 
as hot as can be borne, and wrapping it about the leg, which again should b 



4*2 VI A VI HYGIENE 

wrapped in a dry flannel, and then kept in this pack for at least fifteen min- 
utes, the leg being elevated or on a level with the body if the patient is in the 
recumbent position. After removing the pack a thorough application of the 
Viavi cerate should follow, as already advised. Standing upon the feet imme- 
diately afterward is to be avoided. The patient should remain quiet for at 
least an hour if the pack is taken in the morning ; if taken in the evening, the 
patient should at once go to bed. 

When the veins have become greatly distended the leg may be bandaged 
with strips of loosely woven flannel cut on the bias, care being taken not to 
bandage too tightly. The bandages should be placed about the ankle first, and 
gradually wound about the leg, finishing at the knee. 

When the condition has existed until the legs have become edematous 
(large, dropsical, tense or swollen) and varicose ulcers have formed, we insist 
upon complete rest and quiet for a time. The legs, aside from the ulcers, 
or open sores, should be treated with the sponging and cerate as already 
advised. The ulcers, or open sores, should be cleansed with warm water in 
which have been placed five drops of carbolic acid to the quart. The water 
should play upon the sore from the rectal tube of a fountain syringe, which 
should be hung only moderately high, so that the stream of water will have 
but little force. When the ulcer is thoroughly cleansed, dry with pieces of ab- 
sorbent cotton. 

A M.' t *. Apply the Viavi cerate over the ulcer as follows : Pre- 
Apphcation of the .... ..... 

, pare some mutton tallow by boiling it, then stirring it 

until it is cold. Spread some of this tallow on a piece 

of linen ; over the tallow spread a layer of the cerate. The tallow will 
prevent the cerate from being absorbed by the linen. Apply the side with the 
cerate upon it to the raw surface. If there be fissures or cracks, the Viavi 
liquid, diluted one-half with water, sprayed upon the open sore with an ato- 
mizer, will act beneficially. The surface of the ulcer should be entirely cov- 
ered with the liquid, after which the linen containing the cerate and tallow 
may be placed over the raw surface, the cerate surface next the sore. A layer of 
absorbent cotton, or several layers of clean, soft, white, old linen, may be placed 
over the ulcer and held in place by moderately tight bandages, so as com- 
pletely to protect it. The sore should not be picked nor surgically interfered 
with. The gentle flow of water will be sufficient to wash away all loosened 
particles and collected impurities. This treatment is to be employed twice a 
day until a decided improvement is noticeable, when once a day will be suffi- 
cient. 

It has been explained many times in this volume that Viavi is a wonder- 
ful nerve food, and that the circulation of the blood is completely controlled 
by the nervous system ; hence when the nervous system has been suffici- 
ently strengthened by the treatment a control of the circulation is obtained. 



VARICOSE VEINS AND ULCERS 423 

The process of curing varicose veins by means of the 
Case Illustrating viayi treatment j s as s i m pi e as it is successful. One of 
e v-ure. ^g man y cases that have come under the Viavi treatment, 

yielding both speedy and excellent results, was that of a woman about fifty 
years of age. Her weight was about two hundred and fifty pounds, and as she 
was small of stature, the great load of adipose tissue rendered her uncomfort- 
able and deprived her of all powers of endurance. Her circulation was ex- 
ceedingly poor, and the varicose condition of both legs, from the knees to the 
ankles, was of a greatly aggravated form. In six months' time the progress 
that she made was marvelous. At the time when she came under treatment 
she was unable to stand on her feet for any length of time, but after six 
months she was able to be about and manage her domestic affairs, notwithstand- 
ing her enormous weight. The veins of the legs regained their normal con- 
dition, and up to the present time there has been no return whatever of her 
trouble. 





CHAPTER LXIV. 



CATARRHAL CONDITIONS. 

(COI.DS, NASAI, POLYPI, DEAFNESS, HAY FEVER.) 



UCOUS membrane lines the hollow organs of the body and the cavities 
and canals that have external openings. It is so called by reason of 
the mucous fluid by which it is constantly lubricated, or moistened. 
It is found lining the nose, mouth, Eustachian tube, throat, bronchial 
tubes (extending into the lung tissue), eyelids, lachrymal ducts; also the 
esophagus (gullet), stomach, intestines (both large and small), rectum, ure- 
thra, bladder, ureters, kidneys, Fallopian tubes, womb, vagina and external 
generative organs. All theee last-named include the whole digestive and gen- 
ito-urinary tract. 

The mucous membrane is soft and velvety, its blood and 
tjie nerve supply being very abundant. Its surface is coated 

Membranes with its own secretion, mucus, which is sticky. This 

secretion is partly for the purpose of protecting the membrane from injury 
done by foreign substances introduced into the body. 

The function of a mucous surface varies according to its situation. The 
internal surfaces of these membranes are attached to the parts that they line 
by a tissue known as connective tissue. This tissue, in certain localities, is 
very abundant, in other parts exceedingly scant. There are numerous glands 
imbedded in the mucous membrane at certain parts ; in certain localities are 
found processes, or villi. In the secreting membrane the cells are arranged on 
one side of a basement membrane, while on the other side there spreads a 
plexus of minute capillary vessels. The cells extract from the blood certain 
constituents that pass through the membrane, wherein they are prepared and 
elaborated. The basement membrane does not always exist; in that event the 
change takes place from the free surface. 

With the healthy mucous membrane we have little to do ; when it be- 
comes diseased it is brought before us for curative consideration. Both nor- 
mal and abnormal conditions of the mucous membrane lining the different 
parts and organs will be separately taken up. 



CATARRHAL, CONDITIONS 425 

, Whejpi inflammation of the mucous niembrane causes an 

icre ^atarr i* abnormal discharge of mucus, or fluid, it is known as 

catarrh. The nature and quantity of the discharge vary 

greatly as the disease progresses ; hence catarrh means an inflammation of the 
mucous membrane, without reference to the cause. 

The name is derived from the part affected. Inflammation of the mem- 
brane lining the womb or vagina is catarrh of the womb or vagina ; leucorrhea 
is the result. Inflammation of the lining membrane of the nose is known as 
coryza, nasal catarrh or hay fever; of the stomach, gastritis; of the bladder, 
cystitis, etc. These catarrhal discharges, which escape from the different ori- 
fices of the body, vary not only in consistency and quantity, but also in color 
and odor, according to the stage and extent of the inflammation. 

f Again we say that the specific action of Viavi is to re- 

duce inflammation, either acute or chronic, without re- 
m y gard to its situation. Inflammation of the mucous mem- 

brane (catarrh) means that its vessels are holding more than their normal sup- 
ply of blood. The glands within its substance become abnormally active ; 
hence the copious discharges. These discharges always represent a vital drain 
upon the system, as they are composed of valuable constituents of the blood ; 
and every effort should be made to overcome the inflammation and in this way 
remove the cause of the discharge in other words, cure the catarrh. 



ACUTE NASAL CATARRH. 

Acute nasal catarrh (coryza), or cold in the head, is an acute inflammation 
of the nasal mucous membrane (Schneiderian membrane), accompanied with 
a discharge. It may confine itself to one side of the nose, but is oftener in 
both ; or it may extend to the pharynx, larynx and air passages below, or af- 
fect cavities communicating with the nasal passages. 

The causes of acute nasal catarah are many, among them exposure to 
sudden changes of temperature ; draughts of cold air without the taking of 
proper precaution to protect the body and prevent a rapid radiation of its heat ; 
cold, wet feet ; working or sitting in close, ill-ventilated rooms ; any sudden 
chilling of the body ; a daily wetting of the hair ; the unprotected condition 
of children's legs in cold weather ; permitting small children to crawl about 
on the floor in cold weather, when the temperature there is from two to four 
degrees lower than in any other part of the room. Many other causes also 
;end to establish catarrhal conditions. 

One is conscious generally of catching a cold. The 

Acute Catarrh patient is chilly and experiences difficulty in becoming 

Symptoms war rn; there are depression, itching of the nose, chills 



426 VIAVI HYGIENK 

chasing up and down the back, sneezing followed by a partial closure of the 
nostrils, watery discharges, etc. This is the first stage ; it is quickly followed 
by the second. Fever is now present, and the mouth and throat are generally 
dry ; there is frontal (forehead) headache, and after a time the nose nearly 
closes. The secretions, watery for three or four days, become thick and yellow. 
There is great pressure at the bridge of the nose. The sense of smell is badly 
impaired. In women the bladder often becomes weak, so that when coughing 
or sneezing the urine escapes. A woman with a cold should protect herself 
with a napkin, so that her clothing may not become damp. 

If no chronic trouble exists, such a catarrhal condition can be broken 
up in a few days ; but if a chronic condition first existed it will not yield so 
readily to treatment. 

in. rt *r ^ * s i m P era tive for a sufferer to understand the changes 

rheChanges That that QCCnr when a co]d hag been contracted . Tbe blood 

has been driven from the surface of the body to the 

interior, flooding it, as it were. The little blood vessels, or capillaries, in or 
near the epidermis, or outer skin of the body, have become contracted ; hence 
the blood cannot find its way to the surface. This first becomes cold ; but as 
the vessels contract deeper and deeper into the tissues, the body becomes more 
and more chilled ; hence the sensation of chilliness that is experienced in the 
region of the back in fact, eventually all over the body. The heart, being a 
strong, muscular organ, is able to protect itself by throwing the blood con- 
stantly from it as it enters, but other parts of the body cannot do so. As a 
result we see the mucous membrane of the body overdistended with the blood 
that has been driven within, as also are the lungs, generative organs, bowels, 
stomach, kidneys, bladder, etc., because they cannot resist the invasion so 
strongly and quickly. 

Susceptibility to colds shows a general weakness of the 
An Indication of whf)le body This ig ft menace to health and often life> 

as we daily encounter morbid conditions of the atmos- 
phere which cannot be wholly avoided. If our bodies possess a normal 
amount of vitality such conditions will affect us but little ; but if our standard 
of health is below the best, we become more and more susceptible to every 
little change. 

There is no more conspicuous evidence of prevalent weakness than that 
seen in the great extent of coryza, or acute catarrh. Persons thus afflicted in 
time fear to venture from the house, as a slight change of temperature induces 
sneezing, coughing and abundant tears. 

At the first indication of a cold the patient should 

The Treatment for endeavor to equalize the circulation by bringing the 

Catarrh blood to the surface of the body. For this purpose a 



CATARRH AIv CONDITIONS 427 

number of baths are given in the latter part of this volume. The patient may 
use the one best suited to his or her surroundings. The salted towel will prove 
excellent, but if a salted towel is not available, a rough bath towel will suffice. 
If the patient is so situated that a hot bath can be taken, we would advise it as 
the best. The patient should not remain in the hot bath longer than four or 
five minutes, and the whole body must be kept under the water, which should 
be cooled a little by allowing cold water to run into it before leaving the bath. 
This precaution will prevent chilling upon leaving the tub. The body must 
then be dried quickly with a rough towel, and the bed must be sought. While 
the sufferer is under the covers, the chest, both back and front, is to be 
rubbed thoroughly with the Viavi cerate, which should be applied also over the 
nose, forehead and throat. 

The Viavi liquid diluted one-third with water must be sprayed into the 
nose every hour until a decided change for the better is observed. The bulb of 
the atomizer may be compressed twice for each nostril. This will be sufficient 
at each treatment. 

If a hot bath is not convenient, a foot bath in bed will give excellent re- 
sults. (See Reclining Foot Bath.) A hot- water bag, or bottles filled with hot 
water and placed about the body at the same time, will prove effacious in 
drawing the blood to the surface. When the patient feels a grateful sense 
of warmth, or a warm glow all over the body, the foot-tub may be removed 
and the feet well dried and protected with warm woolen hose. Before draw- 
ing the hose on, the feet should be rubbed thoroughly with the cerate. The 
cerate is always to be applied under the covers, so as to prevent the body from 
chilling. 

A quiet rest in bed for five or six hours is of the greatest importance. 
If the patient has perspired copiously, which will likely be the case, the body 
should be dried thoroughly with a soft towel under cover. While the patient 
is resting, the temperature of the body should become normal, or a fresh cold 
will be added upon arising. 

The action of the Viavi liquid sprayed into the nose is to relieve the 
congestion, and to give the nerves in this vicinity the necessary food, or material, 
that will enable them to react and thus regain control of the blood supply that 
they have lost. The cerate applied upon the forehead, nose, throat and chest 
also has the same effect, and hygienic adjuncts help to equalize the circulation 
over the whole surface of the body. 

Persons who are subject to frequent attacks of cold in 
Chronic Condition the head giye evidence that there is an existing weak . 

ness which they should endeavor to overcome before 

there is a development of the chronic form of catarrh, the horrors of which 
will \y givdn later herein. 

To build the whole system the cerate should be used daily over the re- 



428 VIAVI HYGIENE 

glon of the spine, chest, nose and throat, while the strength should be fortified 
by the use of the Viavi tonic. 

The Viavi treatment, by reason of its specific action in reducing inflam- 
mation, has become a necessity in every household. It not only breaks up a 
cold in the beginning, but at the same time strengthens the system, making it 
less susceptible to changing atmospheric conditions. 



CHRONIC NASAL CATARRH. 

This form of catarrh is generally the result of repeated acute attacks, or 
it may result from an uncured severe acute attack. Constantly breathing air 
that is loaded with dust is frequently the provoking cause. This is particularly 
noticeable among employees in mills, factories and shops where the air is filled 
with dust. Chronic catarrh is prevalent also among those who work in damp 
basements, those who are poorly nourished and those suffering from a scrofu- 
lous constitution. The miserable habit of frequently wetting the head is another 
cause. Extreme sexual indulgence likewise is a cause in both sexes, as there 
exists a close sympathy between the generative tract and certain nasal tissues. 
It also frequently follows eruptive fevers, as typhoid, scarlet, measles, etc. ; 
also exhausting discharges (leucorrhea). Although in a majority of cases 
repeated attacks of cold in the head are the predisposing cause of the chronic 
condition, there is in a large number of cases a general systemic weakness 
which awaits only an irritation of the nasal passages to establish this most dis- 
gusting and tenacious disease. 

The symptoms of simple chronic nasal catarrh may be 
Chronic Catarrh a i most tb e same as those of acute catarrh, except that 
Symptoms tne y are con tirmous; but during changeable weather, 

especially damp weather, all of the symptoms become more intense. As the 
disease progresses there will develop headaches ; the patient grows stupid, the 
eyes look dull ; the appetite is lost and there is a constant hawking and spit- 
ting. On account of the swelling of the lining membrane the nose partially 
closes ; hence there is more or less difficulty in breathing. The breath be- 
comes exceedingly offensive, the voice changes, and there may or may not be 
sneezing. There will be an indisposition to take exercise, and difficulty in 
concentrating the mind upon any subject. 

The discharges vary. They may be watery, profuse and acrid, or tena- 
cious, thick, purulent (pus-like) and bloody. They may escape from the nos- 
trils, or drop backward into the throat. There are ringing in the ears and 
partial or complete loss of hearing, often accompanied with a discharge from 
the ears. Some or all of these symptoms, as well as many others, may be present. 
Many cases terminate in chronic bronchitis and consumption. Sometimes but 
a few of the foregoing symptoms may appear and yet the conditions prove fatal. 



CATARRHAL CONDITIONS 429 

When chronic catarrh has existed for some time it devel- 
What Constitutes ops into an u i cera t e d, or more advanced, stage of the dis- 
vJzena ease; this is known as ozena. The discharge is now 

copious, thick, purulent and offensive. The lining membrane first becomes 
ulcerated, but in time the ulceration extends deeper, until the cartilage and 
bones of the nose become involved. Hard lumps form in the nose, or that or- 
gan may be lined with thick, tough, brownish incrustations. These are dis- 
charged at intervals of a few days, but are quickly succeeded by another crop. 
The septum (partition) of the nose is completely destroyed in many cases, and 
holes may be eaten through into the roof of the mouth. 

There is no disease that renders a patient more miserable 
The Offensiveness than extensive chronic catarrh. A handkerchief must 
of Ozena be used cons t a ntly. The sense of smell becomes so 

badly impaired that the excessively fetid nature of the discharges is unnoticed 
by the sufferer. It drives from him in time his best friends. For them he is 
no fit companion, as the air in the room that he occupies soon becomes pois- 
oned and is a menace to the health of the most robust. The senses of hearing 
and taste also in time become impaired. Such patients have no right to force 
their presence upon others in a social or business way, as they are in no fit 
condition to realize what their presence is to a healthy person with an acute 
sense of smell. Such catarrhal patients become so accustomed to their own 
deplorable condition that they little realize the disgust, pity and aversion that 
are felt for them by the healthy. Gradually the world is beginning to realize 
that association with unhealthy persons has the same deleterious effect upon 
the body as living in unhealthful places. 

Chronic catarrh is not confined to the nose. The inflam- 

riow the isease ma tion and ensuing ulceration creep along the mucous 

membrane, affecting the Bustachian tube, which leads to 

the ear from the throat, and in time the hearing becomes impaired and in 
many cases lost. 

It also creeps downward, affecting the pharynx (pharyngitis) and the 
larynx (laryngitis), which diseases are taken into consideration by the Viavi 
method and treated with chronic catarrh of the nose. Another of its evil 
effects is to produce bronchitis and indigestion, either by extension of the in- 
flammation or by infection. As the secretions from this disease are poisonous, 
swallowing them introduces a poison into the stomach. Further, the products 
of catarrhal conditions, like those of inflammation elsewhere, are taken up by 
the blood and thus work greater or less injury to the entire system. 

Catarrh is given various names, but only to designate the different 
stages of the disease, or the nature of the inflammation as it gradually pro- 
gresses into extensively destructive ulceration. 



43<> VIAVI HYGIENE 

The Viavi treatment for chronic catarrh, from its mildest 

C h fC f rm t0 thC extensive ulcera ted form (ozena), is the 
same, except that more time is required in overcoming 
the chronic than the acute form. 

Mix twenty drops of the Viavi liquid with a tablespoonful of cold water, 
preferably boiled. Spray with the straight tube of the Viavi atomizer into the 
nostrils, and also into the back part of the mouth, behind the hanging palate. 
For spraying into the nose and throat through the mouth, use the curved tube 
of the atomizer, turning it upward for the nose and downward for the throat. 
The mixture may be made stronger or weaker, as required. If the mouth 
spray gags, use the mixture as a gargle. If the ulceration is extensive, the 
nose and throat should be sprayed three times daily, morning, noon and night; 
but if this is not convenient, twice daily will suffice. If the inflammation has 
not become destructively extensive, spraying night and morning will suffice. 

A fresh mixture should be placed in the atomizer every other day. The 
Viavi cerate is to be rubbed thoroughly upon the nose, throat and forehead 
every night just before retiring. Women may comb the hair back from the 
forehead and tie a bandage about it, so that the front hair may not become 
soiled by the cerate ; or, after a thorough rubbing of the cerate the parts may 
be rubbed dry with a soft cloth, to avoid greasing the hair. 

The cerate should be used over the spine daily. (See Cerate on Spine.) 
Its action here is to feed and strengthen the whole nervous system, as its effect 
is far-reaching. As we build the general health by the Viavi treatment, just 
so in proportion are we overcoming the existing catarrhal condition. 

In extensive catarrh from five to ten drops of the Viavi liquid taken 
three times daily, twenty minutes before meals, are advised, as the whole 
system is involved to a greater or less extent. The liquid taken internally 
builds up the organs that are particularly active in helping to purify the blood. 

The Viavi tonic also should be used, as in every possible manner must 
we build and sustain the strength, which in chronic catarrh is always far 
below the normal. 

The circulation should receive special attention. A Viavi Brush Bath 
(see Viavi Brush Bath) three times a week is advised, but the patient is always 
permitted the privilege of selecting the bath that is best suited to him or her. 
If the patient sweats, care should be taken not to chill afterward. The cloth- 
ing should be warm, but light ; and extra inner soles in the shoes will be better 
than a chest protector. The diet should be nourishing. 

When a cure is perfected under the Viavi treatment it is permanent, and 
the whole system is so regulated and strengthened as to be fortified against the 
return not only of this disease, but of others as well. The badly diseased 
lining membrane of the nasal passages that has become thickened and ulcer- 
ated will gradually regain its natural delicate, moist, thin and healthy condi- 
tion, and hence breathing will be comfortable. 



CATARRHAIv CONDITIONS 



43* 



The few illustrative cases that follow will show the wou- 
Cases Illustrating a er f u i virtue of the Viavi treatment iu reducing chronic 



the Cure 



inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose and 



throat : Mr. R. came under the treatment for chronic catarrh in February, 
1895. This catarrhal condition had existed for seven years. In a little less 
than one year a perfect recovery was made from the use of the Viavi cerate, 
liquid and tonic. He remains well. 

Mr. Me , a Colorado patient, also had suffered for seven years from 

the worst form of chronic catarrh. The good results of the Viavi treatment were 
so soon secured that we feared the treatment had not been continued for a suf- 
ficient length of time, but it has now been five years since the cure was per- 
fected, and it has proved permanent. 

Another patient, who, from chronic catarrh, had been deprived both of 
her senses of smell and taste for five years, made a complete recovery. This 
case also has stood the test of several years, showing that the treatment builds 
the whole system and thus prevents a return of the trouble. 



NASAIv POLYPUS. 

Nasal polypi are small growths that are found hanging in the nose. 
They are supposed to be caused by the lining membrane losing healthy vigor ; 
as a consequence of this, certain parts become relaxed and hang down. Fre- 
quent colds in the head, hay fever and other conditions that repeatedly irri- 
tate the lining membrane are the causes. Unless rational treatment is employed 
to restore to this delicate lining membrane its natural tone, these hanging parts 
multiply and become more and more relaxed until the nasal passages are 
almost or completely filled. Respiration through the nostrils becomes greatly 
impeded or entirely suspended, and the sense of smell impaired or perma- 
nently lost. These growths in time so press upon the delicate nasal bones that 
they in turn also become diseased. 

If it be remembered that polypus growths are never found where the 
raucous membrane lining the nasal cavities is in a healthy condition, a 
great deal of pain and annoyance may be avoided by simple treatment in the 
first place to put these parts in a perfectly healthy condition. This may be 
effectually accomplished through the medium of the Viavi liquid sprayed into 
the nostrils, in conjunction with the use of the Viavi cerate externally applied 
over the region of the forehead and nose. 

Here, as elsewhere, there are two processes constantly occurring, both of 
which are essential to health. One is the building up of fresh work, so to 
speak, and the other is the taking down or removing of that which has done its 
duty in *he living system. When one or the other of these processes fails to 
go on effectually a detrimental mixing of waste and nutriment takes place, and. 
out of this disease invariable arises. 



432 VIA VI HYGIENE 

, To cure polypus growths, and to prevent their formation 

The Principle of by the relaxing of the mem brane, the Viavi liquid and 

cerate are to be used. By their use the nerves are fed 

and strengthened and the circulation of the blood becomes normally estab- 
lished ; hence the tissues and membranes are sufficiently nourished to regain 
their tonicity. Viavi is a nerve and tissue food and cures by inducing a healthy 
circulation ; it thus establishes a natural process of curing ; that is why its 
cures are both thorough and permanent. It does not force Nature in any way, 
but simply enables her to do what she desires and tries to do and must do in 
order to establish perfect health. 

The diluted Viavi liquid is to be sprayed twice daily into 
The Treatment for the nostrils> ni g ht and mor ning, while the Viavi cerate 
Polypi j s to k e use( j U pon the nose and forehead once a day in a 

very thorough manner. 

If polypus growths have formed they will in time, under this treatment, 
come away or shrivel up and disappear by absorption. The circulation of the 
blood should be assisted by employing one of the baths best suited to the 
patient's surroundings. They may be found in the latter part of this volume. 
The Viavi cerate is to be used daily over the spine to strengthen the whole 
nervous system. 

When these growths have been present for a long time and the bones 
have become implicated, it may then be necessary to have the diseased bone 
and impacted polypi surgically removed. Before this the Viavi treatment 
should be used for some time, to prevent complications that might otherwise 
arise. Afterward the Viavi treatment should be thoroughly employed to place 
the parts in a healthy condition and so prevent a return of the trouble. 

We cannot pass this subject without giving one illustrative case, that of 
a Miss A., a Chinese missionary, forty years of age. She had suffered since 
childhood from headaches and frightful noises in the head, which at times drove 
her nearly insane. The Viavi liquid and cerate caused a great quantity of poly- 
pus growths to become detached and pass away from the nostrils. We saw 
only a small number of the growths, but the missionary estimated that over a 
half pint of this foreign substance became detached. The Viavi treatment acts 
in such cases as effectually in overcoming abnormal growths and diseased tis- 
sue as in other parts of the body. 



DEAFNESS. 

The Eustachian tube, a small canal, forms the air passage and commu- 
nication between the middle ear and the throat. A continuation of the mucous 
membrane covering the nose and throat lines the Eustachian tube. As before 
explained, inflammation of the mucous membrane creeps along its surface, 



CATARRHAL CONDITIONS 433 

but seldom confines itself to one place. In a catarrhal condition of the nose 
and throat it in time affects the Eustachian tube, which leads from the throat. 
The tube becomes thickened in structure until it closes the passageway, and 
the function of the ear (hearing) becomes partially or wholly destroyed. The 
loss of hearing may be progressive and extend over a period of many years. 
The alarm is sounded when the patient experiences a cracking sensation in the 
ears when blowing the nose, and a ringing in the ears or noises in the head at 
other times. The hearing is suddenly lost at times and as suddenly returns, 
but in time it fails to return, and the patient remains deaf. In progressive 
deafness the hearing is lessened so gradually that a great degree of deafness is 
present before the patient becomes aware of the extent of his affliction. 
The noises in the head often almost drive the sufferer distracted. When the 
inflammatory process has progressed to extensive ulceration, the drum of the 
ear may become perforated, permitting the escape of offensive discharges, in 
which small pieces of bone are often found. 

A serious case of this kind that came under our treat- 
Interesting Case ment three years ago was ^3!. of a you th, seventeen 

in Point years of age, who had suffered since early childhood 

from chronic nasal catarrh. One ear constantly discharged a thick purulent 
matter so offensive that not only did he shun his associates, but they in turn 
shunned him. A large lump had formed just back of the ear, and it had been 
diagnosed as a chronic mastoid abscess. He used some of his sister's Viavi 
cerate in a half-hearted, hopeless manner, having long decided that his case 
was incurable. The hearing in this ear was entirely suspended. There was 
so decided a change in two weeks from the use of the cerate about the ears and 
over the nose, throat and forehead, that his mother placed him under the full 
Viavi treatment of cerate, liquid and tonic. A perfect recovery in six months 
resulted in this case, and, best of all, the hearing was entirely restored, while 
the disfiguring lump behind the ear disappeared. 

In the first place, catarrh should not be permitted to 
The Treatment for progress unt ii the se nses are impaired or destroyed, nor 
Deafness until the inflammatory process has crept to other parts. 

It will save years of suffering, money and time, at the first indication of a cold 
in the head, to employ the Viavi treatment as already given for acute catarrh. 
The treatment for deafness and for diseases of the ear that result from 
catarrh is the same identically as that given for chronic nasal catarrh, as the 
trouble has extended to the ear by means of the Eustachian tube from the 
throat. The cerate should be used also about the ear, twice daily. After 
applying the cerate thoroughly in the morning and seein g hat a good quan- 
tity has been absorbed, the parts may be cleansed, especiallyt when the patient 
must leave home. It is not the quantity of cerate that is left about the ear on 



434 VIAVI HYGIENE 

the surface, but it is the quantity absorbed, here as elsewhere, that gives good 
results. Dilute the Viavi liquid using one-third water and two-thirds liquid, 
and place three drops of the mixture in the ear twice daily. 

The wife of an eminent judge had been cured of a 
nt , C chronic uterine disease by means of the Viavi treatment. 

As with all other Viavi patients who understand and ap- 
preciate the remedy at its full value, it became with her a household necessity. 
Her husband, the judge, had been obliged to retire from the bench by reason 
of total deafness in one ear and progressive deafness in the other. When his 
wife screamed into his best ear that she intended using Viavi about his ears to 
cure his deafness, he remarked that she had better put Viavi on the table for 
butter, as she was constantly finding new and important uses for it. However, 
she persisted in using the cerate two or three times a day about his ears.~ A 
small quantity of the Viavi liquid, diluted one-third with water, was dropped 
daily into the ears, three drops of the mixture at a time, warmed to about 
blood heal pThis treatment was kept up regularly for eight or ten weeks, 
when one evening the judge yawned wide and long. He experienced such a 
crackling sensation in the deaf ear that he called to his wife in alarm to come 
quickly, as something dreadful had happened inside his head. She drew him 
to the light, and upon looking into the ear discovered a foreign substance of 
some kind, which, womanlike, she extracted with a hairpin. It was found to 
be a polypoid, which had gradually shriveled up as the parts became healthy 
from the treatment, and, finally becoming dry, had separated from the drum. 
The hearing for a time in this ear was painfully acute, but a small piece of 
cotton was worn until the hearing again became normal. This judge resumed 
his profession. 

HAY FEVER. 

Hay fever, rose cold, hay asthma, pollen catarrh, peach cold, yearly 
cold and autumnal catarrh are names given to a recurring summer or autum- 
nal attack of acute catarrh to which some persons are susceptible from 
the presence of certain pollens or special emanations in the atmosphere. 
Three conditions are necessary to the development of this annoying afflic- 
tion. They are a predisposing, constitutional condition, a peculiar sensitive- 
ness of the nasal membrane, and external irritation. 

The irritating cause is the pollen from certain grasses, hay, weeds, flow- 
ers, rag weed, June roses, golden rod, the down of peaches, etc. While the 
pollen from one plant will act as a violent irritant to one hay-fever sufferer it 
will have no effect whatever upon another, this showing that all hay-fever 
sufferers are not susceptible to the attack of pollen of the same plants. It 
seems to be a rule with this affliction, as with most others that the healthiest 
persons are least subject to it. 



CATARRHAL CONDITIONS 435 

Hay fever is frequently complicated with asthma, the 
Nature of Hay asthmatic attacks being worse at night. Hay fever gen- 
erally begins with an itching of the nose and roof of the 

mouth, sneezing (which at times is long continued, violent and exhausting), 
free watery discharges from the nostrils, and an itching and burning or the 
eyes, causing copious tears of an acrid nature, burning and excoriating the 
skin wherever the ytouch. In the onset, there is a chill, followed by fever 
and frontal headache; the eyes become dim and sensitive, the sense of smell is 
lost, and also often the sense of taste. 

An annual hay-fever sufferer is certainly an object of pity, but not in the 
old and hopeless sense of the word, which drove these sufferers from home for 
several weeks or months of the year, a change of climate being the only means 
of avoiding this distressing irritation. 

f Under the Via vi treatment, hay fever is by no means hope- 

Typical Case of lesg> ag will be geen by the f ii ow j n g case . & patient 

covery had suffered for eleven years with hay fever complicated 

by asthma. Her sufferings became aggravated when the wild flowers began to 
bloom in the spring, and continued until cold weather ; in fact, she claims 
never to have seen a day when she was free from suffering, either summer or 
winter, as she was constantly taking cold, which greatly aggravated the 
trouble. There was a decided change for the better in her condition from a 
month's use of the Viavi liquid and cerate. In eight months she had gained 
ten pounds and announced her cure perfect. The trouble has not returned, 
this showing that the cure is permanent. 

Numerous cures of this distressing affliction have been secured by means 
of the Viavi treatment. 

- The treatment for hay fever is to spray the nose and 

The Treatme t for throat witn the diluted Viavi liquid. Three times a day 

Hay Fever will genera u y su ffi ce , but if the irritation is extreme the 

nose and throat may be sprayed once an hour, the liquid diluted somewhat 
more than is advised in the directions on the bottle. The cerate should be 
freely applied over the cheeks, around the nose and over the lips to protect the 
parts from the excoriating and burning discharges. 

If hay fever is complicated with asthma the cerate should then be ap- 
plied in a thorough way over the chest, both back and front. 

When the mucous membrane lining these parts becomes normal it will 
not be unduly excited by being brought in contact with the pollen, in the air 
from certain plants. 



CHAPTER LXV 
DISEASES OF THE LUNGS. 

(BRONCHITIS, PNEUMONIA, CONSUMPTION.) 



>HB lungs, in which the bronchia (bronchial tubes) terminate, are the 
essential organs of respiration, although the tide of air in the lungs 
does not strictly constitute respiration, as the lungs serve merely to facil- 
itate the introduction of oxygen into the blood and the exhalation of 
carbon-dioxide. True respiration takes place in all of the tissues and organs 
of the system, and not in the lungs. 

The lungs are double, consisting of a right and a left lung, which occupy 
the two sides of the chest. They are separated from each other by the heart 
and the small space called the mediastinum. The right lung is shorter and 
broader than the left, being divided into three unequal lobes by two oblique 
fissures. The left lung has But two lobes, which are divided by one fissure. 
At about the middle concave surface of the lungs is a pedicle (stem) formed 
by the bronchia and the pulmonary vessels. This is called "the root of the 
lungs." 

The lungs are composed of prolongations and ramifications of the 
bronchia and of the pulmonary arteries and veins, their subdivisions being 
supported by a fine tissue. In health the action of the air cells on one side of 
this tissue and of the terminal blood vessels (the capillaries) on the other keeps 
time with the respiratory movements (breathing). As the chest expands and 
contracts both air and blood flow in and are forced out at regular intervals. 
They thus meet to exchange elements and promote the processes of life. 

When in inhalation the air flows into the lungs it carries 
Purification of the to ^ air cells oxy gen, which is immediately absorbed 

by the blood in the terminal capillaries when in health 

they are permitted to meet the air. In exhalation the air flows out of the 
lungs loaded with carbon-dioxide, which the venous capillaries have given up 
to it and which is a part of the waste from the entire system. When the blood 
flows into the lungs it is impure ; when it flows out it is pure. Just the oppo- 
site takes place in the air ; when it flows in it is pure, when it flows out it is 
impure. 



DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 437 

The capillaries in the lung tissues are so minute as to allow the passage 
of the blood corpuscles in a single row. When it is taken into consideration 
that the corpuscles can be seen only with the aid of a microscope, the reader 
will have some idea of the minute terminals of the pulmonary vessels, and 
know how necessary a normal condition of these organs is to oxidize properly 
the volumes of blood that are constantly passing through the lungs. 

In pulmonary (lung) diseases of all kinds the function of 
Evil Effects of the lungs, the changing of venous blood into arterial blood, 
Disease ^ partially suspended. When it is wholly suspended 

death ensues. This partial suspension impairs in turn the functions of the 
whole body, as no part receives its necessary share of oxygen. The blood be- 
comes so impure that its presence in the lungs causes the tissues there to break 
down, and we thus have one form of pulmonary disease. In a suppression of 
the menses, for instance, the monthly purification of the blood does not occur; 
hence certain deleterious constituents are retained in the blood and carried to 
the lungs in such quantities that the proper purification of the blood becomes 
impossible. This constant stream of impure blood passing through the lungs 
causes them, in time, to break down, and pulmonary consumption, or phthisis, 
is tk result. 



BRONCHITIS. 

In the pharynx, which is situated back of the mouth, are two openings. 
The posterior (back) opening leads into the esophagus (gullet), which is the 
passageway to the stomach. The anterior is the opening into the larynx, 
which is the commencement of the passages concerned in breathing. At this 
opening commences the trachea, or windpipe, which is about three-fourths of 
an inch in diameter and from four to four inches and a half in length. The 
trachea is partially composed of rings of cartilage, which vary from sixteen 
to twenty in number. They prevent the tube from collapsing during respira- 
tion. As the trachea passes downward into the chest it divides into two parts, 
known as the right and the left bronchia, or the bronchial tubes. They also 
are provided with rings of cartilage. As has been already shown in this chap- 
ter, these bronchia enter and form a part of the lung substance. They divide 
and subdivide until their minute terminals open into the air cells of the lungs. 

When the lining (mucous) membrane of the bronchial 

The Nature of tubes becomes inflamed, the condition is called bron- 

Broncnitis chitis; it may be either acute or chronic. The acute 

slowly develops into the chronic if neglected, or if it do not receive the proper 

treatment, which amounts to the same thing. When the mucous membrane is 

inflamed it becomes swollen and is covered with secretions. Sometimes the 



438 VIAVI HYGIENE 

thickening and secretions are excessive, causing great difficulty in breathing, 
especially when the inflammation has extended downward to the smaller bron 
chia within the substance of the lungs. This form is known as capillary bron- 
chitis. It is quite dangerous in infants and those who are greatly debilitated, 
from an inability to free the tubes of the accumulated mucus. This prevents 
the aeration of the blood, and the patient dies from the presence of unelimi- 
nated carbon in the blood. 

When the larger bronchial tubes are the se?t of the inflammation the 
cough is very likely to be violent. The sufferer experiences a tickling sensa- 
tion in the sternum (middle of the chest), or a raw, burning, uncomfortable 
sensation in that region. In acute bronchitis the sputum (matter coughed up) 
is thick mucus, and may be streaked with blood, but as the acute stage merges 
into the chronic form the sputum changes to a yellowisj or greenish hue. 
When the inflammation is confined to the smaller bronchi there are weakness 
and great difficulty of breathing, but no rattling ; when it is confined to the 
larger tubes the rattling of mucus may be heard all over the chest. 

Acute bronchitis is generally caused by colds ; chronic bronchitis, from 
neglected acute bronchitis, or from a continuation downward of a catarrhal 
condition of the nose, throat, tonsils, etc. 

The treatment for both acute and chronic bronchitis, 

The Treatment for tonsilitis (inflammation of the tonsils), pharyngitis (in- 

flammation of the pharynx), laryngitis (inflammation of 

the larynx), and asthma (an irritation of the nerves within the bronchial mu- 
cous membrane) is the same ; hence it will not be necessary to describe mi- 
nutely each inflammatory process. 

The forms of Viavi to be used are the Viavi liquid and cerate. The liquid 
is to be diluted according to the directions that accompany it, and sprayed 
into the throat, in acute cases, three times a day, morning, noon and evening ; 
but in the chronic condition, twice a day, morning and evening, will be suffi- 
cient. While spraying the liquid into the throat the breath should be drawn 
slowly inward, so that the spray shall be brought directly in contact with the 
inflamed membrane. Care should be taken to let the spray exhaust itself be- 
fore compressing the bulb of the atomizer the second time. If it is com- 
pressed too frequently a stream will be thrown instead of a spray ; this is al- 
ways to be avoided. 

The cerate is to be applied in a very thorough way twice daily, morning 
and evening, upon throat and chest, both back and front, plenty of time be- 
ing used for its thorough application. When applying it over the back a 
thorough massaging of the whole spinal column should be given. 

Twice a week the cold compress should be used over the region of the 
chest (see Cold Compress on Chest), but the cerate is to be applied, twice 
daily in acute cases, and once daily in chronic cases. 



DISEASES OF THH LUNGS 439 

The conditions thus treated are the result of reduced nerve force and 
imperfect circulation of the blood ; hence congestion and inflammation of 
these delicate membranes. The Viavi treatment cures by establishing the 
healthy circulation of the blood in these parts, through feeding the nerves and 
building the tissues. In this way the membranes receive their normal amount 
of nutriment and also eliminate the proper amount of waste to insure a healthy 
condition. The patient should breathe through the nostrils and never through 
the mouth. Air breathed through the nostrils becomes moist and warm, and 
the particles of dust are caught in the hair growing in the lower part of the 
nostrils a wise provision of Nature for the express purpose of protecting these 
parts. 

Prompt attention should always be given an inflammatory condition of 
the mucous membrane lining the bronchial tubes, because of the great danger 
of this disease terminating in consumption. Bronchitis has been aptly termed 
"the stepping-stone to consumption." 

A Baptist minister who had suffered for several years 
Cases Illustrating with repeated attacks of acute bronchitis found almost 
immediate relief under the Viavi treatment after the very 
best medical aid had proved inefficient. 

Another case, which co^inpingly shows the efficacy of the Viavi treat- 
ment, was that of a young woman who had suffered for the better part of her 
life from, hay fever, tonsilitis, laryngitis and bronchitis. The chest was pain- 
fully sore ; cough, racking and violent ; expectorations, profuse , extreme 
emaciation and weakness ; great nervousness and insomnia, with loss of appe- 
tite ; voice husky and often lost. Scarcely a night passed but that she suffered 
with paroxysms of asthma, more or less intense. In a few days a decided 
change was noticeable from the Viavi treatment. It went forward with no in- 
terruption until a perfect and permanent cure was established. This patient 
was too debilitated when coming under the treatment to employ it herself* 
She was taken in hand by her mother, who applied the treatment to her, with 
the most satisfactory results. The girl is now plump, rosy and enjoying 
health as any robust young girl should. 

It is unnecessary to mention more of the many cases that have secured 
perfect recovery under the Viavi treatment. 



PNEUMONIA. 

If the lungs are in flamed the blood vessels within their substance become 
gorged with blood. Thus great pressure is brought to bear upon the minute 
ramifications of the bronchia, so that they cannot open and admit the air ; in 
other words, there is but little air space left. The lungs become swollen, and 
they press upon nerves in their neighborhood ; consequently breathing or 



440 VIAVI HYGIENE 

coughing becomes exceedingly painful. The pain between the shoulders may 
be so severe as to prostrate the sufferer. There is no loss of power in the exter- 
nal muscles of breathing, but there is great loss of elasticity in the vessels of 
the lungs themselves. This prevents the exchange between the used-up gases 
of the vital system and the atmosphere, upon which functional life depends. 
The pain in pneumonia does not depend alone upon the swelling of the lungs, 
as the stagnant blood soon sets up the fiery action of its destructive combina- 
tion. This not only causes severe pain, but creates great danger, as it spread.^ 
itself through the whole circulation, and fever is soon the result. This is all 
due to one condition a relaxation of the pulmonary vessels. If the air and 
blood had been regularly admitted and expelled, the inflammatory process 
could not have existed. 

Many lives have been lost through pneumonia, or in- 
The Disease Is flammation of the lungs. This disease is not fatal if at 
all rightly treated, as it is the same as inflammation 
elsewhere, and yields as easily to rational treatment. 

As before stated, inflammatory processes of the lung substance yield to 
the Viavi treatment as successfully as inflammation in other parts of the body 
that is, if it has not progressed to that stage when it is beyond the aid of 
remedial measures. . ^ 

When the patient first feels that a cold has settled upon 
The Treatment for the lungs or in the chest> and finds difficulty in breathing, 
Pneumonia the bed should be SOU ght at once. The feet are to be 
placed in a hot foot bath, the foot-tub being placed in the bed. By lying 
upon the back and elevating the thighs toward the body the feet will be made 
to rest easily in the tub. A hot- water bag is now placed between the shoulders, 
and a towel folded, to four thicknesses and wrung from cold water, placed over 
the chest, the patient meanwhile being carefully covered. If the sufferer is lying 
between blankets, so much the better, as then there is less chance of chilling. 
When the compress becomes warm it should be removed and replaced with a 
cold one. The application of the compresses should be kept up for about 
thirty minutes or an hour, after which, the body having been dried, the Viavi 
cerate should be rubbed thoroughly upon the entire chest, from the neck to 
the waist. The feet should now be withdrawn from the bath, dried, and also 
well rubbed with the cerate. If sweating has occurred the patient should be 
rubbed dry with a soft towel beneath the covers. The hot-water bag should 
now be removed from the back and the patient allowed to rest. 

^ If the attack is severe this treatment is to be repeated both night and 
morning; if not, once a day will suffice, but two applications of the cerate will 
be necessary, daily, over the chest, both back and front. The entire trunk 
should be well protected by heavy flannel. 



DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 441 

The Viavi liquid taken internally in from five to ten drop doses, four 
times a day, is also advised. It should be taken in a little water. 

The extremities should never be allowed to become cold, but should be 
kept warm with a hot- water bag and the use of soft woolen hose. 

The greatest care should always be taken not to get up and move about 
too soon, as patients are very likely to contract more cold and suffer a relapse, 
which is always very much more serious than the original attack. 

Where pneumonia has progressed until the lungs have become solid and 
no air can be admitted, the case has gone beyond the aid of all remedial assist- 
ance. Pneumonia, if taken in time, need not prove fatal when the Viavi treat- 
ment is intelligently employed. 



CONSUMPTION. 

As will be seen, pulmonary consumption results from various morbid 
processes in the lung tissue, such as repeated pneumonia, bronchial catarrh, 
etc., or it may arise from an inherited tendency to lung trouble or an inherited 
scrofulous condition. In women a suppression of the menses is frequently a 
cause. It may also be acquired from a lack of light and of pure air, warmth 
and exercise. In fact, anything that interferes with the nourishment of the 
body or even depresses the nervous system will lead to its development. 

Consumption is responsible for more deaths than any other disease; 
still, many so-called incurable cases are cured; hence patients suffering with 
consumption should not be placed upon the incurable list, at least not until 
every available effort has been made to cure them. 

. The writer's mother was in bed, having lost the power 
Power of Viavi to turn over> and had to be turned on a sheet There 

were in consultation four of the most eminent physicians 

of Chicago. They said she could live but a few days, possibly not more than 
a few hours. At this point we employed a nurse, who rubbed the entire body 
with the Viavi cerate twice a day, using the remedy internally also as prescribed. 
In two months she was sufficiently strong to get up and walk across the room 
unaided. In four months she was on the street. She lived for three years 
after this. There is no doubt that had the treatment been taken a few years 
earlier a complete recovery would have been effected. 

We daily come in business contact with a woman who 

Another Case of wa3 twice given up to die of consumption. Twice she 

Recovery traveled from the Eastern States to Southern California 

for the sole purpose of being rendered more comfortable that is, to be enabled 

to breathe more easily without any hope whatever of regaining her health. 

The best physicians had given her up to die. The second time she came to 



442 VIAVI HYGIENE 

California she placed herself under the Viavi treatment, and its effects were 
marvelous. To see this patient to-day no one could be made to realize that 
she twice had been given up to die. The Viavi capsules, cerate, liquid and 
tonic were used. Although no uterine trouble had ever existed, the capsules 
were used freely, the sufferer realizing that she had no time to lose; hence 
every available absorbent of the body was called into active use. She had spent 
money, labor and time in fitting herself for a professional career, as upon her 
individual efforts her livelihood depended. Even while under the treatment 
her professional duties could not be laid aside, but her gain was percept- 
ible from the first. If this frail woman, weighing scarcely a hundred pounds, 
possessing no muscular power whatever, her voice husky and often lost for 
weeks, she being obliged to sit up in bed half the night in order to breathe, 
and coughing so severely that she would be completely prostrated for hours, 
could be cured by means of the Viavi treatment, others need not despair. In 
this case the expectorations were so copious (and of a grayish green color, 
streaked with blood) that the patient never had the courage to have a micro- 
scopical examination made, but as others were depending upon her exertions, 
live she must and live she did. As this patient recovered, there is hope for 
others. 

We do not wish to be understood as stating that every 
When a Case Is case of consum p t i on can be cured by the use of the 
Incurable Viavi treatment. Far from it. But equally emphatic 

are we in stating that not every case of consumption pronounced incurable is 
correctly diagnosed, as many of these so-called incurable cases have yielded to 
our treatment. Whatever can be done for consumption the Viavi treatment 
will do. Here, as in cases of cancer and other so-called malignant diseases, the 
treatment is expectant. The patient may respond to treatment and may not ; 
but so long as there is life there is hope ; and as many so-called incurable 
cases of consumption have yielded to the Viavi treatment, we shall never turn 
the consumptive away without hope. 

The one aim of the Viavi treatment is to cure according 
Effects of the to the laws of N aturCj or ra ther to lend Nature the aid 
Treatment tbat slle re q u ires to effect a cure. If there is a sufficient 

amount of vitality left, by which the respective powers can respond, there is 
hope. Pulmonary tuberculosis (consumption) is a disease that strikes terror to 
the heart, and well it may ; but often where the bacilli of the disease have 
been found in the sputum (matter coughed up), patients have not died, but re- 
covered and regained their health under the Viavi treatment. In these cases 
the lung tissue was not extensively involved. Where it is extensively involved 
the case is hopeless. 

Patients suffering from incurable pulmonary diseases have come under 



DISEASES OF THE LUNGS 443 

the Viavi treatment and then lived long and useful lives, Viavi acting a* 
a food to the system and so strengthening the lung tissue that a sufficient 
quantity of blood was purified to enable the patients, with care, not only to 
live, but to enjoy life. Viavi is a food which repairs the waste brought about 
by disease. 

The forms of Viavi to be used in consumption are the 
The Treatment for capsuleS) cer ate, liquid and tonic. In women the cap- 
Consumption su i es are to be used per vagina ; in men, per rectum, so 
that the abdominal blood and tissues may derive benefits quickly. That is es- 
sential. The greatest care and thoroughness and considerable time must be 
employed in the application of the cerate over the entire trunk, both back 
and front, daily, only a small part of the body being exposed at one time, thus 
preventing chilling. To know why the cerate is used and the benefits that are 
to be obtained from it, read the chapter on the Forms of Viavi, with special 
reference to the cerate. 

* The Viavi liquid is to 6e sprayed into the throat three times a day with 
the Viavi atomizer. When the liquid is sprayed into the throat the breath 
should be drawn slowly inward, so that the spray may be drawn into the lung 
substance itself. This is of great curative value in pulmonary troubles. The 
liquid is to be diluted one-third with water, but if this quantity prove too 
strong, it should be diluted one-half with water. Prepare a sufficient quantity 
to last two days, then thoroughly cleanse the atomizer and mix a fresh supply. 
The bulb of the atomizer at each treatment should be compressed about six 
times, but care should be taken always to allow the spray to exhaust itself be- 
fore compressing the second time. If this precaution is not taken a stream 
instead of a spray will be thrown, and that is to be avoided. 

The Viavi tonic is always to be used regularly. It will greatly aid in 
building the strength of the patient. Careful attention should be given the 
skin, and such baths should be taken as are best suited to the individual pa- 
tient and his or her surroundings. (See Baths.) The cerate renders the skin 
active, and so protects the patient against atmospheric changes. Consump- 
tive patients need plenty of fresh air and moderate exercise in the open air. 
The diet should be wholesome and nourishing. Methodical breathing exer- 
cises also will help to strengthen the chest and lungs. The inspirations and 
expirations should be full, regular and slow. 

Cold compresses on the chest, with a hot-water bag at the back, or hot 
water at the feet, twice a week, should be used. The assistance of an attend- 
ant is necessary, so that the patient may run no risk of being chilled. (See 
Cold Compress on Chest.) The compresses are for the purpose of stimulating 
vital activity in the lung substance. They greatly assist in establishing the 
normal circulation in this locality, and thereby the remedy is carried in greater 
quantities to the diseased parts. 



444 



vi A vi HYGIKNE; 



A consumptive patient may rest assured that if the case 

How Life May Be is curable a p er fect recovery will follow the use of the 

Prolonged yiavi treatment . If the case is incurable life can be 

prolonged and the patient's condition rendered very much more comfortable ; 

so, under either circumstance, the most gratifying results follow the use of the 

treatment, unless the disease has progressed and the lung tissue broken down 

to such an extent that no reaction whatever can be secured. 




CHAPTER LXVI. 




DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 

(DYSPEPSIA, GASTRITIS.) 



alimentary tract is a highly organized muscular tube, with expansions 
and convolutions. It begins at the mouth and ends at the anus. It 
averages in length about seven times the length of the body. For con- 
venience the tract has been divided and the subdivisions named. They 
are the mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine and large intes- 
tine. The intestines again are subdivided, the small into the duodenum, jeju- 
num and ileum ; the large into. the cecum, colon, sigmoid flexure and rectum. 
The stomach, which is the largest part of the alimentary tract, has a capacity 
of about five pints. It varies in size more than any other organ of the body. 
When empty it occupies but little space and lies in the back part of the 
thoracic abdomen. When very full it turns on its axis toward the front walls of 
the abdomen. By so doing it displaces surrounding organs, even interfering 
at times, if greatly overloaded, with the action of the heart and lungs. 

All substance, either solid or fluid, is subjected to sev- 
Mastication of the eral tests by the senses before it is permitted to enter the 
Food alimentary canal. The eye first judges from its appear- 

ance whether it is suitable, the nose from its odor and the tongue from its 
taste. The teeth discover harmful substances that have been concealed from 
the eye. Mastication (chewing) is accomplished by the teeth, which reduce 
the food into small particles. During mastication the salivary glands, in the 
mouth, pour out quantities of secretions (saliva), which differ greatly from se- 
cretions found in other parts of the body. It is very necessary to the welfare 
of the body that a thorough mastication and insalivation of the food occur 
before it is swallowed and so passes into the stomach. Insalivation has a great 
deal more to do with the digestion of certain kinds of food than is generally 
understood ; in fact, the first step of digestion occurs within the mouth if the 
food is properly managed there before deglutition (swallowing). 



446 VIAVI HYGIENE 

When the food mixed with saliva reaches the stomach 
it stimulates a flow of gastric juice, which is poured forth 
into the stomach from thousands of little glands situated 

within the walls of the stomach. The presence of the food within the stomach 
causes contractions to occur, which move the food about and so mix it 
thoroughly with the gastric juice, reducing all to a semi-fluid consistency. 
Neither starches nor fats are acted upon by the gastric juices. Their turn 
comes when the chyme, as this partially digested food is called, passes into the 
duodenum, which is the upper part of the small intestine, and is there subjected 
to the action of other secretions the pancreatic juices and the bile. When 
the chyme has progressed to that stage where it can be absorbed by the small 
intestine it is taken up and distributed, through the medium of the blood, to 
all parts of the body, and each organ, cell, fiber, muscle and tissue takes from 
it what is needed for its own purposes, while the remainder is removed from 
the body by the bowels and kidneys. 

It is very essential that the gastric juices be of the right quantity, neither 
too much nor too little, and that they be of the right quality as well, to pro- 
mote normal digestion. In hunger the glands within the walls of the stomach 
become filled with gastric juice, and when hunger is satisfied they are found 
comparatively empty ; hence food should never be taken in the stomach unless 
hunger demands it. 

The whole digestive tract is lined with millions of mi- 

ly Ia n a nute absorbents, whose function it is to select from the 

digested food that which is deemed serviceable for bodily 

purposes. By a reverse of peristaltic movement (as in vomiting), it may be 
sent from the body the way it came, or it may be sent out in the opposite 
direction ; hence nutriment is not that which is taken into the body, but that 
which is accepted by it. This is the reason why we so often refer to Viavi as 
a food it is accepted by all of the absorbents of the body and employed as a 
nutriment, by which functional activity is maintained in all parts. It does not 
put the alimentary tract to rest and relieve it of work, but nourishes and 
strengthens it, thus enabling it to perform its duties, which are essential 
to life. 

It should be remembered that in health the alimentary 
or tube is intensely active. Its muscular coat is endowed 

with a peristaltic, wave-like motion that constantly 

keeps the contents moving. When the tract is empty there is no movement. 
It rests, the contents being the exciting cause of the motion. When, from ab- 
normal conditions, this motion is partially suspended, we have what is known 
as constipation. (See chapter on Diseases of the Bowels. ) Only through ac- 
tivity of the tract is it kept healthy. This is true of the whole body. We 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 447 

cannot force nutriment upon inactive muscles, as their very need for it arises 
from activity. When activity of the alimentary tract is lost the activity of 
the absorbents situated within its walls is suspended ; hence nutriment is not 
carried to the body in sufficient quantities to sustain life properly. 

Disorders of digestion are caused by impairment of the 
Some Causes of digestive function, and by eating food that is unsuitable 
Indigestion j n q uan tity or quality, Overeating is responsible for 

most cases of indigestion. The stomach becomes overworked* hence it works 
badly. There are forms of dyspepsia in which a constant accumulation of 
gas occurs (flatulent dyspepsia). This keeps the stomach uncomfortably dis- 
tended, with the result that pressure is brought to bear upon the heart and 
lungs almost continuously. Much distress results, such as palpitation of the 
heart, etc. When the stomach does not act properly its contents are often re- 
tained until putrid fermentation occurs. The food may lie in the stomach like 
a heavy stone, or it may cause the stomach to burn as fire a condition accom- 
panied with an unquenchable thirst. With some sufferers there may be a con- 
stant hungry gnawing that food does not satisfy, while others are made com- 
fortable only by constantly eating. Other symptoms are water-brash, pain be- 
tween the shoulders, loss of appetite, nausea, headaches, acid eructations 
(belching) ; in fact, there are so many symptoms accompanying the various 
forms of dyspepsia that it would be impossible to enumerate them all. A suf- 
ferer from indigestion is very likely aware of the fact. 

Thousands of persons annually starve to death amid 
Nervous Form of p lenty s i mp i y because the nervous system is so impover- 
Dyspepsia ished from a lack of proper nourishing food that every 

function of the body suffers in consequence. This is a form of nervous dys- 
pepsia. We often refer to Viavi as a nerve food because it is as readily assim- 
ilated and made use of by the nerves of the body as by the tissues and other 
parts. From this fact comes its great adaptability to all forms of impaired di- 
gestion. 

Continued pain in any part of the body will impair the 
Reflex Forms of digestion. Pain is bound to weaken the muscular sys- 
Dyspepsia tem It cannot be otherwise ; hence we have dyspepsia 

or indigestion from lost muscular (peristaltic) action of the alimentary tract 
as a reflex disturbance from some other part of the body. For instance, a pa- 
tient suffers intensely with piles or a uterine trouble. In a short time the appe- 
tite becomes impaired. If food is forced upon the digestive apparatus it re- 
mains inactive, and the patient suffers in consequence with dyspepsia. In 
such cases the cause of the dyspepsia must be treated. Removal of the cause 
is a cure of the disease. 



448 VIAVI HYGIENE 

E '1 Eff f Di g estiou takes place in the stomach and bowels. It is 

X 1 their duty to prepare nutriment for all the uses of the 

body. If they are unable to do so, it is evident that the 

entire body will suffer ; the same result accrues if they fail to prepare the food 
in the right way. As we have seen in the chapter on the Circulation, the 
blood is the vehicle for carrying the nutriment from the stomach and intestines 
to every part of the body. As indigestion prohibits the charging of the blood 
with a sufficient quantity of nutriment, every part of the body is weakened by 
the inadequate nutrition, the efficiency of the organism as a working and 
achieving mechanism is lowered, and the entire system loses much of its dis- 
ease-resisting power. Any disease, therefore, may invade the body. It will 
shorten life if it does not cause death within a short time. Unhappily the fact 
is very likely to be overlooked that indigestion was the promoting cause of 
the entire trouble. If death is caused by consumption, Bright's disease or 
some other fatal malady that appeared as the consequence of weakness grow- 
ing out of impaired nutrition, that malady is charged with the trouble, and 
the valuable lesson that ought to have been learned is lost. 

A part of the remarkable success of the Viavi treatment 
1 A * ^ Ctmg f r indi S estion (dyspepsia) is due to the fact that it im- 
poses no hardships on the sufferer it does not reduce 

the strength while overcoming the disease. Under ordinary systems of treat- 
ment, elaborate, difficult and confusing dietaries are imposed ; frequently 
actual starvation, or an approach to it, is required. Under the Viavi treatment 
the prime fact is kept in view that the body needs all the nutriment it can get 
in the natural way. Hence the simple rule of diet under the treatment is this : 
Avoid overeating ; eat moderately whatever wholesome food is desired ; em- 
ploy as great a variety of foods of all wholesome kinds as possible, the variety 
to be from day to day, or week to week, but each meal to be simple ; ascertain 
by careful observation what foods give the most distress, and avoid them ; 
avoid liquids with meals ; eat very slowly, and at regular times. Food should 
be taken at the proper temperature, about blood heat, neither too cold nor too 
hot. There is nothing difficult in such a dieting course as this. It imposes no 
heavy strain on the mind; it does not reduce the quantity of food to an irra- 
tional limit ; it does not make any radical change and produce disturbance on 
that account. At the same time the forms of Viavi used in the treatment of 
this affliction are themselves an important food, and by being predigested im- 
pose no task upon the system to prepare and assimilate them, the cerate not 
coming in contact with the digestive organs at all, but entering the blood by 
absorption through the skin. 

Some principles of diet will be found in the chapter on Obesity. They 
refer particularly to the fat-producing character of various foods, but have a 
general value as well. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH . 449 

-, _, . _, The great idea of the Viavi treatment is not to deprive the 
What Things To ^n^h an & bowels of the work that they were designed 
Be Avoided to do> but tQ enab i e them to p er f orm it. It is the oppo- 
site, therefore, of those treatments which contemplate the use of pepsin and 
other artificial digestive agents introduced into the stomach to do the work 
that Nature intended it to do. Nothing can do Nature's work so well as 
Nature herself. The Viavi treatment, by strengthening and building up the 
nervous system, enables the nerves controlling the stomach and bowels to do 
their work properly, and by enriching the blood and assuring its proper circu- 
lation secures the natural nutrition of the entire body. All stimulants, seda- 
tives and the like are to be strictly avoided, as the} lower the nervous forces 
arid aggravate the evil. Alcohol, tea, coffee and tobacco must be abandoned if 
an early recovery is desired, or at best used in extremely small quantities, 
except alcoholic drinks, which must be avoided entirely. Constipation must 
be overcome and the bowels made to empty themselves every morning at a 
certain hour, both by inviting them to do so and by using the Viavi laxative if 
it is needed. (See Chapter on Regular Habits.) Keeping late hours will 
prevent recovery. Mental work should be made lighter if it has been too 
heavy. Brooding over the trouble indoors will only make it worse. More 
outdoor exercise and recreation are required in this affliction than in almost 
any other. In short, all that the Viavi treatment requires in the way of per- 
sonal conduct is common sense and prudence. If sufferers are not able to 
comply with those conditions they will only be wasting their time by adopting 
the treatment. The time consumed in the cure will depend on the character 
of the affliction, the time it has existed, the common sense and prudence of the 
sufferer, and the fidelity and thoroughness with which the treatment is used. 
The cure is slow. A quick cure of indigestion is not possible, and would be 
highly undesirable if it were. 



T t t f * t a bl ettes are to be used for stomach troubles 

C r other than catarrhal conditions (see Gastritis, further on), 

especially if they are complicated with disease of the 

liver. The tablettes are easily assimilated and made use of as a food by the 
nerves and tissues of the entire alimentary tract. Especially is its action felt 
upon the nerves that control digestion and the blood supply, through the 
medium of which the entire body is nourished 

In conjunction with the tablettes the Viavi cerate is to be used exter- 
nally over the spine (see Cerate on Spine), belly, stomach and liver, daily. 
The action of the cerate is both superficial and deep, and is felt upon the 
internal organs although applied externally. The action of the tablettes, 
although taken internally, is likewise both deep and superficial; hence just 
twice as quick results are obtained by the use of the tablettes and cerate 
together. Before massaging the parts see Rules for Abdominal Massage. 



450 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The cold compress Is to be used over th~ region of the abdomen and 
liver twice a week. (Bee Cold Compress on Abdomen and Liver.) 

If the bowels are inactive the Viavi laxative is to be used until the nor- 
mal movement is established. 

We refer the reader to the chapter on the Forms of Viavi, with particular 
reterence to the Viavi liquid and the Viavi tablettes ; so that confusion ,IF, to 
which to employ may not occur. 



Patients suffering from chronic dyspepsia are accustomed 
fleans to the use of power f u l drugs for temporary relief, and 
Employed tlien expec t the same results from remedies that will 

cure; hence the bitter disappointment experienced by those who "just try 
Viavi." We wish no one at this time to commence the use of Viavi for stom- 
ach troubles, otherwise than malignant, with the impression that he or she is 
"trying" it, for such is not the case. Every clinical claim made for the Viavi 
treatment has been proved thousands and thousands of times in the last ten 
years. We know just what it will do, but we cannot always tell the time it 
will take to perfect a cure, nor just the symptoms that will arise after its use is 
begun, as all these things depend upon the sufferer's condition when the treat- 
ment was begun. Many of the cases coming under the treatment are compli- 
cated, obscure and of many years' standing ; but the Viavi treatment will do 
the work by assisting Nature to right these conditions if only given sufficient 
time and employed in the proper manner. 

The following few of the many cases in which a cure was 
Cases Illustrating obtained by employing the Viavi treatment will illus- 

the Cure trate the action of the treatment: Mr. H., of New 

Hampshire, U. S. A., was afflicted with dyspepsia, accompanied with chronic 
diarrhea, sciatic and inflammatory rheumatism, heart trouble and dropsy. Nu- 
merous physicians treated him, but without success. A large lump developed 
on the side of his neck, and scrofula was among the complications. A faith- 
ful and persevering use of the Viavi treatment, given by his wife, effected a 
happy recovery. The lump disappeared. 

Mr. K., of Colorado, U. S. A., had suffered for twenty-five years with 
indigestion. He was cured by using the Viavi tablettes. "The expense," he 
wrote, " is nominal, compared with doctors' bills." ' 

Dyspepsia in the case of Mrs. K., of California, U. S. A,, was a compli- 
cation from retroversion. She had almost to ctarve herself in order to live at 
all. When the Viavi treatment had enabled Nature to effect a complete cure 
of her uterine displacement, her dyspepsia disappeared. This case was a very 
severe one. 

The case of Mrs. M. is exceedingly interesting. Constipation, indigea- 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 451 

tion and womb trouble afflicted her for twelve years. Physicians had treated 
her constantly. She was compelled to take a laxative every night to escape a 
headache. A change of climate so benefited her that she became pregnant. 
The child was born, and its death occurred three years afterward, at a time 
when she was again pregnant. Added to this was an attack of malaria, for 
which her physician dosed her heavily with quinine. This produced an abor- 
tion, which wrecked her health. Her condition became such that cathartics 
failed to move her bowels. She was starving from indigestion, and nervous 
prostration overtook her. She came under the Viavi treatment for her uter- 
ine trouble, which yielded at once. Her nervous system became stronger. 
She continued the treatment for nine months, and then came under the special 
Viavi treatment for her stomach and bowels. Her recovery was rapid and 
complete. 

The little son of Mrs. C. suffered with great enlargement of the abdo- 
men and complained of pain. She treated him with Viavi tablettes and cerate, 
and he rapidly grew well. 

GASTRITIS. 
(CATARRH OF THE STOMACH.) 

Gastric catarrh, or inflammation of the lining membrane of the 
stomach, is similar to a catarrhal condition of any other mucous membrane. 
It may develop from the acute form into the chronic. 

The principal causes of gastritis are the use of either too hot or too cold 
drinks or food, alcoholic drinks, iced water, iced milk, ice-cream, overheating, 
etc. It may be caused also by taking cold, as other catarrhal conditions of the 
body are produced, by mental strain, starvation, grief and other causes. Such 
patients are generally despondent and irritable ; the circulation is poor, the 
hands and feet being generally cold ; the stomach feels full and is sore to the 
touch, and even the clothing is uncomfortable ; there is belching of gas, 
which brings up a flat-tasting or sour fluid ; there is much mucous in the 
mouth and stomach; there is either loss of appetite or ravenous hunger; 
nausea may occur, and there may be great distension of the abdomen from the 
presence of gas. In the beginning the bowels are generally constipated, but if 
the bowels become implicated the stools are fetid and mushy. 

Gastritis is generally complicated with inflammation of the small intes- 
tines. For treatment of gastritis, see the end of the next chapter. 



CHAPTER LXVIL 
DISEASES OF THE BOWELS. 

(CONSTIPATION, DIARRHEA, CATARRH.) 



CONSTIPATION is a retention and a hardness of the feces ("excrement). 
It may be caused by inactivity of the intestines, by a dimunition in the 
quantity of bile or other secretions, or by such mechanical obstruction 
in women as tumors, displacements of the uterus, etc. As health 
depends very largely upon the regularity of the bowels, it becomes a very 
important subject to understand. 

A normal movement of the bowels should occur daily. Inattention to 
the calls of Nature will be followed sooner or later by bad results. (See 
chapter on Regular Habits.) When the nerves of the intestinal tract notify 
the brain that the intestines are loaded with fecal waste, for which the body 
has no use, it is essential to health that Nature's orders be obeyed immedi- 
ately. When the call is neglected the desire passes away, and the poisonous 
substance, which should have been expelled, is retained. This retention of 
fecal waste greatly impairs the peristaltic movement and the extreine nervous 
sensibility of the tract. The absorbents take up the fluid parts of the waste ; 
this renders the feces hard and troublesome to expel, causing them to injure 
the rectum and anus. The blood is poisoned by the absorption of part of the 
waste. 

There is nothing that renders one so uncomfortable and 

When Stools Arc so di ssat i s fi e( i w ith one's physical condition as ineffectual 

JNatural attempts to evacuate the bowels. Normal evacuations 

occur with but little muscular effort. When digestion is normal the excrement 

forms a soft, light brown, sausage-shaped mass, being slippery from the various 

digestive secretions and covered as with a layer of slime. The end of the 

rectum is anatomically arranged so that healthy excrement passes from the 

body without soiling it. If the digestion is normal the feces will never have a 

disgusting odor, neither will the " wind " that passes from the bowels. 

'me nervous condition of the intestinal tract has a great deal to do with 
Constipation. One of the properties of the bile is the power of exciting the 



DISEASES OF THE BOWELS 453 

muscular, or peristaltic, movement of the bowels through its effect upon 
the nerves. In this way it aids the onward movement of the food and waste. 
Bile is Nature's purgative, but if the nerves are not in a condition to be stimu- 
lated by it, the action of the bowel is not excited. It remains sluggish ; hence 
constipation. This will assist the reader in understanding why the clinical 
range of Viavi is so extensive through its action upon the nervous system alone. 

An overloaded condition of the bowels is a cause of 
Evil Effects of much pa i n an & sickness. The distension of the colon 
Constipation becomes a mechanical impediment to the free circulation 
of the blood in other organs, and thus causes congestion of the portal system. 
This results in diseases of the liver, often cancer, serious rectal trouble, and 
possibly abdominal dropsy. In women it causes inflammation of the uterine 
organs, both womb and ovaries, displacements, leucorrhea and menstrual 
anomalies. As already stated, the presence of fecal matter deadens the ner- 
vous sensibility of the bowels so much that powerful stimulants are required 
to excite them to action. Of course their use gives only temporary relief. 
They must be used repeatedly and the dose increased daily to bring about the 
desired results. Derangement of the stomach ensues in time. 

When constipation depends upon an inactive liver for 

The Treatment for itg ex j stence) t b e yiavi tablettes, cerate and laxative are 

Constipation advised. (See chapter on Diseases of the Liver.) When 

it depends upon a displacement of the womb, the Viavi capsules, cerate and 

laxative are to be used to right the displacement and so relieve the mechanical 

obstruction. (Se'e chapter on Displacements of the Womb, with treatment.) 

When the stomach acts badly and in consequence the whole alimentary 
tract becomes sluggish and implicated from the mouth to the anus, the Viavi 
tablettes, cerate and laxative are advised, in order to tone up the whole tract 
(See chapter on Diseases of the Stomach, with treatment.) 

We call particular attention to the use of the Viavi cerate in constipation, 
over the region of the spine, abdomen and stomach. (See Kneading of Bowels 
with Cerate, for constipation.) 

If this chapter is carefully read it can be understood how necessary it is 
to give to the nervous system a sufficient quantity of this nerve food, Viavi, 
by which it is enabled to perform its various functions, the movements of the 
bowel being a very vital one. 

Patients should drink sparingly at meals, but freely of water between 
meals, especially upon arising and before retiring. We advise also deep abdom- 
inal breathing, by which the abdominal muscles and intestines are exerciped 
and their movement strengthened. A good circulation of the blood also !B 
necessary, for establishing which we refer the reader to the various batha 
described in the latter part of this volume. 



454 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The Viavi laxative contains the Viavi principle in conjunction with 
tried remedies. It gradually and mildly restores lost reactive power in this 
muscular tube. The worm-like, or peristaltic, movement of the large intes- 
tine is strengthened ; hence the fecal matter does not become hard and heavy, 
decomposing, producing gas, and bringing about a long train of ills. 

A speedy cure for constipation does not exist and never has existed. 
Great disappointment is in store for such Viavi patients as expect the same 
results from the Viavi treatment as they get from powerful cathartics. Before 
regular, normal movements of the bowels can be obtained the whole tract must 
be rendered active, not temporarily overstimulated. 

The pendent abdominal massage as an adjunct to the Viavi treatment is 
always followed by magnificent results. (See Pendent Abdominal Massage.) 
This massage helps to stimulate the activity of the tract, and this activity 
becomes permanent. It should always be kept in mind that Nature must be 
assisted in every way possible to perform her work. 

Copious and frequent flushings of the bowels prove both injurious and 
weakening. A rectal douche is frequently necessary in stubborn constipation 
when sufferers first come tinder the treatment ; by such douches relief is 
obtained for the time being. A rectal douche should be taken while the 
patient is in a reclining position on the left side, allowing from two to four 
quarts of moderately warm water to pass from a fountain syringe into the rec- 
tum. The body should not be constricted by bands nor corsets, but should be 
given plenty of freedom. The water should be retained from fifteen to thirty 
minutes, and the patient should remain quiet for that length of time, as exer- 
cise while the bowels are so loaded will at once cause the water to be expelled 
without exciting the peristaltic movement, thus failing to produce the result 
most desired. Once a week is sufficiently often to flush the bowels, unless the 
constipation is exceedingly stubborn. 

The diet should be varied, and fruits should be abundantly eaten. 

From the thousands of cases of constipation that have 
Cases Illustrating yielded to the viavi treatment the following may be 

the Cure cited as in us t ra tive of all : A gentleman troubled with 

the stomach and bowels and unnatural evacuations secured health by means 
of the Viavi treatment. 

Mrs. M. had not had a natural action of the bowels for thirty years. 
Indigestion and headaches were a small part of her trouble. Her womb had 
been prolapsed for thirty years, ever since puberty. Dropsy appeared in her 
legs. She secured a perfect cure of all her afflictions after employing the 
Viavi treatment faithfully. 

From infancy a little girl had been afflicted with unnatural action of the 
bowels. At four epileptic attacks occured, sometimes several a day. Treat- 
ment by physicians failed to give benefit. In two months after she had been 






DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 455 

placed under the Viavi treatment the action of the bowels became natural ; her 
fits grew lighter and farther apart, and finally disappeared altogether. 

Habitual constipation in the case of Mrs. W. was complicated with retro- 
version, leucorrhea and suppressed and painful menstruation. She was under 
treatment for six years by able physicians. At last, in despair, she began the 
Viavi treatment. Its effect was magical. The leucorrhea ceased, menstruation 
became natural and painless, and the displacement and constipation were 
cured. After she had used the treatment five months she became pregnant, 
passed through comfortably to labor (which lasted only an hour), and gave 
birth to a baby that weighed ten and a half pounds; it was never ill a day. 



DIARRHEA. 

Diarrhea is exactly the opposite of constipation. Constipation is caused 
by lost functional activity of the intestinal tract, and diarrhea by an over- 
stimulation of functional activity. Diarrhea is characterized by frequent 
liquid evacuations, which may be accompanied with severe pain or none at all. 
The character and quantity also of the stool vary greatly. The disease may 
be either acute or chronic. It is the bane of infancy and childhood, claiming 
countless thousands of helpless little victims annually. 

For diarrhea the Viavi liquid is advised. It should be taken in the 
stomach in the doses named on the bottle, three times a day, about twenty 
minutes before each meal. If the patient does not have the Viavi liquid on 
hand a uterine capsule may be swallowed at night just before retiring; the 
results will be the same, to allay and overcome the existing intestinal irritation. 

The Viavi cerate should be used over the region of the spine and 
abdomen daily. Such articles of food as have a tendency to loosen the 
bowels should be abstained from, and food should be taken in small quantities 
and frequently. Rest is absolutely necessary. 

A vapor bath will prove exceedingly helpful by making active the 
function of the skin ; it should be taken twice a week. (See Vapor Bath.) 

The use of opium in any form (including laudanum) to lock up the 
bowels while under the Viavi treatment is strictly prohibited. 

A hot and a cold compress upon the abdomen, each once a week, will 
assist in strengthening the entire intestinal tract. (See Hot Compress and 
Cold Compress.) 

Diarrhea is the overshadowing evil of army life, and 
Cases Illustrating has a ou btless claimed far more victims than the bullet. 

It is particularly the scourge of European and American 

armies in tropical countries. In such cases it comes from unwise eating, the 
debilitating effect of the climate, and impure water. The armies of the 
United States, England, France and Spain have been severe sufferers from this 



456 VIAVI HYGIENE 

source. Even in wars waged by the American and European armies in 
latitudes to which they were accustomed, the mortality from diarrhea and its 
sequel, dysentery has been enormous. The disease is one of the most 
refractory with which ordinary methods have to deal. Here is a case in point: 
Mr. I/, had suffered for thirty years from chronic diarrhea, with stomach 
trouble and extreme nervousness, having contracted the disease while serving 
in the American Civil War of 1860-65. His height is five feet ten inches. 
When he entered the army he weighed one hundred and eighty-six pounds ; 
upon leaving it, afflicted with chronic diarrhea, his weight was one hundred 
and nine pounds. He consulted the ablest physicians, who declared that his 
case was incuraMe. He went under advice to California for its climatic bene- 
fits, but he failed to secure them. There were but few things that he could 
eat ; was extremely nervous and suffered with insomnia ; could not bear the 
pressure of his clothing on his stomach and abdomen, by reason of the great 
soreness there. Everything else having failed to benefit him, and his life 
being unendurable with so much suffering, he tried the Viavi treatment as a 
last resort. After using it eight months he was entirely cured. His weight 
rose to one hundred and forty-five pounds; he could eat anything without 
feeling the slightest distress ; slept perfectly ; lost his nervousness, and regained 
his activity and his ability to enjoy life. His gratitude may be imagined. 

Mr. S., seventy-nine years of age, had suffered for years with chronic 
diarrhea. The failing of his eyesight led to his use of the Viavi cerate rubbed 
upon his eyes to arrest encroaching blindness. It did some good. Then he 
adopted the Viavi treatment for his diarrhea, and with the cure of that disease 
under the treatment, his eyesight returned in full integrity. 

Mrs. C. had catarrh of the stomach and bowels, with continual running 
of the bowels, developing vomiting, which continued for three months. Her 
mouth, chin and throat were a mass of ulcers ; her hands were swollen, cracked 
and bleeding ; she was extremely emaciated, and her physicians announced 
that she could not live. She placed herself under the Viavi treatment, and 
for three weeks continued to grow weaker ; after that her recovery progressed 
rapidly. 

Mrs. M's little son, three years old, had been ailing and feeble from 
infancy. There was no control over the bowels ; appetite voracious ; nervous, 
puny; unable to sleep ; sores on his face from indigestion ; stomach badly 
injured by strong medicines. The mother was informed by a physician that 
she could not rear the child and that it would better have died at birth. She 
had about given up hope, when she heard of the Viavi treatment and decided 
to try it. She rubbed the Viavi cerate over his spine, abdomen and liver, and 
in a short time ho began to improve. All the distressing symptoms gradually 
disappeared, until he became a stout, happy boy, eating anything and sleep- 
ing soundly. Mrs. M. regards the Viavi treatment as the best for her children. 
A mother can understand what such a victory means. 



DISEASES OF THE STOMACH 457 

It will be observed that the cases here selected to illustrate the remark- 
able curative powers of the Viavi treatment were all very serious. It is not to 
be inferred that a slight attack of diarrhea is not serious ; if neglected it will 
very likely become chronic. The treatment produces quick results in acute 
attacks, whether slight or severe. Diarrhea is a most weakening and discour- 
aging disease, and by both exhausting the system and preventing its proper 
nutrition it opens the way for any other disease. This is particularly notice- 
able in malarial regions. 



CATARRH OP THE BOWELS. 

The symptoms of intestinal catarrh vary according to the part of the 
intestinal tract involved and the intensity and degree of the inflammation. 
When the inflammation is confined to the lining membrane of the upper part 
of the tract, diarrhea is but seldom present ; but when the lower part is 
involved the stools are slimy and often bloody, and they are usually preceded 
by sharp, cutting pains in the abdomen. After stool the pain subsides. 

When acute intestinal catarrh develops into chronic form, the patient 
thinks and speaks of nothing but his sufferings, which are told over and over 
to anyone that will listen. Such patients become emaciated, and the abdomen 
sinks inward. The bowels will be alternately constipated and loose. The 
hard stools are covered with a phlegm-like substance, while the soft stools are 
slimy and jelly-like. Quantities of a substance may pass that resembles the 
lining of the bowels. Great quantities of gas pass from the bowels, giving relief. 

The forms of Viavi to be used for gastritis and intestinal 
for the catarrh are the viavi ii qu id and cerate. The liquid is to 

be taken internally three times a day in a little water, in 

from five to ten drop doses, about twenty minutes before each meal. Children 
are to be given one-half this quantity. When acute diarrhea is present, five 
drops may be taken every three hours until relieved, and then taken at longer 
intervals. For children under five years of age, ten drops of the Viavi liquid 
should be placed in half a glass of water and a teaspoonful given every hour. 
The cerate is to be used daily in a very thorough way over the region of 
both belly and stomach. Before massaging with the cerate, read Rules for 
Abdominal Massage. The cerate is to be used also over the region of the spine 
daily in a very thorough way. (See Cerate on Spine.) 

The Viavi tablettes may be used instead of the Viavi liquid for gastritis 
and intestinal catarrh, especially when the liver is implicated. They are much 
more easily carried on the person, being put up in dry form and in small, neat 
packages ; but where the patient has evidence that the kidneys are involved 
and the affection is located permanently in one place, we much prefer the use 
of the Viavi liquid, 



458 VIAVI HYGIENE 

The hot or the cold compress over the region of the stomach and belly, 
as indicated in each individual case, should be used twice a week. 

We cite the case of Mrs. C., who was cured of catarrh 
Case Illustrating of the stomach and bowels in 1893 by means of the 

Viavi treatment. This patient had been given up to die 

by several eminent physicians. Almost a continual discharge of a slimy 
substance escaped from the bowels. The patient was bedridden, vomiting 
almost constantly, and her emaciation and weakness were extreme. This 
condition had continued for a long time. The patient grew seemingly much 
worse after coming under the treatment, and became very weak and exhausted, 
but in a few weeks another change occurred and the progress from that time 
on was rapid. The most careful nursing and regular use of the treatment in 
this case were necessary to save the patient's life. She continues well. 
Many more cases of cure under the Viavi treatment might be cited. 





CHAPTER LXVIII. 



DISEASES OF THE LIVER. 



liver is the largest gland iii the fc&sly It is situated in the right side. 
The substance of the liver is composed of small lobules about one-twenty- 
fifth of an inch in diameter. The organ is covered externally by the 
peritoneum. The peritoneum forms the better part of the suspensory 
ligaments that hold the liver in place. The liver has five lobes, the right being 
the largest. It has also five vessels, namely, the hepatic artery and vein, the 
portal vein, the hepatic duct and the lymphathics. The gall bladder, a 
membranous sack or reservoir for the bile, is placed in its lower surface. 

The liver differs from other glands of the bo^y in that 

<k ifc receives two kinds of blood. It is nourished from its 

arterial supply. The arrangement of the blood vessels 

within the liver is very peculiar and differs largely from the arrangement of 
the blood vessels in any other part of the body. Bile is produced in the liver 
from the blood distributed in its substance by the portal vein and the hepatic 
artery, and not from the blood of either of these vessels exclusively. The 
blood from the capillaries in the mucous membrane of the alimentary tract 
and the spleen is not returned directly to the heart by the veins, but it is 
collected in the portal vein and carried to the liver, where it is then distributed 
in a second set of capillaries. In this manner the liver acts as a sieve, by 
which certain constituents (including bile) are separated from the blood. 
After this occurs the blood is collected in the hepatic vein and carried by the 
vena cava directly to the heart. After the bile has been separated from the 
blood in the capillaries of the liver it is conveyed into the gall bladder, 
whence it gradually passes into the cystic duct, where the function of the 
digestive tract demands its use. 

; > If the gall is held within the gall bladder indefinitely, it forms into hard 
lumps, known as gall stones, the passing of which through the small duct 
causes the most intense agony to which human beings are subjected by impaired 
function. Sometimes they lodge at the entrance and prevent the passage of 
the bile, causing cancer of the liver. 



4&> VIAVI 

When the liver and its appendages are in a healthy con- 

The Purposes of ^j t j on t h e bile is passed into the intestinal canal drop by 

drop after each meal, just below the point where the 

stomach empties its contents into the same part of the digestive tract. The 
chemical action of the bile carries the partially digested food downward with 
it. If it is not secreted by the liver in proper quantities, constipation results. 
In health it is estimated that there are about twenty-one ounces of bile secreted 
daily. If the liver becomes inactive it does not separate the bile from the 
blood. This causes the blood to become discolored, and it in turn discol< re the 
skin, which may become mottled, or yellow like a pumpkin. This condition 
thus created is called, according to its degree, biliousness, jaundice or yellow 
fever. 

In the intervals of digestion the bile is stored up in the gall bladder in 
considerable quantities. It continually escapes into the intestinal tract, but is 
much more abundantly poured out during intestinal digestion. 

The nerve supply of the liver from the cerebro spinal and sympathetic 
systems is very abundant ; hence Viavi, acting beneficially upon the nervous 
system, acts beneficially also upon the liver. 

The proper secretion of bile depends upon a normal cir- 

Need of a Good Cu i a ti n of the blood within the liver ; and as we employ 

Viavi to purify the blood and establish the circulation, 

its action is felt beneficially upon every organ of the body, the liver included. 
The large veins of the liver, or portal system, communicate freely with 
the hemorrhoidal veins by means of branches, thus closely connecting the 
blood supply of the liver with that of the rectum. For this reason diseases 
of the rectum are often caused by impeded circulation within the liver. (See 
chapter on Diseases of the Rectum.) 

To obtain a beneficial reaction and a healthy circulation 

Viavi Treatment w i thin the ii ver> we advise the use of the Viavi tablettes, 

Advised and also t | aat of - the yiavi cerate, which is to be applied 

over the region of the liver, abdomen and spine daily. (See Cerate on Spine ; 

also see Rules for Abdominal Massage.) 

We advise also the use of the hot and cold compresses over the region of 
the liver, used alternately, twice a week, one of each. (See Wet Towel Com- 
press on Liver, and Hot Compress and Cold Compress.) 

By this treatment the circulation of the liver is promoted. In conjunction 
with this treatment every means should be employed, including baths, proper 
exercise and intelligent habits, to improve the general circulation and strength. 
The liver is undoubtedly one of the most abused organs of the whole 
body. When it becomes inactive from impeded circulation it is commonly 
assailed with drastic purgatives, the indiscriminate use of which not only 



DISEASES OF THE LIVER 461 

impairs the physiological action of the liver, but also establishes stubborn 
chronic constipation. Through the medium of the Viavi treatment the portal 
circulation is established, all the functions of the liver are restored, and thus 
Nature is assisted not only in curing, but also in preventing, all forms of dis- 
eases to which the liver is subject. 

The following cases are illustrative of the cure effected by 
Cases Illustrating raeans of the yiavi treatment in diseases of the liver: 
the Cure For six vears Mrs -g suffered with stomach and liver 

troubles, gall stones being present. Sixteen physicians had treated her. She 
was badly jaundiced and her liver was enlarged. She began the Viavi treat- 
ment, and received no benefit after using it for several months, and would have 
discarded it had not her daughter insisted on her continuing it for a sufficient 
length of time. She grew very ill, and then, after passing a mass from the 
bowels, rapidly grew better. Her appetite returned and her weight increased 
to one hundred and thirty-four pounds. 

Mrs. M. had ulcers on the liver, complicated with ulceration and pro- 
lapsus of the womb; her heart also was implicated; she was extensively 
bloated, and had attacks of fainting. Treatment under the best physicians for 
years sometimes brought her relief, but not a cure. At the time when she 
began the Viavi treatment her physicians had given her three days longer to 
live. She had not been able to lie down for weeks. She used the Viavi cap- 
sules and cerate twice a day for two or three weeks, when a change for the 
better occurred. The ulcers on the liver broke, and discharged through the 
bowels. Cold compresses on the head and spine and hot foot baths relieved 
the severe headaches that now afflicted her. She was entirely cured in six 
months, and remains well. 



CHAPTER LXIX. 



DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 



kidneys are two bean-shaped organs situated in the back part of the 
abdominal cavity, their upper two-thirds lying above the waist line and 
the lower one- third below, one on either side of the spine. The convex 
side of the kidney is directed outward and the concave side inward, 
toward the spine. The kidneys vary in weight from four to six ounces each. 
From the center of the concave side of each kidney (the hilum) a tube, the 
ureter, commences ; and it terminates in the bladder. These tubes vary in 
length from sixteen to eighteen inches, and are for the purpose of carrying the 
urine from the kidneys to the bladder. 

The kidneys are important excretory organs, their function being to 
remove certain waste material from the blood. The excretion of the kidneys, 
the urine, is an amber-colored fluid having a specific gravity varying from 
1.015 to I -025- The composition of the urine and the quantity excreted vary 
greatly. Both are influenced largely by the character of the food and the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere. A healthy person secretes, on an average, fifty 
ounces of urine in twenty-four hours. 

) The kidneys are subject to diseases the same as other organs of the body, 
their functional activity depending largely upon the normal condition of their 
nerve and blood supply. These organs are so often disturbed reflexly from 
diseased conditions in other parts of the body and in other organs that it is 
seldom we meet with an uncomplicated diseased condition affecting them. We 
have obtained very encouraging results from the use of the Viavi remedies in 
treating diseases of the kidneys, but as most of these cases have been compli- 
cated with diseases of the alimentary and uterine tracts, we wish to make no 
positive statements as to the action of the treatment upon the kidneys where 
the trouble is not reflex from diseased conditions elsewhere which come 
directly within our clinical range. It is reasonable to assume that inflamma- 
tion of the kidneys comes within the curative range of the Viavi treatment the 
fr.me as inflammatory processes elsewhere. 



DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS 4&3 

Where symptoms indicate that the kidneys are not per- 
What Treatment performing their function, the Viavi liquid should be 
b Best used in from five to ten drop doses three times a day, in 

a little water, about twenty minutes before each meal, as the liquid acts bene- 
ficially upon the whole urinary tract ; while the Viavi cerate should be used 
daily over the region of the whole back, from the nape of the neck to the end 
of the coccyx, and over the kidneys especially. 

Patients who have had their diseases diagnosed as diabetes, albuminuria, 
etc., are invited to correspond with the Hygienic Department of the nearest 
Viavi office. An analysis of the urine should be sent. If it cannot possibly 
be procured, a sample of urine should be forwarded, so that it may be anal- 
yzed, an advance charge of ten dollars in the United States and of two 
pounds in the United Kingdom being made for the analysis. All of the urine 
passed in twenty-four hours should be saved in one vessel, then stirred well, 
and about sixteen ounces forwarded by express, expenses prepaid. The patient 
should place name and address inside of the package, so that we may know 
from whom it came, as many such packages are received daily. An analysis 
of the urine will greatly assist us in advising as to the treatment to be 
employed. 

Among many cases of cure of kidney troubles that have 

Cases Illustrating come within the experience of Viavi advocates are the 

following. It will be observed that in some of these 

cases the disease seemed to be primary and uncomplicated, and that in others 
it was complicated with other diseases, probably being a reflex condition, 
That fact made no difference with the cure. 

Mr. F. C. R., of London, England, exhausted his forces by overwork; 
his customary energy and vitality vanished, and a feeling of languor pros- 
trated his energies. He took to his bed and succumbed to a high fever, his 
temperature running up to 103 degrees. His trouble was inflammation of the 
kidneys. He would have sent for a doctor had it not been that his wife was 
under the Viavi treatment and was deriving so much greater benefit from it 
than from treatment by specialists during her twenty years of suffering, that 
she applied it to him. In a few hours his temperature fell to 100 degrees and 
the fever abated. Within a week he had entirely recovered and returned to 
his business, "rejoicing," he wrote, "in the conviction that you have saved 
me a big doctor's bill, and, better still, probably some weeks of suffering in 
bed." 

The four-year-old nephew of Mrs. T. had been very delicate from birth ; 
he was thin, always peevish, fretful and very weak. He could not control his 
urine, and always wet the bed. A cold douche every morning upon the spine, 
followed by a vigorous rubbing in of the Viavi cerate over the kidneys and 
down the spine, put a stop, almost immediately, to the bed-wetting. He 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Steadily gained flesh and a healthy color, and from being confined to a milk 
diet (the only thing that would agree with him), he developed an ability to eat 
uything he wished. 

Mrs, F . of Portland. Oregon, U. S. A., had intense pain across the hips 
and in the side, with terrible headaches and fainting spells, and could not go 
out alone for a year. An eminent physician of St. Louis diagnosed her case 
as floating kidney. She was treated by many physicians, but without benefit, 
and she was told that her condition was incurable. After being helpless for 
four years, and growing constantly worse, she adopted the Viavi treatment. 
For the two first weeks she felt very bad> but could eat and sleep. In six 
months she was perfectly well. Two years afterward she reported that there 
had been no return of her trouble. 

A very remarkable cure was that of Mrs. W., of Kansas, U. S. A. She 
had suffered nine years with womb, kidney and bladder troubles, and had 
received the best medical attention, without benefit. She was bloated to twice 
her natural size, and suffered with palpitation of the heart. Under the Viavl 
treatment she secured a recovery in six weeks 

it is unnecessary to report more of these cases. 



CHAPTER LXX. 




DISEASES OF THE RECTUM, 

(PII,ES. \BSCESS, FISTUIA, ETC.) 



rectum is the terminal part of the large intestine, or rather the termi- 
nation of the whole alimentary tract. It averages in length from six to 
eight inches, and is divided into three parts, the upper, middle and 
lower. The rectum is not straight. Beginning at the S-like turn (the 
sigmoid flexure), its upper part is directed obliquely from the left side to the 
center of the body, the middle part curving in the direction of the bones form- 
ing the back wall of the pelvis (the sacrum and coccyx), the lower part pre- 
senting a short curve in the opposite direction. The upper part of the rectum 
is almost completely surrounded by peritoneum, the middle part only about 
its upper front surface, while the lower part receives no peritoneal covering 
whatever. The rectum terminates in two sphincters, the internal and the 
external (sphincter ani, or anus). The sphincters are composed of small bands 
or rings of muscle, which relax and contract as do other sphincter muscles of 
the body. 

The blood vessels of the rectum are abundant, and are 
Blood Supply of remarkable for an absence of valves in the veins. They 
the Rectum are name( j the hemorroidal, of which there are the supe- 
rior fupper or greater), the middle, and the inferior (lower or smaller). All of 
these veins terminate in the network of small veins, the hemorrhoidal plexus, 
that surrounds the lower end of the rectum. 

The large veins of the liver (the portal system) and the general venous 
system communicate freely with the hemorrhoidal veins by means of branches 
that compose this plexus. This explains how a diseased liver, which impedes 
the portal and abdominal circulation, also seriously interferes with the circu- 
lation of the blood in the veins of the rectum. The effect is the same as tying 
a string about the arm above the elbow ; it interferes with the circulation of 
he blood in the finger ends. The damage done the blood vessels of the rectum 
very much greater from impeded Circulation by reason of the absence of 



466 VIA VI HYGIENE 

valves in the hemorrhoidal veins and their enormous capacity, as the tissues 
are soft and elastic in the rectum, permitting of great expansion in the termi- 
nals of the hemorrhoidal veins. 

The rectum, on account of its large and peculiar blood 
**&* supply, is likely, from impeded circulation within any 

part of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, to become the 

seat of painful diseases, the most common of which is known as hemorrhoids, 
or piles. Piles are caused by so simple a process as an abnormal collection of 
venous blood in the rectal veins. 

The chief predisposing causes of piles are the erect position of the body, 
the position of the hemorrhoidal veins as the terminals of the abdominal ves- 
sels, and the absence of valves to sustain the return flow of blood in its upward 
course. Hemorrhoids most frequently appear at the bulb-like terminals of 
these veins. 

Any cause that favors an undue accumulation of blood 
The Many Causes in these parts pre disposes to piles. In men they are 

caused by a stagnation in the liver, the habitual use of 

cathartics, a long-continued sitting or standing position, lifting, excessive use 
of alcoholic stimulants, eating highly seasoned food, horseback riding, cycling 
and constipation. In women they are caused, as a rule, from an enlarged and 
misplaced uterus, mechanical pressure from tumors in the abdomen, pregnancy, 
the wearing of tight corsets and bands about the waist (which impede the 
circulation and crowd the viscera downward), heavy skirts, constipation, the 
haibtual use of cathartics, diarrhea, sitting on heated cushions or cold stones, 
indolent, luxurious habits of living, and an inherited tendency to their 
development. 

Piles are divided usually into the external, or blind, and 
Afferent Kinds of the internal> or bleeding. External piles are again divided 

into venous and cutaneous. The venous piles are caused 

by a distension of the external hemorrhoidal veins terminating about the 
anus. They appear about the anus as soft, bluish, round tumors. By 
pressing the finger upon the external venous pile it will be temporarily 
emptied of the blood and will disappear, only to return as soon as the pressure 
is removed. Such piles will not cause much suffering unless inflamed, when 
they become exquisitely sensitive and often suppurate, terminating in fissures 
and other painful conditions. Such piles rarely bleed. 

In cutaneous piles -the skin about the dilated vessels becomes inflamed 
and exceedingly sensitive. Small tumors are thus formed, which often hang 
down like tags. 



DISEASES OF THE RECTUM 467 

By reason of the more active lives that men lead, theit 
Sufferings of Men su ff er i ugs f rom p ii es are ver y g rea t. Whether sitting or 
from Piles walking in the pursuit of his affairs, a man constantly 

irritates the affection. This serves not only as an aggravation of his condition, 
but also as a source of constant annoyance and pain. He can take none of the 
vigorous pleasures of which men are naturally so fond and which are so valu- 
able to their health, without receiving more pain than pleasure, more injury 
than benefit. Walking, riding, driving, bicycling, traveling all of these 
cause torture and sap the strength where they should bring delight and add to 
the strength. A man finds absolutely no rest from this affliction. Even in 
bed the torture pursues him. The disturbance of his rest and sleep presents a 
strong temptation to indulge in those alcoholic stimulants or nerve-deadening 
drugs that bring temporary relief, but that produce an aggravation of the dis- 
disease and break down the constitution. No man can concentrate his atten- 
tion on his affairs or occupation with a clear mind and the best results if he is 
constantly under this torture. No matter how slight the pain may be, if there 
is any at all it is perpetually demanding his attention and sapping his strength. 
Even though the pain may be only occasional, it is eating into his life while 
strenuously demanding that he give intelligent attention to his condition. If 
he suffers the slightest loss of blood at stool, he is drifting into a condition of 
weakness that will open the door to some disease that will prove fatal. Most 
broken-down lives become so as the result of neglecting these minor afflictions 
that wear out the vital forces by persistent siege, and so open the way for a 
nervous collapse or a fatal disease. 

The Viavi treatment for external piles is, first, to remove 
External Piles the cause> whatever it may be, in each individual case, 

Overcome as ij ver trouble, displacements, luxurious habits of liv- 

ing, etc.; second, to use a Viavi rectal suppository in the rectum once a day, 
just before retiring being the best time. In extreme cases a suppository both 
night and morning is advised. v 

We particularly call attention to the chapter on the L,iver when rectal 
troubles are complicated from that source. The treatment therein given must 
be followed closely in conjunction with that given for treating the rectum. 
When it is not convenient to use the cold compress as advised, a long towel, 
wrung from cold water, should be wrapped about the body at night upon 
retiring ; over it a strip of dry flannel should be placed to keep the body warm 
and dry. This should be kept on until morning. The patient should avoid 
stimulating drinks and the eating of rich or constipating food. A copious 
draught of cold (not iced) water should be drunk the first thing upon arising 
in the morning and the last thing upon retiring at night. 

The Viavi cerate is to be used externally about the anus twice daily, 
morning and evening, and when convenient the anus should be bathed with 



468 VIA VI HYGIENE 

cold water after each stool and again thoroughly anointed with the cerate. 

The bowels must be regulated with the Viavi laxative and the stools 
should not be permitted to become so hard that they will injure the inflamed 
tissues when passing from the rectum. 

A small quantity of the cerate should be placed on the back of the hand 
before retiring at night and the lower part of the back, from the waist down- 
ward, thoroughly rubbed with it. 

A patient so suffering will never be disappointed in the results obtained 
from the Viavi treatment. One of our patients had suffered from external 
piles for six years. When commencing the use of the rectal suppositories the 
patient was bordering on nervous collapse from the intense itching and burn- 
ing experienced. After each stool followed that raw, smarting sensation 
which only those who have suffered can appreciate. This patient was dis- 
missed as cured three years ago, and there has been no return of the trouble. 

. This form of piles is much more serious than the 

Internal Ft external. They are situated within the sphincter, or 

anus. They also, for convenience, are divided into the 

venous, columnar and navoid, but as the treatment is the same it will not be 
necessary to describe each separately. 

The patient's attention is first attracted by losing blood at stool. This 
symptom may be present long before pain is experienced. Later the bleeding 
may occur at any time and amount almost to hemorrhages, which greatly 
debilitate the patient. As the disease progresses pain is experienced at stool ; 
there is a heavy pressure, as from a load in the lower part of the abdomen, and 
the rectum never feels completely emptied. There are then an indescribable 
burning and rawness within the rectum, which render the patient unfit for 
duties of any kind. Such sufferers become irritable and nervous. They suffer 
from backache, headache and numerous other painful symptoms, until the 
whole system in time gives way. The piles become large and protrude, 
dragging with them the bowel, thus causing prolapsus. These pile tumors 
may remain protruding so long that they become strangulated, their great size 
preventing their return within the anus. The pain is extremely severe. 
Urinary disturbances frequently result from the irritation of internal piles. 

As with external piles, so the treatment of internal 
internal ru piles consists first in removing the cause producing them, 

whatever it may be. One or two Viavi rectal suppositories 

are to be used in the rectum daily, according to the severity of the case, while 
the Viavi cerate is to be used externally around the parts and over the lower 
part of the back, from the waist down. By means of the Viavi treatment the 
walls of the hemorrhoidal veins are strengthened. They gradually regain 
their elasticity and contracting powers, thereby establishing a normal circuit 



DISEASES OF THE RECTUM 469 

tion of the blood within the parts ; in this way the abnormally enlarged 
hemoithoidal veins are successfully reduced. 

Piles, although subdivided and given many names, are simply tumors, 
composed of varicose or dilated veins of the lower end of the rectum, 
surrounded by infiltrated or connective tissue. Aside from the serious incon- 
venience and pain experienced with most forms of piles, there is a tendency 
to fistula and cancer in the rectal region. It is important, therefore, that the 
disease should not be allowed to run on unchecked. 

A gentleman living in Southern California had suffered for twenty years 
from an aggravated form of internal, or bleeding, piles. His sufferings had 
been of so long duration and so intense that he had not the most remote idea 
of being cured when he came under the Viavi treatment ; he employed it 
simply as a means of relief. He was dismissed as cured two years ago, and 
has remained well since, this showing that the cure was permanent. 

By prolapsus ani is meant a protrusion through the 
ro apsu t e anug of - ^ Q mucous membrane lining of the bowels; 

by prolapsus recti, a protrusion or descent of the whole 

thickness of the bowel, or rectum, through the anus. The whole bowel may 
protrude to the extent of from four to six inches. This trouble is more fre- 
quently encountered in children than in adults, but in either it shows a condi- 
tion of slight resisting power and great relaxation of muscular fiber. The 
whole organism is implicated when such a condition exists. It is aggravated 
by straining at stool, by constipation or by irritation from worms, and it 
often accompanies piles. 



The Treatment for 



In the Viavi treatment to reduce a prolapsed rectum the 



patient should lie on the side. The tumor, or prolapsed 

Prolapsus rectum, should be well oiled with the dissolved Viavi 

rectal suppository (for this purpose about three of the suppositories may be 
dissolved in a tablespoonful of vaseline), and the rectum gently pressed back 
with a soft towel. If this is not successful the finger may be covered with 
lint, which should then be well anointed with the dissolved suppository, as 
above described, and introduced in the bowel, gently pressing up the tumor. 
The finger is then withdrawn and the lint left behind. The suppositories 
should be used regularly once a day, together with the Viavi cerate over the 
region of the spine, liver and abdomen. (See Cerate on Spine.) 

The Viavi liquid should be taken into the stomach, as a general weaken- 
ing of the whole intestinal tract is indicated, the liquid giving tone, strength 
and elasticity to the whole tract. 

The nervous system is benefited by the use of the cerate over the region 
of the spine and abdomen, and externally about the genitals. 

For children the dose is from three to five drops of the Viavi liquid, 



470 VIAVI HYGIENE 

three times daily in a teaspoonful of water, about twenty minutes before each 
meal ; for adults, ten to fifteen drops at the same time and intervals. 

The Viavi tonic also is advised, to build up the general system. 

To show that such cases, although chronic and of many years' standing, 
are not incurable, we cite the case of a patient who had suffered from prolap- 
sus of the rectum, or bowels, for ten years. A steady progress from the begin- 
ning of the treatment was made until a perfect recovery was obtained. 

Sphincterismus, or spasm of the sphincter, is attended with 
mus considerable pain of a spasmodic nature. It is nearly 

always associated with ulceratiou or fissure of the 

rectum, or an inflammation of surrounding organs. When the paroxysms of 
pain appear the patient should be placed on the side and a hot, damp sponge, 
or cloth firmly held against the anus. This moist heat should be repeated 
until the pain subsides. (See treatment herein for Fissure of the Rectum.) 

\ Pruritus, or painful itching, of the anus is a most troublesome and 
annoying disease. It is due to many causes, as worms, small external piles, 
eczema of the parts, nervousness and excoriating mucous discharges. At night, 
when the patient becomes warm in bed, the itching sometimes is intolerable. 
Pruritus ani is sometimes purely nervous, no inflammation existing. The skin 
about the anus under these circumstances has a dead, white, parchment-like 
look. These cases are the most difficult to treat. Nervous persons who give 
way to scratching often produce an eczema, or excoriate the whole anus and 
its neighborhood. 

The Viavi rectal suppositories in the rectum and the Viavi cerate 
externally are here advised, together with the use of the Viavi laxative, to 
regulate the bowels. The patient should avoid scratching, and at night should 
keep the buttocks separated by a plug of absorbent cotton or wool. 

If at night the moisture about the anus causes itching (pruritus) and 
great uneasiness, the parts may be dried with a soft piece of linen and dusted 
thoroughly with powdered corn starch, which absorbs the moisture and 
alleviates the distress. 

If pruritus, or itching, of the parts is caused by worms, 
Thread Worms a the cause> wor ms, should be removed. To rid the rectum 

of the worms cold salt water should be injected. It must 

be remembered, however, that as worms live chiefly in the cecum, which is 
the first part of the large intestine, only temporary relief is obtained, for they 
soon reappear. The Viavi liquid taken in fifteen drop doses for adults and in 
from three to five drop doses for children, about twenty minutes before each 
meal, will soon rid the tract of these troublesome parasites, while the Viavi 
rectal suppositories -will reduce the inflammation present in the rectum and 
about the anus. 



DISEASES OF THE RECTUM 47 1 

This is a most painful affection, and is confined to the 

Fissure, or anus. It is caused by the passage of large, hard stools, 

which excoriate or crack the mucous membrane at the 

anus. The minute nerve filaments so exposed are constantly irritated. In 
time an ulcer forms, which will not heal spontaneously. Fissures cause severe 
spasmodic pains or contractions of the sphincter. The pains at stool are so 
severe that the patient postpones emptying the bowel as long as possible, with 
detrimental results. The severity of the pain is entirely out of proportion to 
the extent of the region involved, which is rarely larger than the nail of the 
little finger. The ulcer can be seen only by separating the folds about the anus. 
The treatment for this trouble is as follows : The bowels should be kept 
open with the Viavi laxative, and the feces not permitted to become large and 
hard. After stool the parts should be well washed with pure soap and water. 
A rectal suppository should be used every night before retiring, and the exter- 
nal excoriated parts 'should be well laved with the Viavi cerate externally 
several times each day, especially after each stool. 

Rectal abscesses are found around and in the rectum. 
Kectal Abscesses xhey may be acute or chronic, and are, as a rule, accom- 
panied with severe suffering and general debility. They 

frequently follow a serious illness. Those appearing about the anus are known 
as marginal abscesses. Just before they break and discharge the pain becomes 
almost unendurable, and is of a burning, throbbing character. An abscess 
of any kind is always preceded by inflammation, and it, in turn, is followed by 
the formation of pus. As inflammation depends upon impeded circulation for 
its development, if we re-establish the circulation, as we do with the Viavi 
treatment, the difficulty is overcome. This can be accomplished by the use of 
the Viavi rectal suppositories and cerate, together with the Viavi laxative, to 
regulate the bowels, and the Viavi tonic, to build up the general health. . It 
will thus be seen that the Viavi treatment is directed to all the conditions that 
contribute to the disease or impede the cure. 

One of the Viavi patients, who was suffering from a complication of 
pelvic and abdominal disorders, resulting from inflammatory processes, suf- 
fered also from an abscess of the rectum, the size of a lemon. The patient 
had been placed by medical advisers upon the incurable list, but the full Viavi 
treatment brought about a complete recovery. 

A fistula is a tube-like opening going up or down the 
1U ^. side of tlie rectum in the surrounding tissues, with one 

or several openings. If the fistula has an opening in the 

mucous membrane of the rectum, and one also in the skin of the buttocks or 
near the anus, it is called a complete fistula ; if but an opening in the skin, an 
incomplete external fistula ; and if but one opening in the mucous membrane 



472 VIAVI HYGIENE 

of the rectum, an incomplete internal fistula. Fistulas frequently follow rec- 
tal and anal abscesses, and injury to the parts, either internal or external. 
When a fistula follows slight external injury or an anal abscess, excellent 
results may be obtained from the use of the Viavi treatment. Other forms of 
fistulas are very difficult to cure, as the tissues about the rectal tract and the 
whole floor of the pelvis are, as a rule, under such conditions, very inactive 
and friable. 

For fistula the use of the Viavi rectal suppositories and cerate is 
advised. The floor of the pelvis is to be massaged daily, in a thorough man- 
ner, with the cerate (see Perineal Massage), as is also the spine. (See Cerate 
on Spine.) 

The Viavi liquid should be taken internally in the regulation doses. 

The general health and circulation should receive the best attention, and 
the bowels should be regulated with the Viavi laxative. 

The case of Mrs. J. is typical, showing the remarkable 

Case Illustrating resu lts secured under the Viavi treatment for fistula. 

For two years she had suffered such tortures from an 

incomplete external fissure as only those thus afflicted can understand. Hav- 
ing acquired a knowledge of the healing power of the Viavi treatment in other 
directions, and having failed to receive any benefit from the ordinary method 
of treatment for her affliction, she applied to a Viavi headquarters for relief. 
No promises of a cure were held out to her, but the belief was expressed that 
she would receive more benefit from the Viavi treatment than any other, if she 
used it faithfully and persistently. She did so, and at the end of eight months 
was perfectly and permanently cured. It is not difficult to imagine her 
gratitude. 

Ulceration of the rectum, being always accompanied 
Ulceration of the with Discharges of bloody mucus, diarrhea and pain, is 

frequently diagnosed wrongly as dysentery. Ulceration 

of the rectum is not nearly so painful as ulceration of the anus, although a 
much more serious disease. In this form of rectal trouble there is an almost 
constant desire to evacuate the bowels, and the discharge consists of a little 
blood-tinged mucus. Extensive ulceration of the rectum may cause no pain 
whatever, or extreme pain and suffering may follow each evacuation. 
Ulceration of the rectum resulting from impeded venous circulation and 
accompanying piles or rectal tumors, or resulting from displacements, liver 
troubles, etc., can be successfully overcome by means of the Viavi treatment ; 
but where the ulceration is of a syphlitic, tubercular or cancerous origin, we 
do not promise permanent results, though we can do much to alleviate the 
suffering and render the patient comfortable. In many such cases the Viavi 
treatment has been found to be the only one affording any relief whatever. 



DISEASES OF THE RECTUM 473 

In treating ulceratiou the rectum should be kept well cleansed by means 
of small rectal douches, morning and evening, a Viavi rectal suppository being 
placed in the rectum after each douche. The Viavi cerate should be used as 
previously advised for hemorrhoids, or piles, while strict attention should be 
given the diet and general health. 

The Viavi liquid should be taken in the stomach three times a day in 
from ten to fifteen drop doses, about twenty minutes before each meal. 

Ulceration often terminates in stricture of the rectum, 

The Treatment for but such a Deplorable termination will be prevented 

where the Viavi treatment is employed as advised for 

ulceration of the rectum. Even after the formation of stricture the hardened 
tissues will become softened and absorbed and the parts restored to their 
normal condition by following up the use of the Viavi rectal suppositories and 
cerate for a sufficient length of time. We have reference to simple stricture 
resulting from ulceration or some form of chronic inflammation and ulcer- 
ation, which leads to contractions of the fibrous tissues that are arranged 
circularly in the rectum. 

A stricture lessens the calibre of the rectum greatly, thus holding the 
fecal matter above it, sometimes in great quantities. This causes the bowel at 
the part j ust above the stricture to become greatly dilated and often extensively 
ulcerated. When the evacuations force themselves through the narrow space 
of the stricture they are flattened ribbon-shaped or like a pencil. Stools thus 
shaped may be caused, however, by a displacement of the womb, or by 
tumors or an irritable sphincter. In stricture the rectum always feels as if 
loaded with fecal waste. The bowels are, however, not always constipated, but 
constipation and diarrhea alternate. When a looseness of the bowels exists it 
compels the patient to go to stool very frequently, and to pass each time only 
a little flatus and mucus with a few hard lumps of fecal matter. The 
treatment for stricture is the same as that given for ulceration of the rectum. 

Stricture of the rectum requires long treatment. This we wish patients 
to understand when placing themselves under the Viavi treatment for this 
trouble. Stricture never exists unless there bave been both extensive and 
chronic rectal troubles ; hence there is much to do in the way both of tearing 
down and eliminating abnormal conditions, as well as a great amount of repair 
work ; all these require time and patience. 

Rectal cancer seldom develops before the fortieth year, but 
Treating Cancer tne inducing cause, the diseased condition of the rectum 

that is responsible for its advent, has been present for a 

long time before the cancerous condition is developed. The symptoms are 
much the same as those existing in ulceration and stricture of the rectum. In 
the last stages of rectal cancer the patient experiences very marked cachexia 



474 VIAVI HYGIENE 

(depraved nutrition). The discharges are profuse and very offensive. The 
cancer does not confine itself to the rectum, but in time invades surrounding 
tissues and organs. The stricture caused by this malignant disease frequently 
leads to perforation of the surrounding organs, producing fistula, which may 
open into the tissues, the bladder, the vagina or the buttocks, through which 
the fecal matter escapes. 

There is no part of the body that yields to the Viavi treatment more 
quickly than the rectum. At the first indication of a rectal disease, to avoid 
this fatal termination, cancer, the Viavi rectal suppositories and cerate should 
be used promptly and continuously. We do not promise to cure rectal cancer, 
but by reducing inflammation in the surrounding parts and organs the treat- 
ment makes the patient much more comfortable and prolongs life, while if the 
treatment is used upon the first appearance of abnormal condition the develop- 
ment of cancer may be prevented. 

Tumors of the rectum are much the same as tumors situ- 

Treatment ated e i sew i iere> They are given various names, but the 

inducing causes are much the same. Rectal tumors, 

before becoming malignant, yield readily to the use of the Viavi rectal sup- 
positories and cerate. These tumors are the result of impeded circulation in 
the hemorrhoidal veins, and as our remedies establish capillary circulation 
such results as tumors are not only prevented, but cured. 

The treatment for rectal tumors is the same as that given for internal 
hemorrhoids, or piles. 

It is not an unusual occurrence for a patient seemingly 
Freq^nt Results to grow WQrse after com j n g un< j e r the Viavi treatment. 

This is not an unfavorable symptom, but one of the most 

favorable. It shows that the remedy is being absorbed, that the circulation is 
being established, and that a beneficial reaction is taking place. If a whole 
suppository produces too great a reaction and the patient is caused too much 
inconvenience (which of course will be but temporary), then but half a sup- 
pository may be used for a time, allowing a more gradual reaction to occur. 
Even if the parts become exquisitely sensitive, this indicates merely that the 
circulation is being established and the cure progressing. (The suppository 
may be cut in two with a sharp knife.) 

One of our patients who had suffered for many years from painful and 
severe rectal troubles became seemingly much worse after coming under the 
treatment. Several good-sized and painful boils broke out about the anus and 
discharged freely. This showed that the tissues, by the assistance of the 
treatment, purged themselves, so to speak, of quantities of impurities ; 
although painful this was a very neccessary part of the cure. After the boils 
Ceased to form the patient's recovery was rapid and permanent. 



DISEASES OF THE RECTUM 475 

Here, as elsewhere, it is a great deal easier to cut than to 
The Evils of cure. Surgery of the rectum not only fails to assist 
Surgery Nature, but in many cases effectually prevents her from 

helping herself. Diseases of the rectum, like diseases in other parts of the 
body, do not become established quickly, and likewise yield gradually and 
slowly to the best treatment, which we have endeavored to map out 
plainly. The peculiar mechanism and important functions of the rectum 
show that we are not dealing with a simple and smooth mechanical tube, but 
with a very highly specialized organ, pieces of which cannot be dissected out 
nor- cauterized, nor the terminal ends of the abdominal arteries and veins 
destroyed or treated otherwise surgically, without doing the greatest injury. 




CHAPTER LXXT. 



RHEUMATISM. 



RHEUMATISM is a disease that affects the whole body, although its 
painful manifestations are local. As a rule, it shows itself in the joints 
and limbs, but no part is exempt from its localization. Obscure forms 
of rheumatism are difficult to diagnose, becoming confounded with 

gonorrheal inflammation, gout and the after-effects of blood poisoning from 

any cause. 

There are several kinds of rheumatism, the name being derived chiefly 

from the part locally affected. The most common form of this disease, which 

is obscure at best, is known as acute articular rheumatism, or that which 

affects the joints. Its course is very irregular both in intensity and duration. 

One peculiarity of this disease is the sudden and frequent relapses that occur 

during convalescence, without any ascertainable cause. 

Acute articular rheumatism attacks both the seemingly robust and the 

delicately organized, but it most frequently develops in those who perspire 

profusely and who thereby are rendered liable to a sudden chilling of the 

body. 

The chief causes of acute articular rheumatism are 

Some Causes of exposure to dampness and frequent changes of the 

Rheumatism temperature. For this reason we frequently find it 

among those who labor and are, consequently, exposed, but it is by no means 

confined to them. Among the wealthy we find severe cases of rheumatic 

gout, caused by luxurious living and overindulgence in eating and drinking. 

In persons who are predisposed to rheumatism overexertion proves 
frequently the exciting cause ; hence we often see it develop after the limbs or 
joints have been overexerted or overworked. It may develop in the midst of 
apparent health, but as a rule there is a forerunner of nervous disturbance or 
general debility. 

An attack of articular rheumatism may be ushered in by 

Symptoms of Acute a chilly sensation, followed by fever and painful local 
Rheumatism manifestations of the disease in one or more of the 



RHEUMATISM 477 

joints or limbs. They soon commence to swell, and at times redden. The 
disease may remain in the part first attacked, or it may spread from joint to 
joint, invading the spine and often other parts. As a rule, the pain is 
excruciating and is made worse by the slightest motion, but the patient is so 
restless that it drives him to move even though moving excite the most exquisite 
suffering. The attack may pass away in about two weeks, or it may continue 
for a long time. It rarely terminates fatally. The worst feature of this form 
of rheumatism is the susceptibility of the r patient to a recurrence of the 
attacks and a derangement of the valves of the heart ; hence prompt action 
should be taken at the first indication of its development. 

The treatment for acute rheumatism is given at the end of this chapter. 

That form of rheumatism known as rheumatoid arthri- 
Enlargement of tis is a chronic form of the disease, involving the joints 

the Joints of the foody, especially those of the extremities. Its 

chief characteristic is the bony outgrowths, or nodocities, around the ends of 
the bones. There is no fever, but the joints become painful at irregular inter- 
vals. This results in permanent deformity of the joints affected. It is frequently 
observed in the joints of the hands and toes. It rarely invades the larger 
joints. If so later in life, it results from an injury which the joint has sus- 
tained at some time. 

The skin covering the affected joints may assume a moderate degree of 
redness when the trouble first begins, but as a rule the skin retains its normal 
color. As the joints enlarge the skin assumes a glassy appearance. Moving 
the joints may cause a peculiar cracking and grating sound, which can be 
plainly heard as the disease progresses. As the muscles that move the affected 
joints are used but little they shrivel and become smaller, so that the deform- 
ity increases. This is not, in itself, a fatal disease, patients frequently reach- 
ing great age, though suffering from articular deformity and disability for 
many years. When the joints have become deformed and permanently dam- 
aged by this affliction, they can never be restored to their original condition, 
but under judicious Viavi treatment, especially if undertaken at an early 
period, the disease may be arrested in certain cases and the swelling of the 
joints considerably reduced. (For treatment see the end of this chapter.) 

This form of rheumatism attacks the muscles, tendons 
Rheumatism of an( j o ther fibrous tissues, not including the joints ; it is 
the Muscles called muscular rheumatism. The characteristic symp- 

tom is pain in the part of a stitchlike, screwing, burning, tearing, shooting 
nature, commonly known as "rheumatic pain." Any Get of muscles in the 
body is liable to its attack. It is sometimes better, sometimes worse, from rest 
or motion, heat or cold. Patients subject to muscular rheumatism are likely 
to suffer from an attack after exposure to draughts or when perspiring. 



478 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Muscular rheumatism receives its name from its location, 
?kago an the as follows . Cephalalgia rheumatica, when it affects the 

muscles covering the head ; torticollis rheumatica (stiff 

or wry neck), when it affects the muscles of the neck ; pleurodynia rheumatica, 
when it affects the muscles of the chest, interfering with respiration and the 
free use of the arms, having symptoms very similar to those of pleurisy ; 
omodynia rheumatica, when located in the muscles of the shoulders and back, 
causing pain on moving the arms and trunk, it becoming almost impossible to 
stoop or turn by reason of the exquisite pain ; lumbago rheumatica (kink in 
back), when it affects the muscles in the lumbar region. A characteristic 
feature of lumbago is that it comes like a shock, instantaneously ; it may con- 
tinue for many days, the pain unabated. 

Rheumatism invades not only the joints and muscles, but also the 
internal organs. When the heart is affected the disease is known as cardiac 
rheumatism ; when it affects the brain, as cerebral rheumatism ; and the spine, 
as spinal rheumatism. There may be rheumatism of the eye, rheumatism of 
the skin, rheumatic headaches, etc. It is divided also into acute, subacute, 
inflammatory, chronic, secondary, etc., but the treatment is about the same, 
except in severe acute cases, when perfect rest in bed is imperative. 

t The non-success of ordinary methods for treating 

us g rheumatism is familiar to most sufferers from this 

distressing affliction. The principal reliance is salicylic 

acid, a powerful drug that has an exceedingly injurious effect upon the 
stomach. It is largely for this reason that rheumatic patients who have been 
treated under the ordinary methods are generally afflicted with impaired 
digestion, which itself is a promoter of the conditions out of which rheuma- 
tism grows. Hence, while relief for a time is often secured, the malady recurs 
with steadily increasing severity. 

Only a few of the many cases of successful cures under the Viavi 
treatment for rheumatism can find a place here. Among them was that of Mrs. 
M,, who had suffered five years from rheumatism, with severe pains in the 
back, head and fingers. The sciatic nerve and the entire body became 
involved and the heart was affected. Every means known to ordinary 
methods, including electricity, had been employed. After using the Viavi 
treatment for rheumatism seven months she was entirely cured. 

Mrs. C. had muscular rheumatism of the arm so badly that she could 
not dress herself. She quickly and permanently recovered under the Viavi 
treatment. 

The forms of Viavi to be used in all kinds and stages of 

tment for r h e umatism are the Viavi liquid and cerate. The liquid 

Rheumatism - s to be taken iu the stomach j n tlle regulation dose, 



RHEUMATISM 479 

three times a day, about twenty minutes before each meal. As the rheumatic 
condition invades the whole body, the use of the Viavi liquid will prove of 
great assistance in perfecting a cure. The cerate possesses a peculiar affinity 
for swollen and inflamed conditions, and hence acts beneficially even upon the 
large joint of the great toe, which may become enlarged from frost bites, tight 
shoes (bunions), etc. 

Every evening, about an hour before retiring, the whole body should be 
thoroughly rubbed with the Viavi cerate, the parts seemingly unaffected as well 
as those affected, because we now understand the disease to be one that invades 
the whole body, although only certain parts give indication of its presence by 
characteristic painful symptoms. If there is danger of chilling, only one part 
of the body need be exposed at a time, or the patient may be rubbed in bed 
between two old woolen blankets. 

After the massaging, a cold compress over the region of the spine should 
be taken. A towel, folded lengthwise so as not to be wider than four or four 
and a half inches, should be dipped into cold water, wrung, and placed over 
the patient's spine, the patient lying meanwhile in bed upon the face, the body 
being well covered. As soon as this towel becomes warm it should be removed 
and replaced with a cold one, and this should be kept up for about a half hour. 
The only time when the cold spinal compress is not to be used is during the 
feverish stage in acute attacks. As soon as the feverish period has run its 
course the cold spinal compresss may be used with most beneficial results as a 
hygienic adjunct to the Viavi treatment. 

During the inflammatory stage of rheumatism no meat should be eaten, 
but after the acute symptoms have passed a generous diet is advised. The 
bowels should be kept well regulated with the Viavi laxative. 



CHAPTER LXXII. 



WOUNDS, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 



'HE employment of the Viavi cerate for wounds, burns, sprains, bruises 
and other injuries has been much more than satisfactory. The cerate 
has been put to some of the severest tests in such cases, and under the 
most unfavorable circumstances, but the results have always been most 
excellent. Its efficacy as a dressing for injuries has been studied by the staff 
of physicians in the extensive Viavi laboratories at San Francisco, California 
where its curative virtue has for years been thoroughly tested clinically. 
These experiments were made at first under the most rigid antiseptic precau- 
tions, but as no inflammatory process whatever occurred, the wounds always 
healing by first intention, less and less rigid antiseptic precautions were 
observed, until the cleansing of the wounds with cold water, in which a few 
drops of carbolic acid had been placed were all the precaution taken before 
binding up the injured member in the cerate. 

Fully realizing, from extensive experience, the superior- 
Tne Rapidity c ity of tto dry treatment over the moist for the dressing 
Repair o f woum j Sj these physicians exercised the greatest 

precautions in the first experiments made. They discovered a radical departure 
from established experience with the old-fashioned moist treatment with 
salves, ointments, etc., for in using the Viavi cerate they found that the 
moisture of the cerate was not retained; for the reason that the cerate was 
rapidly absorbed by the injured tissues and nerves as a building material; this 
made it necessary in extensive injuries to renew the application of the cerate 
two and even three times daily. Rapid rebuilding and union of the tissues 
has been found to follow its use. There is no sign of inflammation. The 
injured part does not become oversensitive ; in fact, it has been found that no 
degree of abnormal sensitiveness develops if plenty of the cerate is given the 
tissues. The rapidity of the repair work is not equalled under any other 
treatment. 

Our object in experimenting without using antiseptic precautions was 



WOUNDS, STRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 481 

to see the results that followed the use of the cerate where antiseptic precau- 
tions could not be taken, and where such precautions were not understood. 
The cerate itself renders the parts antiseptic; hence the universal uniform 
results. 

XT HT '* t There is no necessity for hurried amputations of seriously 
No Necessity for . . 

A iniured parts, as neither inflammation nor blood poisou- 

Amptttations '._ , . . - 

ing will occur if the injured part is abundantly supplied 

or covered with the cerate. The healing process commences at once. Many 
a finger, arm, foot and leg has been saved by its prompt and intelligent use. 
If, after two or three days' use of the cerate in extensive injuries, amputation 
is found necessary, no time has been lost by the application of the cerate, as 
the injured parts will be found to heal much better and more quickly from its 
having been used. Its action under such conditions is to place the tissues in an 
antiseptic condition, the healing process then being both rapid and satis- 
factory. 

True surgery lies in saving members, not in amputating them. The 
highest surgical art is that of preserving mutilated members and restoring 
their usefulness, rather than of lopping them off. 

In deep and extensive flesh wounds, where bits of wood, 

The Treatment for cloth> gravel) earth> etc>j have been imbedded deep in the 
Deep wounds tissues, rendering it impossible to cleanse the parts thor- 
oughly under ordinary home treatment, and suppuration occurs (which is 
Nature's process to purge the tissues of these foreign substances), then a 
cleansing of the parts twice a day should be done with cold water, in which a 
few drops of peroxide of hydrogen have been placed. The cleansing of such a 
wound can be best done by attaching a rectal tube to a fountain syringe and 
permitting the water to play gently upon the wound, the syringe being hung 
rather low. If hung high the force of the water will be too great. Afterward 
the parts should be gently dried with absorbent cotton or pieces of old clean 
cloth that absorb the moisture easily. 

Where amputation of the member is necessary, it should be skillfully 
and quickly done by a competent surgeon, and the Viavi cerate abundantly 
used in the dressing of the wound. When the cerate is employed there need 
be no fear of opening the dressing at any time, as exposure to the air brings 
no detrimental results ; but if the wound be exposed it should be dressed 
again with the cerate. 

Where the wound is deep some of the cerate may be melted by placing 
it in a small cup and holding the vessel in hot water until the cerate becomes of 
the consistency of cream. After stirring well it should be poured over and around 
the wound. The gauze or cloths that tou:h the wound and surrounding parts 
should be thickly covered with the cerate, and the wound then bandaged prop- 



4^2 VIA VI HYGIENK 

erly. The cerate stains the parts a greenish hue, but the wound remains sweet 
and odorless, with no tenderness, no enlargement nor swelling of the injured 
tissues from inflammation. If surgeons who are unfamiliar with Viavi cerate 
would watch the healing of a skin or flesh wound under the Viavi treatment, 
some wonderful revelations in healing 'would appear to them ; they will find 
not the first indication of change in the tissues, such as has been deemed nec- 
essary heretofore for tissue rei 

The following will show what the Viavi treatment will 

e. aneous Cases ^ o even w h en first used many days after the injury and 
where complications have arisen : 

Mr. B. injured his left hand severely in a sawmill. For nine weeks he 
was under medical treatment, but the hand grew steadily worse, until his 
sufferings became intense. At the end of nine weeks the condition of the 
hand was such that amputation was deemed necessary. The hand, wrist and 
arm were swollen to twice their natural size, lumps had formed under the 
arms, and dark purple spots had appeared upon the hand It had been lanced 
in two places, and from these an extremely offensive discharge escaped. So 
much strong carbolic acid had been used that the white tendons in the palm 
of the hand were exposed. This hand was dressed with the Viavi cerate, the 
patient thereby obtaining the first night's sleep in many weeks. The hand 
was dressed twice a day for the first week, and then once a day for the next 
three weeks. In four weeks the patient had resumed his occupation, the hand 
being only a little tender and not even scarred. 

A boy in the press-room of the Viavi Home Office had his hand crushed 
in a large printing press, the member resembling a crushed tomato more than 
anything else. His sufferings were, of course, intense. The hand was bound 
up immediately, without cleansing, in a large quantity of the Viavi cerate. 
In two hours the pain had subsided and a rapid recovery followed. The boy 
did not even lose a nail. 

A young girl had the end of her thumb cut off in a box-making machine 
at the Viavi Home Office. It was at once bound up in the cerate and dressed 
once a day. The thumb healed rapidly, not even becoming sensitive in the 
slightest degree. 

The more promptly the cerate is applied the quicker and better the 
results. The flesh becomes discolored a greenish hue from the use of the 
cerate, but the wound remains sweet, with no foul odor. It is marvelous to see 
the amount of the cerate that injured tissues will absorb, and hence it should 
not be used sparingly. 

SPRAINS. 

Just as marked beneficial results follow the use of the cerate for sprains 
as for wounds and burns. When the wrist is sprained it is not only the mus- 



WOUNDS, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 483 

cles in the immediate vicinity of the wrist that are injured, but the whole 
length of the nerves leading up the arm and into the spinal column. It can 
now be understood why the treatment must not be confined to the- wrist, but 
must include the whole arm, the shoulder, and the upper part of the spine. 
The extreme pain is felt in the wrist, but the greatest injury that has been 
wrought is to the nerves, especially at their roots, where they enter the spinal 
column ; and it is at this point that the treatment should be most thorough. 

The patient should slip the clothing from the shoulders 
Viavi Treatment down about the waist and haye moist heat applied to the 

>r Sprains arm> s h ou i der and U p per p ar t o f the back. This may be 

done by wringing a piece of heavy flannel from hot water and placing it over 
and around the parts. A dry blanket should be placed over the moist flannel 
to keep in the heat. When the wet flannel becomes partially cool it should be 
renewed with another hot flannel, and this should be repeated every few min- 
utes for about a half hour. A thorough application of the cerate over the 
hand, wrist, arm, shoulder and spine should follow. This treatment should be 
given once a day at least, but twice would be much better. The use of the 
cerate should not be stinted, but, as in other injuries, given freely to the 
injured nerves. We do not mean by this that it is to be applied lavishly, but 
as much as is absorbed. 

For a sprained foot, ankle or knee the same treatment 

e ec is to be followed, carrying the hot, moist compress 

over the foot, leg and thigh, and over the spine from 

the waist down. The compress here should be followed by a thorough 
massaging with the cerate over the regions where the moist heat has been 
applied. Here again the ankle or knee will give evidence of great pain, 
but the center of the injured nerves in the spinal column is where the 
greatest injury has been done. The rubbing of the cerate should be most 
thorough, not in a slipshod, careless manner, nor one that will give the patient 
pain, but the pressure should be gentle and firm, and of such a nature that the 
patient will beg to have it continued, because of the great relief that it brings. 
Mr. B. slipped and fell on the curbing, receiving a severe sprain, which 
his physicians informed him was worse than a fracture. He was told that he 
would be a long time recovering. He suffered greatly for three weeks, receiv- 
ing no relief from the treatment employed. Three applications of the Viavi 
cerate banished much of the pain. His improvement was rapid, but his sup- 
ply of cerate became exhausted, and for three days he was without. This 
caused the swelling and pain to return. Upon securing and applying more of 
the cerate he progressed rapidly to complete recovery. This gentleman adds: 
" I know of two cases similar to mine where recovery was delayed, in one 
instance a year, and in another two years." All are familiar with the serious 



4 84 VIA VI HYGIENE 

nature of a severe ankle sprain, the helplessness that it imposes, and the great 
length of time usually required to cure it. Under the Viavi treatment it loses 
its terrors. 

Mrs. C. had gone on crutches for three months with a sprained ankle, 
the result of a fall from a bicycle. The use of the Viavi cerate cured her in 
one mouth, all other treatment having failed. 

Mr. C., of Canada, sprained his ankle, and after using ordinary remedies 
a week, sprained the ankle again. The injury was so severe and tke inflam- 
mation and pain so great that he called a physician, but made no improve- 
ment. He then applied the Viavi cerate, "with little faith," he wrote; "but 
to my astonishment, in twenty-four hours the soreness had left me and the 
swelling gone down enough to permit me to put on a slipper, and in forty- 
eight hours I went back to my work, all soreness gone. I have since tried it 
on several friends, and last week on my son for a sprained ankle, with entire 
satisfaction." 



OTHER INJURIES. 

Some of the most remarkably good results from the use of the Viavi 
treatment have been in cases of injury to the spine. Miss G. had been 
rendered an invalid by an injury to her spine caused by a fall from a bicycle. 
From this she suffered for years, "being quite unfit," she writes, " for both the 
duties and pleasures of life." She used the Viavi capsules and cerate for two 
months, and was then able to take a position. After using them nine months 
she was entirely cured and in the enjoyment of perfect health. Her grateful 
letter giving this information was written a year and three months after her 
complete recovery. 

Running a nail into the foot is a painful and dangerous 
A Nail Through acc jdent. The husband of a Viavi patient was so 

unfortunate as to meet with such an accident. The nail 

passed entirely through the foot, protruding through the top. In a few hours 
the man was almost crazed with pain. The foot grew gradually worse and 
more painful under a skillful physician's care, until morphine was employed 
to relieve the pain. In a short time the sole of the foot was lanced, and the 
physician said that the top also would have to be treated similarly. The pain 
now became so great that lockjaw was feared. The wife wished to suggest the 
use of Viavi at the time of the injury, but its nature was so severe that she 
feared to take the responsibility of suggesting it. Finally, at this time, the 
husband happened to think of it himself, and called for "that medicine of 
yours." From this time on all other treatment was suspended, and the foot, 
after being thoroughly bathed with a little warm water and vinegar, was 
treated three times a day with the Viavi cerate. In three days the pain and 



WOUNDS, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 485 

had disappeared to such an extent that the patient was able to go about 
the house. In six days he walked a mile, and a rapid recovery followed. 

In the same family one of the sous had his forefinger nearly disjointed 
by a piece of glass falling from a burning building. Although the wound was 
extensive and severe, no inflammation followed, as the wound was dressed 
promptly with the Viavi cerate. The tissue repair began at once. 

Another injury of a different nature, and one that would 

Paralysis from a have undoubtedly crippled the patient for life had it not 

^ a been for the Viavi cerate, was that of Mr. B., who fell 

heavily from his wagon, striking the top of his shoulder on a board. The arm 

was perfectly useless, in fact paralyzed, the patient suffering the most extreme 

pain, while a large lump formed on the top of the shoulder. The Viavi 

treatment enabled him in forty-eight hours to raise his hand to his mouth, and 

in five days he had resumed his work, which was both heavy and laborious. 

Other illustrative cases could be given which would show the efficacy of 
the treatment in rebuilding both muscle and nerve tissue, without regard to 
the nature of the accident that caused the injury, but space will not permit. 

Innumerable instances of good and quick results from 
Uses in Scalds the use of the yiavi treatment in cases of scalds and 
and Burns burns might be cited, but the following is typical : A 

domestic in the service of Mrs. K. burned herself severely by pouring gasoline 
into a vessel sitting on a hot stove, the injury to the right arm, neck, cheek 
and mouth being great. Mrs. K. at once applied the Viavi cerate, covering 
the burned parts well, to exclude the air. The young woman suffered not the 
slightest pain afterward, "and in less than two weeks went out to a party." 
Mrs. K's letter adds that the Viavi cerate is constantly used by her for burns, 
sprains and soreness of the lungs in her family. She cured a sprained wrist 
in two days by rubbing in the cerate after cleansing the skin with hot water 
and vinegar. Her son came home very ill with fever and pain in the lungs; 
she relieved him by rubbing the cerate into his chest and between the 
shoulders. 

A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY. 
(INCLUDING NEEDS OF CHILDREN.) 

To the intelligent reader of this volume it must be evident that the 
Viavi treatment is a household necessity. In every home there should be a 
box in which should be kept, ready for use, a box each of the Viavi capsules, 
rectal suppositories, cerate and laxative ; also a bottle each of the Viavi liquid 
and tonic. Other drugs should not be placed in this box, which should be 
kept closed and iu a cool place. 



486 VIAVI HYGIENE 

If a woman becomes nervous from being overtaxed, a thorough mas- 
saging with the cerate, together with the use of a capsule at night, will restore 
her to a normal condition, and so save, perhaps, an attack of illness and a 
doctor's bill, by building up her exhausted strength before disease makes its 
appearance. 

Again, if a cold has been contracted it can be broken up easily, and not 
only a severe illness averted, but perhaps a life saved. The prompt applica- 
tion of the Viavi cerate has saved many a child from an attack of pneumonia or 
other fatal disease resulting from cold. (See chapter on Catarrhal Conditions.) 

. . wf rj Most excellent results follow the use of the cerate when 

rvu S n thoroughly applied over the bodies of growing children 

and developing girls. Non-development is prevented, as 

it gives to the starving and tender growing bodies of children the nutriment, 
or building material, necessary for their full development. (See chapter on 
Non-development.) Intelligent mothers who have used Viavi and understand 
its action as a nerve food and tissue builder have discovered for themselves and 
fully realize its wonderful virtue in feeding the tissues, muscles and nerves in 
growing children. As an experiment we ask that mothers who have never 
employed the treatment in this manner massage the spinal column of the over- 
taxed school child and note the results. It will come home from school much 
brighter, its eyes and head will not ache, and it will soon be able to master the 
home study with which its tired and weary little brain is commonly overtaxed. 
If the mother is not physically able to do this massaging of the child, she 
should employ some one to do it for her ; she will find this to be the best 
investment that she ever made. It repays itself a thousand times over in the 
rapidly developing bodies ol the girls and boys of the household. Children given 
in this way a strong, healthy spinal column are provided with a backbone suf- 
ficiently strong to enable them to meet successfully the difficulties and 
obstacles that they must all encounter in life. 

. The following will show what the Viavi cerate did for 

Instructive Case Qne linle sufferer: Mr> and Mrs . L . adopted an infant 

whose mother had died shortly after its birth. The 

mother had been a great sufferer from rheumatic fever, which severely affected 
one of her legs. The corresponding leg of the infant was similarly affected, it 
being drawn up toward the body. Touching the leg while bathing the infant, 
or by mistake, would cause the child to scream and to writhe with pain. The 
physician who had attended the mother failed to relieve the child. It was 
suggested to Mrs. L. that as she was a Viavi patient and had plenty of the cer- 
ate on hand, she apply, it over the child's body and leg. The result that fol- 
lowed the use of the treatment was that when a three months' box of the 
cerate had been exhausted the child could kick the affected leg as well as 



WOUNDS, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 487 

the other, and did not object in the least to its being thoroughly rubbed. 

In infantile paralysis the results have been little short of 
In Paralysis of miraculous when compared with those obtained from 
e other forms of treatment for this trouble. One of many 

interesting cases of this kind where most happy results were obtained in 
so-called incurable paralysis was that of a little six-year-old child who had 
completely lost the use of her lower limbs, when an infant, from a severe 
attack of scarlet fever. As the parents were wealthy, the best medical skill 
had been employed, but all to no avail. As the mother was a Viavi patient it 
was suggested that she use the cerate over the child's legs and spine daily. 
The child's limbs were perfectly useless when the treatment was commenced, 
but when a three months' treatment of the cerate Ijad been exhausted the 
child was able to walk across the room. 

Other cases have been given in this volume of a similar nature, showing 
the efficacy of the treatment in diseases peculiar to infancy and childhood. 
We call the reader's attention to the chapter on the Forms of Viavi, which 
explains why and how these magnificent curative results are obtained. 

Curing weakness in childhood assures a healthy and happy life. 

Again we see the efficacy of the Viavi cerate in strength- 
ening the urinary organs of children where there is an 
Bladder incontinence of urine (wetting the bed). To permit 

such a weakness to continue for any length of time is harmful in many ways 
to the child, its humiliation alone many times causing it to suffer untold 
agonies, aside from its physical discomfort and the severe censure to which it 
is often unjustly submitted. (See chapter on Diseases of the Kidneys.) 

When a child first gives evidence of a croupous attack, 
Attacks of Croup ^^^ uneasiness and expense may be saved the parents 

Overcome and often the ch iia's Hf e preserved by the free use of the 

Viavi cerate over the chest and throat. Parents should not wait until the last 
moment to apply it. When the child first gives the peculiar cough that is 
characteristic of croup a hot-water bag should be placed at the back in the region 
of the shoulders, and while the child is well covered, so as to prevent chilling, 
the cerate should be applied, under cover, in a very thorough manner over the 
chest and throat. 

The writer of this chapter has a little son who is very much troubled 
with croup. Sometimes the little fellow will wake in the middle of the night 
scarcely able to breathe, and will come to the writer's room and wake him up 
to get the cerate rubbed on his chest and throat. A few minutes' application 
of the cerate relieves the little sufferer at once, and in a short time he will be 
fast asleep. 



488 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Numerous cases might be cited where the cerate is kept 

W "* k ou hand for this special purpose, but lack of space 

forbids. Within close proximity to the home of Viavi, 

in San Francisco, a child was severely burned about the face, neck and hands 
by a gasoline explosion. From the extent of the burn it was supposed that 
the child would be badly disfigured, but the mottle-faced little street urchin 
came out without a scar and with a skin white and smooth. 

A similar case was reported from London recently, but the burn was 
much more extensive. Nothing was used but the Viavi cerate and that 
promptly, and the results were the same as in the foregoing case. (See 
chapter on Wounds, etc.) 

When a child snufflles and "its head is stopped up," the Viavi liquid 
and cerate are advised ; they will at once give the little sufferer relief. If it 
is the throat that is sore, a thorough application of the cerate should be made. 

For diarrhea in children the Viavi liquid should be used 

For Bowels and p rom ptly in from three to five drop doses three times a 

day about twenty minutes before each meal. -The cerate 

should be used also over the abdomen and spine. The liquid taken internally 
will cure stomach difficulties. Often an irritation of the rectum is caused by 
an attack of diarrhea. If it does not receive prompt attention of the right 
kind the rectum and anus both become much inflamed and very painful. If 
the Viavi rectal suppositories are at once used the irritation is relieved 
promptly; hence the wisdom of having on hand a complete treatment, that it 
may be promptly used not only as a curative measure, but as a preventive 
as well. 

The cerate should always be on hand to use for cuts, bruises, sprains and 
wounds. We call particular attention to the chapter on Wounds, as many 
illustrative cases are therein given, showing what the prompt or even tardy 
use of the Viavi cerate accomplishes in these directions. Even though it may 
not be imperative to keep a full Viavi treatment on hand, there is no home 
that can afford to be without the cerate. Its prompt use will relieve more 
suffering than any other remedial agency known at this time. 

There is no household without its favorite laxative, and there is no 
better remedy of this kind to have on hand than the Viavi laxative. It does 
not act as a painful and severe cathartic, but moves the bowels in a gentle and 
refreshing manner. 

Often for some unaccountable reason, but generally for 

Viavi Koyal tor a reason that intelligent observation will discover, 

Children children lose their spirits and droop with languor. This 

is so unnatural to childhood that it should receive prompt attention. The use 

of Viavi Royal in such cases has produced striking and most satisfactory 



WOUNDS, SPRAINS, BURNS, ETC. 489 

results. From many cases that might be cited the following is selected, being 
a letter written by a leading business man in a large city ; it refers to his little 
daughter, eleven or twelve years old. She had been always a very sprightly 
child, and probably the condition described by her father arose from rapid 
growth : 

" I have been trying for three days to get over and thank you in person 
for your kindness in putting us in a way to help Ruth dispel the spirit of 
lassitude that had taken possession of her during the past few months. I am 
frank to admit that I was a little skeptical at first as to the results of using 
Viavi Royal, but hasten to assure you that never in my life have I been so 
agreeably surprised at the action of any medicine or tonic. Its effects were 
almost magical ; she had not taken the tonic more than five or six times when 
her face assumed a brighter expression, her voice became more firm and 
decisive, and her action so much more spirited that she seemed like another 
child. 

" It certainly seems to me that you owe to the young girlhood of the 
world a duty, and that it is the bringing of Viavi Royal to the notice of 
parents of growing girls. I should like very much to have another bottle 
of it." 



CHAPTER LXXIII. 




THE FORMS OF VI AVI. 



character, uses and action of the various forms of Viavi have been 
indicated in foregoing chapters, but it is deemed advisable to put the 
subject here in a compact and comprehensive form, for a clearer under- 
derstanding and easier reference. 



THE VIAVI CAPSULE. 

The Viavi uterine remedy is in the form of a capsule, which is placed in 
the vagina. Its specific action is felt upon the generative tract, but its action 
is by no means confined to this one part of the body, as the entire system 
feels largely its curative action. The capsule is to be placed in the vagina as 
high as can be conveniently reached with the finger, and is not to be forced 
into the mouth of the womb. Always, just before placing the capsule, and to 
insure the best results, a warm vaginal douche in a reclining position should 
be taken, so that the mucous surfaces with which the contents come in contact 
will be cleansed of all impure secretions or accumulations, and the capsule 
thus be absorbed more easily. 

As the vagina is a thin, muscular tube, resembling an 

A W ^S 3115 intestine, and possessing wonderful absorptive powers, 

Are Reached ^ cura tj ve action is not by any means confined to the 

vaginal walls, but extends through them to the bladder. We doubt if there is 

a Viavi patient but who has at some time noticed a greasy substance floating 

on the top of the urine while she is using the capsule. This gives positive 

evidence that the capsule is absorbed by the surrounding tissues and carried 

directly into the system and eliminated through the bladder. 

The cervix, or neck of the womb, is covered with the contents of the 
dissolved capsule ; hence its curative action, through absorption, is carried to 
the entire womb. 

The tubes and ovaries are only from three to four inches from the cap- 
sule within the vagina ; hence as it becomes absorbed these organs receive 



THE FORMS OP viAVi 491 

their share of the capsule, which is carried by absorption to all parts of the 
pelvic region, first to the generative and urinary tracts, and from there on to 
various parts of the body, by being taken up by the blood. 

Those who are not familiar with the principle of absorption can with 
difficulty understand how the action of the capsule can be felt upon organs 
and parts with which it is not brought directly in contact, but it should be 
remembered that we live largely by absorption. The food that we eat is chem- 
ically prepared by the digestive organs, and then absorbed through the walls 
of the intestines and taken into the blood, by which it is carried to all the tis- 
sues of the body. It is here again absorbed. Thus throughout the entire 
body there is a ceaseless round of absorption, by which nutriment is absorbed 
from without and waste removed from within. These functions are known as 
endosmosis and exosmosis. (See chapter on Absorption.) 

The behavior of the capsule within the organism is to 

Effects Upon the promote healthy functional activity; in doing this it 

System reaches far beyond the tissues of the parts in and near 

which it is placed. The Viavi capsule may be taken into the stomach with 

perfect safety ; for years magnificent results have followed its use in that way. 

The forms of Viavi that are not to be taken into the stomach are the rec- 
tal suppositories and the cerate. 

Women suffering from no apparent uterine disorder frequently express 
wonder when advised to use the Viavi capsule. It is through the Viavi treat- 
ment we avail ourselves of every absorptive power of the body that can be 
made use of, by which this wonderful food may be conveyed through the blood 
to the various parts. When the capsule is placed in the vagina and these parts 
do not need this nourishing food, its curative action is then not brought to 
bear upon the generative tract, as its need there does not exist, but it is carried 
on still farther by the blood to the parts that are in need of its curative action. 
In such cases its use in the vagina is the most convenient and satisfactory way 
in which its good effects upon the entire body may be secured. 

The capsules are used for all diseases of the generative 
rlow me v^apscuc organs of women. By reason of the very high absorp- 
tive properties of the vaginal tissues the capsules are as 

readily absorbed and made use of by the entire body as though they were 
taken in the stomach. It is for this reason that in cases of great emaciation, 
even where there was no apparent uterine disease, we have advised that the 
capsule be used in the vagina instead of in the stomach. The absorptive 
powers of the vaginal tissues are greatly heightened by thorough cleansing with 
a proper douche before the capsule is inserted. It may be found necessary in 
some cases to dip the capsule in hot water before inserting it. If it is placed 
as high as possible (without any effort to insert it in the mouth of the womb) 



49 VIAVI HYGIENE 

it will be placed properly. The heat of the body gradually melts it, and it is 
absorbed during the iiight, especially if the vagina has been thoroughly 
cleansed and the circulation is good. In some cases the vaginal secretions 
may be so tenacious from disease as to be removed with difficulty, and the 
congestion may be so great and the circulation so poor that absorption for a 
time is imperfect. The Hygienic Department of the nearest Viavi office will 
be glad to give whatever advice may be needful in such cases. Usually a 
douche sufficiently hot, with a sufficient quantity of water, will cleanse the 
tract and place it in a condition to absorb the capsule. 

It is well to remember that many forms of disease originate from 
the same cause, and that it is the cause which is removed by means of the 
Viavi treatment. This gives the treatment a wide range of cure without 
making it a cure-all. 

THE VIAVI CERATE. 

The first thing necessary in the application of the Viavi cerate is the 
preparation of the skin. The skin possesses wonderful absorptive powers. 
This fact is largely employed in the Viavi treatment by external application 
of the Viavi cerate. It was a recognition of this powerful law that made so 
great achievements possible with the Viavi cerate. 

To cleanse the pores of the skin and thus enable its absorbents to take 
up the cerate, the surface of the body is washed or sponged off with two-thirds 
warm water and one-third acetic acid or good vinegar. This cleanses the skin 
of all oily substance and waste products, which are likely, in any form of lost 
functional power, to clog the pores, thus preventing the cerate from absorbing 
readily in the absence of this cleansing. When the cerate is first applied 
under such abnormal conditions of the skin, but little is absorbed, and no 
more impression seems to be made upon it than if the cerate were rubbed upon 
wood. Patience and perseverance in its application will enable the absorbents 
to drink it in so greedily that in time it will disappear nearly as fast as though 
it were rubbed through a fine sieve. 

If the skin becomes irritated by the use of vinegar and 

A Substitute for wa t er , another preparative treatment is to make a fine 

Vinegar SQa p f oam j n a basin by shaving a piece of good soap, 

adding a little warm water, and whipping until a fine foam is produced. Lay 

this foam on and rub it into the skin thoroughly. Then wipe off dry, and apply 

the cerate gently for at least thirty minutes. Do not yield to the strong 

temptation to save trouble by omitting these directions. Long use and 

experience have fully demonstrated their necessity and value. 

When the skin takes in quantities of the cerate it is never being wasted, 
and if a three months' treatment becomes exhausted before that time expires, 



THE FORMS OF VIA VI 493 

we know that the system requires and digests more than the average quantity. 
If a three months' treatment of cerate extends over the time required for its 
consumption or absorption, the absorptive powers of the skin are sluggish, 
and every effort should be made to establish the circulation by means of 
baths (see Baths), exercise, etc. 

The cerate is taken up so extensively by external absorp- 
What Absorption t j on tbat un( j er a ii circumstances, when any form of 
Accomplishes viavi treatment is employed, it constitutes half of the 
treatment. The skin is one of the most important structures of the body. 
It takes up oxygen from the air and exhales impurities as do the lungs. 
Taking advantage of this extensive external function of absorption, we apply 
the cerate externally over all parts or any part of the body. It is never to be 
used internally. Its composition and preparation require gentle friction for 
its ready absorption. In this particular it differs largely from all other forms 
of the remedy. It is taken into the tissues by absorption ; the absorbent ves- 
sels in turn give it to the blood ; the blood in turn carries it to all parts of the 
body, thus giving a nourishing food to the nerves and tissues of every part and 
organ. 

The cerate applied to the diseased tissues and organs, or 
The Distribution of to the nerye centers controlling those organs, must pass 
the Cerate through the diseased parts before it reaches the blood. 

Thus the parts receive a direct benefit, as well as a systemic benefit through 
the blood. That is why, in ovarian troubles, the cerate should be applied over 
the spine as well as the region of the ovaries. In the spine the nerve centers 
are reached, while the application over the ovaries reaches the tissues directly. 
As nerve centers are situated all along the spine for the control of the internal 
organs, it is of the greatest importance that the spine be rubbed in all cases of 
uterine, stomach and chest troubles. Through the medium of the blood, the 
cerate is carried to the central nervous system, which in turn becomes suffi- 
ciently nourished and strengthened by it completely to control the circulation. 
It is in this manner that all inflamed conditions of the system, independently of 
their situation, are successfully reached. 

Although the Viavi cerate, as all other forms of Viavi, 
Specific Action of specifically attacks inflammation and causes an absorp- 
tne Cerate t j on O f j ts p ro( j uc t s> it should not be looked upon as a 

"pain-killer." It is used expressly to cure. Long after pain, soreness, ten- 
derness and inflammation have disappeared, it is still acting curatively ; it is 
still being taken up by millions of little pores in the skin and carried by the 
blood to all parts of the body. It is all parts that must be given this food, ancl 
not one part alone. The effects are both local and systemic. 



494 VIAVI HYGIENE 

Where it is most needed, there it will be taken up in the greatest quan- 
ties for the time being. In this respect it is much like rain falling upon the 
earth. The parts that are dry and parched will readily absorb the water, 
which, if it falls upon earth already moistened, stays upon the surface and is 
absorbed more slowly, as it can be taken care of. The cerate must be given to 
the whole system, but it must be applied particularly over diseased parts of the 
body, as the external absorbents are closely connected with the organs in 
their immediate vicinity. It is always to be used over the region of the spine 
to feed and beneficially affect the entire nervous system. 

The more external absorbents employed while unae. 

Folly of Neglect the t reatment> t b e quicker and more uniform the cure. 

in Using Jf the use of the cerate ig neglected> only half of the 

treatment is being used ; consequently the same results cannot be expected 
that could be obtained if the full treatment was used. The cures under the 
Viavi treatment would not be so numerous if sufferers were given the privilege 
of selecting and employing the forms of Viavi that they individually may 
deem necessary, of discontinuing the use of the cerate over certain parts 
of the body as soon as beneficial changes were noticeable or there was a 
diminution or cessation of pain and disagreeable symptoms in that locality. 
Such neglect is followed by a return of pain, which appears in a more dis- 
tressing degree than before, by reason of the temporary relief that had been 
obtained. This shows that the patient has been greatly benefited, but that the 
cerate was discontinued before the cure had been perfected ; hence the 
reappearance of disagreeable symptoms. The cure had been but begun, and 
a partial readjusting had taken place, just sufficient to allow the parts to 
functionate without friction or pain while the cerate was still accessible. An 
intelligent continuation of the cerate at this time would have meant a cure ; 
its discontinuation has brought disappointment and a failure to secure 
permanent results. 

What we wish to impress upon the minds of Viavi patients is that when 
relief is being obtained, instead of discontinuing a part of the treatment or 
slighting it, the full treatment should be continued until the cure is perfected. 
Large quantities of the cerate applied at a time and at irregular intervals will 
not be followed by the best results. It will be from the thorough application 
of small quantities at regular intervals, its thorough absorption, and the 
consumption of a sufficient length of time in applying it, that successful and 
permanent results will be obtained. 

The Viavi treatment is furnished with but one object in 

Purpose c view> and that is to cure Every patient is given the 

benefit of our vast and successful clinical experience, 

extending over a period of many years, and obtained by close &tudy and 



THE FORMS OF VIAW 495 

observation of the action of Viavi in its several forms for the various diseased 
conditions that come within its clinical range. Thousands and tens of 
thousands are annually brought before our notice for curative consideration. 
Accurate records are kept of diseases, of the forms of remedy employed, of 
the hygienic treatment used in conjunction with them, and of the results 
obtained. Every Viavi patient is entitled to advice without charge, and it will 
be furnished promptly upon the receipt of a health statement made out on the 
blank form accompanying the packages of the remedy. Every patient can 
now understand how much to his or her interest it will be to receive and 
follow advice closely. 

Viavi has become a household remedy, the cerate especially having 
become a household necessity. By observing the whole clinical range of the 
Viavi treatment it will be noticed that the use of the cerate is never omitted. 
Time alone settles the question of the curative value of any remedial agency. 
The yearly increase of the extensive sale of Viavi has proved beyond a doubt 
its usefulness and universal adoption. 

The cerate is to be applied externally only. Its use is 
Application of the based on the law of absorption, and the skin is prepared 

by washing the parts to be rubbed with one part vinegar 

and two parts water. This preparation cleanses the skin and promotes a more 
ready absorption of the Viavi cerate. 

Absorption is universal in the body. Nothing enters into or passes away 
from the body except by and through the processes of absorption. The 
absorption of any substance is determined by the circulation. If the circula- 
tion is good the absorption is good, and if the circulation is poor the absorp- 
tion is poor. We introduce simple and inexpensive hygienic aids by which the 
circulation may be improved and the remedy more thoroughly absorbed. 

It is not the amount of the cerate taken out of the box and laid upon 
the body that accomplishes the results ; it is the amount that passes through 
the skin and is absorbed by the body. Hence, it should be applied intelli- 
gently, using the fleshy part of the tips of the fingers or the palm of the hand. 
The movements are of two general kinds, one a circular movement upon the 
body and the other a drawing up and down movement. The object of the cir- 
cular movement is that the cerate may more readily enter the tissues, and at 
the same time the movement should be towards the heart. On the extremities 
the stroke should be from the ends of the fingers and toes toward the body. 
On the spine the stroke should be up and down, and the circular movement 
also may be used upon the back for about one to two inches on either side of 
the backbone. "* Over the abdomen the cerate is applied with the finger ends, 
with a small upward circular movement never downward. To relax the 
abdominal muscles and so favor absorption the patient should lie upon 
the back with the legs bent t^T7ard the body. The cerate should be rubbed 



496 VIAVI HYGIENE 

amtil it is entirely absorbed, and if there remains a little on the body it may be 
wiped off by using an old towel, which should be kept for this particular 
purpose. It is always better to have the cerate applied by some one other 
than the patient if this is possible, but it is not absolutely necessary that this 
should be so, and when it is thus applied the person making the application 
should be acceptable to the patient, one who has the power to soothe by rubbing. 
When it is necessary that the patient apply the cerate upon the spine herself 
she will find it more easy to rub the cerate on the spine with the back of the 
hand than with the fingers or the palm of the hand. The length of time nec- 
essary to apply the cerate is not less than twenty to thirty minutes, and it 
should be done always with regularity and within two hours of a meal. This 
is especially true when rubbing the abdomen or stomach. The plate giving an 
outline of the body shows not only the position and relation of the organs, 
but also the imaginary divisions made upon the abdomen by which one may 
readily see in what divisions the several organs are placed. For instance, when 
referring to the plate it will be seen that the liver lies partially in the right 
hypochondriac region and partially in the epigastric divisions marked a and 
b., etc. 

We wish we could make patients who have suffered for a long time realize 
what results have been obtained by those who have patiently and persistently 
used the Viavi treatment, persons that have been given up by the very best skill, 
persons in whom hope have died and who had been entirely restored to health 
and strength. It has not been done without effort on the part of the patient and 
on the part of her family and friends. It requires work to get well. It requires 
effort to battle with disease, and we desire to impress those who use the Viavi 
treatment with the fact that it must be used earnestly, conscientiously and 
with a determination to conquer. 



VARYING QUANTITIES OF REMEDY. 

By the use of the Viavi treatment an adjusting process is established, 
and it proceeds until a cure is perfected and all parts of the system are working 
in harmony. At certain times and under certain conditions the system can 
make use of but little of the remedy at a time without creating a reaction. 
This is sometimes a little uncomfortable, as all distressing symptoms that were 
present before beginning its use seem to be intensified or aggravated. If an 
aggravation of the existing symptoms follow the use of the whole capsule, it 
should, be divided, but half a capsule used at a time, say for a period of two 
weeks, or longer if necessary, and then the whole capsule may again be used. 
The capsule may be cut into halves, thirds or quarters with a sharp knife, or 
the desired part of the contents may be removed and placed in a small capsule ; 
this is procurable at any pharmacist's or chemist's. 



FORMS OF \lAVx 



497 



It should always be remembered that when a reaction 
Significance of a occurs it is to be regarded as an excellent symptom, 
Reaction as it sllows t ^ at a readjusting to bring about the 

normal condition is taking place ; that impurities or waste material that 
have accumulated in the body are being eliminated. Our very extensive 
practice has repeatedly shown that the worse a patient feels after beginning 
the Viavi treatment, the stronger the indication that it was needed in his 
or her case. If the system is loaded with impurities it is impossible 
for a cure of any kind to be accomplished without creating some 
disturbance. Cleaning and repairing the body cannot be accomplished 
like cleaning a house, room by room, for the body does not consist of separate 
compartments, each with a door that may be closed until the chamber is 
renovated. Every part of the body must do its share ; every organ has its 
individual function to perform, and cannot lie idle while the repair work is 
going on. The building and renewing are done by that tireless messenger, the 
blood, which, if not impeded in its course, will go to the most remote parts of 
the body, neglecting none and taking nutriment, in the form of Viavi, to all 
and carrying away the waste. The blood must penetrate every part of the body, 
even the bones receiving their share, and it must be of the right quality, and 
must flow from the parts as freely as to them. And the nervous system must 
be toned and strengthened to assure the proper action of the blood vessels and 
eliminative organs. 

As the body does not consist of separate parts, but is a 
Encouragement in un it e d and harmonious whole, every part must respond 
Symptoms actively for the repair work to be successful ; hence we 

hear from patients that the stomach is disturbed for a time after beginning the 
treatment, or that the body is sore and sensitive to the touch, as if bruised ; 
the heart may palpitate ; the liver may give indication that it is implicated in 
the repairing process ; the kidneys may become active and the urine either 
copious or heavily loaded with waste and variable in color, quantity and 
consistency ; the head may ache for a time, and the nervous system may be 
implicated ; eruptions may appear, showing that impurities are being 
eliminated through the skin ; great quantities of waste may be carried away 
through the bowels. In the case of women the ovaries may become sensitive, 
showing that congestion or inflammation is present and that the circulation of 
the blood is being established in the parts. As the inflammation is reduced, 
uterine displacements may seem aggravated for a time, and as poisonous 
secretions are eliminated through the vagina, intense itching and burning of 
the parts may exist until the secretions become more normal. When uterine 
tumors are present and Nature is making an effort to expel them, labor-like 
pains are experienced, which, although painful, are perfectly harmless, as they 
are indications of effort on the part of Nature. 



4& VIAVI HYGIENE 

__ These efforts of Nature should never be interfered with. 

E?*F ^ uld Drugs should never be administered to deaden the pains 

which, though distressing, give evidence of so much 

good. A patient should be encouraged in every possible way to endure these 
symptoms for a time, as they are only temporary and will pass away as the 
parts are rebuilt and the waste and impurities eliminated. These symptoms 
which arise after beginning the use of the Viavi treatment should never alarm, 
as Viavi is a harmless food that assists Nature, and while we are assisting and 
not usurping natural processes there is nothing whatever to be feared. When 
the process of eliminating impurities and waste from the system has been 
accomplished, the system takes up the remedy and employs it as a food, from 
which strength is steadily gained. 

A large majority of patients when beginning the use of 
esponse Usually the treatment are in such a condition that they respond 
>m P to it readily, none of this heavy repair work taking 

place patients whose bodies were in a starving condition, so to speak, and 
who felt better after using the first capsule and making the first cerate applica- 
tion, in conjunction with the Viavi hygienic aids. These were patients whose 
bodies were not loaded with medicinal impurities, but who were simply on 
the downward grade, and needed such a food as Viavi to impart life and vital- 
ity to the system. Some patients are obliged to use the remedies sometimes 
for months before their bodies can be placed in a condition where they will 
begin to respond and rebuild, while in others for months no change whatever 
is noticeable, this showing that the conditions of no two patients are identical 
when commencing the use of the treatment ; but the results are always the 
same when we have the hearty co-operation of the patient. 
i 

When the repair work is heavy, strength is required for its 
/hjxttnceptions T > performance. Accordingly, we sometimes hear patients 

say that they are feeling somewhat better, but very tired 

and weak. Patients who do not understand the changes that are occurring 
and their importance to the future physical welfare, sometimes take it for 
granted that Viavi is too strong or too weakening. Perseverance in the use of 
the treatment at this time is strenuously insisted upon, but if a reaction greater 
than the patient is willing to bear is produced, a half instead of a whole capsule 
may be used, or even a quarter of a capsule if necessary, gradually increasing until 
the whole capsule can be used ; that is, as soon as the system can accommodate 
itself to the use of the whole capsule. At the same time such hygienic meas- 
ures should be used as will improve the circulation and increase the elimina- 
tion of impurities. The cerate may be diluted one-quarter, one-third, or one- 
half with pure olive oil, the undiluted cerate being employed as soon as pos- 
sible. The Viavi rectal suppositories, the liquid and the tablettes also may be 



THE FORMS OF VIA VI 499 

used in smaller doses "until the system can utilize the full treatment without 
great effort. 

If certain parts are too sensitive to be touched, that fret 
If the Parts Are snou i<j not interfere with "the use of the cerate, but it 
Sensitive should be applied lightly under such conditions, and the 

parts then exposed to heat or the rays of the sun until the cerate becomes 
thoroughly absorbed. Certain parts of the spine, back or body may become 
so sensitive from obscure causes that the clothing touching the parts causes 
exquisite pain. The cerate is here used, as already mentioned, with the grand- 
est results ; but just as soon as friction can be used in applying the cerate it 
should be, at first lightly, then more vigorously. 

Viavi is a food, as is well understood, by which the tis- 
Double Strength sues are buiu> the nerves are fed> the circulation estab- 

Is Needed Hshed, and the blood purified. But it must be given to 

the system in the right quantities. Just as soon as the system has become 
accustomed to the divided capsule, then the whole should be used. From it 
there will be noticeable beneficial results, perhaps until the cure is completed. 

Again, the patient's progress may come to a standstill. Here is where 
the double-strength capsule should be used, in order that a reaction may con- 
tinue more vigorously, and the cure hastened. It is for this purpose and rea- 
son that the Viavi double-strength capsules are prepared. When a patient 
begins to believe that the last box of remedy does not seem as strong as boxes 
previously used, this is an indication that the system can make use of the 
double-strength capsule, and it is advised. It may be used with perfect safety, 
and it entails no greater expense, because it does not take so long to produce a 
cure. The system changes from the use of the treatment ; the remedy remains 
the same; it never varies, never changes. Check tests are made on every part 
of the product that goes out. No remedy ever leaves the establishment that is 
not up to the standard, and our methods are so positive and scientific that 
not the slightest variation can occur. 

The welfare of Viavi patients is carefully guarded by advising them to 
begin gradually with smaller doses of the remedy and increase it to the whole 
capsule, and then push the cure along with the double-strength capsule if the 
progress of the case comes to a standstill. 

The cerate should always be used in conjunction with 
The Cerate Always the capsu i eS) not one nor the other discontinued if a 
Necessary reaction occurs. The patient must be guided in the 

selection of the remedies necessary in her case by those of long experience, if 
she expects to obtain the best results from the treatment. By using the cap- 
sules and cerate together the cure is more uniform, as well as quicker. The 



500 VIAVI HYGIENE 

proper Viavi hygienic treatment must be followed closely as well, and the body 
kept beautifully and exquisitely clean, rendering absorption of the cerate and 
elimination of impurities possible. The Viavi hygienic treatment is practical 
and beneficial; the Viavi remedies, in conjunction, curative. 



THE VIAVI LIQUID. 

The various forms of Viavi preparations represent several steps of 
development. The capsules used locally for catarrhal conditions of the vagina 
and uterus brought about such magnificent results that a form of treatment for 
catarrh of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat was suggested. Then 
the use of this form for bronchitis and for catarrhal conditions of the stomach 
and bowels followed, with splendid results. The capsules were used for a long 
time for catarrhal conditions of the nose and throat by taking off the cap and 
inserting the capsule, open end first, into the nostril upon retiring. The 
capsule gradually melted during the night, yielding excellent benefits ; but as 
it could not reach the crevices and cavities of the nose and throat, the results 
were not as thorough as desired. 

A liquid form of Viavi was introduced that might be 
used as a spray, and after long and tedious experiment 
the clarified Viavi liquid as it is now furnished was 

perfected. The spray divides the liquid into millions of minute globules, 
each carrying with it a portion of the Viavi element. It reaches every crevice 
of the mucous membrane lining the nose and throat. Inhaling deeply when 
spraying through the mouth carries these minute globules into the lungs, thus 
enabling the Viavi liquid to act upon the inflamed tissue and .membrane of the 
bronchi with all its healing power. In catarrhal conditions of the stomach 
and bowels, and catarrhal conditions of the urinary organs, kidneys and 
bladder, the Viavi liquid, taken in proper doses, will reach these diseased 
conditions as easily as in the nose and throat. 

The action of the Viavi liquid is positive. It is readily 

The Action of the taken up by the tissues and carr i e d into the blood, and 

Liquid when once in the life stream it serves as a food, and is 

conveyed to the nerve centers that control the blood supply in the diseased 

membranes. It must be remembered that a catarrhal condition is due to the 

increased activity of the glands producing mucus, and that this activity is 

due to a congestion of blood surrounding each one of these many glands. 

The action of the nervous system is to lessen the calibre of the swollen 

arteries and bring about a normal supply of blood. The mucous glands in 

turn produce a normal amount of mucus, and hence the remedy, by reaching 



THE FORMS OF VIAVI 



501 



file root of the trouble, lessens the discharge. The direct benefit due to the 
lessening of this discharge maybe imagined when it has been stated generally 
that one part of this mucous discharge, whether from the vagina, stomach, 
bowels, nose, throat or lungs, is equal iu "trength to eight times that amount 
of blood. 



While the excessive drain due to the catarrhal 
How Benefit Is conditions shows decidedly why persons suffering with 
secured them become weakened, on the other hand, the stopping 

of this drain will immediately explain why it is that a patient using the Viavi 
principle becomes stronger and healthier. The diseased tissues gradually 
relieve themselves of impurities that have lodged there. The walls of the glands 
and tissues surrounding them take on a normal firmness. In the stomach and 
bowels the glands that secrete the digestive juices receive their proper blood 
supply; they are no longer robbed, and their juices are not weakened by the 
excessive amounts of mucus heretofore poured into the stomach and 
intestinal tube ; hence digestion is more positive and normal, and the food 
taken into the stomach gives its strength to the body, and does not pass away 
undigested. 

The action of Viavi in these conditions is positive, 
Why the Action Is because j t contains that element provided by Nature 
Positive which is a food to the nervous system and which enables 

that system to regulate the blood supply; and the body, being furnished 
with the ordinary foods naturally, takes from them what it demands for its 
growth and support. It is the same principle that is exhibited daily in the 
eating of the ordinary foods ; we eat bread, meat and vegetables, which in the 
healthy body are absorbed, taken into the blood, purified, and then dist r ibuted 
to the entire body, each part selecting that which is necessary for its u%c. By 
the use of Viavi we simply assist Nature. We supply that food which is 
necessary in these diseased conditions, and thus assist Nature. The patient 
gradually regains her or his normal health and strength. No miracle has 
been performed ; we have simply taken advantage of a law that has existed in 
Nature from the beginning of time. 



How the Liquid 
Is Used 



By means of an atomizer the liquid is sprayed into the 
nose and throat. By the use of the proper tubes (which 
are furnished with the Viavi atomizer) the entire mucous 

membrane (crevices included) is successfully reached. If spraying the throat 

gags the patient, the throat may be gargled in the old-fashioned manner, 

instead of spraying it. 

When the bronchial tubes or lungs are affected the patient should inhale 

slowly while spraying the throat, and thus draw the spray downward and 



502 VIAVI HYGIENE 

bring it in direct contact with the diseased membranes. By using the Viav! 
liquid in this manner it is efficacious in such diseases also as croup, bronchitis 
and pneumonia. 

The liquid is to be used from one to several times a day, according to the 
nature and severity of the disease. (See chapter on Catarrhal Conditions.) 

In diseased conditions of the stomach and bowels the liquid is to be 
taken internally. The dose for adults is from ten to fifteen drops in water three 
times a day about twenty minutes before meals; for children, five drops, and for 
infants, three drops. A minute description of how the Viavi liquid is to be 
used in treating open sores will be found in the chapter on Wounds, etc. For 
its proper use in rectal troubles in conjunction with the Viavi suppositories 
when the disease is high seated, see Viavi Rectal Suppository in this chapter. 



THE VIAVI RECTAL SUPPOSITORY 

The use of the Viavi rectal suppository is limited to the rectum, but its 
clinical range includes all diseases to which this organ is liable. (See chap- 
ter on Diseases of the Rectum.) 

The rectal suppository is to be placed in the rectum at night just before 
retiring, or immediately after stool at any time during the day. It readily dis- 
solves and is absorbed by the tissues of this tract. Its action is to restore a 
healthy reaction by establishing a normal circulation and so reducing existing 
inflammatory conditions and the ultimate results arising therefrom, as are 
found in chronic diseases of the tract. The most marked and beneficial results 
have always followed the use of the Viavi rectal treatment. Both men and 
women afflicted with rectal diseases are invited to place themselves in corre- 
spondence with the Hygienic Department of the nearest Viavi office, 

t This form of Viavi (formerly known as Sano) is a 

low Suppositories sp i e ndid combination of the Viavi principle with other 

elements necessary to the cure of diseases of this part of 

the body. The rectum should be empty when the suppository is placed in it. 
The suppository is inserted about the length of the forefinger, the finger 
having been anointed with vaseline or some similar harmless substance, so 
that it may be easily introduced. There are two sphincters in the rectum, one 
at the anal opening and one about an inch to an inch and a half above. The 
suppository should be placed above the second sphincter. If the patient so 
desires, a black rubber placer may be purchased at the Viavi headquarters of 
the various divisions. By means of the placer the use of the finger is rendered 
unnecessary. 

Where the superior, or upper, part of the rectum is diseased and beyond 
easy curative reach, a rectal douche of a half pint of warm water in which has 
been placed a half teaspoonfnl of Viavi liquid should be used. The douche 



THE FORMS OF VIAVI 503 

is to be taken in a reclining position and while the patient is on the left side, 
and retained if possible. When it is necessary to use the Viavi liquid for 
rectal trouble the suppository is to be used in the morning. When it is con- 
venient for the patient a small rectal douche, to insure a thorough cleansing of 
the rectum, will promote absorption of the suppository. 

By using the Viavi treatment as above prescribed every part of the 
rectum, both high and low, is brought into contact with the remedy, thus 
promoting circulation, overcoming congestion and inflammation, and enabling 
Nature to establish healthy function. 

The Viavi cerate should always be used over the abdomen when rectal 
troubles are present, as it increases the abdominal circulation and assists in 
removing the congestion in the rectal tissue. 



TUB VIAVI TABLETTES. 

The Viavi tablettes are put up in a form convenient for carrying. The 
Viavi principle is combined in them with digestive ferments, and also 
principles that have a direct action upon the liver. The increase of strength 
through the Viavi principle combined with digestive elements, and in addition 
to that the increased activity of the liver, make the tablettes useful as a tonic 
for nervous dyspepsia and in cases where the activity of the liver needs to be 
increased. When these conditions are present constipation will be lessened, 
because one function of the liver is to provide material that assists in the 
movement of the bowels. This combination is preferred in all forms of 
indigestion where the liver is implicated. Its action is that of the Viavi 
principle combined with digestive ferments, and means for increasing the 
activity of the liver. j 

The tablettes are arranged in vials yellow, brown and white. Take 
one from the yellow vial before breakfast, one from the brown vial before the 
heaviest meal of the day (whether noon or evening), and one from the white 
vial before the light meal (supper or luncheon) ; swallow without chewing. 



THE VIAVI LAXATIVE. 

Constipation is found in so large a number of patients who begin to 
nse the Viavi treatment, and has existed so long, that a demand arose for an 
auxiliary of the Viavi treatment, that would combine a laxative with the Viavi 
principle. The common idea of a laxative is anything that will move the 
bowels, with no thought of strengthening and developing the muscular tissues 
of the bowels or increasing the activity of the liver, so that the movement of 
the bowels may be brought about normally. This condition is so prevalent 
that we find patients with whom it is absolutely necessary, and has beeu for 



504 VIAVI HYGIENE 

years, to use daily, as regularly as they do their food, some form of laxative in 
order that the bowels may move at all. . It is unnecessary to say that these 
cases become chronic, and that the bowels depend upon this assistance just as 
much as the entire body depends upon food. The aim of the Viavi laxative 
has been not only to move the bowels, but so to strengthen them and the other 
organs directly concerned in digestion, that the bowels may act normally. 
For this reason the Viavi principle, which gives strength to the muscular tis- 
sues, and which is a food to the nervous system, has been combined with laxa- 
tive principles. Hence, wherever a laxative is necessary, the Viavi form of it 
will be found most efficacious. 

In severe cases it is sometimes necessary to take three or 
The Uses of the more of tlle pills at the beginning, but if used properly 

Laxative an( j j n conjunction with the Viavi remedies for the dis- 

eases that are present in other parts of the body, it will not be long before the 
bowels regain their powers and perform their work naturally. 

The suggestions given in the chapters on the Diseases of the Stomach 
and Bowels, as to diet and exercise, must be followed, and the application of 
the Viavi cerate externally and the kneading of the abdomen and bowels are 
essential to establish a perfect cure. Not all patients realize the immense 
amount of work that has to be done. The age is a rapid one. Results ere 
obtained so quickly by mechanics and by inventions of various kinds that the 
human body is expected to answer to the same laws. While Mother Nature 
will do much, yet it is necessary in regard to diseases to use the remedy suffi- 
ciently long. Various lengths of time are required by different persons, owing 
to different conditions, to obtain a perfect cure. 

The dose as indicated should be increased or decreased in accordance 
with the action desired. Where the peristaltic movement is badly impaired, 
as in chronic constipation, it will require the use, for some time, of two or even 
three laxative pills every night before retiring. If one or two pills are found 
to accomplish the desired results, no more should be used, and the dose 
should always be cut down to one pill as soon as possible. The three pills 
should not be taken at once if the patient gripes, but taken at intervals of a 
few minutes apart, so as to allow one to dissolve before the second one enters 
the stomach. 



THE VIAVI TONIC 

Many cases come under the Viavi treatment with the vitality exhausted 
and the recuperative powers exceedingly low, and seem to demand the intelli- 
gent use of a tonic. Many patients have been in the habit of taking tonics, 
for they believe that nothing can be accomplished unless they do, and often 
they worry because they do not have one, and thus seriously retard their 



THE; FORMS OF VIA vi 505 

improvement. In many cases they do absolutely need a tonic to strengthen 
their waning vitality and to carry them on for a time until the Viavi prnciple 
has demonstrated its power in the body, and there is a normal circulation in 
the various organs, each one performing its functions more normally and with 
greater effect. 



The combined action of Viavi with iron and other tonic 
1 he Action or tne principles is entirely new and very positive, and we have 
*onic seen remarkable results obtained from it. When there is 

a lack of appetite and a feeling of depression, when food does not taste 
natural, or the patient has no appetite whatever, the tonic should be used, and 
used regularly. As it is taken the patient begins gradually to feel the effect in the 
blood. The circulation, which has been sluggish, is gradually increased, the 
sensation of hunger becomes very evident. As the tonic contains the Viavi 
principle, the stomach does not take into it more food than it can digest, 
because the Viavi principle is acting upon the nervous system, bringing about 
a normal blood supply ; the digestive juices are stronger, and every part of 
the digestive system is able to perform its function more normally. This 
improvement, though gradual, is noticeable in the patient's face ; the flesh 
becomes harder and firm, the step lighter and more elastic. This is not the 
effect of a temporary stimulation, but a real and absolute growth, and the success 
is due to the Viavi principle contained in the tonic. It is an easy matter to 
stimulate the body a very difficult thing to assist Nature in securing growth 
and development. But this the Viavi tonic does ; and we do not hesitate to 
recommend it to the most delicate persons, as it will make a marked, but 
gradual, change towards health. 

One tablette is to be taken three times a day on an 
Doses of the empty stomach and oftener if necessary. 
Tonic 



VIAVI ROYAIy. 

Viavi Royal is a combination of the Viavi nerve and tissue food princi- 
ple with highly efficient and quickly acting vegetable tonics. Hence it is both 
a builder and a tonic. The action of the Viavi principle is to feed the nerves 
and tissues, and thus to give strength to the system by which it is enabled 
naturally to overcome disease or weakness and remove impurities from the 
system. By its use the blood is enriched, the circulation made strong and 
regular, the organs enabled to perform their functions properly. It places the 



506 VIA VI HYGIENE 

system in a normal, or natural, condition, which means a condition of health, 
strength and vigor. 

The addition of the tonic principle to the Viavi principle in forming 
Viavi Royal introduces a potent and quickly acting element that enables the 
natural forces of the system to employ the Viavi principle with more immediate 
results. Viavi Royal thus has a complex power, and is wholly distinct from 
all other tonics. Its good effects are almost immediate, and, better still, are 
permanent. 

. It invariably happens in nervous debility, depression, 

^f* exhaustion or prostration, or in depression from disease, or 

in the weakness of convalescence, that a strong desire fora 

stimulant arises. A mere stimulant may afford temporary relief and lend a 
transitory strength, but all this has come from stimulation! of forces within 
the system, and not by the introduction of strength from without. Hence 
there is an unnatural consumption of vital forces, and the last condition is 
worse than the first the stimulant has done more harm than good. The 
stimulant, by giving temporary relief, has deceived the mind, and more arti- 
ficial stimulation is required. This only aggravates the condition for which 
the stimulant is taken, and hastens the disastrous end. 

Viavi Royal gives a positive and permanent addition to the vital forces. 
The feeling of exhilaration and strength that it imparts has a solid foundation; 
the benefits that are felt are real, not artificial. It gives to the natural forces 
of the system what they need to be strong, vigorous and elastic. The good 
that it accomplishes does not pass away. It both invigorates and builds. 

Viavi Royal under ordinary circumstances will greatly 

Great Value as abridge the cure of the diseases^of women, children and 

a Tonic men to ^i^ the various forms of the Viavi treatment 



are applicable. It is highly beneficial also in convalescence from any illness, 
and is a valuable aid as a tonic to women who are using the Viavi treatment 
for the diseases peculiar to their sex. 

For those troubled with depression of the spirits it is the greatest of 
blessings, as it at once gives animation and makes the whole world seem as it 
should bright, beautiful and full of opportunities. It is the best of all agen- 
cies to assist in overcoming terrible habits formed by taking drugs and stimu- 
lants. The system fed by this building, invigorating tonic craves no stimulant 
after it has been used sufficiently long to give the system its full natural tone. 
The desire for any stimulant is a disease ; Viavi Royal will overcome that dis- 
ease. It will satisfy every craving for a stimulant or a sedative, and by build- 
ing up the system will entirely eradicate the craving. It accomplishes this 
solely by building up the natural strength of the system. A natural system 
craves nothing unwholesome or injurious 



THE FORMS OF VIAVI 507 

One great charm of Viavi Royal is that it does not create a need for its 
indefinitely continued use. When the system has been made strong, vigor- 
ous and resistant by it, its use will be discontinued voluntarily, and no inconven- 
ience from its discontinuance will be experienced. That is simply because it 
is not an artificial brace, but a true builder; and the building is permanent. 
Whatever the system gains from the use of Viavi Royal will never be lost. 

Some of the most striking of the good effects of Viavi 
Good Effects upon Royal have been witnesed in children. Many children 

are overcrowded with school work, and thus the vitality 

that is needed for their healthy physical development is diverted. In conse- 
quence they become thin, or acquire a listlessness that is entirely foreign to 
normal childhood. Many of them become afflicted with headaches or insom- 
nia. Again, numerous children not thus cruelly burdened grow with so great 
rapidity that the system is put upon a heavy strain to supply the demands of 
the growing process. Under such conditions the bones are likely to be weak 
and the muscles inadequate. Often the shoulders acquire a permanent stoop 
that remains a disfigurement for life. The mental forces are necessarily drawn 
upon to supply the needs of the rapidly growing body, with the result that 
such a child is likely to be stupid and uninteresting. The use of Viavi'Royal 
in all such cases has been almost miraculous. It should be remembered that 
childhood and youth are the most important stages of life, and that habits and 
conditions established then are the ones that exercise the greatest influence 
upon the after life. To starfa child aright is the highest of duties, and the 
rewards from it are the brightest. Viavi Royal brings improperly developing 
children and youths into a hearty and vigorous condition, producing results 
that are as astonishing as they are gratifying. Childhood responds promptly 
to all influences, good or bad. A child made vigorous, bright, cheerful, 
strong and full of life by Viavi Royal is a blessing. Puny and fretful infants 
are equally benefited by its use. 

Many persons, particularly men, find their powers 
Benefits in Nervous wanin g in mi ddle age, when they should be at the height 
Debility o f tfreir prime. Insomnia, loss or weakening of sexual 

vigor, headaches, nervousness, irritability and numerous other signs of 
nervous decay make their appearance. These are brought on by overwork, 
the use of tobacco, alcoholic stimulants and tea and coffee, overeating, excesses 
and the other ways in which the forces are used up before their time. A 
system in such a condition is an easy victim to disease of any kind, which will 
inevitably shorten life and fill it with suffering. To yield to the great desire 
for stimulants in such cases is to make the evil worse. Viavi Royal produces 
remarkable results in all such cases. Its benefits are felt at once. It find^ the 
weak and impoverished places and builds them up. It gives a feeling of 



5o8 THE FORMS OF VIA VI 

strength and buoyancy that lends to life an entirely different and altogether 
pleasing aspect. It renders hard tasks easy, increases the power to work and 
the ambition to achieve, and makes men and women what they were intended 
to be hearty, vigorous, cheerful, competent and useful to themselves and all 
about them. 

Viavi Royal is in a liquid form and has a bitter taste that 
lts ^ se is not unpleasant. It is readily retained by the most 

sensitive stomach. It contains nothing that imposes the 

slightest strain upon the digestive powers, for, like all the other Viavi 
preparations, it is predigested and is at once taken up by the circulation and 
immediately fed to every organ, part, tissue and nerve of the body. Every 
function at once receives its helpful assistance, the weaker giving the first 
evidences of its benefits. It banishes fatigue, clears the brain, tones up the 
nervous system, creates a natural desire for rest and sleep when they are 
needed, and gives to the entire organism a lasting and genuine sensation of 
renewed vigor, strength and power. 

Viavi Royal is to be taken three times a day, from thirty to sixty minutes 
before meals. The dose for adults is a teaspoouful ; for children and youths, 
one-half teaspoonful ; for infants, three to ten drops. 



CONCLUDING REMARKS. 

The foregoing completes the present list of Viavi preparations. It will 
be observed that besides furnishing a direct remedy for the diseases that come 
within their range, they include a number of auxiliary remedies to assist in 
overcoming stubborn conditions accompanying the principal diseases. By the 
use of these auxiliary remedies the cure of the principal diseases is facilitated, 
and time, expense and trouble thus saved to the patients. It will have been 
noted, further, that in addition to these auxiliary remedies there are numerous 
hygienic aids that, if employed, will serve the same purpose. 

From all this it will be rightly inferred, first, that in presenting a perfect 
and thorough system for the treatment of the diseases coming within the scope 
of Viavi it is obviously the intention and desire of the founders of Viavi to 
effect cures, and, second, that this purpose is given added force by the estab- 
lishment of a Hygienic Department, maintained at all the division head- 
quarters for the sole purpose of advising and assisting Viavi patients in every 
way to obtain a cure. Thus the four unique and distinguishing features of the 
Viavi plan are a remedy that cures diseases of a very serious kind that have 
hitheito baffled the best curative skill, a number of auxiliary remedies to 
shorten the time of cure, a wide range of simple hygienic aids to serve the 
same end, and a Hygienic Department at every division headquarters to suit 
the form of the treatment to individual needs. 



VI A VI HYGIENE 509 

\ 

It will be noted, further, that the fact is strenuously insisted upon that 
disease is the result of unintelligent living, a punishment .for violations of 
Nature's laws. These laws have been plainly indicated. This volume is as 
valuable in showing how disease may be avoided as in indicating the method 
by which it may be overcome. 

It is unnecessary to add that so perfect a plan for the cure of disease 
places the Viavi method far ahead of any other. It is partly by reason of this 
perfect and intelligent system of treatment that so wonderful results are 
secured and that the fame of the treatment has spread to the whole civilized 
world. It marks the most brilliant of all the bright eras in the treatment of 
disease. 

In these facts we have a sufficient explanation of the active support and 
advocacy of the leading thinkers and reformers of the world. 





. . DIAGRAM . . 
Showing Position of Internal Organs and Boundaries of Regions. 



This plate is of inestimable value, as it shows upon what parts of the body the Viavt 
terate should be applied to reach the organs affected. 



DESCRIPTION OF NUMBERS AND FIGURES. 

X. Heart. 

2, 2, 2, 2, 2. LungS. 

3 3 3- tiver. 

4. Stomach. 

5. Gall Bladder. 

6. Spleen. 

7. 7, 7. Ascending Colon. 

8. Cecum. 

9. 9. Transverse Colon. 

10. 10. Descending Colon. 

11. Sigmoid Flexure. 

12. Umbilicus (navel) surrounded by the Small Intestines. 

13. 13. Dotted lines showing position of Kidneys. 

14. 14. Dotted lines showing Ureters, passing from Kidneys to Bladder. 

15. Dotted lines showing Uterus in relation with Bladder. 

16. 16. Dotted lines showing position of Ovaries. 

17. 17. Dotted lines showing Fallopian Tubes. 

18. Bladder. 

19. Hip Joint. 

20. Thighs. 



REGIONS. 

The four straight lines divide the abdominal cavity into nine distinct 
regions, enabling one to see at a glance what organs or parts of organs are 
situated in each of these regions. The regions are marked with letters; 

A. Right hypochondriac. 

B. Epigastric. 

C. Left hypochondriac. 

D. Right lumbar. 

E. Umbilical. 

F. Left lumbar. 

G. Right inguinal, 
H. Hypogastric. 

I. Iftft inguinal. 



CHAPTER 



LXXIV. 



HYGIENIC AIDS. 



>HE purpose of the hygienic aids to the Viavi treatment is to shorten the 
time of cure, and thus save trouble and expense. They accomplish this 
by enabling the system more readily to make the best use of the 
Viavi preparations. All of them are simple, and every household 

furnishes the means for their use. The Viavi treatment throughout is a home 

treatment. It sets no difficult tasks. 

The cases in which the hygienic aids here described are useful are 

mentioned throughout the volume. 



APPLICATION OF THE CERATE. 

The manner of preparing the skin and applying the Viavi cerate is 
given in the chapter on the Forms of Viavi. The cerate may be applied to any 
external part of the body. 

Cerate on Spine. The patient should lie face downward, or sit on a 
stool or chair, with the back exposed. The back should be washed with a 
mixture of warm water and vinegar, then thoroughly dried. The rubbing in 
of the cerate should be done by an assistant, who should spend at least thirty 
minutes to an hour at the work. As much force as can be borne by the patient 
should be put into the effort. The application should extend from the nape of 
the neck to the lower extremity of the spine. The whole surface of the back 
should be rubbed, especially the part immediately over the spine and from two 
to three inches on either side of it.- Both circular and downward strokes 
should be employed in the application of the cerate to the spine, and the 
application should be made daily. The spine is often so sensitive from a 
diseased condition of the nerves within it that at first the cerate must be 
applied lightly in such cases. .The tenderness will soon disappear, and then 
greater force should be used. By reason of the fact tkat the spinal cord is the 
greatest nerve trunk in the body, and that the cerate serves as a food and 
streugthener for the nerves, the use of the cerate on the spine is beneficial in 



HYGIENIC AIDS 513 

all cases, particularly in diseases of the generative organs, the digestive 
system, the nerves, the lungs and other internal diseases. 

Self -Application of Cerate on Spine. If it is not convenient to employ 
an assistant, the cerate may be self-applied by putting it on the back of the 
hand, instead of the inside. The lower part of the back is easily and effect- 
ively reached in this way. 

Rules for Abdominal Massage. The term " massage " is employed in 
Viavi hygiene to mean a careful kind of rubbing, and not the elaborate 
manipulation commonly known as massage. How this rubbing is done is 
shown in the chapter on the Forms of Viavi. In rubbing the r.bdomen a 
circular movement of the hand should be employed, the cerate being on the 
fleshy ends of the fingers, and the rubbing being always gentle. Before the 
rubbing is done the bowels and bladder both should be emptied. If the bowels 
are heavily loaded a rectal douche should be taken while lying on the left side, 
and the water should be permitted to pass away before the rubbing is done. 
The rubbing should not be given until at least two hours after eating. The 
patient lying on the back, the abdomen should be cleansed with water and 
vinegar, and relaxed by elevating the knees. If the abdomen is very sensitive 
the application of a hot compress (see Hot Compress on Abdomen) immedi- 
ately before the rubbing will make it much more comfortable. If the 
abdomen is sensitive after the rubbing, a long towel should be wrung from 
cold water and wrapped two or three times about the body, the patient remain- 
ing quiet in bed for at least two hours afterwards. Under these circumstances 
the abdominal massage is much better taken at night, when the patient may 
remain quiet in bed till next morning. 

But little of the cerate is to be used at a time, and the rubbing should 
be continued until all that is used is thus absorbed. The movement should be 
in small circles in an upward direction, sending the blood toward the heart. 
(See plate outlining the regions of the organs.) After the rubbing, all 
remaining cerate should be carefully wiped off with a soft cloth, otherwise it 
will soil the clothing. The great trouble with most patients is that they do 
not require that the rubbing be continued for a sufficient length of time. 
Those who have been ill a long time should have a rub of thirty minutes at 
night and another of the same length of time in the morning. 

Individual Abdominal Massage. A very comfortable and non-fatiguing 
way of massaging the abdomen with the cerate, where the patient can have no 
assistance, is to retire after sponging the abdomen with vinegar and water ; 
lie upon the back, rolling the night-dress high up under the arms ; elevate the 
knees by drawing the heels towards the buttocks, thus relaxing the abdominal 
muscles, rendering them soft and pliable. The abdomen may be rubbed in 
this position for twenty or thirty minutes easily with but little exertion. 



5U VIAVI HYGIENE 

Pendent Abdominal Massage. Use three chairs having no side pieces 
nor arms. Place two of the chairs together so that the length of the legs shall 
lie upon them. The third chair should be placed about a foot and a half from 
the others, so that the body, face downward, from the waist up shall rest upon 
the chest and arms ; this will leave the abdomen unsupported and pendent. 
In short, lie upon the chairs face downward as a boy lies upon his sled when 
coasting, with one chair removed from the others so as to leave the abdomen 
pendent and without support. An assistant, after covering the palms of both 
hands with the Viavi cerate, should stand over the patient, beginning in the 
right and left inguinal (groin) regions, and rub the abdomen upward toward 
the chest, first with one hand and then with the other, the movements being 
alternate. The same results cannot be obtained where the patient lies upon 
the back. The abdomen, in the pendent position, being unsupported, falls 
downward, producing an inward and outward movement, which is very helpful, 
in conjunction with the remedies, in establishing the circulation of the blood. 
This is of great assistance in overcoming painful menstruation. This massage 
also helps to overcome constipation by establishing the peristaltic movement of 
the bowels. It assists materially also in breaking adhesions, as well as in 
helping to right displacements of the womb and ovaries. This massage is 
also successfully employed in non-development. 

Abdominal Vibrations. A vibratory movement applied to the pendent 
abdomen following the Pendent Abdominal Massage, is a most powerful means of 
stimulating the nervous plexuses, circulation, glandular activity and peris- 
taltic movement of the bowels. The attendant stands over the patient. The 
palm of the hand is applied to the surface, and fine vibratory movements are 
executed in such a manner as to throw the whole abdominal contents into 
vibration. The effects of this treatment are very marked in cases in which the 
abdominal walls are considerably relaxed. Another vibratory movement may 
be obtained by placing the palm of the hand upon the abdomen, then making 
a rapid rotary movement without allowing the hand to slip upon the surface. 
The directions of the movements should alternate, half a dozen in one direc- 
tion and -then an equal number in the opposite direction. 

Kneading of the Abdomen for Constipation. To knead the abdomen a 
quantity of the Viavi cerate should be first rubbed over the abdomen, about as 
much as will thoroughly absorb say as much as can be placed upon the 
thumb nail. After covering the abdomen thoroughly with the cerate, then 
knead with the fist, using a screw-like motion of the knuckles along the follow- 
ing course: Begin at the right groin and gradually work upward toward the 
breast until the short ribs are reached, then follow across the body just above 
the navel to the short ribs on the left side, and then downward to the left 
groin. By so doing the course of the ascending, transverse and descending 
colon is followed. (See cut showing outline of organs.) 



HYGIENIC AIDS 5*5 

Massage of the Perineum. The patient should undress and go to bed. 
While lying upon the left side the Viavi cerate is rubbed with the right hand 
in a thorough manner over the floor of the abdomen, or the soft parts that 
extend from the end of the coccyx behind to the pubic bones in front. 
This includes the muscles in which lie the anus, external organs and the soft 
parts extending between the bones upon which the body rests in sitting. This 
rubbing is almost as beneficial as the massaging of the abdominal walls. 
When the right hand wearies the patient may turn upon the right side and 
massage with the left hand. The duration of this massage should be from fif- 
teen to twenty minutes. 



DOUCHES. 

Under the Viavi treatment douches are advised for various purposes. 
They are to be taken in the vagina, rectum, nose, bladder or ear, according to 
the nature of the disease under treatment. Their principal purpose is to cleanse 
the mucous membrane lining those organs, and to stimulate the circulation 
in the membrane, so that the Viavi preparations may be the more readily 
absorbed. Hence they serve to shorten the time and lessen the cost of the 
treatment. Some of the douches have other purposes, as will be seen. 

Vaginal Douches. There are various kinds of vaginal douches. Before 
describing them and showing their uses we shall lay down some general 
principles concerning them. All vaginal douches are best taken while the 
patient is lying on her back. A fountain syringe should be used, never a bulb 
syringe. A bed-pan will be needed to catch the water if an ordinary fountain 
syringe is used. The bag should be hung at a height above the bed that will 
give a comfortable pressure to the water ; this will vary with individuals. 
Nothing to cause the least discomfort or pain should be permitted. There are 
two things to be accomplished by this douche: one is to cleanse the vagina, 
and the other is to stimulate the circulation within its walls, both of these 
conditions greatly promoting the absorption of the Viavi capsule. Hence the 
temperature of the water should be such as to produce these effects. Women 
are not alike in this regard. Some find that water as hot as can be borne is 
best, and by its use they experience relief. Others find cooler water more 
satisfactory. Still others experience the greatest benefit from the use of cold 
water. Each woman must determine this matter for herself. In excessive 
menstruation cool water is best in all cases. The quantity of water should be 
from two to four quarts. During pregnancy the syringe should not be used 
after the third month, but the parts should be gently flushed with the hands 
instead. 

The Viavi Refluent Vaginal Irrigator has been devised to meet all the 
requirements perfectly. The water flows from the irrigator into the vagina from 



516 VIAVI HYGIENE 

a number of minute openings in its upper end, taking on a rotary motion that 
thoroughly cleanses the whole tract, especially the cul-de-sacs, or pouches, 
anterior and posterior to the neck of the uterus. By thoroughly cleansing 
the parts in this manner a perfect absorption of the Viavi capsule is insured 

Vaginal Carbolic Douche. Add from ten to fifteen drops of carbolic 
acid to each quart of water used, being extremely careful to mix tbe acid thor- 
oughly with the water, as otherwise, being heavier than water, it will sink to 
the bottom of the bag and thus issue so strong as to burn the parts. 

Vaginal Salt Douche. Add a teaspoonful of common salt to each quart 
of water used. 

Viavi Vaginal Douche. Add one teaspoonful of Viavi liquid to each 
pint of water used. 

Viavi Vaginal Douche. First cleanse the vagina with a douche of plain 
water of the desired temperature, emptying the water-bag. Then to a half pint 
of water add a half teaspoonful of Viavi liquid. Use this mixture as a douche 
immediately afterwards. 

Vaginal Vinegar Douche for Hemorrhage. Pure vinegar, at 120 
degrees Fahrenheit, may be used for severe hemorrhages. In case of a profuse 
flow the vinegar should be diluted half with water. 

Vaginal Hot Douche for Hemorrhage. Water heated to 120 degrees 
Fahrenheit acts as an astringent, and is one of the most convenient and valuable 
means of arresting a hemorrhage or profuse flow. A prolonged hot vaginal 
douche in a reclining position is advised. 

Rectal Douche. A rectal douche (injection, enema) should never be 
taken in a sitting position, but the patient should assume a reclining position 
on the left side, so as to allow the water to pass beyond the sigmoid flexure 
into the descending colon, which lies in the left part of the abdomen. The 
rectal douche taken in any other position cannot be followed by good results, 
as it is impossible for water to run up hill ; it can find its way beyond the 
sigmoid flexure only by completely filling the rectum with water, which the 
sphincter muscles are generally unable to retain in any other position than this. 
Moderately warm or cool douches are preferable in the rectum to hot. The 
amount should be from two to four quarts. 

In ulceration of the lower bowel or rectum a douche composed of a half 
teaspoonful of Viavi liquid to a half pint of water should be used, and retained 
long as possible. This is best done after the rectum has been cleansed by 
means of an ordinary douche. 

Rectal Douche (Flushing of the Bowels). Flushing the bowels is often 
necessary, though it is a well-known fact that habitual flushing of the bowels 



HYGIENIC AIDS 517 

causes a semi-paralyzed condition of the large intestine. The patient should 
assume a reclining position on the left side, allowing from a gallon to a gallon 
and a half of moderately warm water to pass from the syringe into the bowels. 
While the bowels are heavily loaded in this manner > the body should not be 
constricted by bands or corsets, nor should much exercise be taken until the 
water has passed off. To be effectual it shoulc. be allowed to remain from 
fifteen to thirty minutes, unless too much uneasiness is experienced, when it 
should be allowed to pass off. Once a week is sufficient for bowel flushing. 
If catarrh of the bowels is present, a teaspoonful of Viavi liquid may be added 
to each quart of water used. 

Nasal Douche. The absorptive power of the mucous membrane can be 
greatly increased by freely snuffing up the nose, prior to spraying with Viavi 
liquid, warm water to which has been added a little vinegar or salt, and then 
blowing the nose before using the spray. 

Bladder Douche (for Women}. A very simple and successful syringe 
or appliance for washing out the bladder is made from a soft rubber catheter 
attached to a piece of rubber tubing, these being joined by a piece of glass 
tubing, and the whole being about two feet in length. A small glass funnel is 
introduced into the free end of the rubber tube. This completes the syringe. 
Great care should always be exercised in washing out the bladder. The cathe- 
ter should be perfectly clean and sufficiently soft and flexible to be incapable 
of injuring the urethra or bladder. The bladder should always be emptied 
slowly, especially as the last of the contents escape, otherwise the bladder will 
abruptly contract upon the catheter and be injured. The bladder should also 
be distended very slowly, or injury with great pain in the organ will follow, 
while the quantity of water used should not be more than the patient can tol- 
erate without pain. An ounce of warm water is sufficient for this purpose, and 
less will suffice if more gives pain. Five drops of the Viavi liquid to an ounce 
of water should be used for the douche. This syringe may be used first to 
empty the bladder by introducing the catheter and lowering the funnel over a 
vessel. While it is still in place, the washing may be accomplished by pour- 
ing the solution of warm water and Viavi liquid into the funnel, raising it 
high enough to make the solution flow into the bladder. The funnel is then 
lowered and held over a vessel ; this permits the fluid to escape. The process 
should be repeated as often as necessary, before withdrawing the catheter from 
the urethra. It is very imperative not to let air into the bladder. This may be 
avoided by not completely emptying the bladder, retaining sufficient of the 
urine to fill the catheter. By filling the funnel before elevating it, the fluid 
used will meet the urine in the catheter and so exclude the air. If the bladder 
is empty in the first place, the catheter should be filled before introducing it 
into the urethra and the air excluded in this way. Four important things in 
taking the bladder douche are : First, that the catheter be surgically clean 



518 VIA VI HYGIENE 

(this can be assured by immersing it in hot water); second, that the bladder be 
emptied very slowly ; third, that the bladder be distended slowly ; and 
fourth, that air be carefully excluded. The catheter should be lubricated with 
a little vaseline, not oil, and be surgically clean to begin with. Once a day is 
sufficient for the bladder douche. 

Ear Douche. A suitable ear syringe is used for this purpose. The 
manipulation of the instrument should be gentle, not forcible. The water 
should always be lukewarm, or at blood heat. The ear douche we advise for 
two purposes removing hardened ear wax, and cleaning the auditory canal 
of purulent discharges. A frequent douching of the ear under any 
circumstances is likely to injure its delicate mechanism. Where the ear wax 
is hard and adheres tightly to the waHo d& the auditory canal, it will require 
several douches to remove it. Ten drops of the Viavi liquid should be used to 
a half pint of warm water for the ear douche, which may be employed once 
or twice daily when the discharges are purulent, profuse and offensive. The 
Viavi cerate should always be used in a thorough manner around the ear. 
The patient should remember that a feeling of fullness may follow the first ear 
douche, owing to the swelling of the hardened wax, which for the time being 
may entirely close the canal. After the wax has been removed, a small piece 
of cotton should be placed in the ear for a time to protect it from cold. 



BATHS. 

There is probably no other familiar subject so imperfectly understood 
as that of bathing, and yet there is hardly any other more easily understood or 
more capable of yielding comfort and benefit. A bath may be employed 
either for securing cleanliness or as a very valuable hygienic measure for 
promoting health or overcoming disease. Cleanliness is essential to health, 
and hence the bath is useful for that purpose; but if in securing cleanli- 
ness injury is inflicted in other directions, the purpose of the bath is defeated. 
Again, the bath may be used to produce nervous states that have an 
important relation to both health and disease ; but unless intelligence is 
employed in the process, more harm than good may be wrought. A most 
important result of intelligent bathing is an increasing of the circulation, 
which is essential to healthy nutrition and the elimination of impurities. 

There are innumerable small glands in the skin that perform important 
offices affecting the welfare of the body. They not only constitute the skin 
an important organ of elimination, to take up from the blood and cast out 
through the skin certain elements of which the body must rid itself in that 
way, but they secrete an oily substance that assures the health of the skin 
Itself. All of these substances are brought to the surface and there accumulate 
to some extent, and in time become rancid and offensive. In this way they 



HYGIENIC AIDS 5^9 

produce not only an upleasant condition, but an unhealthful one besides, for 
they close the minute pores with which the skin is filled, and which perform 
an important service to the general economy. It is by cleaning out and 
opening these pores that the Viavi cerate is made to be so readily absorbed. 

The watery elements of the skin secretions (always coming to the sur- 
face, but imperceptible unless from heat or vigorous exercise it is copious, 
when it is known as sweat) are taken up by the clothing or evaporated by the 
air, leaving a residue. It is this that becomes rancid in time, giving a dis- 
agreeable odor to the skin, or to clothing that has been worn too long. Among 
the elements undergoing this decomposition is the oily substance that the skin 
secretes for its own health. Under ordinary conditions the decomposition of 
these secretions occurs in about a week. Hence a cleansing bath should not 
be taken under ordinary circumstances oftener than once a week. A cleansing 
bath is one in which soap is used, and the cleansing process is promoted by the 
use of warm or hot water. If soap is not used there will be comparatively lit- 
tle cleansing, but other good effects will be secured. This is an important 
fact, because it is ordinarily not advisable to cleanse the skin oftener than once 
a week, yet it may be highly essential to bathe much oftener. As the oily 
secretion serves a most useful purpose, its too frequent removal will invite dis- 
ease. Hence we may avoid that danger by taking frequent baths that do not 
cleanse, and cleansing baths as often as needed. 

Cold Bath. In former chapters we have cautioned against the use of 
very hot and very cold baths. Still, even these may be made highly useful in 
some cases if great care is taken. Baths of extreme temperatures, particularly 
cold, give a violent shock to the entire nervous system. Countless nerve fila- 
ments terminate in the skin, and every one of them receives the shock and 
transmits it to the entire system. This shock might be beneficial in some 
cases, particularly those associated with nervous troubles, weakness or derange- 
ment, as insomnia, debility, obesity, etc.; but unless extreme care is taken 
it will do more harm than good, allowance being made for differences 
among individuals, and for the resultant fact that what may prove good for 
one may not for another. If a very cold bath is taken, it should not last over 
ten seconds. It should never be taken while the body, or any part of it, is 
cold. It should be taken only after some sharp exercise that has rendered the 
skin warm and moist. After it, the body should be dried and rubbed very vig- 
orously until a red, tingling glow appears all over it. The best time for taking 
it is just before going to bed. It may be taken on first arising, if every pre- 
caution against chilling is employed immediately afterward. It should be 
remembered that the cold bath is a good invigorator if one is careful to follow 
the above directions closely. 

Hot Bath. The hot bath does not impose so severe a strain as the cold 
bath. It should not be taken when the body is warm and moist, nor for two 



$20 VIA VI HYGIENE 

hours after eating. The water should be gradually cooled before coming from 
it by letting in cold water. Very robust persons are benefited by a cold shower 
instead of this cooling process. One should not remain in a hot bath longer 
than ten minutes. Drying and quick dressing should follow, as the body is 
rendered exceptionally susceptible to taking cold. It may be taken two or 
three times a week. 

Swimming Bath. If possible, and the patient is sufficiently strong, 
salt swimming baths should be taken. They may be either hot or cold, 
according to the constitution of the patient. Some are so weak that cold baths 
are unbearable. Swimming is an excellent means for establishing a good 
circulation, but such a bath should never be indulged in immediately after a 
meal, nor until two to four hours have elapsed, else digestion will be impaired. 

Sponge Bath. If the circulation is very sluggish a toning effect may be 
obtained by taking a cold salt sponge bath in the morning, in the following 
manner : To an ordinary basin of water, add a handful of sea-salt, and sponge 
off the entire body, afterwards rubbing thoroughly until the skin assumes a 
warm, healthy glow. The salt may be added to the water at night, so that 
it will be ready for the morning. 

Viavi Brush Bath. Prepare a solution of one part acetic acid (if not 
obtainable, strong vinegar may be used) and two parts comfortably hot water. 
Saturate a face cloth with this and rub the body with a circular movement, 
until a dark substance from the pores of the skin appears on the surface. 
Then wash off with clean water and good soap ; dry thoroughly. Afterwards 
brush the body from head to foot with a flexible flesh-brush or hair-gloves 
that do not cut the skin. (A piece of burlap forms a good substitute.) Brush 
the soles of the feet well. Rub until the body has a warm, healthy glow. 
Then rub the Viavi cerate over those parts of the body which are affected. 
Take the bath in the middle of the forenoon, if possible, and rest afterward ; 
if not, take it just before retiring. 

Blanket Bath. This should be taken in case the system needs invigor- 
ating. Take a heavy all-wool double blanket, a vessel of hot water and a bar 
of good soap. Dip the soap into the water and rub it on the blanket until the 
latter is thoroughly covered with lather. Fold the blanket lengthwise three 
times (doubling it each time); then roll it up in the shape of a bottle. Pour a 
kettle of hot water into each end of the blanket roll. Having undressed in 
the meantime, wrap the blanket about the body from the chin to the feet, 
tucking it closel'/ to the body. Wrap around this a heavy comforter, to retain 
the heat. Sit in this until perspiration begins, or until the blanket begins to 
get a little cold sav from fifteen to twenty minutes. Remove the blanket a 
little at a time and wash the body with a solution of one part acetic acid (or 



HYGIKNIC AIDS 521 

strong vinegar) and two parts water. Care should be exercised that cold is not 
taken. When this has been done thoroughly, rub the body with warm olive 
oil in which has been mixed a half teaspoonful of the Viavi cerate. Wipe off 
with a soft towel. Then go to bed and rest ; sleep if possible. This bath should 
not be taken oftener than once a week. An assistant is required to give this 
bath properly and assure the best results from it. 

Salted Towel. A very effective method for establishing the circula- 
tion is by rubbing the body every morning with a salted towel, prepared 
in the following manner: Make some brine (using sea-salt, if available) strong 
enough to float an egg. Saturate a towel in this brine and hang it up to dry 
without wringing. The towel is now thoroughly filled with salt and ready to 
use. It tones the skin, hardens the muscles, beautifies the complexion and 
increases the circulation ; at the same time, there is no liability to cold. Sev- 
eral towels may be prepared at once. Each towel should be used as long as 
sufficient salt remains in it to produce a refreshing effect. 

Dry Salt Rub. As an adjuvant treatment, the rubbing of the body with 
dry salt is exceediugly beneficial as a tonic. The body may be rubbed daily 
in the following manner: Take a saucer of common salt and about a quart of 
water; dip the hand in water and then in the salt, rubbing the body thor- 
oughly. Afterwards the body may be sponged and well dried. If the patient 
is susceptible to cold, only that part of the body which is being rubbed should 
be exposed. 

Sun Bath. The sun bath will prove of great benefit to both the weakly 
and the strong, in the latter to preserve strength and vigor, in the former to 
regain it. The room should be well warmed and accessible to the full rays of 
the noonday sun. A blanket should be thrown over a stool and the patient 
should sit upon it, entirely devoid of clothing, for about a half hour, in the 
direct rays of the sun. The body should be turned at intervals so that each 
part may receive the effects. This bath allows the pores of the skin to breathe 
in the oxygen, while the sun acts as a powerful tonic to the nerves. To keep 
up a slight degree of exercise if the patient so wishes, the body may be 
lightly brushed over with a soft brush, but this is not a necessity. 

Spinal Sun Bath. For brain-fag, nervousness, and for spinal weakness 
and disease, or in cases where the spinal region is sensitive or painful to the 
touch, the following hygienic treatment is advised: Applications of the Viavi 
cerate to the spine may be made during the day and at any time while the 
sun is shining brightly. After a thorough application of the cerate, the entire 
length of the spine is exposed to the direct rays of the sun ; or the application 
of the cerate may be made to the spine while it is exposed to the rays of the 
sun. In the first place, the sun's rays drive the cerate into the tissues, causing 
it to become absorbed easily and thoroughly, while the tonic effect of the sun's 



522 VIA VI HYGIENE 

rays along this important trunk is very beneficial. A person should remain in 
the sun's rays from fifteeen minutes to half an hour, or longer if agreeable 



SITZ BATHS. 

Cold Sitz Bath. Take a sitz bath of moderately warm water, keeping 
the feet in hot water and the shoulders well covered. A good plan, where a 
regular sitz tub is not available, is to take a small, ordinary wash tub, and 
place it inside the regular bath tub, turning it partially on its side, and filling 
.it with lukewarm water. Sit in the water, and put the feet in hot water, 
which may be in the bath tub itself or in a bucket. Then allow cold water 
to run into the tub in which the patient is sitting, until it is barely warm, or 
even cold if it does not chill. Remain in the water for five or ten minutes. 
Afterwards rub well with a rough towel. This bath may be taken two or three 
times a week. 

Hot Sitz Bath. This is often beneficial. It is taken in the same man- 
ner as the cold sitz bath, except that hot water is used and there is no necessity 
for placing the feet in hot water. The hot sitz bath should be seldom used 
where there is a tendency to piles, as it favors venous congestion of the 
rectum. 

* The Instantaneous Sitz Bath. This bath is taken by sitting in cold 
water for one instant, then drying the body thoroughly. It is best taken at 
night just before retiring. It has often been the means in both sexes, where 
troubled at night by restlessness and insomnia, of producing a restful and 
refreshing sleep. It may be taken during the night if the person sleeps well 
during the first part of the night and is restless during the latter part, by those 
who are accustomed to cold water. This bath should be resorted to. 



FOOT BATHS. 

The feet should never be plunged into water that is either very hot or 
very cold. Such treatment distresses or tortures a patient. The proper way is 
to use lukewarm water, of a temperature that is perfectly pleasant, and then 
gradually bring the temperature to the desired point by adding hot or cold 
water, and, if necessary, dipping out the excess. In this way much hotter or 
colder water can be borne agreeably. 

Cold Foot Bath. This assists in equalizing the circulation. After the 
feet have been placed in the tub containing water of a comfortable tempera- 
ture, cold water should be added until the bath is sufficiently cold, and the 
feet should remain in the bath from five to ten minutes. Then dry them and 
rub them thoroughly with the Viavi cerate. This will produce a grateful feel- 
ing of warmth by bringing the blood to the extremities. This bath taken by 



HYGIENIC AIDS 5?3 

those who have stood or walked until the feet are tired or bruised, with a 
thorough rubbing in of the cerate on the feet, will overcome the distress and 
produce a refreshing rest. 

Hot Foot Bath (with Salt or Vinegar}. The hot foot bath is best 
taken by adding hot water to the lukewarm water until the bath is sufficiently 
hot. The feet should remain in the bath from ten to twenty minutes. It 
should be followed with a vigorous rubbing in of the Viavi cerate. This bath 
draws the blood from the head and trunk to the extremities, and assists greatly 
in overcoming congestion, relieving congestive headache and equalizing the 
circulation. Either a little salt or pure vinegar may be added to the bath, with 
beneficial results. 

Hot Foot Bath in Bed. The patient lies in bed. A foot-tub or bucket 
two-thirds filled with warm water is placed in the bed close to the buttocks, 
while the knees are so raised that the feet may rest easily in the vessel. The 
water may be kept hot by dipping out a part and adding hot water. The bed 
clothing should be tucked closely around the patient to prevent the escape of 
steam and heat. A cloth should be placed between the buttocks and the 
vessel. This foot bath is followed by refreshing rest of the whole body, with 
relaxation and relief from much pain. The bath should be removed from the 
bed in from twenty to forty minutes, and the feet and legs rolled separately in 
a flannel or blanket without drying. 

Foot Bath for Cold Feet. Dip the feet in cold water and hold them 
there for one minute ; then plunge them immediately into water as hot as can 
be borne. Do this five times, alternating the cold water with the hot. A 
convenient way for doing this is to have two foot tubs side by side, one 
containing cold water and the other hot, or by setting the hot-water tub in a 
bath-tub containing a few inches of cold water and sitting on the edge of the 
bath-tub. After the bath, dry the feet and rub them thoroughly with the Viavi 
cerate. 

Vapor Bath for Feet or Legs. A rather wide and thick blanket is 
placed lengthwise upon a chair, upon which the patient sits with feet and 
legs bare. A wooden foot tub, keeler or bucket is a little more than half filled 
with boiling water and placed before the patient. On the top of the vessel are 
placed slats or a coarse sieve, on which to rest the feet. Great care must be 
taken to secure the foot rest in order to prevent scalding the feet. A small 
stool or wooden block may be placed in the bath for this purpose. When the 
patient is ready, with the feet on the slats over the steaming water, the blanket 
is laid around the vessel and over the knees in such a manner as to prevent 
the*steam from escaping. This bath may be continued for thirty minutes. 
Then one foot and leg are taken from the bath and quickly sponged with cold 
water, and dried with a soft towel. The second extremity is given the same 



524 VIAVI HYGIENE 

treatment. Like the other foot baths, this is followed up by a thorough 
rubbing of the Viavi cerate. This foot bath is not to be used oftener than once 
or twice a week. 

Vapor Bath. Use a chair with a solid wooden seat (never a chair 
with an open seat of any kind), and under it place an oil or alcohol stove. 
Light the stove, and on it set a vessel of boiling water, which should be kept 
boiling by the stove. Undress completely and sit on the chair. The feet may 
or may not be put into hot water, but it is better if they are. Cover the body 
from the neck down with a blanket or a rubber gossamer, so that it will reach 
to the floor all around and form a tent over the body and chair, thus preventing 
the escape of the steam. Remain in this bath for twenty minutes. If there 
is any rush of blood to the head a towel wetted with cold water should be 
placed upon the head or about the neck. -This bath will produce a copious 
sweating, which in turn will cause intense thirst. Water, not ice-cold, should 
be drunk sparingly, a little at a time and often. The temperature of the bath 
may safely range from 120 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit, but should not exceed 140 
degrees. An unwise degree of heat will generally be announced by the 
patient, by reason of the great discomfort experienced. A better plan is to 
have the patient hold a thermometer in the hand and pass it out every few 
minutes for examination. After the bath the body is to be well sponged off 
with warm water; or, if it is possible to take this bath in a warmed bath room, 
have the bath tub half full of hot water. The patient should step into it quickly 
from the vapor bath with the least possible exposure of the body to the air, 
and remain in the hot bath until the water has become cool by the running of 
cold water into it. In many families are suitable steam boxes that carpenters 
have made for this vapor bath ; they are better than a blanket, but the blanket 
meets the requirements if a box cannot be procured. This bath should be 
taken from one to three times a week, as the strength permits, but is never 
to be taken if there is a tendency to heart trouble. 



COMPRESSES. 

Cold Compress on Spine. Lie upon the bed, face downward, with a 
hot-water bag at the feet, keeping the feet, legs and hips well covered, and (if 
the patient chills easily) a hot-water bag, or bottles filled with hot water, on 
both sides of the body. An attendant should sit at the side of the bed and 
wring cloths or towels from cold water, placing them upon the spine the 
entire length, covering them with flannel, and keeping the patient well cov- 
ered meanwhile. The cloths should be changed for cold ones as soon as they 
become warm. This should be kept up for an hour. The back should then 
be dried, and the entire length of the spine and back should be rubbed with 
the Viavi cerate for thirty minutes. 



HYGIENIC AIDS 525 

Cold Spinal Douche. At night, before retiring, place the feet in warm 
water, especially if they be cold; at the same time sit over the edge of the 
bath tub or wash tub, and have some one hold a pitcher of tepid or cold water 
about three feet from the body, pouring the water on the spine. This will 
produce a slight shock, and will conduct the nerve force from the brain and 
into other channels. Afterwards the back should be well dried and rubbed 
until a glow is produced. The Viavi cerate should then be applied to the 
spine along its entire length and] an inch or two on each side of it. This 
should be done by an assistant, who should spend ten or fifteen minutes in 
rubbing it in, using considerable force in doing so, if it can be borne. 

Plot Compress for Legs. Wring a piece of heavy flannel or a piece of 
blanket from water as hot as can be borne and wrap it about the legs, each one 
separately, which again should be wrapped in a dry flannel and kept in this 
pack for at least fifteen minutes, the legs being elevated or placed on a level 
with the body. After removing the pack a thorough application of the Viavi 
cerate should be made, the cerate being applied with an upward movement 
from the feet toward the body, so as to favor venous circulation. The patient 
should never stand upon the feet immediately afterwards, but should remain 
quiet for at least an hour that is, if the pack is taken in the morning or dur- 
ing the day. If taken in the evening, the patient should at once retire. 

Ice Compress on Spine. If a spinal ice bag cannot be procured one 
can be easily made at home. It will answer the same purpose help to estab- 
lish a vigorous circulation of the blood within the capillaries. Procure a piece 
of flannel of a length sufficient to cover the spine from the nape of the neck 
to the end of the coccyx. Over this spread pulverized ice, then fold until about 
five or six inches wide and place over the spine while the patient is lying face 
downward on the bed. The patient should then be covered well and the com- 
press allowed to remain until warm. The patient should then be dried thor- 
oughly and the compress followed by a thorough rubbing of the Viavi cerate 
over the region of the entire spine. 

Hot Compress on Abdomen. Lie near the edge of the bed, havicg the 
body warmly covered with blankets arranged so that they may be readily lifted. 
Wring cloths or towels from hot water and lay them upon tbe aibdomen. 
Replace them with hot ones as soon as they become cc@l, which will be 
every few minutes. Continue this for an hour every other night between the 
menstrual periods, leaving them off during the periods. If there is intense 
suffering during the periods the compresses may be continued until the 
flow is established and relief, or partial relief, secured. A hot-water bag in 
both cases will be less troublesome than hot cloths, as it avoids the cooling cf 
the cloth. It is used by laying it upon the cloth after the latter has been 
placed on the abdomen The bag, if used, should be only partially filled with 



526 VIAVI HYGIENE 

water, and air should be excluded before the stopper is inserted. Cover tlie 
body thoroughly and have the patient remain with the cloth and bag upon the 
abdomen for an hour, or until relief, if the period is present, be secured. 
After removing the compress apply the Viavi cerate in a very thorough man- 
ler over the region of the abdomen. 

Cold Compress on Abdomen, with Feet in Hot Water. Just before 
retiring, and after undressing, put on a warm flannel night gown. Spread a 
blanket on the bed, permitting it to hang over the edge to the floor. Lie 
across the bed, with pillows under the shoulders and head, and with the feet 
hanging over the edge so that they may be in a bucket or other vessel of hot 
water. Fold the blanket over body and legs, and envelop the bucket with it, 
so as to keep the steam about the legs. The cold compresses should then be 
applied to the abdomen as already described, and this should be kept up for an 
hour. If the feet become tender after they have been in the hot water twenty 
minutes, they may be withdrawn, and a pair of woolen stockings slipped on to 
retain the heat that has been secured. After removing the compresses, dry 
the body thoroughly, part at a time, under cover do not expose then rub 
the abdomen thoroughly with the Viavi cerate for not less than thirty minutes. 

Cold Compress on Abdomen, with Hot-Water Bag at Back. Lie near 
the edge of the bed. Have the body well protected with blankets, so 
arranged that they may be easily lifted. Place a hot- water bag under the body 
at the small of the back, or at and below the waist line. Then apply the cold 
compresses to the abdomen, in the manner already described, continuing this 
for an hour. Dry the body, and apply the Viavi cerate thoroughly for not 
less than thirty minutes. 

Ice Compress on Abdomen. This is to be employed to check hemorrhage 
or excessive flowing. Make a bag of flannel sufficiently large to cover the 
abdomen. Fill this with crushed ice and lay it upon the abdomen. The bed 
should be protected with a rubber sheet or several thicknesses of blanket. It 
is very essential that the feet should be kept warm. The ice compress may 
be renewed at intervals until the hemorrhage ceases. 

Cold Compress on Chest, with Hot-Water Bag. Lie on the bed with 
the hot-water bag between the shoulder blades. A flannel of four thicknesses 
and sufficiently large to cover the chest should be wrung from cold water by 
an attendant and placed over the chest ; then cover the body thoroughly with 
a blanket.^ The compress should be removed every five or eight minutes and 
replaced with a cold one. This should be continued for thirty minutes to one 
hour, according to the patient's strength, after which the body should be 
thoroughly sponged with warm water and castilesoap and rubbed briskly until 
$ healthy glow is obtained. The Viavi cerate should then be rubbed gently 



HYGIENIC AIDS 527 

but thoroughly over the region of the chest, well around to the sides and over 
the back between the shoulder blades, and well up and down the spine. The 
cerate should be used daily ; the compress twice a week. 

Cold Compress on Abdomen for Peritonitis. This compress consists of 
but one thickness of cloth, which at first may be an old, soft, linen handker- 
chief. Even so, the greatest care must be used in placing it, as the abdomen 
in peritonitis is exquisitely sensitive. Upon becoming warm it should be 
lifted gently and replaced with a cold one. This changing should be repeated 
at intervals for about a half hour, then the melted Viavi cerate applied over 
this region with a soft camel's hair brush. At the time the cold compress is 
being used upon the abdomen the feet should be placed in warm water, a foot 
tub being placed in the bed for this purpose and set near the buttocks. After 
the compress is discontinued the feet should be withdrawn and thoroughly 
dried. 

Hot Compress on Liver. The patient lies in bed. A piece of flannel 
folded about four times, dipped in hot water and thoroughly wrung out, is 
laid over the region of the liver, and on this is placed a hot- water bag only 
partially filled with hot water, so as not to be cumbersome. The patient is 
then carefully covered with a blanket. If the flannel becomes so dry that the 
heat is not moist, it should be dipped and wrung again. The duration of this 
compress should be not less than one-half hour. As a hygienic adjunct to the 
Viavi treatment it is of great service in restoring lost reactive powers and 
alleviating suffering. Thorough applications of the Viavi cerate over the same 
region should follow, and for not less than thirty minutes. 

Cold Compress on Liver with Hot- Water Bag at Back. Just before 
retiring, and after undressing, put on a warm flannel night gown. Spread a 
blanket on the bed in such a way as to have it hang over the edge to the floor. 
L,ie across the bed, with the feet hanging over the side so that they may be 
placed iu a bucket of hot water. Place pillows under the shoulders and head, 
and fold the blanket over the body and legs, enveloping the bucket with it. 
The water should be kept hot by renewing it. The hot-water bag should be 
placed under the small of the back. Cloths or towels wrung out of cold water 
should then be laid over the region of the liver (see elsewhere outline showing 
the regions of the organs), changing them every five or seven minutes, as they 
become warm. This should be kept up for fully an hour. If the feet are 
tender, salt should be used in the water, the feet withdrawn in twenty 
minutes, and a pair of woolen stockings drawn on to retain the heat. After 
removing the compresses, dry the body and rub the Viavi cerate thoroughly in 
for not less than thirty minutes. 

Wet Towel Compress on Liver. An easy method of applying a cold 
application upon a torpid liver is to wet a long roller towel in cold water. 



528 VIAVI HYGIENE 

wring it fairly dry, wrap it two or three times around the body just above the 
hips and below the arms, then cover the towel with warm woolen material. 
Allow the towel to remain all night. In the morning wipe the body thor- 
oughly dry. In this case the application of the Viavi cerate is to be made 
before the towel is placed about the body. 



HYGIENE FOR UIvCERS. 

An ulcer or open sore should be cleansed with warm water in which have 
been placed five drops of carbolic acid to the quart. The acid should be 
thoroughly mixed with the water. The water should play upon the ulcer from 
the rectal tube of a fountain syringe, which should be hung only moderately 
high, so that the stream of water will have but little force. When the ulcer is 
thoroughly cleansed it should be dried with a piece of absorbent cotton. 
Apply the Viavi cerate to the ulcer as follows : Prepare some mutton tallow 
by boiling it and then stirring it until cold. Spread some of this soft tallow 
on a piece of linen, and over this tallow spread a thin layer of the cerate. 
The tallow will prevent the cerate from being absorbed by the linen. Apply 
the side with the cerate upon it to the raw surface. If there be fissures or 
cracks the Viavi liquid, diluted one-half with water, may be sprayed upon the 
open sore with an atomizer very effectually. The surface of the ulcer should 
be entirely covered with the liquid, after which the linen containing the 
cerate and tallow may be applied over the raw surface, the cerate surface next the 
sore. A layer of absorbent cotton or several layers of clean, soft, white, old 
linen may be placed over the ulcer and held in place by moderately tight 
bandages, so as completely to protect it. 

Tampon for Prolapsus. Procure at a drug store or a chemist's some 
absorbent wool and absorbent cotton. Make a roll of the wool about twice 
the size of the thumb, or larger if necessary, and around this roll a layer of 
the absorbent cotton. Cut the roll thus made into three-inch lengths and 
tie a cotton string tightly about the center of each piece. This will form a 
light, fluffy tampon, which may be inserted in the vagina for temporary 
support in prolapsus. Empty the contents of six Viavi capsules into half a 
cup of olive oil. Mix thoroughly. Saturate one of the tampons in this 
mixture, and after taking a morning vaginal douche, assume the knee-chest 
position (which see), and while in this position insert the saturated tampon in 
the vagina. This will form a temporary support for the womb during the day, 
and at the same time the muscles and ligaments will absorb the remedy and 
gradually become stronger. Two injections should be taken daily, one before 
inserting the tampon, and one after withdrawing it, just before retiring. 
Then a Viavi capsule should be inserted. 

Position for Anteversion. Spread a quilt on the floor. Then lie on 



HYGIENIC AIDS 529 

the back, placing one or two pillows, one on top of the other, under the but- 
tocks, and the feet on a low stool or the lower rounds of a chair ; or lie upon 
a lounge, putting the feet over the head of it and placing several pillows under 
the buttocks. This will have a tendency to throw the womb backward to its 
proper position, and Viavi will strengthen the ligaments and muscles so that 
in time it will remain there. 

Knee-Chest Position. (When there is pressure in the rectum.) At 
night, after getting into bed, or better, upon a hard, firm lounge or on the 
floor, assume the knee-chest position as follows: Get upon the knees,, resting 
the chest upon the bed in such a way as to get the hips as high as possible and 
the chest as low as possible. Then separate the walls of the vagina with the 
fingers to admit the air, and the weight of the uterus will cause it to drop 
back to a more natural position. Lie down and do not get upon the feet again 
till morning unless it is absolutely necessary. 

Position for Prolapsus. Spread a quilt upon the floor. Then lie upon 
the back, placing two or three pillows, one on top of the other, under the 
buttocks, with the feet upon a low stool; or lie upon the lounge, putting the 
feet over the head of it, and placing several pillows under the buttocks. While 
in this position, with the middle finger of the right hand gently push the 
uterus upward into position, and in this way give the suspensory muscles 
temporary relief, as well as the surrounding tissues and organs. 



HYGIENE FOR BREASTS. 

First Stage : Hot Treatment for Lump in the Breast. Fasten a towel 
about the neck in the manner that a bib is fastened about a child's neck 
for protection while eating. Slip it to the side so that it shall cover the affected 
breast. In the lap and under the breast place a vessel sufficiently large to hold 
the amount of water to be used. From the tube of a fountain syringe allow 
water as hot as can be borne to play slowly upon the towel, which will cling 
to the breast as soon as wet and closely hold to it the moist heat. At the same 
time very gently press the breast with the hand, which should be cupped, not 
flat. After the water in the syringe has been exhausted the breast should be 
dried and thoroughly rubbed with the Viavi cerate for ten minutes ; then the 
entire operation should be repeated once. The gentle pressure stimulates vital 
action in the whole substance of the breast. This treatment is to be employed 
twice daily until the breast has become normal. 

Second Stage: Cold Treatment for Incipient Cancer of the Breast. 
When the lumps have been present and the skin is discolored, but not broken, 
it has become necessary to apply the cold treatment. In doing so the most 



530 VIAVI HYGIENE 

rigid following of the rules herein laid down becomes a positive necessity. No 
half-hearted, careless, slipshod method of following the hygienic advice for 
cancer of the breast will be productive of good results; hence we wish patients 
so suffering either to follow advice just as directed or not to employ the Viavi 
treatment at all. The patient should lie upon the bed, with a hot-water bag 
at the back, between the shoulders. An attendant should sit at the side of the 
bed wringing one towel after another from ice cold water and placing it upon 
the breast, the patient being meanwhile closely covered with blankets from 
neck to foot. The towel should be folded to four thicknesses and gently laid 
upon the swollen breast and inflamed parts. In three or four minutes, as the 
towel becomes warm, it should be replaced with a cold one. The cold towel 
should be slipped under the hot one in a way that will not expose the breast 
and so cause a chill. This renewing of the cold towels should be kept up an 
hour; then the breast should be sponged with a little warm vinegar and water 
anjd a thorough application of the Viavi cerate made, remembering always 
that it will be from the quantity of the Viavi cerate absorbed that beneficial 
results will be obtained, and not from the quantity applied. This cold treat- 
ment may be given twice a day, until the swelling has been reduced and the 
breast made capable of extensive absorption, when the cold compresses may 
be discontinued and the hot treatment employed if it feels grateful and does 
not cause pain. If the hot treatment causes pain, however, it should be dis- 
continued at once and the cold treatment continued until the hot one can be 
employed with good results when it soothes and comforts. 

We do not claim that the Viavi treatment cures cancer, but many cases 
so diagnosed have been cured. We know that breast troubles are frequently 
sympathetic with uterine troubles, and that by treating both together good 
results may be secured, even if the cancer may not be entirely cured. 

Third Stage: For Cancer of the Breast^ Open Sore. The disease has 
now progressed until the tissues have broken down extensively. The 
surface is raw and cracked and the breast may have deep fissures in it. Have 
a stream of cold water from a fountain syringe play upon the breast, taking 
care to hang the syringe low, so that the stream will have but little force. A 
vessel sufficiently large to catch the water should be placed under the breast. 
Ice-cold water may be used if it does not cause a shock to the system and 
where it proves grateful to the diseased and heated parts. About five drops of 
carbolic acid should be added to each quart of water used. When the raw 
surfaces are thoroughly cleansed by the flow of water, dry the breast with a 
piece of absorbent cotton. Apply the Viavi cerate as follows: Prepare some 
mutton tallow by boiling it and stirring until cold. Spread some of this soft 
tallow on a piece of linen and over the tallow spread a layer of the cerate. 
The tallow will prevent the cerate from being absorbed by the linen. Apply 
the side with the cerate upon it to the raw surfaces. Where the fissures or 



HYGIENIC AIDS 531 

cracks are deep the Viavi liquid should be diluted one-half with water and 
sprayed upon the parts thoroughly with an atomizer. The surface should be 
entirely covsred with the liquid spray, after which the linen containing the 
tallow and cerate should be placed over the raw surface, the cerate next to 
the body. A layer of absorbent cotton or several layers of old, soft, clean, 
white linen should be placed over the breast so as completely to protect it. 

When parts of the diseased tissue loosen, they should not be touched 
under any circumstances, but left alone, to fall off unassisted, as manual or 
surgical interference only aggravates this condition. We have repeatedly 
observed that when loosened pieces were picked or clipped off there was a 
stimulation of the growth. Nature emphatically objects to violent interference 
in these diseased conditions. The gentle flow of water will be sufficient to 
wash away the loosened particles and impurities. This treatment should be 
employed twice a day, until a decided improvement is noticeable ; then once 
a day will be sufficient. 



CHAPTER LXXV, 



FROM THOSE WHO KNOW. 



?HE following testimonials from those who have demonstrated to their 
own satisfaction the value of the Viavi treatment are not by any means 
selected with a view to cover the whole extent of the world's territory 
in which the treatment is used, nor to include the whole range of 
diseases in which the triumphs of Viavi are daily won. Testimonials covering 
both these grounds have been given by thousands, but their publication in 
book form would require the printing of a library. 

Those here selected give merely a glimpse of the range of Viavi 's 
usefulness, but so far as they go they are typical, showing clearly the astonish- 
ing results secured in cases otherwise wholly beyond the reach of curative 
measures. As to time required to cure, so much depends upon the tempera- 
ment, habits, surroundings, the recuperative power and vitality of the patron, 
that it is not possible to tell. Some desperate cases yield more readily than 
others seemingly trivial. Viavi is accomplishing some of its best work in 
preventing the development of dangerous conditions and curing many cases 
that have been considered incurable. 

An interesting feature of these letters is the evidence 

The Intelligence that they show of the wise understanding that the 

Discovered writers have acquired under the influence of the 

educational feature of the Viavi movement. It is highly gratifying that the 

women who come under the Viavi treatment respond so readily to that feature, 

and by their acquired intelligence with regard to themselves and their 

diseases show their firmer grasp upon the serious problems of their lives. 

The knowledge that they have thus acquired is of inestimable value not alone 

to them, but to all who come within the range of their influence. 

In addition to this, the human quality shown in the letters is particularly 
striking. The profound gratitude therein exhibited represents a moral force 
for the uplifting of the race that no earthly power can measure. Every 
woman brought from wretchedness to happiness by means of the Viavi 



FROM THOSE WHO KNOW 533 

treatment is a self-constituted missionary working to spread a knowledge of the 
good that has come into her life, that others may secure like blessings. All of 
these letters, and many thousands more, not here published, were given out of 
that inexpressibly beautiful and distinctively womanly impulse to do good 
when the way is learned. 

In a few instances we have appended notes to letters 
Some Errors To re lating cures effected by using the Viavi treatment in 
Be Avoided w hat may be termed an irregular way. This brings up 
an exceedingly interesting fact. A woman will have learned the value of the 
treatment by being cured of some ailment. Likely she will have some of those 
forms of Viavi on hand, and will use them for diseases among the members of 
her family, without reflecting indeed, without knowing, perhaps that there 
are special and far better forms of the Viavi for those diseases. Far better 
results would have been secured had the Hygienic Department of the most con- 
venient Viavi office been written to and advice (for which there is no charge) 
received with regard to the best manner of treating those diseases. Money and 
time would be saved should such a course be followed. For every disease for 
which there is a form of the Viavi treatment, that particular treatment is best 
and produces the quickest results in the most economical manner. In all 
cases it is best to follow the rules governing the treatment of any disease, and 
where there is the slightest doubt, the Hygienic Department should be appealed 
to. Its address may always be found in the books of directions accompanying 
the various forms of Viavi, as it is a department of the company whose address 
is there given ; or any Viavi representative will furnish it. 

Those wishing to see testimonials from persons in their 
Securing Other vicinity, for the purpose of visiting them or writing to 
Testimonials them, may easily procure them in one of the following 
ways: by asking the local office or representative for them, or by writing to or 
calling upon the nearest Viavi manager, or by applying by letter or in person 
to the company whose address appears upon the books of instructions accom- 
panying the various forms of Viavi. In writing to those who have given testi- 
monials it should be borne in mind that they likely have many other such 
appeals, and that postage stamps sometimes become a serious matter. There- 
fore a postage stamp should always be sent for a reply. 

It should be borne in mind that letter-writing, particu- 

The Details of larly to strangers, is burdensome to most persons, and 

Correspondence t ^ at manv delay or wholly neglect to answer letters from 

even their nearest friends and relations. If a prompt reply should not be 

received to a letter of inquiry addressed to the writer of a testimonial, this 

almost universal practice of delaying may be the cause. 



534 VIA VI HYGIENE 

It often happens, also, that the person written to has left the place of 
former residence and been lost sight of by the local postal authorities. In 
order to avoid disappointment on that account it is advisable in all cases that a 
return request be made, by writing the name and address on the upper left hand 
corner of the envelope, with a request that the letter be returned in five or ten 
days if not delivered in that time. Its return will be evidence that the testi- 
monial-writer has gone. The nearest Viavi office should then be appealed to 
for a testimonial of a similar kind from some one else. 

It should be borne in mind that there are likely many testimonials on 
the same disease. If a reply is not procurable from a writer of one of them, 
a response may be secured by addressing another or still another. 

A /-^ Testimonial-writing has been so abused in the past as to 

g rouse suspicion with some regarding the trustworthiness 

of testimonials generally. It is for this reason that these 

suggestions for the verifying of Viavi testimonials are furnished. The reasons 
given throughout this volume for the cures effected by the Viavi treatment 
really render all testimonials superfluous, as reasonable persons of the broadest 
understanding will see that the remarkable spread of Viavi must have been on 
the basis of cures, that the philosophy of the treatment is so clear and rational 
that no support in the way of testimonials is necessary, and that the promoters 
of the Viavi movement could not afford, even were it conceivable that they 
had any desire, to use testimonials of a character the least questionable. 
Nearly all of the testimonials concerning Viavi were given without any request 
for them, and were the expression of the deep gratitude of those cured and of 
their intense desire to have other women receive the blessings that had come 
to them. Such testimonials have been received in numbers so great that the 
use of only a few of them has been possible. Hence a failure to use many of 
them is not due to any lack of appreciation. On the contrary, such testimo- 
nials are always gratefully received, as they are evidence of the determination 
of the writers to do all in their power, whether by testimonial or word of 
mouth, to make known the blessing that is offered afflicted women. 

o T .So eager are numberless women for the relief that the 

>me ting viavi treatment offers, and so prevalent, unfortunately, 

is the suspicion concerning the trustworthiness of testi- 
monials, that embarrassing situations often arise. Here is an illustration : In 
a large city the wife of a merchant had been cured of a serious ailment by 
means of the Viavi treatment, and out of gratitude and a desire to do good 
she gave a testimonial. The result was that her home (which was over her 
husband's place of business) and her husband were so besieged by ladies wish- 
ing to have a verification of the testimonial as very seriously to interfere with 
the family affairs and the husband's business. 



FROM THOSE WHO KNOW 535 

We are constantly receiving testimonials and, notwithstanding the grati- 
fying results which come to us from the use of Viavi from all parts of the 
world, we are always glad to receive, from those who have suffered and who 
have become well, such testimonials as they have it in their heart to give, for 
we can always use them with some suffering woman where hope has been lost. 
We feel that a patron, knowing that her endorsement will not be printed 
without her express sanction, but rather used privately and by mail among 
those who are making inquiry concerning Viavi, knowing that she is accom- 
plishing a world of good, will not hesitate in sending to us that which comes 
spontaneously from her Heart as an endorsement of Viavi. 



TESTIMONIALS. 

When I began using Viavi I was very much run 

Leucorrhea, down, as I had suffered for years with leucorrhea, 

Painful Menstruation, painful menstruation and all attendant ills. I had 

Childbirth easy. treated most of the time with different physicians, 

some being among the best and most noted, with 

but little benefit. 

When my first baby came my suffering was terrible, as she had to be 
taken with instruments. It was shortly after this that I began the use of 
Viavi, and was greatly benefited, being relieved of leucorrhea and painful 
menstruation in less than three months. I was advised by the representative 
here, to continue a little longer for my stomach trouble, but felt that I could 
not just then. 

When I became pregnant the second time I began to use Viavi again, as 
I had heard what excellent results were obtained from the use of it at such 
times. And let me say right here that I cannot too highly recommend Viavi 
for all pregnant women. There is simply nothing like it for relieving those 
bearing-down pains and cramps in the limbs, and it makes one feel so strong 
and well arid helps to make one's labor much easier. My baby was born in 
just three hours after labor pains began, and I do not think I had a hard time 
at all. I got up from' confinement well and strong, and have been able to do 
so much more with greater ease than in years. I would urge all suffering ones 
to give Viavi a thorough trial ; they will never regret it. I not only give this 
written testimonial, but speak the praises of Viavi to my friends and to all that 
I can. 

I shall always try to get Viavi at the time of pregnancy, for with it I 
shall never have the horror of that trying time. 

Hoping this may be the means of helping others, I am , 

Yours respectfully, MRS. E. J. B. 
Deadwood, South Dakota, Sept 13, 1897. 



535 VIA VI HYGIENE 

It is with the greatest pleasure that I give my testi- 

Asthmtif monial concerning the wonderful results of using 

Hay Fever, Viavi. I have been a sufferer for eight years. It 

Catarrh. seems to me that I had everything that was bad. 

I had begun to think, as did all my friends, that I 

should never be well again, my worst troubles being asthma, hay fever and 
catarrh. I have been told many times by doctors that there was no cure for 
asthma, but I am pleased to say that through the use of Viavi my health is 
better than it has been for many years. I have not been troubled with asthma 
for nearly two years, and my health is better in every respect. I cannot find 
words to express my gratitude for such a grand agency, but I would say to all 
who use Viavi, Do not expect to be cured quickly, for if you do you may be 
disappointed, whereas if you make up your mind to use the Viavi as long as 
you need it and let Nature take its course, you are likely to have a happy sur- 
prise. I could write a great deal more and then not tell half of what it has 
done for me, but I think this is sufficient. I shall be pleased to correspond or 
talk with any one concerning Viavi. I would recommend it to all sufferers. 
Wishing you continued success, 

I am, respectfully, MRS. W. O. A. 
Nephi, Utah, Sept. 18, 1897. 



I want to tell you what Viavi has done for me. 

Miscarriage Twenty-three years ago I had a miscarriage, 

Abscess, caused by an injury. Since that time abcesses 

have formed in the womb once or twice a year, 

and at such times I was very sick ; in fact, my life was despaired of. For 
months at a time I could not feed myself. I have been treated by different 
doctors, and would receive some present relief, but no permanent good. As I 
was growing worse all the time I began the use of Viavi the yth day of May, 
1897. I used a three months' treatment, and can tell you that I am better now 
than I have been for twenty-three years. I can walk from three to six miles 
and don't begin to think I am sixty -six years old or ever had been sick. I am 
as proud of what Viavi has done for me as anyone can possibly be, and I do 
not hesitate to recommend it to anyone. I can do everything I want to do ; 
but I used the treatment just as I was directed to, knowing that if one is going 
to use Viavi, it does not pay to do it half. There is no use in getting a 
three months' treatment and be four or five months using it, thinking you will 
Stretch it out and make it last longer. 

Please publish this testimonial, as I want to help others to the blessed 
cure, Viavi. May God bless the men that make it and the ladies that sell it. 
Every one wishing to know more can call on or address me. 

MRS. L. E. C. 
Emporia, Kan., Dec. 23, 1897. 



TESTIMONIALS 537 

I have been a great sufferer from prolapsus for 

Prolapsus, the past fifteen years. The doctors did not think 

Ulceration from I could recover. I have worn a pessary for the 

Pessary past ten years, and this also was a cause of ulcer- 

ation, which gave me great suffering. Three 

months ago I decided to try Viavi. The first month I thought I was no 
better, and thought I would give up the treatment, but was told not to 
do so, and that I must dispense with my pessary. Well, I am now on my 
third box, and if it were five times the price, I would cheerfully pay that for 
it, if I could not get it for less. The womb is in position ; I eat and sleep well; 
and am better in health than I have been for years. I will tell every lady that 
I know, of it, that they may tell it to their friends. Am so thankful to your 
representative for insisting upon my using it when I was going to give it up. 
Send any lady to me you like for information. MRS. A. T. 

Denver, Col., Mar. 18, 1891. 

This is to certify that Viavi is all that it is represented to be, a permanent 
cure for female diseases, as I used it eight years ago with the above result, and 
have never felt a return of the disease since. 

Yours respectfully, MRS. A. T. 
Jan. 10, 1898. 

I assure you I most heartily and gladly endorse and 

Catarrh of recommend the Viavi tablettes. I have used the 

Stomach treatment for catarrh of the stomach, and am now 

stouter and better than I have been for years. The 

result of the treatment in my case has surpassed my most sanguine expecta- 
tions, and I would willingly endorse the strongest statement which could be 
written in favor of the treatment. 

I am, yours very truly, W. W. W. 
Rome, Ga., Nov. 21, 1896. 



I bless the day when you spoke of Viavi. My 

Dyspepsia, daughter was ailing for five years with acute 

Ulceration, dyspepsia, caused by an ulcerated stomach. The 

Tumor, Sore Eyes result was hemorrhage. We thought she was 

dying ; she rallied, but symptoms of the complaint 

returned again and again. 

Three weeks after taking Viavi and applying the cerate, she was a dif- 
ferent creature. After using two treatments, we consider her entirely cured. 

We applied the cerate to a blind tumor on my son's neck and it removed 
it entirely, leaving no mark behind. He also used the cerate for sore eyes s 
with wonderful curative effect. It is a wonderful cure and no household 



538 VIA VI HYGIENE 

should be without it, for wherever there is inflammation, it will subdue it. 
You are welcome to make public these words of praise in behalf of Viavi, and 
I am willing to answer any letters that may come to me making further 
inquiries. Yours sincerely, R. H. 

Johannesburg, South Africa, March 28, 1896. 



This is to certify that I suffered with painful men- 

Painful struation ever since I became a woman. I was 

Menstruation married ten years before I commenced using Viavi, 

having had delicate health during all that time, and 

never weighing over ninety-two pounds. I was treated for six years by different 
physicians, without relief. After beginning the use of Viavi I was benefited 
very soon, and before finishing my first course became pregnant. I had a very 
easy confinement. My baby boy weighed eight pounds. I got up without 
any drawback, and now weigh one hundred and twenty-five pounds. My 
friends sometimes do not recognize me I am so much improved. My baby is 
now nineteen months old. MRS. J. H. 

Spokane, Wash., Sept 3, 1897. 



I take pleasure in recommending Viavi to those 

Inflammation who are afflicted with inflammation of the womb. 

of Womb I had suffered for some time and did not get any 

relief until four years ago. Seeing that Viavi was 

so extensively used and the many testimonials from different ones, I concluded 
that I would try it, which I have never regretted, as I am perfectly cured. 

MRS. D. A. A. 
Milton, Ore., April 15, 1897. 

I was in bed most of the time for five years ; for 

Prolapsus, three years scarcely out at all. I treated with five 

Ovarian Trouble, physicians; spent all the money we had and 

Ulceration more ; ulceration of the womb, prolapsus and 

Operation Advised ovarian trouble. I was weak and emaciated to the 

last degree, having the womb burned and scraped, 

paying twenty dollars a treatment. I was finally told that I must go to 
Galveston and have the womb and right ovary removed. I also flooded all 
the time nearly to death. I began using Viavi capsules and cerate. I could 
not stand without help. I used a three months' treatment and have been 
well ever since. This was in June, 1893. My baby was three years old and 
I had never been able to lift her from the floor since her birth 

MRS. M.J. G. 
Orange, Texas, Sept. 20, 1896. 



'TESTIMONIALS 539 

I make this statement especially to those who 
Dropsy, have suffered with growths of the womb and have 

Tumors, abandoned hope. For seven years I had hemor- 

Hemorrhages, rhages of the womb, so profuse at times that 
Given up to Die twelve large bath towels were required for a day. 
Physicians tried everything known to their pro- 
fession to stop the bleeding, keeping the vagina packed with ice and alum, 
having my feet elevated above my head, etc., etc., but to no avail; nothing 
would stop the flow. I have had hemorrhages eighteen months, flowing pro- 
fusely all the time without an hour's cessation. I was dropsical at times, my 
face puffing up so that my eyes were nearly closed. 

In all I had four operations performed and seven tumors removed. 
After each operation they grew in again, and every operation weakened me 
dreadfully. If I had not had a constitution of iron I certainly should have 
succumbed long before the fourth time I submitted to the knife. After an 
operation I would have no flow at all for two or three months ; then I would 
be taken suddenly with profuse hemorrhages, and I would remain in that con- 
dition until another operation. One physician said the growth was a spongy 
tumor, another said it was scirrus, or hard cancer, and several told me that 
there was no hope but to have a capital operation (which means removal of 
womb and ovaries). I had no faith in operations. 

I had given up to die when Viavi was recommended to me by a friend. 
I pooh-poohed the idea and said after so many specialists had failed that your 
Viavi would do no good. I had suffered until I was a mere ghost of my 
former self. But one day, feeling better than I had for days, a friend took me 
to the Viavi headquarters. When I told Dr. Law of my condition he would 
give me no encouragement, but added that if anything would help me Viavi 
would. I concluded to try it and did exactly as the little book directed, and 
for the next six weeks grew steadily worse, taking to my bed immediately. 
At the end of six weeks I began to suffer with cramps, chills and fever and in- 
tense burning of the hands and feet, and one morning I decided to use no 
more of the Viavi, as I thought it was hastening my death. But the very 
day I decided to give it up a growth was expelled. It was covered with little 
white roots about one and one-half inches long. The growth itself when 
straightened out was six or seven inches long. 

A new hope came to me. I continued the treatment, and in three days' 
time the hemorrhage ceased. At the next period I flowed about twelve days, 
the next about a week and the next was perfectly natural. I used Viavi seven 
months regularly, and am now (at one time what I never expected to be) a 
healthy woman, weighing 176 pounds. It was during May, 1895, that the 
growth was expelled (over two years ago). I have had no return of the trouble, 
so you can know as well as I that the cure is permanent. 
San Francisco, Aug. 21, 1897. MRS. M. \V, 



540 VIA VI HYGIENE 

I have thought for some time that I would add 

Ovarian Tumor, my testimonial in favor of the Viavi treatmea^it 

1/eucorrhea, has done so much for me. I had been a sufferer 

Neuralgia , over twenty years; had been under treatment the 

Dyspepsia, most of the time. I have been treated by skilled 

Castration Advised physicians of Philadelphia, who pronounced my 

case incurable without an operation; said I had an 

ovarian tumor four inches in diameter, and that I should have to have my 
ovaries removed before I could get well, and that I would not live but a few 
taonths at the farthest without the operation. I did not have it done, as I did not 
believe in the knife. I knew I had something in my abdomen, and feared it was 
tancer I had so much pain in the lower part of my abdomen and left side, and 
ihad severe hemorrhages every few weeks; had neuralgia in my head a great 
4eal, heart trouble, severe palpitations, poor digestion, leucorrhea very badly 
all the time. 

I could not get any encouragement from the doctors around here. They 
told me I was passing through the change, and that I should get better after it 
was over. One doctor told me if I were to snuff a drug store I should not get 
well. I became very much discouraged and thought I should have to die. 

One day I got a letter from my husband's cousin, telling me of Viavi and 
advising me to try it. I did try it, and I thank God I ever heard of it. It has 
been my salvation. t has cured my hemorrhages and leucorrhea.^ I have no 
neuralgia now unless I do some very imprudent thing. It has built me up, 
given me strength and new life. In fact, I cannot say too much for Viavi, and 
I want every sick woman to try it. I should be more than glad to correspond 
with any lady who wishes to ask me anything concerning myself or the 
treatment. MRS. E. N. 

Wyoming, Del., Aug. 28, 1897. 

After using a three months' treatment of Viavi, I 

Ovarian Troubles, feel like a different person. I had got so used to 

Irregular pain and weakness that I supposed I could not 

Menstruation live without them. I had such dreadful weakness 

and backache ; sharp pains, like knives, in the 

region of the ovaries ; lame hip, the lameness extending clear to the knee ; 
irregular menses, and so lumpy and stringy, with such a bad smell ; also 
a burning headache, the hot place being about the size of a dollar, right on 
top of my head. I had a sore place in my right lung too, that was dreadful ; 
sometimes I could not lie on that side at all, or scarcely breathe, even. Now 
that is all gone ; so are the other pains and difficulties. My friends say I look 
five years younger than I did a year ago. I cannot say enough in favor of 
Viavi. I wish every suffering women would heed its call. 
Norton, Kansas, Feb. 26, 1897. Yours in gratitude, MRS. O. E. R, 



TESTIMONIALS 541 

I wore a supporter fourteen years for anteversion 

Anteversion, of the womb, which caused so much irritation 

Abscesses, that great abscesses were formed. Inflammation 

Hemorrhages had extended into the bladder, causing extreme 

torture, and in addition to this I suffered with 

hemorrhages for years, and now, since I know what Viavi has done, I regret 
the great amount of money spent uselessly on physicians ; and not only that, 
but the humiliation it involves. 

Viavi has cured me, and any suffering woman wishing to know all 
particulars in my case may address me, and I will cheerfully give any inform- 
ation I can. Miss E. G. Z. 
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 5, 1897. 



A sense of duty prompts me to tell others who 

A Child Jiave delicate children what Viavi has done for my 

Delicate and nine-year-old daughter. From birth she was a 

Anemic delicate, frail child and required almost constant 

care. Three years ago a severe attack of 

diphtheria left her with anemia, and the Johns Hopkins physicians pronounced 
the case one of general weakness and probable decline. At this stage, when 
all thought we should lose our child, we began to give her Viavi capsules 
internally. It was only a short time until new strength seemed given her, and 
our delicate daughter, who was almost devoid of ambition, began to play 
again. She has bloomed out wonderfully by its use, and is now well and strong. 

Full particulars will be given any mother who wishes to addrees, 
Baltimore, Md., November 19, 1897. MRS. C. M. S. 

[It is astonishing to note the good effects secured from the use of Viavi, 
even in an irregular way, as is shown in the letter from Mrs. C. M. S. In all 
such cases, however, much quicker and better results are obtainable by using 
the treatment in the regular way. For instance, had Mrs. S. sought the 
advice of the Hygienic Department of the nearest Viavi office (which she 
might have done without incurring any expense), she would have been advised 
to give her daughter a thorough rubbing with the Viavi cerate every night, 
over the entire body, particularly the spine, and to give her in addition five 
drops of the Viavi liquid in water three times a day about twenty minutes 
before meals. Certain hygienic aids in the way of baths suited to the case 
would have been advised also, to secure a nervous reaction and a better circu- 
lation. The Viavi principle contained in the capsules did the work 
accomplished in this case, under obvious serious disadvantages ; but the 
capsules are specially intended for use in the vagina only, and under certain 
circumstances in the rectum. It is always best to employ for any condition 
the special Viavi treatment for it. EDITOR.] 



54* VIAVI HYGIENE 

It gives me great pleasure to tell you how much 

Prolapsus, benefit I have derived from the use of Viavi. I 

Dropsy had suffered for a number of years with prolapsus, 

it being so bad that the womb protruded from the 

body, and was so large that I could not get it back for some time. I had 
dropsy also. I could hardly sit or stand. A friend brought me one of your 
books, and I am thankful for the first time I saw it, for I went to 
Wichita and bought Viavi both for myself and daughter, who was suffering 
with painful menstruation. We have both been using it for some time and are 
well. My daughter has gained in flesh. I was seventy-one last Christmas. 

I send you this testimonial of my gratitude, hoping that it may be the 
means of inducing some poor suffering woman to use Viavi, and be cured as 
I have been. Any one wishing to know more of what Viavi has done for me 
may find out by calling at my home or writing me. 

MRS. M. J. B. 
Patterson, Kansas, February 3, 1897. 



This is to certify that I have been sick for over a 

Female Trouble, year, and was confined to my own room and bed 

Ovarian Inflammation, for eight months with female trouble, ovarian 

Gall Stones, inflammation and gall stones. I employed four 

Castration Advised of the best physicians in Bristol, and no tongue 

can tell how I suffered. I was as yellow as gold, 

even to the white of my eyes. The pain I suffered was so intense that I had to 
be kept under the influence of morphine constantly for over a month. Words 
are inadequate to describe the intense agony I suffered. My family physician, 
who is as skillful as any doctor, said I could not be relieved without an opera- 
tion, and my husband, being anxious to have me get well, wanted me to have 
a celebrated doctor from Cincinnati to remove my ovaries, but I would never 
give my consent. I then heard of this grand cure and procured it from a 
Viavi worker. 

I shall never be able to tell you the relief the Viavi, has given me. I 
weighed but ninety pounds when sick; now I weigh one hundred and thirty. 
The female trouble is all gone, the ovaries are relieved entirely, while numer- 
ous gall stones have passed. I thank God from the bottom of my soul that the 
worker brought Viavi to me, and feel that much of my relief is due to her, 
who was so faithful, who would come, rain or shine, whenever I desired to see 
her. I give this evidence simply to induce my suffering sex to give Viavi a 
trial, for try means help, and persistence a cure. MRS. M. M. J. 

P. S. If anyone desires to ask me questions, I will gladly answer them, 
for I firmly believe that instead of being spared to my husband and children, I 
should have died had it not been for Viavi. MRS. M. M. J. 

Bristol, Tenn., Nov. 14, 1896. 



TESTIMONIALS 543 

About two years ago I was taken with severe hem- 

In&animation orrhages of the uterus, brought on by overwork 

of Womb, an d worry in caring for an invalid husband. I 

Cystic Tumor, suffered with intense pain in the right ovary, and 

Polypus Growths also with inflammation of the bladder. My abdo- 

Hemorrhages; men became so swollen and bloated that it was 
Operation Advised hard. My family physician did his best, but failed 
to relieve the pain, or even check the hemor- 
rhages. This continued for five months, when I went to the Woman's Hos- 
pital in Chicago, where a consultation of eight doctors was held. They decided 
fcat there was chronic inflammation of the womb, also a cystic tumor and a 
polypus growth, and told me that an operation was my only salvation. This 
I would not submit to, and as soon as the physicians had succeeded in con- 
trolling the hemorrhages, by the use of tampons, I returned home and com- 
menced the use of Viavi. Several of my friends had used it with great success. 

In a short time I began to improve, and in the course of three weeks, 
just to satisfy myself I returned to the hospital for an examination, when 
the doctors were astonished at my progress. The womb was greatly reduced 
in size, and the circulation was much better. They told me that if I continued 
to improve I need not undergo the operation, and that in a short time I could 
undertake a trip to Canada, whither my husband was desirous of going. I 
continued the use of the capsules and cerate, and in a few months I found 
myself restored to perfect health. Considering the way I had to work with a 
sick husband and large family, it seems almost miraculous that I was ever 
cured at all. I cannot say enough to express my gratitude for my complete 
restoration to health, and feel that I owe my life to the Viavi treatment. 

I shall be glad to answer any inquiries in regard to what Viavi has accom- 
plished in my case, if by so doing I maybe the means of assuring any suffering 
woman who is still in doubt as to the merits of the Viavi treatment. I believe 
Viavi will do more than is claimed for it ; yes, and in my case a thousand 
times more. Gratefully yours, MRS. E. B. 

Montreal, Canada. Nov. 19, 1894. 



Let me state truths of what Viavi has done for 

I<eucorrhea, Innam- me. In 1868 my mother and sister fell from a 

mation of Womb, buggy. It caused them to be helpless for months, 

Tumors of Ovaries and the doctor we employed chose me to nurse 

and Stomach. them, as he often did in the cases of others that were 

in a dangerous condition. In this manner, by 

lifting my patients and overdoing in many ways, I was soon in quite a bad 
state of health myself. It brought on leucorrhea, with, of course, inflamma- 
tion of the uterus. I married while in this condition and had several children 



544 VIAVI HYGIENE 

in close succession. Of course I kept growing worse. I often longed for 
death, which would have been a welcome release. After the birth of my last 
child I had milk leg, which caused life to be continual torture, and I feel that 
words cannot express the many months of inexpressible anguish I endured. 
About a year ago I decided to try Viavi. I began with no faith whatever that 
it could do anything for me, but only at the earnest wish of my friends. 
Gradually but surely it did its work. The inflammation was subdued and the 
poisonous secretions in my system were driven out. I passed an ovarian tumor 
that I was not conscious of having. Another tumor was later passed from my 
bowels, which I believe came from the stomach, for from that time it was all 
right. It was so large that in passing it hurt the rectum, causing an abscess 
to form. j 

Viavi was truly a God-send, and I shall ever be thankful to Him for 
sending it to me. I am now for the first time in twenty years free from suffer- 
ing. Now I can eat anything and am gaining every day. But remember, 
friends who read this, it has only been done through constant, persevering use 
of Viavi, and I beg of you who are suffering, to keep it up faithfully as I 
did, and it must and will entirely cure you as it has me. 

Yours ever for Viavi, MRS. M. F. 

Montague, Mich, Dec. 15, 1896. 



This has indeed been a happy Christmas in cm* 

Non- Development, family. My daughter, who is nearly eighteen 
Vicarious Menstruation menstruated easily and naturally yesterday for UK. 

first time in her life. You remember that hefr 

case was undertaken last June, almost without hope from you. At that tinrt. 
Lucy had not developed into womanhood. Every few weeks she would ha\ 
spells of bleeding at the nose and gums, until she would become so weak antf 
exhausted she could not sit up for days. She coughed nearly all night long, 
and the physician told us she was going into consumption. When she cono 
menced. using the Viavi treatment, seven months ago, she weighed but seventy- 
two pounds. Her improvement since then has indeed been marvelous, as she 
now weighs one hundred and one pounds and looks like another girl. I bless 
God every day for Viavi, which has been the means of saving my daughter's 
life. Gratefully yours, MRS. C. 

Cincinnati, Ohio, December 25, 1894. 

It may be of interest to some of your patrons to know that Lucy has 
continued to menstruate regularly and naturally since December, and is in 
excellent health. Is it any wonder my heart is filled with gratitude for what 
Viavi has done for her? MRS. C. 

Cincinnati, May 10, 1895. 



TESTIMONIALS 545 

On January 5, 1894, I gave a statement of my case 
Cure Is and my experience with the Viavi treatment, for 

Permanent publication. A great many have wanted to know 

if I am still well and and if I continue to recom- 
mend Viavi. In order that all may know that both of these are true, I send 
you this statement, that you may publish it. I will not enter into the details 
of my suffering, for you already have a feeble statement of them in my testi- 
monial. I will just state that after using Viavi for one year I was relieved of 
all my pains and built up in strength as I never expected to be. Viavi has 
been a Godsend to me and has made a new woman out of me. Before using 
it I could not walk a square, but now I walk as far as I wish without fatigue; 
I saddle my horse and ride for miles ; am free from pains ; and can say that 
Viavi cured me. Not only has it cured me, but also many of my friends to 
whom I have recommended it, and I know that no woman needs to suffer who 
will use it faithfully and persistently. If any woman wants to know about 
Viavi, let her write me and I will tell her what it has done for me. 

Yours sincerely, E. McK. 

Steubenville, Ohio, Dec. 3, 1897. 



I had weakness of the uterus of such nature that I 

Miscarriages, had miscarriages every time I became pregnant. 

Easy Delivery I got a three months' treatment of Viavi, and 

before I had used it all I was cured. I became 

pregnant again, and now have a fine baby boy. I had a very easy delivery, 
got up quickly and very well, and can now say I was never so well in my 
life. I hope this letter may induce some weak woman to try Viavi truly the 
mother's friend. MRS. A. S. 

Vesper, Wood Co., Wis. 

Realizing how serious was my condition, I deem 

Nervous Exhaustion it a duty I owe to humanity to let others suffering 

and Paralysis as I was know of the benefit I derived from the 

in a Man Viavi treatment. I had been suffering for many 

years with a complication of diseases, paralysis 

being the most prominent, and had been under several doctors, one of whom 
said it was imperative for me to give up all business for twelve months. 
Another doctor told my eldest son that he regarded my condition as being so 
serious that he warned him and his family to exercise all possible care and be 
prepared for any future development. The loss of nerve power was so 
seriously regarded that it was feared the brain would soon become affected 
dangerous symptoms had already been noticed by the doctor. 

On the day I became a Viavi patron I was examined by a highly 



546 VIAVI HYGIENE 

qualified doctor, who agreed with former medical men's opinions and stated to 
my wife that he did not think I could live one month, possibly would not 
reach home that day, as paralysis was not a " hair's breadth from the brain." 
After consulting Miss Glassford little hope was given of my recovery, but my 
family, having had some experience with the Viavi treatment, felt anxious 
that I should give it a trial, and we took Viavi upon our own responsi- 
bility. 

I having now been a patron just over eighteen months, we are all more 
thankful than we can express for the splendid results obtained, which are 
beyond what the most sanguine of us had expected. It has undoubtedly added 
years to my life, and enabled me to conduct and superintend my own affairs, 
which involve me in much care and responsibility. 

I should be most pleased for you to make use of this, with the view of 
my experience being helpful in bringing relief to other sufferers. 

I should be glad to answer any questions, personally or by letter, from 
anyone whom you may refer to me. 

Thanking you for your kindly interest in my case, I remain, 

Most gratefully yours, (MR.) T. J. 
Clapham, England, yth July, 1898. 



I have been a great sufferer for over twelve years. 

Rheumatism, For nearly three years I was treated for rheumatism, 

Neuralgia, neuralgia, liver troubles, etc. About nine years 

Fibroid Tumor, ago I was told by my physician that I had ovarian 

Itiver and trouble. That year I was confined to my bed 

Ovarian Trouble most of the time. God only knows what I 

suffered. My friends thought I never should get 

up. I believe that if I had not had one of the best physicians I ever knew 
and the best of care by my husband and friends, I never should. Since then I 
have been most of the time under a physician's care, yet it seemed that I 
could not get well. I was never free from pain ; at times it was so great that I 
had to be kept under the influence of morphine. Last year I suffered very 
much with pain around the heart, twice the left breast being so badly swollen 
that I could not bear the weight of my clothing. I had almost given up all 
hope of ever being any better. 

On the first day of January I learned of the wonderful cure, Viavi. 
I thought I would try it, hoping for a cure, but will say that my faith was not 
very strong, as I had tried so long and so many things. Under the treatment 
my improvement was rapid for about two months. I feel like a well woman, 
can do what I please, walk where I please, and come home without pain. 
I feel that I cannot say enough for an agency that has done so much for me. 
I wish every suffering woman would use it. Anyone wishing to ask me any 



TESTIMONIALS $47 

questions, I shall be glad to answer. It will take too long to tell all I have 
suffered and how thankful I am that I used Viavi. 

MRS. J. M. D. 
Huntsville, Mo., July 23, 1892. 



When writing of my experience with Viavi in '92 I felt somewhat timid 
as to narrating all my ills, and therefore refrained from stating that I had also 
been afflicted with fibroid tumor, which was entirely absorbed, and all my 
other ailments completely cured by using Viavi faithfully and persistently 
for seven months. 

The old troubles have never returned and to-day the uterine organs are 
in so healthy a condition that I am scarcely aware of their existence. Viavi 
cured me permanently, effectually. MRS. J. M. D. 

Clarence, Mo., January 31, 1896. 

Three years ago something appeared on my breast 

Cancer about the size of a pinhead, at first looking very 

much like a mole, but eventually developing into 

a cancer, increasing in size, until a year ago it had become as large as my 
finger, with sharp, darting pains, as if a needle were being thrust through it. 
Five months ago I began using Viavi, applying the cerate continually to the 
cancerous affection ; now it is wholly absorbed, and to-day there is not the 
slightest trace of it remaining. 

The Viavi treatment has given me a good, healthy appetite, and sound 
sleep at night. All praise to Viavi. 

Respectfully yours, MRS. E. R. 
Gran by, Mo., Dec. 19, 1895. 



A SUBSEQUENT 

I received your letter of inquiry about my testimonial. In reply I will 
say that every word of it is true. Yes, Viavi did a great work for me, for I 
was almost in the grave when I began to use it. 

Yours truly, MRS. E. R. 
Granby, Mo., Jan. 4, 1899. 

My daughter has had nervous trouble for eight 

St Vitus' Dance years ; had St. Virus' dance and had used many 
remedies, but never found anything that helped 

her as much as Viavi has. She has taken the capsules and cerate a little over four 
months ; is about cured yes, cured. It is the wonder of everyone that knew 
of her trouble. Thanks to my Heavenly Father and The Viavi Company for 
what has been done for me and mine. MRS. W. B. S. 

Santa Fe, N. M., April 6, 1896. 



548 VIA VI HYGIENE 

It gives me great pleasure to add my testimonial 

Fibroid Tumor, to the already large number of those from sufler- 

Painful Menstruation, ing women who have been saved and who ewe 

Ovaritis , their lives to that God -given help, Viavi ; for 

Indigestion, such it is. And how natural it is, when we feel 

Miscarriages, etc., that we are saved, to reach out a helping hand 

Castration Advised to save others ! 

I have been a suffering woman for fifteen 

years. In fact, I have always had painful menstruation, indigestion, piles, 
bladder trouble and liver complaint, and have had several miscarriages in 
fact, everything that woman is heir to, and from my first miscarriage had 
falling of the womb. At length my throat troubled me so badly I feared that 
if I did not get help I should have consumption. After taking treatment from 
a specialist for nearly a year, and my throat not yielding to the treatment, he 
said I must have some serious uterine trouble, and advised an examination. 
The result was, he told me I had a fibroid tumor of the uterus. I had exces- 
sive flooding and was obliged to keep my bed for days each month. The 
tumor grew larger and larger, and I grew weaker. 

"" This was six years ago last August. I was taken very ill with flooding 
and a terrible pain in the uterus and ovaries. I thought I had suffered, but I had 
never known the meaning of pain before. I was boarding at a hotel ; so I was 
taken to the hospital, where I could have the best care. There I was examined 
by several of the best physicians. They all agreed that I had a fibroid tumor, 
and also an ovarian tumor on either side, and said that I could never get well 
without an operation. That meant to remove the uterus and ovaries. I was 
very anxious to have this done, as I thought it would relieve my suffering. 
My husband would not listen nor consent to it until we had tried everything 
else. 

I remained in the hospital six months and was no better, and at times 
thought I should go insane, when, through a friend, we heard of Viavi. My 
husband was very anxious for me to try it, and went to the Viavi office 
in Chicago, where they gave him some encouragement, but said that I 
might have to use it six months before I could see that I was being benefited, 
and did not want me to commence it unless I would promise to do that. I had 
little or no faith in it, but decided, as a last resort, to give it a thorough trial. 
They did not promise a cure in that time ; said I might be obliged to use it a 
year, and even longer, to become entirely cured. My husband sent me a 
course treatment of Viavi capsules and cerate. This was one year ago the ist 
of April. I used it faithfully for one year. 

When I had used it three months I could see that I was better, and 
slowly, but surely, I improved, until I can truthfully say I am perfectly well. 
The tumor has disappeared ; the uterus is in its natural position ; I have no 
more flooding nor pain during my menstrual period. In fact, I have not had 



TESTIMONIALS 549 

a sick day in six months. The world never looked so beautiful, and the people 
never were so pleasant. When I begaji the use of Viavi I weighed one hun- 
dred and thirteen pounds ; now I weigh one hundred and forty-two pounds, 
and I have walked from four to five miles in a day with no bad effects, except 
to feel tired, but after a good night's rest would feel as good as new. I feel 
that as Viavi has saved my life, I might save the lives of others. 

And now, my dear readers, do not think this is simply an advertisement; 
it is true, every word of it, and I will gladly answer all questions. 

I have lived in Battle Creek twenty j^ears, where I am well known. I 
spent eight months in the hospital here. 

Hoping this may be the means of saving many suffering women, I am, 

Yours for health, MRS. H. P. K. 
Battle Creek, Mich., Apr. 13, 1897. 

BETTER FROM THE HUSBAND. 

I have for some time been contemplating writing you to express my 
gratitude for what Viavi has done for me in effecting a complete cure of a 
fibroid tumor, from which my wife was a great sufferer. 

We were told by leading physicians in numerous places that nothing 
but a surgical operation, consisting of the removal of both ovaries and uterus, 
would save her life. I was certain that such an operation, instead of saving 
her life, would cause her death, and determined not to submit to it until we 
had tried everything else. I had seen the deadly effects of one operation of 
this kind on the person of my only sister, who never fully recovered from the 
shock, and who died a few weeks afterward. 

In the course of my investigations I learned of Viavi and decided to 
give it a trial. After a persistent use of Viavi for a little more than a 
year, my wife was a well woman. In fact, her health was, and now is, better 
than at any time before for twenty years. You can therefore readily see why 
I am so grateful to you for this greatest of all agencies, as it saved the life of 
my wife and made her a healthy woman. 

If you can in any way use this letter, or any part of it, so as to advance 
the good work you are doing, you are at liberty to do so. 

Battle Creek, Mich., Feb. i, 1898. Yours truly, H. P. K. 

It is a great satisfaction for me to give expression 

Sprained Ankle to the benefit that I have derived from the use of 
the Viavi cerate in the case of a severe sprain. I 

sprained my ankle in falling from a bicycle, and after using liniments and 
other remedies for nearly three months, my ankle was yet so weak that I was 
compelled to employ the aid of crutches in walking. I tried the Viavi cerate 
for about one month, and can now walk without any assistance. 
Lansing, Mich., Jan. 14, 1896. Yours truly, S. I. C. 



550 VI A VI HYGIENE 

We have been using the Viavi cerate three months 

Delicate Baby and want to tell you how much it has done for us 

already. Our baby was two years old in July, but 

had always been so very delicate that no one thought that there was any chance 
for her to live. Her lungs were weak and she was constantly urinating ; would 
pass quantities of water every five or ten minutes. Her stomach was so weak 
that the sight of hair combings or scraps of any kind would turn her stomach, 
and if she saw a piece of cotton batting it gave her a gagging sensation. She 
had no appetite and had not sufficient strength to stand up. This was her con- 
dition on the 25th of July, when we decided to try the Viavi cerate, and the 
change that it has wrought in her is wonderful. She is now commencing to 
walk ; is getting fat and good-natured ; her appetite is much improved and 
her stomach is no longer so easily turned. She passes much less water than she 
used to. 

With much gratitude for what your cerate has done for us, we are, 

Very truly your friends, Jos. K. AND R. J. 

Mesa, Ariz., Nov., 1895. 

[In this case quicker and better results would have been secured by 
placing the child under the full Viavi treatment for such a condition. This 
would have consisted in the use of the Viavi liquid, five drops in water three 
times a day, taken into the stomach, in addition to the external use of the cerate. 
In all such cases it is advisable to communicate with the Hygienic Department 
of the nearest Viavi office, which will furnish full instructions without 
charge. EDITOR.] 

For twenty years I had been for a greater part of 

Dropsy of the Heart f the time obliged to take medicine. In that time I 
Bone Sore employed the best accredited physicians; have also 

tried change of climate, at one time leaving my 
home for two years, trying to find health. 

About three years ago the weakness of my body developed that dread 
disease, dropsy of the heart; I could not lie down at night; could not lie on 
the left side. My breath was so short that I was unable to walk; my feet and 
limbs were bloated; stomach so weak that I could not eat solid food; lived for 
months on milk and raw egg. I grew worse, until eighteen mouths ago I was 
obliged to give up exercise, being so weak that the exertion of going from 
room to room would cause such a pressure on the heart that I would fall 
wherever I was, and would often lie in an unconscious state for two hours, the 
action of the heart stopping. Blood settled under my finger nails; my lips 
turned purple. Blood settled in dark rings under my eyes, giving me every 
aopearance of death, I was told. I was told by the doctor that I could expect 
jeiief only; that, I knew, must come by tapping. 

I took, as a last earthly hope, Viavi capsules and cerate, rubbing the 



TESTIMONIALS 5Si 

cerate faithfully on the abdomen, and over the heart, stomach aud liver. 
After eighteen months I can say that the water is all gone; that the heart beats 
naturally, where it once jarred my whole body at every throb, and that my 
limbs are free from bloat, my appetite good; that food does not distress me, 
and that I can sleep on either side. 

If any one wishes to inquire further about my case, I will answer all 
questions. Respectfully, MRS. W. W. H. 

I forgot to say that one day in the stable I stooped to pick up a brush. 
The pressure on my heart was so great that I lost consciousness and fell 
through a trapdoor into the barn cellar. I struck my leg, just below the knee, 
against the sharp edge of the door (no doubt with great force, as I weighed 
two hundred and sixty-five pounds), making a sore that could not heal. The 
doctor gave me different remedies, saying that it was a bone sore, but it grew 
worse. Then I began using Viavi cerate on it, and in four months the sore 
was well and has troubled me none since. W. W. H. 

Laconia, N. H., January, 1896. 

I feel it my bounden duty, as well as an exalted 

laceration, privilege, to add my testimonial to the thousands 

I^eucorrhea t of others in the praise of the most wonderful of all 

Affection of agencies, Viavi. My health began to fail at the 

Stomach, Heart, birth of my youngest child, twenty-six years ago. 

Kidneys, etc. I was in hard labor two days and nights, and 

finally my child had to be taken with instruments. 

My womb was badly lacerated, and I was taken with childbed fever; had a 
violent attack; was at death's door for weeks. 

Finally I recovered from the fever, but was a physical wreck. I began 
treating with the doctors. From first to last I was treated by fifteen doctors. 
Four of them are considered as good as any in the State. I received but little 
benefit. My life was a burden. One would treat me for my stomach, another 
for my heart, another for my throat, another for my kidneys, another my 
womb, and another for rheumatism, and so on; and I really suppose that I had 
all of these troubles. Two years ago I was taken with nervous chills; sometimes 
had several in one day. I got so low that I had two attacks of heart failure. 
At that time I had two of the best doctors in the State. They patched me up 
so that I could drag around. Life had for me but little pleasure. I then quit 
all doctors and medicines, and got along about as well without them. 

On the yth day of last November a faithful worker for Viavi visited our 
town and delivered two lectures. I heard them both and was inspired with 
enough hope to make one more effort to regain my health, and I will always 
thank God and Viavi that I made the effort. I can hardly describe my condi- 
tion when I began the treatment on the 9th of November, 1895, I think that I 



55* VIAVI HYGIENE 

was suffering from almost everything that a woman could suffer from while 
passing through the change of life. I had distressing stomach, heart, throat 
and lung trouble; terrible flooding spells, with untold misery in my head; 
such queer feelings that I could not stand without holding on to something. 

The first two weeks I took the treatment it had a soothing effect; I slept 
better. The third week all my symptoms were aggravated and I felt much 
worse, but kept right on with Viavi. The fourth week I was still worse and 
unable to walk; for four days I was almost helpless, but still kept on with the 
treatment. When my sufferings were very great I would take it only every 
other night. By the end of the fifth week I was a great deal better, and 
at the end of the seventh week I felt better than I had for twenty years. Now 
my monthly periods are natural and painless, and I feel much improved in 
every respect. 

Dear, suffering sisters, let me say to you, This is a Godsend to you. It 
will do all that it claims to do, and even more if faithfully used. But you 
must not expect to be cured of diseases of years' standing in a few days or 
weeks. It may take a year or even longer, but it will cure if you persevere. 
I expect to use it until I am well, if it takes two years. In speaking of my 
symptoms I forgot to say that I had suffered all these years with leucorrhea, 
and could not walk half a mile without suffering. When I had used the treat- 
ment two months I could walk three miles in a day without feeling tired. 

Praying God's blessing upon all the workers in this noble cause, I 
remain, Your sincere friend, 

MRS. M. I. C., 

Wife of the Pastor of the Church, Salisbury, N. C. 

Salisbury, N. C., Feb. 24, 1896. 



It is with the greatest pleasure that I recommend 

Dyspepsia your little Viavi tablettes to any one suffering 

in SL Man from stomach trouble. I have for years been 

troubled with dyspepsia, and have tried numerous 

remedies, but to no effect. As an experiment I procured a package of these 
tablettes, and am free to acknowledge that after one mouth's trial I feel com- 
pletely relieved and do not suffer any more from my old malady. 

My stomach had arrived at that condition where I was almost afraid to 
eat anything, and I was in constant torture; but now that is entirely changed 
and I eat anything I desire and feel no worse for it. I say again, this Viavi 
is a splendid article. 

Yours respectfully, W. E. O'B., 

Commissoner of Labor for Iowa. 
Des Moines, Iowa. July 30, 1895. 

[The foregoing letter seems to indicate that only the Viavi tablettes were 



TESTIMONIALS 



553 



used. Had the full Viavi treatment for dyspepsia been employed, the results 
would have been much better. In all diseases for which there is a form of the 
Viavi treatment, the details of the treatment should be ascertained and 
employed. The Hygienic Department of the nearest Viavi office will furnish 
all the desired information, if it cannot be readily obtained from some more 
convenient source. EDITOR.] 

I have been thinking for some time about writing 

Fibroid Tumor, you how much Viavi has done for me. It has 

Flowing saved my life. I commenced flowing would flow 

four weeks and stop one week, sometimes two 

weeks. The doctor was unable to stop the flow; so he operated on me four 
times. Each time the flow would stop for two or three months, then return with 
redoubled force. I found I could stand this no longer. I spent most of my 
time in bed for two years. The doctor said that I had a fibroid tumor. He 
told me I never should be able to accomplish anything again; that there was 
nothing he could do for me but to remove the uterus. But I could not take 
anymore ether (I had come near dying in the last operation); so there was 
nothing more to do but just to make me as comfortable as possible and let 
Nature take its course. Some days I was faint most of the day. 

After using Viavi a short time, pieces that looked like liver commenced 
passing from the womb, and slowly, but surely, quarts of this discharge passed 
off. A small tumor with the skin all around it, and a piece five inches long, 
came from the Fallopian tube. When the pieces came it caused great pain. 
You can see the roots on the pieces, so they have come out by the roots. 

I have used Viavi two years and have never been in bed from flowing 
since using it. I have not been so well for ten years as I am at the present 
time. Every day of my life I feel like saying, "Thank God for Viavi." 

I shall never forget your kindness in coming to see me. You were the 
first one that gave me a word of hope. May God bless you in your good work 
and may your kind words make brighter the lives of many suffering women. 

I wish people would persevere in using Viavi, for it is the only agency I 
know of that will cure uterine troubles and it must be used just as directed. I 
remain, Your friend, MRS. E. J. M. 

Oakland, Cal., Dec. 10, 1893. 

I am in perfect health, no signs of the tumor returning. I have been 
perfectly well ever since I stopped using Viavi. MRS. E. J. M. 

Oakland, January 15, 1899. 

[The permanency of the Viavi cure is well illustrated in the foregoing 
testimonial. This is simply by reason of the fact that the causes of the abnor- 
mal conditions are removed a task that surgery cannot perform. EDITOR.! 



554 VIAVI HYGIENE 

When I began to use your most valuable Viavi 

Uterine Trouble, I had been an invalid for thirteen years. I have 

Rectal Ulcers had seven children, and as they came very quickly, 

one after another, I suffered a great deal from 

uterine troubles and weaknesses. I had employed skillful physicians, and had 
tried different modes of treatment, but had gained only temporary relief from 
any of them. 

I used the Viavi capsules and cerate faith fully for nine months. I also 
suffered from ulcers, high up in the rectum, for which I used the Viavi rectal 
suppositories atthe same time also for nine months, using double-strength 
suppositories the last three months. I can truly say the results were most sat- 
isfactory, for at the end of that time I was a well woman, and though it is two 
years since I gave up the use of Viavi, I continue so. I was afraid it would be 
the same with Viavi as it had been with all the other treatmentsthat after I 
had given up using it, I should go back, and soon be as bad as ever. But no ; 
Viavi had done its work so perfectly that I have remained entirely free from 
my old troubles. I do most heartily recommend Viavi to all my suffering 
sisters. I remain, yours gratefully, MRS. J. H. 

Los Angeles, Cal., Apr. 16, 1897. 



For the benefit of those who are no longer young 

Change of 1,1 fe t I wish to add my testimonial to the long list of 
Ovarian Tumor Viavi cures. I am seventy-one years of age, and 

my trouble began at the critical period when I was 

forty-five. Menstruation stopped suddenly, and I had a constant throbbing, 
burning pain over the abdomen, which caused intense suffering, especially at 
night. Finally there was a lump the size of a hen's egg formed in the region 
of the left ovary that was so painful that I feared a cancer. I consulted no 
doctors, for I had no confidence in them, and then went on suffering until I 
was sixty-nine years old. On hearing of the Viavi treatment I learned that my 
suffering all came from the poisonous secretion retained in the uterine organs 
by the sudden cessation of the menstrual flow. I took a thorough course of 
both Viavi capsules and cerate, and after using the treatment six months I 
menstruated quite naturally for two days. Then came a brownish discharge 
from the vagina, which changed to a mattery, yellowish color, and was very 
offensive. My friends were greatly worried, thinking it must be a cancer. 
The discharge lasted one year, then gradually decreased, and stopped entirely. 
The lump in my side and the pain had all disappeared, and I have had no 
symptoms whatever of their return. I know I should not be living to-day had 
I not used Viavi. I heartily recommend it to all, and consider it a wonderful 
cure for uterine trouble in any form. Yours sincerely, MRS. H. A. D. 
Oakland, Cal., Jan. ai, 1895, 



TESTIMONIALS 555 

I have-beeu a great sufferer from female difficulties 

Displacements, since the age of puberty. I had retro version, 

Ovaritis, Painful anteversion and prolapsus of the uterus ; also 

Menstruation, inflammation and congestion of my ovaries, and 

Stomach and suffered much from inflammation of the bladder 

Bladder Troubles; and internal piles. My stomach was in a dreadful 

Feared Insanity condition all the time, and I had palpitation of 

the heart very frequently. My life was a perfect 

burden, and I lived in dread and horror of the return of my monthly period. 
Indeed, I feared insanity from the terrible effect upon my mind. 

I tried many remedies and employed the best physicians in Nebraska 
and Iowa, and as a last resort went to Chicago to a hospital. The verdict, 
after a very thorough examination, was that I must undergo a very severe 
operation. This I felt I could not endure, and insisted upon taking local 
treatment for eighteen weeks, but only grew worse all the time, and they told 
me I must die. I managed to live to get home, expecting to return to the 
hospital as soon as I had regained strength enough to undergo the operation. 
No one thought I could live but a very short time. 

My mother investigated Viavi and purchased a three months' treatment, 
and I began using it, much against my wishes, and without any faith in it 
whatever. When I had used it two months I could see a slight improvement, 
and at the end of four months I was very much improved, so much so that I 
taught school the following fall and winter. 

I improved steadily after beginning the use of Viavi two years ago, and 
am well now. My monthly periods are regular, and I suffer very little pain, 
even sleep well. I wish it were in my power to influence every suffering 
woman to give Viavi a fair trial, for I know it will not only relieve and help 
them, but permanently cure them. I used it only a few months, and my 
restoration is wonderful. I shall be very glad to answer all letters addressed 
to me. Yours respectfully, M. M. D. 

A I,ATER BETTER. 

After two years, during which time I have worked hard and continu- 
ously, I can gladly say that I am well and know that my restoration to health 
by means of Viavi is permanent. Heartily yours, M. M. D. 



We wish to offer a word to the afflicted. Five 

Hip Disease, years ago our little daughter, Fern, was attacked 

Undeveloped L,imb with hydrarthrosis, or white swelling, commonly 

of Young Girl called hip disease. She was relieved by medical 

treatment, but a year later, while attending 

school, she had another severe attack, and we called in our family physician, 



556 VIAVI HYGIENE 

who treated her for some days. As she was getting worse we called auother 
physician, who recommended appliances; but as she was already greatly 
exhausted from pain and was extremely nervous we could not think of doing 
anything that would increase these conditions. A friend wished us to try 
electric treatment, which we did, with good results for a time, but it lost its 
effect, and she again commenced to run down. We tried different kinds of 
liniment, which relieved her temporarily, but her system was gradually 
succumbing to disease. 

We were persuaded to call on your representative two years ago this 
month, as Fern had become very frail and weak and had to be carried about 
like an infant. The least movement of her leg would cause her to cry out 
with pain. She would even cry in her sleep and as soon as she awakened in 
the morning. The first effect we noticed from the Viavi treatment was an 
improvement in the child's appetite and good rest at night; she would 
awaken in the morning bright and cheerful instead of languid and weary, and 
it was only a short time until she could get around quite well with one 
crutch ; then she could go with only a cane, and in less than a year from the 
time we commenced the Viavi treatment she ran around without any support. 
She is now in school and in apparently good health. It is our firm belief that 
her recovery is due entirely to Viavi, as we discontinued all other treatments. 
We can recommend this to all who are suffering from nervous or chronic 
troubles, believing they will receive gratifying results from its thorough and 
careful application. Gratefully yours, E. and T. S. (her parents. ) 

Oskaloosa, la., April 30, 1897. 

[Fern is now past twelve years of age. Before taking this treatment she 
had not grown for more than two years. She is now growing well, and the 
affected leg-has developed until it has reached the normal size.] 



I attended a course of Viavi lectures given here in 

J?istnla, November, and want to thank you for placing 

Tumor through your instructive way the Godsend in the 

form of the Viavi rectal suppositories. No one but 

myself ever knew what a sufferer I was, and having gone through a critical 
and painful operation at Indianapolis for fistula, found only temporary relief. 
I used to bloat fearfully and become despondent, but after using the Viavi sup- 
positories and cerate for a few months I was relieved by something passing 
from my rectum resembling a chicken craw, as nearly as I could describe it. 
Several days after, what seemed to be strings and pieces of flesh came away, 
but now I consider myself a cured woman. 

Will answer any letter enclosing stamp, and will explain more fully my 
condition, if I can help relieve by my experience any sufferer. MRS. N. 

Jacksonville, 111., May 21, 1897. 



TESTIMONIALS 557 

My mother says she is the happiest woman in 

Painful Mansfield over my cure. I was a healthy girl 

Menstruation from until I was fourteen years old; then my health 

Puberty; Spells began to fail, and two years ago I began to have 

of Unconsciousness spells of unconsciousness, which grew harder and 

longer each month at the menstrual period. These 

spells became very alarming and sometimes lasted three or four hours. I 
failed in body and mind; had the best physicians procurable, who gave me no 
relief. 

My mother purchased the first Viavi that was bought in Mansfield. My 
case became so serious, we were like a drowning man, willing to grasp at a 
straw. After beginning the use of Viavi I never had a real spell of uncon- 
sciousness, but the first and second month I felt bad and had a numb feeling. 
After two months I grew better rapidly, both in body and mind, and in 
three months I considered myself well. I am now in the best of health 
and have been well over four months at this writing. I feel that I am perma- 
nently cured. I am now twenty years old and, after suffering for six long years, 
feel like urging other young girls in like condition to use Viavi. Mother and 
myself will ever be grateful that this great cure Viavi, was made known 
to us. 

I will gladly answer any inquiries personally or by mail, if a stamped 
and addressed enveloped is enclosed. I cannot say too much in praise of Viavi. 
Mansfield, Penn., Nov. 28, 1896. Miss F. H. 



When my baby was about one month old her nose 
seemed to be filling up and quite an eruption 
in an Infant ; appeared over the eyes. For three weeks I used 

an Extreme Case common remedies, thinking it only cold, but it 
grew worse and I called a physician, who said it 

was inflammation of the nose. After several weeks' treatment she was no bet- 
ter, the physician saying he had never seen anything like it, and could not 
tell what it was. She was growing rapidly worse; could not breathe through 
her nose at all; her head was covered with an eruption; finger nails festered 
and came off; feet and hands turned black, and she was a mass of eruption 
from the navel to the thighs. At this time we consulted another physician, 
who said it was a skin disease and that he would prepare a medicine for her, 
but her little stomach was already in such a condition she could not retain 
anything, not even breast milk. 

At this time, when the baby was three months old, we were advised to 
try Viavi, which we did gladly and faithfully for three months, and as a result 
have a well baby not a blemish on her body. MRS. I. I* 

Jamestown, N. Y., November, 1896. 



55* VIAVJ HYGIENE 

For seven years I was greatly troubled with cervical 

Ulceration of Womb r inflammation and ulceration of the uterus. My 

Ovarian InfLum- back would ache so badly, there was such a pain 

motion, Backache, in my left ovary, and the top of my head felt so 

Headache; Physi- bad that I thought I should go insane before I 

cian Advised Viavi could get any help. I took local treatment of my 

home doctor for years, but could get no relief 

excepting for a short time. I heard of Viavi and what it had done for others 
that I knew. I bought a month's course of capsules and cerate, experiencing 
very little benefit from it; indeed, it caused such a relaxation and so prostrated 
me that I became somewhat alarmed and sent for my regular physician. I 
told him what I had been using, and after making an examination he advised 
me to keep right on with it, as it was stirring up my whole system, evidently 
doing for me what his medicines had failed to do, and would no doubt be of 
great benefit if I would be persistent in spite of the unpleasant feeling it caused. 
This encouraged me so much that I bought the second month's course and 
soon got better. I kept on using it for six months, and can truly say that I 
have not felt as well in fourteen years as I do now. I have not used a particle 
in more than a year. 

Thanks to Viavi, I am well. 

Very gratefully, MRS. A. P. B. 

Lima, N. Y., August 25, 1898. 

I suffered for years with ovarian tumor. My phy- 

Ovarian Tumor, sicians said that the disease could not be reached 

Hemorrhages, Faint- by internal remedies, and that I could not possibly 

ing, Bladder live through a surgical operation; but at my 

Trouble, etc. urgent request he prepared remedies for me to 

take and I took them as an experiment. I hoped 

all the time as he changed the medicine that he would finally strike something 
that would give me relief, though he frankly told me that while he was doing 
the best he knew for me, he had no hope of success, and that the only hope 
was that my tumor seemed to be of such slow growth that I might not live for 
it to reach the worst stage. 

I had slowly been growing larger for twelve or fifteen years. In the 
years of '90 and '91 the tumor increased much more rapidly in size, producing 
severe hemorrhages, faintness, smotherings and colics. The pressure was so 
great on the nerves and blood vessels that it caused such severe swelling and 
pain of the lower limbs as frequently to prevent sleep in spite of all that could 
be done in the way of bathing and gentle rubbings to soothe them. The 
great pressure on the kidneys and the bladder caused me to get up from six to 
fifteen times each night. I could eat but little and could hardly breathe, as 
my stomach and lungs were oppressed by the rapidly increasing tumor, and 



TESTIMONIALS 559 

at times the oppression was so great that I could no* even swallow a mouthful 
of coffee. The hemorrhages became so frequent and profuse as to endanger 
my life. My face was very much the color of a rusty orange, with brown 
spots all over it. My eyes were heavy and sunken, with dark circles under 
them. My waist measure was forty-nine and a half inches. The tumor had 
for some time been increasing at the rate of an inch or more a week, and I 
was so helpless that I could not get up without assistance. 

This was my wretched condition when Viavi was brought to my notice. 
I was hopeless as well as helpless, for two physicians had told me that there 
was no help but surgery, and that it would be impossible for me to live through 
a surgical operation. I felt so entirely hopeless and my sufferings were so 
great that I did not want to try Viavi, feeling that the effort would only be 
one 'more tax on my rapidly failing strength, and I had not one particle of 
faith in its helping me. My husband read the book and circulars, and was so 
exceedingly anxious for me to try Viavi that after much urging on his part 1 
finally consented, merely that he might feel that everything had been done 
for me that could be done. I began the use of the treatment about the first of 
March, 1892, and soon found the hemorrhages entirely stopped, and they never 
returned. 

My husband was closely watching the experiment, and thought he saw 
a little improvement in my looks. He would question me closely to know if 
I were feeling some better, but I was afraid to say or think so, for fear of raising 
false hopes. 

I soon found that I did not have to get up so much at night, and I shall 
never forget my surprise and delight when after some weeks I found I had 
slept the entire night through without once getting up, and felt rested and 
refreshed as I had not done for a long time. Then I began to think and say 
and feel that I should get well. I found that the tumor was really diminishing, 
the pain and the swelling of the limbs and the other terrible symptoms steadily 
decreasing ; in five months I had decreased in measure ten and a half inches. 
I could eat a good square meal, my color became natural, and I could take 
long rides and could walk about. And I, who for a long time had been unable 
to ascend a short flight of stairs in my own house, was able to go to a pleasure 
resort and descend one hundred and fifty feet to the bottom of the dell and up 
again without help, by taking my time to the ascent. It seemed to me almost 
a miracle, or as if I had awakened from a horrid nightmare. 

Now, thanks to Viavi, I am in comfortable health. I can go where and 
do what I please, either in the way of work or pleasure, with the assurance 
fihat there is not a vestige of the tumor remaining to molest or make me afraid. 

MRS. JUWA F. H. 
Crawfordsville, Ind., June 29, 1895. 



560 VIAVI HYGIENE 

As I always feel interested in aiding a good work, 

Retroversion, and as no one, I think, can better appreciate the 

Painful and inestimable benefits which Viavi can bring to suf- 

Excessive Men- fering women than myself, I take pleasure in add- 

Struation ing my testimonial to those of the many women 

who have been raised from lives of suffering and 

disease to strength and happiness. My trouble was a sharp retroversion of the 
womb aud prolonged and painful menstruation. At two different times I was 
confined in the much-dreaded hospital and under the care of a specialist, and 
while I received benefits there, I was never well until I used Viavi. I feel to-day 
that I am a well woman. I cannot say too much in praise of your graud 
Viavi, and I trust that it may be brought to many a home to dispel the 
Clouds of suffering. Yours very truly, MRS. J. J. 

Machias, N. Y., August 21, 1897. 



It is a pleasure to me to be able to write to you of 

Anteversion, the wonderful effect of the use of Viavi. You 

Sickness at remember probably the feeble condition in which 

Stomach you found me, and how almost discouraged and 

without faith I had become after suffering many 

years. At length, after being induced to try it, I noticed during the first 
month that the pressure on my bladder was less, and I could sometimes lie in 
bed throughout the entire night. At the end of two months' treatment I 
began to feel more vigorous in the mornings and had less sickness at the 
stomach. Formerly I could eat little but eggs aud milk. If I had received 
no other benefit from the use of Viavi I should consider myself blessed in the 
knowledge of its existence. I would take food, and it would seem as if the 
stomach would throw it up almost spitefully, and I grew faint and cold, and 
so depressed that I would think if I must spend the rest of my days like this 
I would rather die. Then I would think my family needed me and I would 
try to rise above it. Now, after six months' Viavi treatment, I have gained 
over thirty pounds; so I say I don't need to speak, for my appearance adver- 
tises the benefit I have received. My friends say, "You are feeling better; 
you show it in your face." If I were able, and knew of any suffering as I 
have suffered, I would willingly give Viavi to them I have so much confidence 
in its virtue. I would gladly answer any letters any sufferer may address 
to MRS. E. A. G. 

I am pleased to state that although some five years have passed since I 
received wonderful benefit from the use of Viavi, I am still free from the old 
troubles, and would recommend it to anyone suffering from uterine difficulties. 
Gloucester, Mass., July 28, 1897. MRS. E. A. G. . 



TESTIMONIALS 561 

For twenty years I have been a great sufferer with 
Bleeding piles. During the last five years I was constantly 
Piles treated by several physicians while at a hospital 

in Boston. The benefit was only temporary while 
under the doctor's care. 

Through a lady whom I met at the hospital I learned of the Viavi 
treatment and decided to give it a trial. In March, '97, I began the use of the 
treatment, taking a complete course. I used the Viavi rectal suppositories in 
connection with the cerate, and also used the Viavi capsules. In about three 
weeks the bleeding stopped entirely, but I kept right on with the treatment, 
for fear the trouble would return. I used the treatment for about two months 
faithfully, not stopping when I thought I was well, as I was fearful of a return 
of the suffering, and wanted to make the cure a permanent one. I consider 
myself to-day entirely and completely cured of the piles in their worst form, 
and give the credit of my cure to Viavi. MRS. P. T. B. 

Dorchester, Mass., July 19, 1897. 

I will gladly say a good word for Viavi, as I had 

Supposed Cancer, suffered many years with womb trouble in various 

Enlargement, forms and have been constantly under the doctor's 

Displacement, treatment for the past fourteen years. I was told 

Hemorrhages, that if I could live until the change of life I 

Convulsions, might be better, but never could be well. Three 

Ovaritis times I have nearly lost my life from hemorrhage, 

and every month would have convulsions and 

flow terribly. Two years ago the flow became constant, and the doctors could 
check it only a few days at a time. The last physician I had, previous to our 
Viavi treatment, said he thought I had cancer of the womb, and took me to 
a specialist, who said I had no cancer, but that the womb was of unnatural 
size, and had an abnormal growth on the inside; the womb also was tipped, 
bowed down, and badly congested and inflamed; that the ovaries also were 
inflamed, and that I could not not be relieved without an operation. He pro- 
posed to cauterize the womb. This was the i5th day of May, 1892. The I7th of 
July following, the same year, I began the use of Viavi, and have had no 
operation nor any other treatment since. Three days after I began the use of 
Viavi the hemorrhage above-mentioned ceased, and afterwards I became 
regular and now have no convulsions. At that time I could not go up or 
down stairs, walk nor ride any distance. I had to be carried when I desired 
to go, which was seldom. Now I can walk, ride and go up and down stairs 
when I wish to, and to Viavi only do I give the credit. I should add that in 
connection with the Viavi capsules I have the Viavi cerate, which I consider 
invaluable. MRS. J. A. J. 

Andover, Conn., Sept. 8, 1897. 



562 VIAVI HYGIENB 

I am only too glad to testify to the merits of Viavi. 

Tumor between For eighteen years I had been unable to turn in 

Womb and Rectum, bed, or to rise from bed in the morning without 

Bloating my husband's assistance. I have not been one 

moment without pain for the past eight years, my 

trouble being a false growth in the intervening tissues of the uterus and 
rectum. I had given up all hope ; it seemed to me that my reason must soon 
give way. I was so badly bloated that I did not attempt to step further than 
my flower garden. 

I have been under the Viavi treatment ten weeks. During that time 
the remains of the blood tumor have sloughed away, the pain has entirely 
ceased, the bloated condition also has passed away. I take the cars to the 
beach ; go down town to do my shopping, walking both ways, about one and 
a half miles ; go up and down stairs, do all that I need to do, and as I tell my 
husband, who no longer has to assist me to rise in the morning, the grit of 
early days is mine again. I wish to have my entire name in print as proof of 
my gratitude for the recovery which is mine from the use of Viavi, accom- 
panied by the hygienic measures recommended. Will answer any inquiries 
made. 

MRS. W. S. 
New London, Conn., Sept. 14, 1897. 



I feel it a duty I owe to the Viavi Company and 

Kidney Trouble, humanity to write you a letter of recommendation 

J^eucorrhea, for the virtue of your treatment. Five years ago 

Pregnancy, I was a great sufferer from and with kidney trouble, 

Ulceration ; leucorrhea, ulceration of the womb and the many 

Permanency of Cure reflex symptoms attendant upon these troubles. I 

treated with physicians and did everything I knew 

of, to get relief, but failed. Viavi was introduced to me, and I commenced 
using it and continued for nearly one year; and I can truthfully say that I was 
cured of all my afflictions by its use, and to-day am not troubled with them, 
although it is five years since I used Viavi, thus demonstrating the per- 
manency of the cure. 

I heartily recommend it to women during pregnancy. I used it during 
the entire term and had the easiest confinement I ever had. It puts the 
organs in a healthy condition, and thus they are able to do their proper 
work 

Wishing you every success, sincerely, 

MRS. P. A. S. 
Ogden, Utah, Dec 14, 1898. 



TESTIMONIALS 5 6 3 

MRS. R. A. L., Wilkes Barre, Pa.: 

Displacetnentf Dear Madam Having just this night received 

Adhesions, etc.; your testimonial of the wonderful cure Viavi did for 

an Interesting Cor- you, I have written to get a testimonial of a case simi- 

respondence lar to mine that has been cured. You come the near- 

est to it, although I am not such a sufferer as you 

were, but you said you used three boxes before you could see that it was help- 
ing you. I have used nearly four three-months' treatment and am not any 
better; am nearly discouraged; have a strong inclination to stop the use of it. 

I have used eight months; it did me some good. Since, by wearing a 

Mclntosh stem supporter, I have been able to accomplish something, and rode 
three miles to church; but now I am trying Viavi and lying in bed. I have to 
wear a supporter even in bed, as the prolapsus is so bad that it pulls on the 
bladder and causes such an uncomfortable feeling. 

Do you stay well ? The principal trouble with me is prolapsus. Did you 
have hardened muscles of the glands of the neck? I am told that I have a stone- 
tumor in the pit of my stomach. Did you ever have anything like that? 

They tell me that Viavi is going to cure me, but I do not know I have 
doctored so much that is what they have all told me, but when I was through 
doctoring I was worse off than when I commenced, so you see my faith is very 
weak. 

It seems that prolapsus is so much harder to cure than any other disease 
that seems much worse. When the uterus went back to place did it stay there? 
Please write me all about the prolapsus part of your disease and as much more 
as you feel inclined to. I do not like to make too much trouble. 

I am writing lying on my back; have made a good many mistakes, but 
will send it, for it is so hard to write. 

Please write as soon as convenient. MRS. R. W. 

P. S. How did you use Viavi? One capsule each night, or a half of 
one? I have used two capsules a night at a time, and thought that perhaps it 
was too much, as I have been so bad. Please write all particulars as soon as 
you can. Of course, your testimonial is grand, but sometimes these testimo- 
nials exaggerate. You were so much sicker than I am. I am not sick-looking 
t all; am quite fleshy. Any one to look at me would think nothing ailed me, 
but the parts are so prolapsed that it seems almost impossible for me to get 
b^ter. 
Davis, Mich., September 28, 1896. 

Dear MRS. W. Your letter came to me yesterday, and I have felt every 
hour since it came that I wanted to answer it, but have had company and so 
much on hand. These friends have been gone now fifteen minutes and I 
hasten to write you. My heart goes out to you so much in your affliction; and 
Then you say you are writing in bed, that reminds me so much of myself, as I 



564 VIAVI HYGIENE 

did that for four year. And although I am a stranger to you, I am not a 
stranger to your sufferings. 

You ask me about prolapsus. Mine was not prolapsus, but anteversiou, 
and the womb had grown fast to the bladder; and you can imagine the awful 
suffering I was in, day and night. I never knew what it was to be free from 
pain except when asleep, and I seldom slept any length of time. I consider 
anteversion as hard to relieve as prolapsus. In my case the organ ha(J 
grown fast and was bound down there, and if I can be healed under these 
desperate circumstances, surely you can. I used the treatment two years and 
three months before I ever stopped one night, and there is where the benefit 
lies in being faithful. These are chronic troubles and must have chronic 
treatment. 

You ask me if I had tumors. Some M. D.'s said I had ovarian tumor. 
The left ovary was as large as a goose-egg, and I never can tell you how ter- 
ribly I suffered with it. Now that is all gone, and that side is as soft and flex- 
ible as the other. My case was considered incurable by the best M. D.'s here 
and in Philadelphia, as it was so complicated. The heart and lungs were 
affected. I had four hemorrhages of the lungs. My hair is as white, from 
awful suffering, as it ought to be at seventy years of age, and I am forty-one 
years old. c 

, You ask me if I had hardened glands of the neck. I did not have that 
one symptom, but many others that you do not have to fight against. These 
adhesions were fastened also to the bowels and when the bowels would move I 
would very often go into convulsions. I did not have one natural passage for 
four years. I had always to take one and sometimes two enemas, one of 
glycerine and another of water. I do not like to think of those awful days; 
but let me say to you, Do not be discouraged because you do not see any good 
results yet. If Viavi does not heal you nothing will, but it will if you perse- 
vere with it. 

I have a friend that had serious prolapsus. She was an entire invalid, 
and was paralyzed in one leg so that she could not use it. M. D.'s treated her 
for three years, and said that she had paralysis and could not recover. I per- 
suaded her to use Viavi. She began twice and stopped, as she became worse, 
and went back to the doctor. But she got no better; so the third time I urged 
her to use it and implored her to be faithful with it, and she was. She saw no 
relief until she had used it one year and a half. It was helping her all the 
time, such as building new tissue and strengthening muscles and making the 
ligaments strong. Finally she began slowly to mend little by little, and to-day, 
instead of being bedridden, she attends to her duties and goes about. She has ' 
been to see me three times this summer. She had not been to our city for 
eight years before, and lived only nine miles from here. She says the leg that 
was paralyzed is now her strongest leg. You see, this came from the uterus 
being out of place. She always says to me, " I would never have been as well 



TESTIMONIALS 565 

as this if you had not urged me to persevere so hard, and now how thankful I 
am that I did!" 

I wish I could see you and talk with you. My zeal is so great in favor 
of Viavi that I do not think you would become discouraged so easily again. 
You say you look well. I did not. I was mostly skin and bones, so great was 
my emaciation. This pressure of the uterus on the bladder all the time caused 
the most indescribable sufferings. I was given medicine of the most nauseating 
nature by doctors for four years, but all to no avail. But after I had used 
Viavi, the congestion and inflammation left me, and the uterus went back to 
its normal shape, size and position. What folly to take medicine for the blad- 
der and let the uterus rest on it ! When that was removed all was better. 

I have written you a long letter, but have not said as much as I want to 
say. Go right on with your treatment, and be persistent even though you do 
not see results. They will come. If at any time you should feel that you 
desire to ask me any questions do not hesitate to write me. 

Yours with sympathy, MRS. R. A. L. 

P. S. You ask me if I used half a capsule each night or a whole one. I 
used a whole one always, and sometimes used the double-strength, but not 
until I was much stronger. I always applied the cerate once a day, and when 
I was the worst, twice a day. MRS. Iy. 

Wilkes Barre, Pa., Oct. 3, 1896. 



The following remarkable correspondence con- 

Ovaritis, tains so many important things that, long as it is, 

Salpingitis, etc. f its publication is deemed advisable. An interesting 

Castration Advised circumstance in connection with the case is that 

Mr. B., a man of wide culture and controlling 

large interests, gave so much publicity to the astonishing facts herein chron- 
icled as to invite a very heavy correspondence with afflicted women and their 
husbands. He cheerfully met this demand by employing a stenographer at 
his own expense for a long time, and by diverting much of his attention from 
his affairs to what was to him a most agreeable duty : 



I consider it my duty to write you to let you know how my wife is, as I 
feel that it is due to your wonderful specific, Viavi, that she is restored from 
an invalid to a comparatively well woman. Before I state how she is at this 
time, I desire to call your attention to her condition on the I5th of January f 
at which time she began using Viavi. 

She has had, during the past eighteen months, two serious attacks. One 
was called peritonitis and the other cellulitis. The temperature in neither 
case was raised beyond half a degree. The pain which she suffered was excru- 



566 VIAVI HYGIENE 

elating. The first attack, which occurred a year ago last June, lasted about 
eight weeks, and during all the time it \vas necessary to keep her under the 
influence of opium. At one time, under the doctor's direction, I gave her 
with my own hand sixty drops of deodorized tincture of opium. This dose is 
enough to kill a strong man in perfect health. The inflammation and suffering 
were finally, after a painful, continuous effort, reduced so that with shattered 
health, my wife again began to take her place in society. Until last August 
she did not have more than six or seven sick spells in which she was obliged 
to remain in bed, but during all the time she experienced violent pain in the 
right side and in the back, and showed that her nervous system was seriously 
disturbed, so that at times she would have what were called "numb spells," 
during which she seemed to lose control of her hands and facial nerves and to 
be nearly paralyzed. 

Toward the last of this past summer these spells were more frequent 
and distressing and longer continued, until last August she had the second 
serious illness, during which she was kept under the influence of opiates, par- 
ticularly morphine by hypodermic injections, until I greatly feared her con- 
tracting what is known as the opium habit, and until she was almost a mental 
and nervous wreck. In fact, the attending physician hurried her out of this 
climate, because, as he afterwards confessed to me, he anticipated a case of 
nervous prostration. 

I took her East to the family of a very skillful physician, and after con- 
sultation with him and considering the fact that many of the ordinary symptoms 
of cellulitis and peritonitis, such as rise of temperature, etc., were absent in 
her case, I determined to take her to SL Ix/nis and have the expert opinions of 
Dr. and Dr. . 

These gentlemen, I am informed, have been for many years, and now 
are, at the head of their profession in the West for diseases peculiar to women, 
and I therefore had them come to the hotel, intending to have them come 
together for the purpose of making an examination to ascertain what 
ailed my wife. It happened that these physicians could not come to the 
hotel together, and were obliged to make their examinations and give their 
opinions independently of each other. They both said there were indications 
which caused them to fear an abdominal tumor, but stated that they could not 
give a perfectly accurate opinion without placing the patient under the 

influence of an anesthetic. Accordingly, the next morning Dr. and an 

assistant placed my wife under the influence of ether, and made a very careful, 
prolonged and painful examination, and did not hesitate to say that it was no 

tumor, but that her condition was exactly what Dr. had said was the case 

upon the previous afternoon, to wit, a severe inflammation of the right ovary, 
with what they called extra-tubal inflammation ; that as long as the inflam- 
mation was extra-tubal it could be cured by local treatment, but that if n >t 
cured by local treatment within a reasonable time, say two months, nothing 



TESTIMONIALS 567 

would cure it but the operation known as ovariotomy. This, you are aware, 
is a very dangerous, very painful and serious operation from every point of 
view. 

The doctors recommended a course of local treatment, which, after our 
return to Denver, I faithfully pursued by means of our physicians here, who 
are among the best in the city. We returned to Denver about November ist 
and immediately began the method of treatment prescribed by the St. Louis 
physicians. We found that my wife grew steadily worse, until she was 
unable to receive a caller, was unable to sit up more than an hour and a half 
a day, took cold upon the slightest provocation, and was rapidly sinking into 
a condition of invalidism, from which we never expected that she could rally. 
Perhaps I should add that during all of this time I mean during the whole 
eighteen months last past, and especially since August she had been obliged 
to depend upon the use of some narcotic, such as somnal or sulphoual, to 
induce sleep, and especially toward the ist of January, as the direct result of 
the treatment recommended by the St. Louis physicians, which consisted of 
the local application of aristol, which you know to be a powder, of which the 
essential ingredient is iodine, together with iodine tincture for the purpose of 
blistering, and also blistering fluid of cantharides. I say that as a direct result 
of all these about January ist she had a case of pruritus, which I verily believe 
to have been a case of iodine poisoning. The physicians could control this 
annoying and very trying inflammation only by an application of ointment 
composed of thirty-six grains of cocaine and thirty grains of morphine. This 
ointment temporarily controlled the inflammation, but produced distressing 
results because of its narcotic and poisonous properties being absorbed into the 
system and producing semi-stupefaction. 

It was then, at a time when we had about despaired of receiving any 
further benefit from the prescriptions or the use of drugs, when we considered 
the operation above referred to as absolutely essential and unavoidable, that 
my wife decided to use Viavi. I confess that I was then very unwilling 
to allow her to try any such experiment, as at that time I had expended more 
than $1500 in money during the eighteen months referred to, in the employ- 
ment of the best surgical skill in the United States, and in the use of the most 
approved medicines and appliances known to the profession in that regard. 
I considered that if celebrated physicians, who made such cases a specialty, 
could produce no effective cure, an untried and to me an unknown agency 
could do nothing. You cannot blame me, then, when I say that I did not 
believe your Viavi would produce any result beyond the mere effect 
produced by hopefulness and imagination. To gratify my wife, and in order 
that I might not leave untried any means, however slender, I at last consented 
for her to make a trial. You will recollect that I did not, however, allow 
Viavi to be used until I had seen one person, at least, who had been benefited 
thereby. The conference which my wife had with Mrs. of this city, whose 



568 VIAVI HYGIENE 

condition at one time seems to have been nearly identical with my wife's, gave 
me slight faith, and it was the turning point which induced me to be willing 
to waive my objection and make the trial. 

The first of Viavi was used on January I5th, and beginning with 
the next day, my wife insisted that she was materially improved. I laughed 
at it, and was unwilling to admit that there was any improvement until two 
weeks had elapsed. About this time we learned of the effect this agency had 
produced in the case of Miss W., sister of Mrs. I,., whose husband was 

formerly County Treasurer of County, in this State, and who now resides 

at avenue, in this city. We learned that Miss W. was in a similar condition 

as above stated, and that she had employed a physician of some celebrity in 

, where she was then residing, to treat her case. The result had been 

substantially the same as in my wife's case. She had written to her sister, 
Mrs. L., giving a statement of the doctor's opinion and asking her advice. 

In reply to this, Mrs. Iy. sent to her sister in a box of your grand Viavi, 

which truly in her case has become the " way to health." 

The above facts were related to me by you, but I was in a skeptical 
mood, and I am ashamed to say that I thought you had been imposed upon, 
for you showed me a letter written by this physician to Mrs. L., giving his 
exact opinion of her sister's condition, and stating that the above-mentioned 
operation [removal of the ovaries castration] would be the only thing which 
could be successful in her case. You further stated that on receipt ot this 
letter, Mrs. L. had sent this treatment to her sister, who had used it and been 
already benefited, so much so that she was in the act of having wearing 
apparel made (having been unable to do anything of the kind for over two 
years), with the intent of making a trip to visit her sister, Mrs. L. 

I did not believe that a serious case of the kind represented in the letter 
of this physician to Mrs. I/, could possibly be benefited much or improved in 
any great degree in the short time during which Viavi had been used 
by Miss W. I thought I would therefore obtain this doctor's address and write 
him a letter stating the exact facts with reference to my wife, and asking his 
honest opinion, also referring to Miss W. in such a way that he would have to 
say to me that he had written to Mrs. I/. I preserved a copy of my letter to 
this doctor; it is as follows : 

Dear Sir: A letter from yourself to Mrs. Iy., of avenue, this city, 

has been shown me, and having a wife that seems troubled with the same 
things that seem from your letter to ail Mrs. L.'s sister, of whom you 
wrote to her on Jan. yth, I write to ask you further of the lady's case, that I 
may learn from it what to expect for my wife. I am a stranger to you, it is 
true, but am attracted by the tone of your letter and think from it that you are 
an honest man who is not afraid to tell the truth. 

My wife has for eleven years been troubled with a persistent inflamma- 
tion of uterus, and chronic ulceration, etc. She has submitted to local treat 



TESTIMONIALS 

merit with iodine, iodoform and aristol on cotton, applied by the best surgeons 
and doctors, and although temporarily benefited, she has received nothing in 
the way of permanent cure. For several years, probably seven, she has had 
a bad pain over the right ovary, especially at monthly periods, having had to 
rely upon hypodermics of morphine, etc., for relief at such times so much 
so, that I have greatly feared her contracting that terrible habit ; but so far 
she each time recovers, and seems to abhor it. She has had one or two bad 
sick turns within two years, called by the doctors peritonitis and cellulitis, etc., 
but in each case her temperature was only one-half degree above normal, and 
the pains were neuralgic. 

Now, doctor, it seems to me that her case, if curable by local treatments, 
would have yielded long ago. Tell me, is it not a fact, perhaps one of the 
secrets of your profession, that such cases cannot be cured by any local treat- 
ment, only palliated, and is it not true that the only radical, certain cure is to 
remove the ovaries? Does a cervix slightly ruptured ever get well without an 
operation ? Could the above arise only from ruptured cervix? 

I wish you would write me a frank letter and especially tell me more of 
that lady's case, as by that I can see how badly off my wife is. What would 
be your charge for an operation of the kind shown in your letter to Mrs. L. ? 
How long would it take her to recover, and what is the percentage of deaths 
from the operation ? I am asking a good deal of your time to ask you to 
answer all of these questions, but if you can show me a way to get my wife 
thoroughly well, I am ready for almost anything. Would you prefer coming 
to Denver for such an operation, or should the patient be brought to you? 
Your early answer will greatly oblige, 

Yours very truly, S. H. B. 

January 27, 1891. 

In answer to this letter I received the following very honest and gentle- 
manly reply : 

Dear Sir: Your very kind and appreciative letter was received this A. 
M. I feel complimented indeed at receiving such a letter from one who knows 
nothing of me. My aim has been to make a reputation on just these grounds, 
viz., frankness and honest opinion, backed by a good preparation and experi- 
ence. It is too true that many cases are retained and subjected to local treat- 
ment, in many cases through ignorance, and others for the money there 
is in it. 

Making a specialty of these things, I naturally try to get at what cures 
and I find that very little local treatment suffices where it can be of any use at 
all, and that most chronic female troubles, such as fall into my hands, require 
for their cure operative intervention. No greater proof need be asked than 
you have in the case of your wife. She has received, doubtless, the orthodox 
treatment, but it has not sufficed to reach the trouble ; hence I thi nk you are 



570 VIAVI HYGIENE 

more than likely correct when you assume that the ovaries have to come out. 
I could give no absolute opinion without seeing her. 

In regard to Mrs. L.'s sister, she has had nothing done as yet, nor is 
she coming to the office. I advised her that in my opinion it was a waste of 
time and money to goon, though I presume I could do as much for her locally 
as any one could. I have operated for like troubles in the past twelve months, 
I suppose twelve or fifteen times, thus far successfully in all save one, a last- 
resort case where no hope existed. The mortality now ranges from two to five 
per cent, in the hands of competent operators. I presume your wife has 
chronic ovaritis, and possibly some tubal trouble as well. She has had acute 
attacks engrafted upon old centers of trouble. The peritoneum, having been 
repeatedly inflamed, became tolerant to these attacks ; hence you get no rise 
of temperature. I have now under observation such a case, on whom I shall 
operate next month. I operate Monday on a case of chronic ovaritis compli- 
cated with prolapse of the ovary and adhesions. I operated a week ago last 
Sunday on a lady, an invalid of seven years' standing. She had a fistula run- 
ning from vagina to left ovary, which was entirely gone ; tube two inches in 
diameter. She has not had a bad symptom ; sits up to-day. 

Radical measures are the only satisfactory means after due effort has 
been dedicated to their relief by other means. A cervix slightly ruptured may 
get well without operation. Some which heal require operation for the relief 
of reflex nervous disturbances. Inflammation beginning in a lacerated cervix 
frequently travels up through the uterus and Fallopian tubes to the ovaries and 
peritoneal surfaces, etc. Mrs. ly.'s sister has chronically enlarged ovaries, 
suffers pain almost constantly and is exceedingly nervous and thin, and is 
growing old from suffering. To remove them would give her a new lease on 
life and its pleasures, such as she cannot get now. I cannot, nor can any man, 
insure success, but the general result is good. 

The cost of such operations to those who can pay is from $300 to $500, 
according to the character and complications, etc. Three to four weeks is 
sufficient time for a patient to be able to leave the hospital. I should be hardly 
able to go to Denver for anything like a reasonable consideration, as I have 

other cases under niy care constantly. It would be better to come to . 

I operate in the Hospital or private houses. I have at present no private 

hospital. Hope to have in the not very distant future. 

I trust I have answered satisfactorily your letter, though but partially. 
Had I an opportunity of talking with you I could probably more easily satisfy 
you. I should be pleased to serve you if you should conclude to send Mrs. B. 

to . I don't know what Mrs. L.'s sister is going to do. I know what 

she must do to get perfectly well. 

With regards to Mrs. 1^., I am, most respectfully, 

Yours, etc., _. . 

, January 29, 1891. 



TESTIMONIALS 571 

P. S. Let me hear from you again what you conclude, etc. If I can 
give you any further light, write. 

The sequel to this somewhat lengthy story is that immediately after 

writing the above letter to me, it is evident that Dr. began to think of his 

patient, Miss W., and one night about that time he took occasion to call and 
see what had become of his former patient, who, he says in this letter, is " not 
coming to his office." Much to his astonishment, and possibly chagrin, he 
discovered that Miss W., who had long been almost a bedridden invalid, was 
at the time of his call out to an evening party. A reception had been given 
in her honor by her chuich friends, as she was about to start for Denver to 
visit her sister, Mrs. L. This information was a great surprise to the doctor, 
but it was exceeded by the surprise he experienced when, before Miss W. left 
, she went into the doctor's office and told him that she had been using Viavi 
and was very much improved, which, after an examination made at his request, 
the doctor stated was indeed the fact, inexplicable as it seemed to him. By 
this time my wife having been using Viavi over two weeks, all her 
friends had to admit that she was making a substantial improvement. I 
confess that I think the hot baths which were given to her in connection with 
the Viavi did much to hasten the results ; it rapidly reduced the pain and 
caused her to sleep all night without any narcotic, nor has she used the 
narcotic or opiate or any other medicine of any kind or description since 
January I5th, I confess that I have been somewhat frightened when I have 
realized that she, a person whom we regarded as almost a helpless invalid, had 
stepped off from the original lines of treatment at the hands of skillful 
physicians and was refusing to take any remedy, and was relying for her 
recovery upon a mysterious thing, the history and character of which I did 
not understand. This was especially emphasized when she took a serious 
bronchial cold, which has always heretofore either made her sick in bed or 
been broken up by administering doses of powders and quinine. The cold, 
however, was broken up completely inside of thirty-six hours by the mere 
application of hot and cold water. And now this is my wife's present 
condition : 

She is able to sit up all day. She usually comes down town with me to 
the office in the morning, does some little shopping, goes home in time for 
lunch, and if the weather is pleasant comes down in the afternoon or goes out 
and makes a call. She has not yet been out in the evening, but intends to go 
with me to-night for the first time since August 5th. My wife is not completely 
well ; she is, however, better than I have known her at any time during the 
past two years. The opium and morphine with which she has been drugged, 
the iodine and other preparations which have been used, are being driven out 
of her system. Her eyes are bright, her manner is vivacious, and she is 
certainly regaining her former excellent spirits and good health 



572 VIAVI HYGIENE 

I have written you a long letter, for which I hope you will pardon me ; 
but feeling, as I do, a personal obligation for having been the indirect means 
of my wife's restoration, I have taken the liberty of making this full state- 
ment, in the hope that it may be an encouragement to you in your work, and 
may possibly be the means of causing other ones to turn to you for relief. I 
shall esteem it a privilege to answer any letter which may be written to me 
upon the above subject, and hope that I shall hear of your large success in 
benefiting suffering humanity. 

I am, yours very truly, 
Feb. 17, 1891. S. H. B. 

A LETTER FROM THE WIFE. 

Before Miss went away I promised her that I would write you about 

my improved condition ; but as Mr. B. has written you, I have neglected to do 
my own writing, as I promised. 

I wish you could call upon me now. I would not receive you in a 
wrapper, and entertain you as poorly as I did when you were here last spring. 
I have a constant feeling of gratitude in my heart, as I think of the depths of 
misery from which Viavi has raised me. I am now able again to take my place 
in society, in the church and at home. 

I walked home from down town yesterday, after doing considerable 
walking around while in the city. If you remember, we live on the hill, so I 
had that to climb. I walked thirty-one blocks in all. I have never walked up 
from down town before, since I have lived in Denver. I walked with so much 
ease that I could not help thinking of how I had said, when riding with Mr. 
B. less than a year ago and seeing the people jostle one another in the crowd, 
"I shall never again walk these streets." The terrible Then, with hope nearly 
gone ! The glorious Now, full of life, joy, work, hope ! It seems almost too 
good to be true. My husband often says, " Little short of a miracle." I want 
to say that your words, which you doubtless soon forget, but which have 
encouraged me wonderfully, are coming true. I said to you, "If I can only 
get rid of this pain in my side !" You replied, "I know it will leave you. 
Little by little it will go, until some day you will find it is not there." I 
seldom have the pain now, except when I walk too fast. All bloating has left 
me, and my flesh is hard like a child's. Mr. B. says I am turning to stone. 
Not my heart no, never. 

Another favor : Will you please send me three or four more testimonials 
like the one you sent in the box? There are some remarkable statements 
there. I could use a few copies to advantage. 

With warmest regards, 

Yours sincerely, 
Denver, Colo., Oct. 18, 1891. A. E. B. 



TESTIMONIALS 573 

I have been thinking for some time of writing to 

Ovarian Tumors, you in regard to my experience with Viavi. I 

Uterine Polypi, think you will remember that I was relieved of 

Hemorrhages, what the doctors said was ovarian tumors and 

Rectal Tumors polypoid growths in the uterus, while we were 

living in Oakland, Cal., in the year 1892, but in 

case you may have forgotten the circumstances I will say that I had not been 
well for seventeen years, my poor health beginning with that "stealthy foe," 
leucorrhea, shortly after the birth of my first and only child. During these 
seventeen years I was continually going down step by step, from bad to worse, 
until the above-mentioned tumors developed. Hemorrhages set in, some so 
severe as to reduce my strength until I was unable to turn over in bed without 
help or to speak above a whisper. My size was immense, I being bloated from 
head to foot to about twice my normal size. 

When I began to grow large the doctors told me I was pregnant, and 
when the hemorrhages began they said it was a case of placenta previa. After 
keeping me waiting between ten and eleven months they made a final examin- 
ation and told me they were mistaken about its being a case of pregnancy, 
that I had ovarian tumors and growths of some kind in the uterus filling it 
to about the size of a full-term pregnancy, and that it was necessary to have an 
operation at once, as time was valuable, if I would save my life. 

With my seventeen years' experience with doctors, and especially that 
of the last few months, I had about lost faith in their skill to cure; but there I 
was in the jaws of death, and to whom else could I go for relief? It was hard 
for me to make up my mind to give up my poor, diseased, bloated body to 
them, knowing they would plunge in the knife and cut out the diseased parts, 
and that if I lived through the operation I should probably be an invalid the 
remainder of my life. Sometimes death seemed preferable. 

In this condition I heard of Viavi and- began its use, the doctors protest- 
ing, saying it could do me no possible good. After using the Viavi treatment 
about two weeks, I found that the bloat was going down and that I was begin- 
ning to feel better in every way. I was getting along nicely when the repre- 
sentatives advised me to use double doses of Viavi, which proved to be 
too much in my case, for it forced the superfluous matter through my system 
faster than it could be thrown off through the excretory organs, making me 
sick at the stomach; the perspiration was thick as syrup, the urine thick and 
ropy; my skin looked like tanned leather, so much so that my friends said I 
resembled an Egyptian mummy; a substance resembling yellow corn f meal 
gathered in large quantities in my mouth about the roots of the tongue and 
gums, which was very annoying for some weeks; and in the midst of it all I 
took a heavy cold, which brought on an attack of peritonitis, I being suscept- 
ible to that disease, having had it before. I came very near going over the 
* 'Great Divide," but with the care of a skillful physician and faithful nurse I 



574 VIAVI HYGIENE 

jnanaged to pull through, using the Via vi treatment all the time, with the 
exception of about one week when I was at the worst with peritonitis, but 
using only the prescribed dose. 

In about six weeks from the time I began to use Viavi the first 
polypus growths began to conie from the uterus. I never knew how many, 
for they were passing for weeks, often two or three at a time; then chunks 
resembling liver passed from the vagina, some large, some small, and seemed 
to come from the left side, in the region of the ovaries. The growth in the 
right side was much larger than the one in the left, and seemed to become 
detached from the membrane, and lay a heavy lump in my side until suppura- 
tion took place and it came away in the form of pus, burrowing through to 
the rectum and discharging in that way, some coming through the vagina. I 
was confined to my bed during this time, and the doctor and nurse say that 
more than a quart of pus discharged, most of it being thick and heavy. 

This was about six months after I began the use of Viavi, but I 
did not use it any to speak of after the discharge of pus ceased, thinking I was 
cured. My health improved rapidly, and in about a year, I felt as well 
as I ever did in my life. In about one year from the time I stopped using 
Viavi I learned my mistake in giving it up so soon. I had been advised to 
use it a year or more, and I used it only a little over six months. While I was 
still feeling perfectly well hard lumps about the size of a walnut and about as 
hard appeared on my limbs and some parts of my body, and after a while they 
would become inflamed and painful. I went to my physician again and was 
told that Viavi had surely poisoned my blood, and that if I could keep them 
from bursting she would try to get it out of my system, saying at the same 
time that if I once let them open and discharge they would probably be running 
sores as long as I should live. I took quarts of medicine for my blood, all the time 
keeping applications on these lumps, trying to scatter them. I kept this up for 
about two years, when I found that there was some difficulty in the rectum, and 

went to Dr. , of Los Angeles, Cal. , and had her make an examination. She 

told me she could see five or six hemorrhoids or tumors, and she did not know 
how many more were there, as it hurt me so badly that I could not have her make 
a further examination. At the same time she made a vaginal examination and 
found a tumor of considerable size at or near the mouth of the uterus. 

Then I was in trouble again. She wanted me to have an operation per- 
formed, but I told her my experience with Viavi, how it had removed the 
tumors before, and that I would give it another trial, for I felt sure it would 
remove the tumors anyway. I started in with the rectal treatment and cerate, 
as the rectal trouble was giving me the most inconvenience, and when that 
was overcome I began with the uterine treatment and followed the directions 
in every particular. 

I used the uterine capsules about six months, when I had another 
examination made, this time by Dr. , of Philadelphia. She told me that 



TESTIMONIALS 575 

the vaginal tumor was then about as large as a good-sized apple and about as 
hard. In about three months more I had her make another examination, and 
she said it was about all gone ; that in the place where the tumor had been 
there was a spot about as large over as a dollar, but soft and flat. I used 
Viavi three months more, and now I hope I am done with tumors. I feel 
strong and well. 

Now I want to tell you about those lumps. When I had used Viavi 
three or four months I noticed they were getting smaller and that no new ones 
were forming, but my body was literally covered with little boils about the 
size of a large pea. They would spring up and ripen in a few hours, with a 
yellow spot in the center and inflamed around the base ; some would burst of 
their own accord, and others I opened with the point of a needle ; a few drops 
of thick, yellow matter would be discharged, and then they would soon heal 
up, leaving a pit. These boils lasted three or four months and then gradually 
disappeared. My body in some places looked as if I had had smallpox. 

It is now six or seven months since I saw the last of the boils, being 
entirely free from them or eruptions of any kind not so much as a pimple 
and my blood seems to be in excellent condition. I am often told that I look 
the picture of health, and physically I think I feel as well as any one in 
mortal clay can feel at my age. From the two-fold experience I have had with 
the Viavi treatment I think I can truly say they are wonderful, doing all that 
is claimed for them to do and often more. I know Viavi has saved me from 
the operating table twice, and I feel confident that had I used it a reasonable 
length of time at first, I should not have had the second experience. I join in 
the chorus of thousands of grateful women who are shouting, "Praise God for 
Viavi ! " Vours truly, MRS. T. Iy. A. 

. Cleveland, Ohio, Dec. i 1897. 




FROM EMINENT THINKERS 



In response to a request that eminent thinkers should express their 
views concerning the necessity of a higher physical life for women, and not 
to secure an opinion of the merits of the Viavi treatment, one thousand leaders 
of thought sent contributions, five hundred of which were published in THE 
VIAVI CAUSE of January i, 1897. Following are extracts from some of those 
contribations. They express the best thoughts of the best minds on the 
urgent need of something that will raise women from their present condition 
to one of health and strength. We believe that the Viavi system of education 
and treatment meets this need perfectly. 



J. G. Shnrman, President Cornell University, Ithica, N. Y. 

Sound physical health is necessary alike to men and women for the attain- 
ment of that right thinking, right feeling and right willing which are the 
culmination of culture. 

John. R. Kirk, State Superintendent of Schools of Missouri. 

Any rational movement for the physical education of women will have my 
kwrty support. 

Frances J. Willard. A stream cannot rise higher than its fountain, 
and no race of men and women can ever achieve true freedom and helpful 
loyalty to one another until the mothers of the race conserve their forces for 
that sacred function which lifts them to a higher plane than any other beings 
as yet discovered on this planet. 

Thomas B. Noss, Principal of the Pennsylvania State Normal 
School. No attempt to enrich the bodily and spiritual life of a people will 
succeed that does not reckon first of all with the mother. 



Karl G. Maeser, Superintendent I/. D. S Church Schools, 
Salt I<ake. All efforts toward the physical improvement of the female sex 
must be hailed with unqualified joy and receive the heartiest co-operation of 
every lover of the human family. 

David Starr Jordan, President Iceland Stanford Jr. Univer- 
sity, California The normal life of a woman is given to the service of 
others. Her relations to the race are such that her own weakness and ineffec- 
tiveness repeat themselves in the broken lives of those who are dependent 
on h6r. 



OPINIONS OF LEADING THINKERS 577 

Benjamin F. Clarke, Acting President of Brown University, 
Providence, R. I. Allow me to say that I am deeply interested in your 
work. 

Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah. A healthy mother, like a 
good tree, briugeth forth good fruit. Decrepit children are like withered 
apples on a branch they fall unnoticed. 

Maxine Elliott, actress. Every thinking person knows that the 
powers of the mind, the evenness of the disposition and the powers of endur- 
ance all depend upon the state of our physical frames. 

Samuel R. Shipley, President Provident T,ife and Trust Co., 
Philadelphia. Every parent must desire that his children who are to come 
after him may realize perfect well-being. If woman is imperfect, so man 
will be. _ 

N. S. Huntington, President Dartmouth Savings Bank, Han- 
over, N. H. That the success or failure of boys and girls depends largely 
upon the physical and moral condition of the mother, no person of years and 
experience can for a moment doubt. 

John F. Dry den, President Prudential Insurance Company 
of America. If the mother of the race possess not the all-important 
blessing of perfect health, she is debarred from properly fulfilling the great 
function assigned to her exclusively by the Creator. 

Rabbi William Rosenau, Baltimore. Much, if not most, of the 
suffering, bodily and spiritual, may be traced to the neglect of woman's proper 
development. 

Janauschek. It seems not only a duty, but a pleasure, to give my 
hearty co-operation to any movement that looks to such an end. 

F. W. Gunsaulus, President Armour Institute of Technol- 
Ogv, Chicago. There can be no question but that the mental and spiritual 
forces of the women of the future will grow more fine and effective for civili- 
zation as her physical condition improves. 



Devereux Blake, President of the Women's Suffrage 
Association at I^arge. The emancipation of spirit and body must go 
hand in hand. ) 



F. Pettingill, Department of Public Instruction, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. Oh, the luxury of physical health and freedom 1 

I^illian M. Hollister, Commander of I^adies of Maccabees of 
the World. If a woman is irritable and nervous, the children are more or 



578 VIAVI HYGIENE 

less so, fiud they sooii come to learn a sort of studied restraint and depression 
that are felt by all ,who associate together in the home. 



W. H. Cheever, State Institute Conductor, Milwaukee. I say 

a hearty word of approval for all efforts to make better the health of women 
in general and teachers in particular. 

Maggie A. Rust, President Woman's Relief Corp, Depart- 
ment of Texas. The strongest tendency of the age woman's age is toward 
a higher physical life, thereby insuring nobler manhood and womanhood for 
future generations. 

Edward Brooks, Superintendent of Schools, Philadelphia. 

I heartily approve your movement one that tends to infuse new life into 
society, the sweet, pure life of body and spirit. 

Mary Towne Burt, President Women's Christian Temper- 
ance Union of New York City. The coming century holds promise of 
no greater blessing than woman attaining her highest physical life, and using 
her powers, spiritual and intellectual, for the good of humanity. 

M. Babcock, Superintendent of Schools, San Francisco, Cal. 

The first duty, it seems to me, of woman is to be a good animal ; being a 
good animal, she is intellectually and morally broader and deeper than she 
can be if her physical nature is not in proper tune. 

Mrs.J. C. Croly, General Federation of Women's Clubs, New 
York. It is not specialized "culture" that we need so much as good natural 
conditions, and the habit of obedience to healthful, natural laws. 

Robert J. Burdette.The house which a woman makes a little 
paradise should be her home, not her jail. 

Grace J$. Dennison, writer ("I,ady Gay"), Toronto, Canada. 

Especially are women sensitive to physical conditions; therefore, how to be 
healthy and keep healthy is worth the most earnest study and discipline. 

Samuel Greenfield, Editor "Jewish Criterion," New York. 

A higher physical life for woman implies all that a sacred trust conveys, the 
confidence reposed in her by the Creator. 

Henry P. Corbett, State Superintendent of Instruction, Lin- 
coln, Neb. Permit me to express my entire sympathy with all wise and well- 
directed efforts to disseminate such knowledge among women as will result in 
a higher standard of physical life for them. 

Rtv. A.J. Wells, Second Unitarian Church, San Francisco, 



OPINIONS OF LEADING THINKERS 579 

Cal. A new era of sense has dawned, and "female complaints" begin to be 
looked upon as sins against beneficent Nature. 

C. P. Huntington, President Southern Pacific Company. 

There used to be an ideal, which seemed lofty enough, and it was the bringing 
up of children in the way they should go. The foundation upon which they 
should be brought up is health, and the foundation of that health lies in the 
good common sense and reasonableness of the life lived by the mothers. 

Sol Smith Russell (actor). If you can improve or invent any new 
system, or encourage in any way the development of good women, that is, 
specimen women, like my wife and mother, healthy, moral, splendid women, 
you may engage my heartiest interest and sympathy. 

W. W. Pendergast, Department of Public Instruction, St. 
Paul, Minn. You may be assured of my hearthy sympathy in the good 
work you have undertaken. 

Prof. William Alexander, Presbyterian Theological Semi- 
nary, Cal. Woman, in a normal condition, is the most symmetrical and 
beautiful of the Creator's works. 

George W. P. Price, D. D. t President Nashville College for 
Young I<adies. Physical life is the substratum which underlies and condi- 
tions the intellectual and spiritual life. 

Robert W. Douthat, West Virginia University. Why are not 

all our women perfect ? Simply because physical education has been neglected 
and the powers and possibilities of the lives of our girls have never been seri- 
ously considered. 

Mrs. Homer Hill, Editor "Washington Women," Seattle. 

Nearly every woman is handicapped in the care of her family or in whatever 
work she is engaged by disease. 

Rev. Charles Carroll Everett, Professor Harvard University. 

Consider how changed would be the life of the world if a single generation 
could all be born of healthy mothers and nurtured by the same if three gen- 
erations could have such care and nurture ! 

Dr. C. E. Nash, President Lombard University, Galesburg, 

III. Without* a sound physical basis, wifehood, motherhood, womanhood, 
can be only a ceaseless strugg 

Joseph W. Manch, 1 esident State University of South 

Dakota. Feminine graces cannot be best cultivated apart from a healthy, 
vigorous body. 




5 8o VIAVI HYGIENE; 

W. W. Smith, Randolph- Macon College, tynchburg, Va. 

Is it too much to say that one- half of the divorces from incompatibility have 
their origin in the almost universal unhealthiness of women ? 

Mrs. Benjamin F. Taylor, Board of Education Cleveland, 
Ohio. For the sake of unborn generations, the girls of to-day should be 
taught that disease is contemptible, that health is power, that physical perfec- 
tion means beauty, grace and amiability. Women cannot be amiable when 
suffering tortures of pain known only to their sex. Divorce courts would 
lose half their cases were women educated in the direction of vigorous health, 
and to know themselves. 

Rev. Earl Morse Wilbur, Portland, Oregon. There are glorious 
examples, to be sure, of invalids who lived sweetest and most helpful lives ; 
but greater beyond comparison is the number of those whose moral and spir- 
itual natures have been dwarfed or perverted by weakness that was first physical. 

Rev. Thomas Dawes, Brewster, Mass. The child has reason to 
thank God for the competent and wholesome constitution of the mother. 

Ida K. Hinds. Hundreds and thousands of men and women might 
be developed, a blessing to themselves, to their parents and to the world, if 
mothers only understood themselves, their responsibilities, their possibilities, 
and would learn to make themselves physically capable of becoming the 
mothers of a great and beautiful race. 

J. J. Morse, London, England. Healthy maids, wives and mothers 
are the foundation, glory and crown of a nation's progress and civilization. 



Henry Irving* I fully agree with you as to the importance of 
physical culture for women. _ 

William R. Harper, President University of Chicago. Every 
thoughtful human being realizes the truth of the sentiment of Browning : 
" Thy body at its best, how far can that project thy soul on its lone way ?" 

Right Rev. T. Heslin, Bishop of Natchez. For man or woman 
I cannot conceive of a higher life than that pointed out by the Holy Spirit : 
"Fear God and keep His commandments, for this is all man." 

Alice Stone Blackwell.It would be hard to overestimate the good 
that would be done by intelligent and systematic effort to promote better health 
among women. _ 

William A. Fricke, Commissioner of Insurance, Wisconsin. 

A woman physically and mentally healthy has almost absolute control as to 
the character, disposition and inclination of her offspring. 



INDEX. 



HBDOMEN, compresses on, 525-6-7 
/*. kneeding of, 514 

Viavi cerate on, 513-14 
vibrations of, 514 
Abdominal Walls, children's, 319 
corsets weaken, 318 
displacements from weak, 317 
functions of, 316-17 
fat in, prevented, 318 
organs supported by, 42, 45, 316 
pregnancy injures inelastic, 115, 

308 

rupture of, 317 
surgery weakens, 42, 316 
Viavi cerate absorbed by, 254 

makes strong and elastic, 115, 
308, 316, 318 

treatment of lax, 319 
Abortion, castration promotes, 88 
children affected by, 88 
curetting causes, 232 
definition of, 232 
interruption effected by, 323 
leucorrhea caused by, 236 
metritis caused by, 217-18 
murder done by, 19, 88 
Nature outraged by, 217-18 
nervous derangement from, 217 
ovaritis caused by, 266 
peritonitis caused by, 261 
punishment for, 300 
Abscess, of anus, 471 

breasts, 330 

labia, 41 

rectum, 471 
pessary caused, 541 
testimonial on uterine, 536 
varicose veins cause, 421 



Absorption, adhesions prevented by 

good, 228 

illustrations of, 103 
of Viavi capsule, 43 
principles of, 94, 102, 229 
tumors cured by employing, 379 
uterine diseases rendered serious 

by, 235 
Viavi treatment takes advantage 

of, 92, 229, 490 
Activity, nutriment demanded from, 

447 

uses of, 127 

Actresses, youth preserved by, 108 
Adhesion, activity arrested by, 228 
bowels matted by, 227 
flexions of womb cause, 251 
inflammation causes, 213-14, 227- 

8,245 

placental, 335 
prevention of, 228 
sterility caused by, 341 
surgery causes, 227, 273-4 
surgical treatment for, 229 
symptoms of, 228 
testimonial on, 564 
tumors caused by, 377 
Viavi treatment for, 228-30, 245, 

309 
Air, amount of, consumed, 146 

impurity of, in houses, 146 

life depends upon, 145-6 
Alcohol, action of, 400 

insomnia caused by, 403 

obesity caused by, 413 

piles caused by, 466 
Alimentary Tract, constipation from 
weakness of, 446 



582 



VIAVI HYGIRNE 



Alimentary Tract, description of, 445 

movements of, 446 

Amenorrhea (absent menstruation), 
causes of, 176 

effects of, 177 

Amputation, Viavi renders unnec- 
essary, 481 
Anemia, child afflicted with, 541 

leucorrhea caused by, 237 
causes, 104 

obesity induces, 414 
Anodynes, see Narcotics 
Anteflexiou, anteversion may accom- 
pany, 248 

causes of, 247 

description of, 247 

effects of, 248 

symptoms of, 228 

Viavi treatment for, 248 
Anteversion, bladder affected by, 245, 
246 

causes of, 246 

cures of, 247 

description of, 245 

miscarriage caused by, 333 

position for, 528 

symptoms of, 246, 267 

testimonials on, 541, 555, 560, 564 

Viavi treatment for, 247 
Anus, abscess of, 471 

fissure of, 471 

position of, 40 

retroyersion injuries, 249 
Appendicitis, cause of, 396 
Appetite, catarrh impairs, 428 

habits affect, 142 

metritis impairs, 219 
Arteries, brain controls, 96 

description of, 47, 98 
Asthma, men attacked by, 397 

testimonial on, 536 

Viavi treatment for, 438 
Astringents for leucorrhea, harm done 
by. 31. 358 

BACK corsets weaken, 162 
non-development curves, 114 
Strong, essential, 161 
Backache, displacements cause, 245, 

249, 250, 252 
leucorrhea causes, 237 
painful menstruation causes, 182, 
189 



Backache, piles cause, 468 

uterine diseases cause, 55, 159, 163, 

182 
Baldness, significance of, 387 

uterine diseases cause, 56 
Barrenness, see Sterility 
Baths, effects of, 518 

kinds of, 519 
Beauty, capacity for maternity assures, 

IJ 3 

desired, 106 

disease destroys, no, 114, 159 

essentials of, in 

girls', prevented by non-develor> 
ment, 114 

leucorrhea destroys, 235 

makeshifts for, 107-8-9 

scientific basis of, 106 

surgery destroys, 115, 194 

work essential to, 1 10 
Bile, purposes of, 452, 460 

secretion of, 104, 459 
Biliousness, cures of, 461 

Viavi treatment for, 460 
Bladder, anteversion affects, 245 

children's, weak, 487 

colds affect, 426 

description of, 290 

displacements affect, 46 

douche for, 292, 517 

dysmeuorrhea affects, 182, 189 

function of, 46 

illustration of, 511 

inflammation of, see Cystitis 

laceration affects, 349 

men troubled with, 387 

piles affect, 468 

position of, 42 

prolapsus of, 252 

of womb affects, 252 

prostatitis affects, 385 

punctured in operations, 268 

regular attention to, required, in 

retroversion affects, 249 

tumors affect, 377 

testimonials on diseases of, 555, 

558 

Blanket Bath, manner of taking, 520 
Blindness, bladder troubles cause, 291 

see Eyes 

uterine diseases cause, 55-6 
Bloat, see Dropsy 
Blood, arterial, color of, 47, 95-6 



INDEX 



583 



Blood, brain fed by, 157 

breath tainted by impure, 417 
catarrh poisons, 429 
child is fed by mother's, 322 
chlorosis a condition of, 208 
circulation of, see Circulation 
composition of, 95 
congestion diverts, 99 

is oversupply of, 95 
corpuscles of, 95 
disease reduces, 160 
fecal matter absorbed by, 418 
fetus fed by mother's, 322 
functions suffer from lack of suffi- 
cient, 99 

health and disease depend on, 94 
importance of, 96-7 
leucorrhea. impoverishes, 237 
lungs purify, 97-8, 436 
menstrual flow contains, 171 
nerves fed by, 157 
nutriment carried by, 94 
obesity impairs, 413 
pallor from defective, 144 
poison distributed by, 157 
pregnancy causes changes in, 300 

requires nourishing, 304 
secretions fed by, 104 
tumors caused by impure, 373 

by stagnation of, 372 
uterine diseases affect, 150 
venous, color of, 47, 96-7-$. 
is impure, 97 

Blood Poisoning, childbirth causes, 216 
curetting causes, 232 
laceration causes, 349 

Blood Vessels, catarrh affects, 426 
flooding from weakness of, 186 
functions of, 96 

menstruation from uterine, 169 
nerves of, 158, 212 
of pelvic organs, 42, 47 
protection of, 52-3 
uterine diseases affect, 149 
Viavi strengthens, 94, 99 
walls of, weakened, 98 

Bone Sore, testimonial on, 550 

Bowels, adhesions bind, 227, 274 

cause strangulation of, 262 
appendicitis from weakness of, 397 
bile stimulates action of, 452 
blood supply of, 158 
catarrh affects, 426 



Bowels, children's diseases of, 488 

constipation injures, 453 

corsets displace, 42, 54 

description of, 445 

digestion in, 96 

diseases of, see Catarrh, Constipa- 
tion, Diarrhea, Rectum 

displacement of, 316 

dysmenorrhea affects, 182, 184 

habits acquired by, 141 

health depends upon regularity 
of, 452 

illustration of, 511 

menstruation affected by neglect 
of, 176 

obesity affects, 413 

position of, 42 

prolapsus of, 468 

punctured in operations, 268 

regular attention to, in, 141, 449, 
452 

retroversion affects, 250 

uterine diseases affect, 159 
Brain, blood supply of, 99 

children's, development of, 60 

circulation controlled by, 96 

congestion of, 95 

description of, 155 

disease poisons, 159 

diseases of, 402 

functions of, 133 

insomnia affects, 402 

leucorrhea affects, 237 

menstrual troubles affect, 168 

menstruation governed by, 171 

narcotics injure, 133 

nervous system centers in, 133 

nutrition of, 157 

ovaritis affects, 265 

pain in, see Headache 

protection of, 37 

see Mind 

softening of, 397 

stomach troubles affect, 163 

uterine diseases affect, 99, loi, 

159, 163, 168 
organs connected with, 47-8, 

54, 57, 96, 182 
Breasts, adhesion of, 229 

cancer of, see Cancer of Breast 

castration causes shriveling of, 1 16 

change of life alters, 357 

generative system includes, 323 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Breasts, girls' (development of), 60 
inflammation of, see Mastitis 
lumps in, 369, 529 
menstrual pains in, 184, 189 
metritis causes tenderness of, 219 
non-development of, 114 
obesity injures, 413 
removal of, disfigures, 115 

unnecessary, 369 
swollen or broken, from suppress- 

ing milk, 325 
sympathize with generative or- 

gans, 113 

Viavi treatment for, 529 
vicarious menstruation from, 199 

Breath, see Offensive Breath 

Breathing, manner and purpose of, 97 

Bright's Disease, men afflicted with, 



menstrual troubles invite, 175 
Bronchia (bronchial tubes), descrip- 

tion of, 97, 436-7 
Bronchitis, catarrh causes, 429 

cures of, 439 

effects of, 438 

nature of, 437 

offensive breath from, 417 

Viavi treatment for, 438 

pANCER, beginning of, 367-8 
\U causes of, 214, 350, 363-4-5 

cervix attacked by, 363 

change of life develops, 168, 357 

constipation causes, 453 

curability of, 366 

cure of cases diagnosed as, 363 

diagnosis of, 363, 365 

displacements cause, 245 

flooding may indicate, 187, 364 

gall stones cause, 459 

increasing, 120, 363 

laceration causes, 349-50 

metritis causes, 217 

miscarriage caused by, 333 

of breast, see Cancer of Breast 

seats of, 365 

sterility caused by, 341 

surgery for, ill-advised, 367 

symptoms of, 365 

testimonials on, 547, 561 

Viavi treatment for, 366 
Cancer of Breast, origin of, 369 

recovery from, 371 



Cancer, stages of, 370, 529 

surgery needless for, 369 

testimonial on, 547 

Viavi treatment for, 370, 529 
Capillaries, catarrh affects, 426 

nature and uses of, 98 

tumors from weak, 373 

varicosity of, 420 

Caruncles, retroversion causes ure- 
thral, 249 

surgery bad for, 295 

Viavi treatment for, 295 
Castration, advised and refused, 192, 
270, 272, 538, 540, 542, 
548, 565 

change of life forced by, 275 

character affected by, 276 

dangers of, 275 

death from, 275 

disfigurement from, 116 

dysmenorrhea treated by, 194 

evils of, 269, 273, 276 

fallacy of, 273 

hair on face results from, 175 

married happiness destroyed by, 
123, 126 

menstruation suppressed by, 175 
not always suppressed by, 298 

mind affected by, 273, 276 

obesity caused by, 116, 175, 276, 
411 

of men, rare, 85 

women, common, 86 

sexual nature destroyed by, 265, 
276 

statistics of results of, 276 

suffering caused by, 270, 275 

Viavi renders unnecessary, 195 

wifehood destroyed by, 273 

womanhood destroyed by, 264 

women degraded by, 88 

urged to submit to, 270 
Catamenia, see Menstruation 
Catarrh, causes of, 425, 428 

cures of, 431,458 

effects of, 425-6, 429 

extension of, 429 

kinds of, 425, 428 

nature of, 425 

offensiveness of, 417, 429 

significance of, 426-7 

symptoms of, 425, 428, 457 

testimonial on, 536 



IND 



585 



Catarrh, Viavi treatment for, 426, 430, 



457 
, pile 



Cathartics, piles caused by, 466 
Catheter, cystitis caused by using, 290 
Cauterization, change of life made 

stormy by, 358 
Cecum, illustration of, 511 
Cervix, cancer of, 350, 363 

cauterization of, 358 

description of, 43, 348 

laceration of, see I/aceration 

metritis affects, 219 

miscarriage from hardening of, 

nerves of, 348 

ovaritis from cauterization of, 266 
retroversipii affects, 250 
symptoms of disease in, 267 
Cervicitis (inflammation of cervix), 

Viavi treatment for, 217, 

220 
Change of Life, arrival of, 45 

beauty not impaired by natural, 

116 

beginning of troubles at, 357 
cancer develops at, 168, 351 
dangers attending, 357 
castration unlike, 115, 126 
diseases appearing at, 358 

not cured by, 359 
flooding may occur at, 186 
health essential to normal, 360 
hemorrhages at, 359 
insanity may appear at, 168 
laceration brings dangers at, 351, 

358 

leucorrhea not cured by, 358 
menstrual troubles bring dangers 

at, 1 68 

ovaries necessary to normal, 275 
' ovariotomy forces, 275 
should be painless, 357 
testimonial on, 554 
treatment producing diseases at, 

358 

tumors appear at, 168 
Viavi treatment at, 360 
Chest, compress on, 526 
Childbirth, avoided by injurious- 
means, 121 

by natural means, 346-7 
delicate women dread, 346 
displacements from frequent, 243 



Childbirth, fever following, 349 
flooding a danger of, 185 
invalidism dating from, 218, 349 
laceration (external) in, 41 

(internal) caused by, 348 
*,a oln volution following, 218 
testimonial on easy, 535 
viavi renders normal, 305-6, 308, 

310 

Children, abortion affects, 88 
badly born, 25, 74 
birth of, decreasing, 120 
blessings brought by, 63 
blind from birth, 120 
<!eaf and dumb, 120 
development of, 58 
diseases of, 485-6-7-8 
divorce checked by, 338 
fathers' obligations to, 79, 392 

feared by, 391 

nealthy persons preferred by, 58 
heredity affects, 15, 21, 23, 72 
idiotic, 1 20, 309 
imitation by, 16 
influence of, upon parents, 118 
injuries to, 488 
insane mothers kill, 30 
tnvited heedlessly, 66 
limiting number of, 347 
marriage bond strengthened by, 
338 

weakened by sickly, 121 

naturally leads to, 338 
mother's condition affects, 15, 16, 

59, 64, 69, 300, 309 
mothers (sickly) annoyed by, 71 
mother's voice soothes, 117 
needs of, 72, 74 
njon-development of, 80 
pre-natal influences affecting, 61 
purpose of, 70 
repelled, 71 
repression injures, 59 
rights of, 68 
rupture in, 320 

tedcrificed for mother's health, 59 
see Girls 
suicide of, 19 

unnatural sexual signs in, 54 
well born, 61-3, 302, 309 
well reared if well born, 70 
wise parents of, 74, 76 
Chlorosis, dysmenorrhea caused by, 184 



586 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Chlorosis, suicide induced by, 208 
symptoms aud nature of, 208 
Viavi treatment for, 209 

Circulation, baths affect, 518 
beauty depends on, in 
bladder troubles affect, 291 
cushioned chairs impede, 54 
description of, 47, 98, 212 
development depends upon, 205 
disease impairs, 55, HI, 114 
disease-poison in, 159 
exercise stimulates, 130 
flooding caused by imperfect, 186 
health depends on, 95 
in uterine organs, 47 

impeded 54 
leucorrhea affects, 237 
nerves regulate, 222 
nutriment distributed by, 94 
obesity impairs, 413 
ovaritis from weakened, 266 
pregnancy requires good, 304 
Stagnation of, see Congestion 
surgery impairs, 273 
tumors from poor, 372-3 
uterine diseases affect, 149, 158 
work stimulates, no 

Cleanliness, value of, 518 

Climacteric, see Change of Life 

Clitoris, position of, 40 

Clothing, organs injured by heavy, 42 
women's unwise, 129 

Coccyx, description of, 38, 161 

Viavi treatment for diseases of, 
165 

Coition, abnormal conditions render 

painful, 123 

displacement aggravated by, 250 
dysmenorrhea may be caused by, 

185 

excessive, see Sexual Excesses 

laceration complications aggra- 
vated by, 350, 364 

leucorrhea renders unsatisfactory, 
238 

mucous lubrication for, 41 

purpose of, 352 

surgery impairs, 352 

vaginal relaxation impairs, 124 

vaginitis renders painful, 283 
Colds, see Catarrh 
Colon, description of, 46 

illustration of, 511 



Complexion, beautiful women's, in 

bladder troubles affect, 291 

blood in relation to, 98 

disease impairs, in 

health insures good, in 

leucorrhea ruins, 235 

menstrual troubles affect, 175 

sunshine affects, 146 

Viavi 's effect upon, 98 
Compresses, kinds and effects of, 524-7 
Conception, conditions essential to, 
345, 347 

immunity from, see Rest Period 

leucorrhea from prevention of, 
236 

location of, 298 

menstruation arrested by, 297 

organs involved in, 341 

uterine changes caused by, 171 
Congestion, causes of, 160, 212-13 

coition causes temporary, 124 

definition of, 99 

effects of, 99, 158, 211 

enlargement caused by, 222 

headache caused by, 406 

menstrual, 172 

natural and unnatural, 100, 211 

of uterine organs, 54 

prolapsus caused by, 252 
Conjugal Relations, disease impairs, 

340 
Constipation, appendicitis caused by, 

.397 

bowels injured by, 452 
breath tainted by, 418 
causes of, 446, 452 
cures of, 454 
displacements cause, 47 

caused by, 243 
dysmenorrhea causes, 189 
effects of, 453 
obesity causes, 413 
ovary irritated by, 266 
piles caused by, 466 
tumors cause, 452 

caused by, 377 

varicose veins caused by, 421 
Viavi treatment for, 453, 514 
Consumption, catarrh leads to, 428 
causes of, 441 
curability of, 441 
leucorrhea caused by, 237 
menstrual troubles invite, 175, 200 



INDEX 



587 



Consumption, mortality from, 120 

uterine diseases cause, 101 

Viavi treatment for, 443 
Convulsions, testimonial on, 561 
Corsets, abdominal walls weakened 
by, 318 

back weakened by, 162 

disease caused by, 162 

effects of, 54 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 

mastitis caused by, 330 

obesity caused by, 410 

piles caused by, 466 
Coryza, see Catarrh 
Cough, Viavi treatment for, 214 
Courses, see Menstruation 
Croup, nature of, 213 

Viavi treatment for, 214, 487 
Cul-de-sacs of vagina, 43 
Curetting, abortion caused by, 232 

blood poisoning caused by, 232 

description of, 231 

dysmenorrhea not cured by, 193 

enlargement caused by, 224 

extensive resort to, 232 

eyesight impaired by, 193 

Fallopian tubes closed by, 232, 
281 

flooding not cured by, 187 

injury done by, 231, 232 

irrational nature of, 233 

metritis caused by, 217 

sterility caused by, 342 

Viavi treatment takes place of, 

2 33 

womb closed by, 232 

punctured in, 232 
Curvature of Spine, see Spine 
Cystitis (inflammation of bladder), 
anteversion causes, 246 

causes of, 290 

cure of, 293 

douche for, 292, 517 

effects of, 290-91 

kinds of, 290 

peritonitis caused by, 261 

symptoms of, 291 

testimonial on, 555 

Viavi treatment for, 291, 487 

T\EAFNESS, catarrh causes, 428, 432 
U cures of, 433-4 

uterine diseases cause, 159 



Deafness, Viavi treatment for, 433 
Debility, see Nervous Debility 
Decidua Menstrualis, 171 
Decidua Vera, 171 
Diabetes, men afflicted with, 388 
Diarrhea, as vicarious menstruation, 
199 

cures of, 456 

nature of, 455 

piles caused by, 466 

Viavi treatment for, 455 
Diet in amenorrhea, 180 

in flooding, 188 

in obesity, 414 
Digestion, castration impairs, 276 

chlorosis impairs, 208 

dysmenorrhea impairs, 182, 189 

exercise promotes, 130 

habits affect, 142 

imperfect, see Dyspepsia 

leucorrhea impairs, 235 

metritis impairs, 219 

pain impairs, 447 

purpose of, 94 

saliva essential to, 445 
Dilatation, dysmenorrhea not cured 

by, 194 
Disease (in general), acute, 215 

bathing may cause, 518-19 

beauty destroyed by, no 

blood in relation to, 94 

breath tainted by, 418 

character affected by, 121 

children's, 485-9 

chronic, 215 

circulation and, 98 

civilization produces, 29 

complexion ruined by, 112 

conjugal bond weakened by, 119 

debility gives rise to, 390 

definition of, 18 

does not recur, 92 

effects of, not understood, 29 

face gives evidence of, 55 

foundation of, laid ki youth, 13, 
388 

habits affect, 141 

harmony destroyed by, 113 

how resisted, 17 

ignorance evidenced by, 29 

impaired nutrition causes, 448 

incurable, cured, 90 

infants', 329 



588 



VI A VI HYGIENE 



Disease, inflammation causes obscure, 

214 
insomnia caused by, 402 

is a, 399 

irrational treatment of, 32, 389 
irritation produces, 246 
leucorrhea indicates, 234 
lives crippled by, 390 
men afflicted with, 387 
menstrual imperfections invite, 

168, 175 

mental states affect, 148 
mind affected by, 18, 148 
morals affected by, 392 
narcotics aggravate, 133, 183 
Nature, only, can cure, 31, 135, 

39 
nervous system affected by 163, 

396 
obesity is a, 410 

leads to fatal, 411 
offensive breath evidence of, 419 
origin of, 390 
pain indicates, 28 
pregnancy made dangerous by, 

341 

prevalence of, 68 
products of, poisonous, 101, 128 
pronounced incurable, 89, 90 
punishment in form of, 13 
pure air helps to overcome, 461 
reflex, cured by Viavi, 101 
erroneously treated, 56 
from uterine, 55, 158, 163 
sterility caused by> 338, 341 
strength sapped by, 128, 149 
suppressing milk causes, 325 
system involved in every, 389 
truths underlying, 389 
unnatural, unlovely, 29 
Viavi cures numerous kinds of, 

383 

cure of, 90 
violating natural laws causes 48, 

388 

voice affected by, 117 
weakest part attacked by, 101 
women's, causes of, 28, 94, 212 

enumerated, 32 

most disastrous, 71 

obscured, 73 

see Uterine Diseases 
youth destroyed by, no 



Disfigurement, surgical operations 

cause, 115, 175 

Displacements, abdominal walls 
(weak) cause, 316 

cancer caused by, 245 

causes of, 214, 223, 243 

coition impaired by, 124 

constipation causes, 453 

cystitis caused by, 290 

girls afflicted with, 243 

inflammation present with, 218, 
242 

kinds of, see Anteflexion, Ante- 
version, Prolapsus, Ret- 
roflexion, Retro version ; 
also Womb 

laceration causes, 349 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 
leads to, 238 

menstruation affected by, 176, 189, 

245 

nervous derangement from, 217 
ovaritis caused by, 266 
pessaries cannot cure, 243, 259 
piles caused by, 466 
pregnancy does not cure, 257 
surgery cannot cure, 243 

causes, 274 
symptoms of, 245 
testimonial on, 561 
tumors caused by, 245, 377 
varicose veins caused by, 421 

Divorce, children tend to prevent, 338 
increasing, 118, 120 

Dizziness, uterine diseases cause, 164 

Douches, kinds of, 515-16-17-18 

Dropsy, causes of, 421, 453 

enlargement of womb from, 

224 

pregnancy occurring with, 298 
testimonials on, 539, 542, 550, 
562 

Drunkenness, explained, 119 
mothers implant, 329 

Dry Salt Rub, manner of taking, 521 

Dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation) 

anteflexion causes, 248 
anteversion causes, 246 
castration practiced for, 194 
causes of, 184, 193-4 
congestive, causes of, 189 
different in different women, 181-2 
disease evidenced by, 181 



INDEX 



588 



Dysmenorrhea, girls subject to neural- 
gic, 184 

infanticide induced by, 182 
insanity caused by, 182, 184 
kinds of, 183 
leucorrhea causes, 237 
mechanical, causes of, 190 
membranous, 192 
mind impaired by, 181 
most women suffer from, 181 
neuralgic, 184 
old age hastened by, 181 
ovarian, 191 
ovaritis causes, 267 
suicide caused by, 182 
testimonials on, 535, 538, 548, 555, 

557 

Viavi only remedy for, 181 
treatment for, 185, 195 
womanliness impaired by, 181 
youth sapped by, 181 
Dyspepsia, astringents for leucorrhea 

cause, 238 

breath tainted by, 418 
catarrh of head causes, 429 
cures of, 450 
displacements from, 243 
effects of, 448 
gastritis causes, 214 
heart affected by, 447 
irrational treatment of, 450 
kinds of, 447 

menstruation affected by, 176 
nervous deterioration indicated 

by, 387 

symptoms of, 447 
testimonials on, 537, 540, 548, 552 
uterine diseases cause, 55, 99, 149 



E 



AR, douche for, 518 
see Deafness 



Eating, regularity affects, 142 
Eczema, testimonial on, 557 

varicose veins cause, 421 
Education, disease avoided from, 29 

easily acquired, 14 

effects of, upon women, 85 

faults of, 21 

need for, 24, 48, 51 

women desire, 68-9 
Egg, see Ovum 
Elimination, principles of, 94 
Emaciation, castration causes, 116 



Emaciation, leucorrhea causes, 238 

Endocervicitis, Viavi treatment for, 
217 

Endometritis, 217, 220 

Endometrium, description of, 43 
sterility from disease of, 342 

Enlargement of Womb, causes of, 

223-4 

displacement follows, 223, 225 
irrational treatment for, 225 
pregnancy different from, 224 
see Subinvolution 
testimonial on, 561 
varicose veins from, 421 
Viavi treatment for, 225 

Environment, effect of, 20 

Epilepsy, non-development causes, 
209 

Erosion, see Metritis 

Eustachian Tube, inflammation of, 
see Deafness 

Examinations, harm done by, 82 
peritonitis caused by, 261 
Viavi renders unnecessary, 32 

Example, value of, 14 

Excrement, see Feces, Urine, Waste 

Exercise, disease renders repugnant, 

114 

habit of regular, 143 
health promoted by, 130, 242 
leucorrhea from violent, 236 
rnetritis from lack of, 216 
obesity from lack of, 410 
outdoor, best, 130 
strength promoted by, 128 
Viavi makes enjoyable, 137 

Eyes, beauty in relation to, 113 
castration affects, 276 
colds affect, 428 
dysmenorrhea causes pain in, 

184 
leucorrhea affects expression of, 

235 

non-development dulls, 205 
retroversion affects, 250 
testimonial on sore, 537 
uterine diseases affect, 56, 159 
vicarious menstruation from, 199 

TOACE, suffering betrayed by, 55 

Fainting, cause of, 95 
testimonial on, 558 



590 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Fainting, uttrine diseases cause, 99,163^ 
Fallopian Tubes, adhesion of, 280 

curetting causes diseases of, 232, 
281 

description of, 44 

disease closes, 341 

displacement of, 280 

flooding from disease of, 186 

illustration of, 510 

inflammation of, see Salpingitis 

leucorrhea causes growths in, 237 

menstruation in relation to, 171 

position of, 42 

pregnancy in, 299, 341 

prolapsus of womb displaces, 252 

sterility from growths in, 341 
Fat, distribution of, 412 

extreme, see Obesity 

foods producing, 411, 414 

purpose of, 412 
Fathers, see Men 

Feces, absorption of, injurious, 104, 
140, 249, 452 

are waste, 96 

character of natural, 452 

retroversion causes packing of, 

249 
Feet, baths for, 522-3 

cold, explained, 99 

leucorrhea causes swelling of, 237 

position for swollen, 131 
Fetus, development of, 304 

injury by death of, 323 

nourishment of, 297, 300, 303, 322 
Fissure of Anus, Viavi treatment for, 

471 
Fistula of Rectum, causes of, 249, 472 

nature of, 471 

testimonial on, 556 

Viavi treatment for, 472 
Flexions of Womb, definition of, 190 

dysmeuorrhea caused by, 190 

kinds of, see Anteflexion, Retro- 
flexion 

sterility caused by, 342 
Flooding, causes, effects and symp- 
toms of, 186-7 

change of life dangerous from, 359 

curetting for, injurious, 187 

dangers of, 185-6 

girl afflicted with, 187 

testimonial on, 553 

Viavi treatment for, 188 



Food, digestion of, 446 

essential to life, 127 

fat- producing, 411, 414 

mastication of, 445 

metritis from lack of proper, 216 

Nature's provision of, 321 

Viavi is a, 446 

work creates demand for, 1 10 
Foot Baths, kinds and effects of, 522-3 

BLADDER, illustration of, 



G 



Gall Stones, cancer caused by, 459 

testimonial on, 542 
Gangrene, nature of, 212-13 
Gastric Juice, secretion of, 103 
Gastritis, causes and symptoms of, 
240, 451 

effects of, 214 

Viavi treatment for, 457 
Generative Organs, see Uterine Organs 
Generative System, breasts a part of, 

323 

importance of, 51 
organs comprising, 51 
surgery destroys, 51 
women's weak, 69 
Girls, badly born, 78 

development of, 57, 202 
displacements found in, 243 
examinations harm, 82, 114, 209 
fathers' protection needed by, 92 
health of, wrecked in school, 201 
healthy, are charming, 236 
instruction needed by, 25, 91, 153, 

206-7 

irrational treatment of, 206 
leucorrhea in, 204, 236, 239 
marriage causes illness of, 25, 307 
menstruation suppressed by, 202-3 
mother's treatment of, 203-4 
neglect of, 24, 89, 203 
non-development of, 80, 168 

causes disfigurement of, 205 

epilepsy in, 209 

melancholia in, 209 
of breasts of, 114 
ovarian pains in, 205 
physical soundness necessary to, 

205 

testimonial on hip disease of, 555 
Viavi assures health of, ^08 
treatment for, 209 



INDEX 



59 



Gonorrhea, ovaritis caused by, 266 
peritonitis caused by, 261 

Gout, change of life may develop, 357 
dysmenorrhea caused by, 184 
headache caused by, 406 
men troubled with, 387 

Granulation, see Metritis 

Green sickness, see Chlorosis 

HABITS, bad, easily acquired, 139 
benefits from good, 139-40-42 
character affected by, 20 
diseases become, 215 

from irrational, 100, 109, 388, 

397 

girls', 60 

heredity affects, 139 
men suffer from bad, 388 
narcotic, how acquired, 134 
nerves affected by, 388 
obesity in relation to, 413 
origin of, 21, 138 
regularity of, essential, 28, 109 
stimulants used from, 395 
tenacity of, 138 
universality of, 138 
Hay Fever, causes and nature of, 425, 

434-5 

testimonial on, 536 

Viavi treatment for, 435 
Headache, catarrh causes, 426 

chlorosis causes, 208 

cures of, 408 

displacements cause, 245 

dyspepsia causes, 447 

effects of, 406 

girls suffer with, 205 

insomnia causes, 399 

irrational treatment of, 406 

kinds of, 406-7 

laceration causes, 349 

leucorrhea causes, 237 

menstrual, 182, 184, 189 

men troubled with, 387 

metritis causes, 219 

narcotics for, injurious, 407 

ovariotomy causes, 276 

piles cause, 468 

rheumatic, 478 

significance of, 406 

uterine diseases cause, 54, 163 

Viavi treatment for, 407 
Health, beautv assured by, 112 



Health, blood determines, 94 
bowels affect, 452 
business view of, 80 
change of life depends on, 360 
cleanliness essential to, 518 
duty of guarding, 57 
dysmenorrhea destructive of, 184 
habits affect, 28, 142 
headache undermines, 406 
knowledge essential to, 94 
laws of, simple, 153 
marriage made happy by good, 

120, 123 

men's, impaired, 387 
milk affected by, 328 
miscarriage from ill, 332 
morals affected by, 392 
Nature assisted in bringing, 135 
rest period depends on, 345 
stimulants in relation to, 394 
sunshine promotes, 144 
surgery undermines, 274 
talks on, by Viavi lecturers, 34 
truths underlying, 388-9 
unintelligent living undermines, 

12,388 

Viavi movement in relation to, 24 
Hearing, see Deafness 
Heart, blood supply of, 158 
brain controls, 96 
displacements from diseases of,243 
exercise quickens, 146 
flooding from diseases of, 186 
function of, 96 
illustration of, 510 
menstrual troubles affect, 168, 184 
obesity affects, 413 
palpitation of, in chlorosis, 208 

from leucorrhea, 235 
pregnancy enlarges, 300 
retroversion affects, 250 
testimonial on dropsy of, 550 
uterine diseases affect, 55, 149, 159 
Hemorrhage, cancer suggested by, 364 
change of life induces, 357 
curetting causes, 232 
douche for, 516 
miscarriage causes, 335 
retroversion produces rectal, 249 
testimonials on uterine, 541, 543, 

558, 561, 573 

ulceration of stomach causes, 537 
varicose veins cause, 420 



592 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



Hemorrhoids, see Piles 
Heredity, cancer through, 364 
dysmeuorrhea through, 185 
environment and, 20 
habits and, 139-40 
law of, 15 

leucorrhea through, 204 
marriage affected by, 122 
men crippled by, 388 
obesity througn, 410 
piles through, 466 
pre-natal influences in, 61 
qualities transmitted through, 16, 

21, 23, 64, 337 
Hernia, see Rupture 
Hip Disease, testimonial on, 555 
Hips, broad, significance of, 38 

puberty broadens, 60 
Home, civilization determined by, 

118 

men's weakness cripples, 391 
mothers' condition affects, 30 
sterility impairs, 338 
useful members of, 1 1 
Homicidal Tendency, case of Jesse 

Pomeroy, 15 

why children exhibit, 15 
Hunger, explanation of, 136 

habit affects, 142 
Husbands, see Men 
Hydrocele, men afflicted with, 385 
Hygienic Aids to Viavi Treatment, 33- 

4 512 
Hygienic Department (Viavi), address 

of, 533 
advice given by, free, 34, 91, 469, 

508, 533 541 
Hymen, description of, 41 

dysmenorrhea from imperforate, 

190 

imperforate, 41, 207 
rupture of, 41 
Viavi treatment does not rupture, 

209, 241 

Hysteria, chlorosis with, 208 
displacements cause, 250 
dysmenorrhea causes, 185 
headache from, 406 
leucorrhea causes, 235 
mental qualities impaired by, 

18 

ovaritis causes, 267 
tumors cause, 377 



IGNORANCE, children suffer from, 
1 66, 

disease results from, 24, 29 

evils of, 24, 327 

women kept in, 24 
Impurities, amenorrhea stores, 174 

breath tainted by, 417 

disease creates, 159 

elimination of, essential, 101 

kinds of, 418 

removal of, see Viavi treatment 

venous blood carries, 97 
Indigestion, see Dyspepsia 
Infanticide, uterine diseases lead to, 

148, 182 
Infants, breast craved by, 327 

cruelty to, 328 

diseases of, 329 

food for, 326 

growth of, 58 

hurtful solicitude for, 327 

nourishment of, see Lactation 

overattention spoils, 130 

testimonial on delicate, 550 

eczema of, 557 

Infidelity, disease encourages, 125 
Inflammation, acute, 213, 215 

adhesions caused by, 213 

chronic, 213, 215 

cancer may follow, 363, 367 

causes of, 212-13-14 

congestion leads to, 99, 211 

definition of, 211 

extension of, 214 

kinds of, 211, 213 

leucorrhea indicates, 236 

miscarriage caused by, 333 

of Eustachian tube, 429 
labia, 41 
mucous membrane, 213; see 

Catarrh 

prostate gland, 384 
uterine organs, 54 
vulva, 213 

prolapsus results from, 252 

secretion overstimulated by, 104 

surgery produces, 273 

symptoms of, 212 

tumors accompanied with, 377 

ulceration follows, 213 

Viavi treatment for uterine, etc., 

220 
; Insanity, brain weakness causes, 402 






INDEX 



593 



Insanity, change of life causes, 168 
displacements cause, 245, 250 
tiysmenorrhea causes, 182 
infanticide from, 30 
insomnia causes, 402 
metritis causes, 219 
pregnancy may cause, 301 
statistics of, 120, 182 
tumors cause fear of, 377 
uterine diseases cause, 71 

Insomnia, causes of, 401-2-3 
cures of, 405 
disease causes, 136, 163 

caused by, 401 
effects of, 402 

irrational treatment of, 404 
men troubled with, 387 
metritis causes, 219 
ovariotomy causes, 276 
recuperation prevented by, 401 
sedatives for, injurious, 402 
significance of, 404 
Viavi cures, 135 

treatment for, 403, 507 

Intestines, see Bowels 

Irritability, see Disease, Mind, Nerves, 
Nervous Debility, etc. 

Itching, see Pruritus 

KIDNEYS, ante version affects, 246 
colds affect, 426 
cystitis affects, 290 
description of, 462 
diseases of, 462 
displacement of, 316 
displacements affect, 46 
erroneous treatment of, 351 
function of, 46, 462 
illustration of, 510 
menstrual troubles affect, 168, 175 
testimonial on disease of, 562 
tumors affect, 377 
uterine diseases affect, 55, 101, 

168 

Viavi treatment for, 463 
Knee-chest Position for prolapsus, 529 
retroversion, 250 

T ABIA, pruritus of, 41 

Laceration of Cervix, cancer from, 

3 8 350 
cause of, 306, 308, 348 



Laceration, change of life affected by, 
358 

coition harmful in cases of, 364 

cures of, 350, 352-3 

dangers from, 364 

displacement caused by, 349 

effects of, 349-50-51-52 

enlargement caused by, 224 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 
irritates, 349 

metritis caused by 217 

ovaritis caused by, 266 

surgery for, avoided, 352 
irrational, 318 

testimonial on, 551 

Viavi prevents, 308, 353 

treatment for, 220, 318, 349, 

352, 354 

Lactation (nursing), caution required 
during, 328 

conditions of healthy, 323 

inability for, serious, 324 

nervous system governs, 324 

pregnancy in relation to, 322-3 

suppression of, 325 

Viavi 's effect on, 323 

Viavi treatment assures, 329 
Larynx, catarrh affects, 429 
Lectures, Viavi, 34 
Legs, blood vessels of, 42 

cause of lameness in, 42 

compress on, 525 

congestive dysrnenorrhea affects, 
189 

displacements cause lameness of, 
245, 252 

metritis affects, 219 

ovaritis affects, 267 

testimonial on paralysis of, 564 

tumors cause paralysis of, 377 

uterine diseases affect, 55 

vapor bath for, 523 

varicose veins of, 421 
Leucorrhea, anteversion causes, 246 

astringents for, injurious, 31, 238, 
358 

cases of, 240 

causes of, 236 

change of life does not cure, 358 

chlorosis complicated with, 208 

colds induced by, 428 

constipation causes, 453 

cure of, brings delight, 239 



594 



VI A VI HYGIEKB 



Leucorrhea, description and effects of, 

29. 234-5-6-7-8 

displacements caused by, 243 
dysmenorrhea accoinpanied\vith, 

189 

girls afflicted with, 204, 236, 239 
husband should co-operate in 

treatment of, 239 
laceration causes, 349 
metritis accompanied with, 219 
miscarriage caused by, 333 
ovaritis accompanied with, 267 
retroversion causes, 250 
secretion stimulated in, 104 
subinvolution accompanied with, 

218 
testimonials on, 535, 540, 543, 551, 

562 
vaginal sensitiveness destroyed by, 

124 

vaginitis causes, 283 
Viavi treatment for, 239-40 
wifehood impaired by, 239 
womanliness undermined by, 124 
Life, competition in, 21 

crippled before birth, 67 
dangers besetting, 23 
disease impairs, 158 
enjoyment of, natural, 150, 393, 
environment affects, 22 
essentials of, 127 
headache menaces, 406 
infantile, 58 
influence of, 19 
laws of, 13 

Nature's protection of, 53 
nervous system affects, 397 
origin of, 12, 52 
pleasures of, 387, 392-3-4 
problems of, simple, 68 
responsibilities of, ir 
sacredness of, 57 
womb the cradle of, 43 
Ligaments (uterine), displacements 

from weakness of, 243 
leucorrhea weakens, 238 
menstruation affects, 172 
organs sustained by, 45, 54 
pessary weakens, 128 
retroversion injures, 250 
Liver, action of, in circulation, 97, 459 
bile produced by, 459 
Wood supply of, 158, 459 



Liver, cancer of, 459 

circulation affects, 460 

compresses on, 527 

constipation affects, 453 

description of, 459 

diseases of, 459-60 

displacement of, 316 

headache from, 406 

illustration of, 510 

peritonitis from disease of, 261 

pregnancy enlarges, 301 

testimonial on, 546 

veins of, 420 

Viavi treatment for, 460 
Locomotor Ataxia, men attacked by, 

397 

Lumbago, Viavi treatment for, 478 
Lungs, blood supply of, 158 

catarrh affects, 426 

description of, 436 

disease of, see Bronchitis, Con- 
sumption, Pneumonia 

displacements from diseases of, 

243 

exercise stimulates action of, 146 
flooding from disease of, 186 
function of, 96-7, 436 
illustration of, 510 
impurities eliminated by, 104 
menstrual troubles affect, 168, 175 
obesity affects, 413 
pregnancy affects, 301 
uterine diseases affect, 55, 149, 163 
varicose veins from disease of, 421 
vicarious menstruation from, 199 
Lymphatics, purposes of, 96 

MALARIA, dysmenorrhea caused by, 
184 

headache caused by, 406 

leucorrhea caused by, 237 

Marriage, children strengthen, 338 

from, decreasing, 120 
decrease of, 120 
failure of, 1 18 
health affects, 74, 89, 119-20-21, 

123 

infidelity in, 125 
maternity desired from, 339 
philosophy of, 120-22 
separate beds in, 131 
unhealthy girls wrecked by, 25, 
307 



INDEX 



595 



Marriage, women changed by, 338 
Massage, kinds and purposes of, 513- 

14-15 

Mastitis (inflammation of breasts), 
causes and kinds of, 330 
Viavi treatment for, 331 
Maternity, avoidance of, 338-9, 347 
beauty assured by capacity for, 

Ir 3 

benefits of, 339, 346 

diseases incurred from, 339 

inadvisable, 346 

inherited avoidance of, 122 

instinct for, 338 

invited heedlessly, 61, 66 

knowledge of generative function 
essential to, 167 

marriage creates desire for, 339 

preparation for, 62 

responsibilities of, 67 

sterility worse than, 338 

Viavi fits women for, 34, -310, 340- 
1-2 

womanhood determined by com- 
petency for, 310 

Meatus Urinarius, description of, 40 
Meconium, purpose of, 326 
Medicine, effects of, 102, 498 

metritis caused by, 217 

Nature superior to, 31-2 

Viavi abolishes use of, 92 
Melancholia, displacements cause, 
250 

dysrnenorrhea causes, 182 

leucorrhea causes, 235 

metritis causes, 219 

non-development causes, 209 
Men, affections beneficial to, 395 

children desired by, 395 
rouse pride of, 82 

decay of powers of, 384, 387, 392 

disease repugnant to, i ro 

diseases of, 383, 387, 397 

home crippled by imperfect, 391 

ideal, 390-91, 395 

judgment required of, 82, 84, 89 

knowledge of women needed by, 

25. 79. 87, 9i. 124 
life enjoyed by healthy, 393 
middle age perilous to, 392 
moderation demanded from, 125 
morals and health of, 392 
mothers determine power of, 74 



Men, piles afflict, 467 

responsibilities of, 84, 92, 265, 392 
sexual diseases of, 384 

weakness of, 396 
sterility rare with, 337 
stimulants enslave, 395 
strains fall upon, 391 
testimonials from, 545, 553 
Viavi cures diseases of, 383, 385 

truths for, 389 

understood by, 34, 79, 90 
wives and daughters neglected bv, 

84 
wives are partners of, 81 

assisted by, in treatment, 34 t 

93> 2I 9 

wives' diseases costly to, 81 
infirmities affect, 30, 81 
wives protected by, from mutila- 
tion, 271 

that may not be trusted by, 89 
urged into operations by, 27c 
women age earlier than, 108 
less healthy than, 28, 142 
treated worse than, 31, 85 
women's diseases explained to, 79 
Menopause, see Change of Life 
Menorrhagia, see Dysrnenorrhea, 

Flooding 

Menstruation, absent, see Amenorrhea 
anteflexion impedes, 248 
anteversion causes painful, 246 
blood supply affects, 168-9 
breath tainted by unhealthy, 419 
castration violently stops, 116 
does not always stop, 298 
change of lifo and, 357 
childbearing capacity determined 

by, 172 

chlorosis affects, 208 
conception generally arrests, 171, 

29? 
constipation renders unnatural, 

453 
consumption from suppressed, 

441 
curetting do'is not cure abnormal, 

3 1 * ' 2 33 

description of, 167, 192 
diseases of, 172 
displacemen ts cause irregularities 

of, ' 45 
from in gularities of, 243 



596 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



Menstruation, duration of, 60, 170 
effects of abnormal, 168 
enlargement from abnormal, 224 
girls alarmed by, 202-3 
girls' first, 60 

hair on face from imperfect, 175 
health depends on, 167 
healthy, is painless, 167 
imperforate hymen prevents, 207 
irregular, see Amenorrhea 
laceration disturbs, 349 
leucorrhea causes derangement of, 

237 

from derangement of, 236 
metritis from suppressed, 216 
interferes with, 214, 219 
nature of, 171 

nervous system governs, 168-9 
obesity affects, 413 

from abnormal, 411 
origin of, 169, 171, 298 
ovaritis from suppressed, 266 
ovulation and, 297 
painful, disease indicated by, 167, 

172 

explained, 169 
see Dysmenorrhea 
^alliative measures useless in, 170 
peritonitis from abnormal, 261 
profuse, see Dysmenorrhea, Flood- 
ing 

purification effected by, 169 
rest period and, 346 
retroflexion impedes, 251 
subinvolution renders dangerous, 

218 

suppressed, see Amenorrhea 
testimonials on, 535, 538, 540, 548, 

555, 557, 56o 

time to expect, after delivery, 219 
tumors from deranged, 377 
uterine organs benefited by, 172 

determine, 168 
Viavi in abnormal, 170, 172-3 
vicarious, see Vicarious Menstru- 
ation 

womanliness determined by, 172 

women exhibit differences in, 170 

Metritis (inflammation of womb). 

causes of, 215-16-17 
cystitis caused by, 290 
displacements caused by, 243 
effects of, 214, 217-18-19 



Metritis, kinds of, 215, 217 

peritonitis caused by 261 

see Subinvolutiou 

symptoms of, 218 

testimonials on, 538, 543 

Viavi treatment for, 220 
Metrorrhagia, see Dysmenorrhea 
Milk, changes in, 327, 329 

different among species, 327 

health affects, 328 

infants' food, see Lactation 

secretion of, 103, 116 

subinvolution from suppression 
of, 218 

suppression of, 325 

Viavi assures, 310 
Milk Leg, testimonial on, 544 
Mind, bladder troubles affect, 291 

bodily wants supplied by, 136 

body affects, 18, 19 

development affected by, 205 
of child's, 59 

displacements affect, 245, 250 

effect of work upon, no 

headache affects, 406 

inactivity affects, 128 

insomnia affects, 402 

lactation affected by, 324 

leucorrhea affects, 235 

menstrual troubles affect, 168, 174 

metritis affects, 219 

narcotics injure, 133 

non-development affects, 205 

ovariotomy affects, 274, 276 

subinvolution from shock to, 218 

uterine diseases affect, 71, 99, 150, 
157, 159, 160, 168, 224, 377 

Viavi strengthens, 150 
Miscarriage, causes of, 332-3 

cures of, 336 

effects of, 323, 333-4-5 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 

metritis caused by, 217-18 

natural law violated by, 217-18, 

323 

ovaritis from, 266 

testimonials on, 536, 545, 548 

Viavi treatment for, 335 
Mons Veneris, 40 

Monthly Sickness, see Menstruation 
Morphine, habit of, implanted, 92 

see Narcotics 
Mothers, babes at breasts of, 328 



INDEX 



597 



Mothers, children affected by con- 
dition of, 15, 64, 388 
killed by insane, 30, 71 
loved by, 66 
children's lives poisoned by, 68, 

70, 82 

suicide caused by, 19 
conscience of, 65 
daughters' care of by, 60, 168 
daughters need instruction by, 26, 

80, 203, 239 

treated irrationally by, 206 
great men's, 75 
ideal, 72, 76 
influence of, 70 

maternity requires fitness of, 66 
milk suppressed by, 325 
nutriment furnished by, 321 
power of, incalculable, 30 
pre-natal influence of, 61 
responsibilities of, 67, 82 
slavery of, 129 
suicide of, 70 

Mucous Membrane, absorptive prop- 
erties of, 103 

diseases of, cured, 383, 424 
inflammation travels along, 213 
situation and function of, 424 
Viavi absorbed by, 33 
Mucus, disease indicated by excessive, 

234 

Muscles, disease makes weak and un- 
shapely, 159 
leucorrhea weakens, 237 

TITARCOTICS (morphine and other 
1M opiates,sedatives,etc. ) , 

brain injured by, 402 
disease aggravated by, 183 

brings habit of using, 132 
headache and, 407 
infants acquire fondness for, 329 
injury done by, 133 
insomnia not cured by, 402 
menstrual troubles make victims 

of, 173 

physicians prescribe, 134, 542 
sleep from, unnatural, 135 
Viavi cures habit of using, 132 

free from, 92, 135 
Nature, abortion outrages, 217 
childlessness punished by, 338 
demands of, simple, 68 



Nature, disease cured only by, 31, 33, 

90, 112 233 

effort of, upward, 17, 20 
food for young provided by, 321 
generation guarded by, 50, 53 
girls' development by, 206 
habits imposed by, 138 
health desired by, 64 
intelligence and skill of, 12, 325-6 
intelligence rewarded by, 141 
laws of, must be obeyed, 13, 339- 

40 

taught by Viavi, 89 
life made pleasurable by, 392-3 
medicine interferes with, 217 
menstruation and laws of, 170 
miscarriage violates, 333 
outraged, 63-4-5 
problems of, simple, 153 
reverence for, 12, 299, 300 
sterility opposed to, 337 
strains imposed by, 21 
study required by, 53, 61-2, 90, 

34o, 386 
Viavi assists, 135, 137, 179, 243-4, 

etc. 
violations of laws punished by, 

30, 65, 72, 121, 322-3-4-5, 

333, 335, 338-9, 346, 388, 
402 

transmissible, 19 
wisdom drawn from, 393 
Navel, retroversion causes discharge 

from, 249 

Neck, glands of, affected, 563 
tumors on, cured, 537 
uterine diseases cause pain in, 163 
Nerves, action of, 157 

anteversion affects, 246 

blood vessels controlled by, 222 

weakened through, 94 
brain the origin of, 155 
breath tainted by derangement of, 

418 

congestion affects, 197 
disease affects, 159 
dysmenorrhea affects, 182 

originates in, 184 
hunger announced by, 136 
inflammation affects, 197 

from weakness of, 212 
kinds of, 156 
narcotics impair, 134 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Nerves, of pelvic organs, 42, 47 

protection of pelvic, 53 

retroversion affects, 250 

spinal, irritated, 55 

stimulants impair, 394 

sutgery injures, 273-4 

united in a system, 149 

uterine diseases affect, 71 
involve many, 149 

uterine organs and brain con- 
nected by, 54 

Viavi a food for, see Viavi 
Nervous Debility, causes of, 507 

diseases arise from, 390, 396-7 

effects of, 391 

men suffer from, 387 

sexual weakness of men from, 
396 

stimulants hurtful in, 394-5 

testimonial on, (men's) 545 

Viavi treatment for, 397, 507 
Nervousness, anteversion causes, 246 

headache from, 406 

insomnia from, 403 

laceration causes, 349 

piles cause, 468 

tumors cause, 377 

Viavi cures, 383, 486 
Nervous Prostration, debility causes, 
390 

uterine diseases cause, 159 
Nervous System, action of, 133 

anteflexion deranges, 248 

baths affect, 518-19 

bladder troubles affect, 291 

blood determines strength of, 94 

castration deranges, 276 

circulation controlled by, 94, 96 

description of, 55, 155, 158, 400 

disease affects, 149, 159 
arises from, 160. 390 
in relation to, 397 

dysmenorrhea may arise in, 184 
undermines, 183 

girls' menstrual troubles affect, 
114 

habits affect, 141 

insomnia undermines, 401 

lactation governed by, 324 

leucorrhea affects, 235, 237 

life bright from strong, 397 

men's healthier than women's, 
28 



Nervous System, menstruation gov- 
erned by, 168-9 

metritis impairs, 219 

narcotics impair, 133 

operations affect, 116, 149 

pregnancy affects, 301 

suppressing milk shocks, 325 

variety benefits, 394 
Neuralgia, dysmenorrhea complicated 
with, 184 

headache from, 406 

leucorrhea causes, 235 

men troubled with, 387 

ovariotomy for, 55 

testimonials on, 540, 546 
Ncn-development, back weak from, 
114 

causes of, 204 

disfigurement from, 205 

epilepsy from, 209 

menstrual troubles from, 168, 
191 

metritis from, 341 

of girls' breasts, etc., 113 

sterility from, 340 

symptoms of, 206 

testimonial on, 544 

Viavi treatment for, 209 
Nose, catarrh affects, 428-9 

douche for, 517 

vicarious menstruation from, 199 
Nursing, breasts affected by, 330 

leucorrhea caused by prolonged, 
236 

see Lactation 

Nutriment, blood distributes, 94, 400, 
448 

definition of, 446 

preparation of, 448 

Viavi is, see Viavi 

Nutrition, breath tainted from faulty, 
418 

disease from imperfect, 448 

inflammation from disturbed, 

212 

leanness shows insufficient, 115 
leucorrhea impairs, 237 
metritis from impaired, 216 
obesity and, 115 
process of, see Blood, Circulation, 

Digestion, Food 
surgery impairs, 116 
uterine diseases impair, 160 



INDEX 



599 



OBESITY, beauty destroyed by, 115, 
412 

causes of, 410-11, 413 
disease indicated by, 387, 410 
effects of, 413-14 
nature of, 411 

unsexing produces, 116, 175, 276 
Viavi treatment for, 412, 414-15-16 
women chief sufferers from, 410 
Offensive Breath, causes and effects 

of, 104, 417-18 
Viavi treatment for, 419 
Old Age, 108-9 

Operations, see Castration, Surgery 
Opiates, see Narcotics 
Orchitis, 385 

Organs, illustration of internal, 510 
uterine, see Uterine Organs, and 
the various organs under 
their respective names 
Ovaries, change of life governed by, 

275 

curetting causes diseases of, 232-3 
description of, 44, 52 
development of, 57, 205 
disease of breasts from unsound, 

369 

displacement of, 250, 252 
girls', painful, 205 
illustration of, 510 
inflammation of, see Ovaritis 
laceration affects, 349 
left, oftenest affected, 46, 266 
leucorrhea causes tumors of, 237 
menstruation and, 169 
neuralgia in, 267 
position of, 42 
pregnancy and, 299 

relieves, 297 
removal of, see Castration 

unnecessary, 267-8 
removed for dysmenorrhea, 194 
on wrong diagnosis, 55, 267 
sterility from imperfect, 340-41 

with health of, 340 
sympathy of, with other organs, 

266 
testimonials on tumor of, 540, 554, 

558, 564, 573 
tumors of, 377, 382 
womanliness determined by, 44, 

52 
Ovariotomy, see Castration 



Ovaritis (inflammation of ovaries), 

causes of, 266 
cures of, 275 

dysmenorrhea caused by, 191 
enlargement of womb caused by, 

224 

flooding caused by, 186 
headache caused by, 406 
life not always endangered by, 

275 

metritis causes, 219 
peritonitis caused by, 261 
pregnancy and cure of, 308 
sterility caused by, 341 
strength impaired by, 269 
symptoms of, 267 
testimonials on, 538, 540, 542, 546, 

548, 555, 558, 561, 565 
Viavi treatment for, 220, 278 
vulvitis causes, 213 
womanhood impaired by, 265 
Ovulation, menstruation and, 297 

ovaritis prevents, 341 
Ovum (egg), conduct of in pregnancy, 

300 
course of, 52 

after impregnation, 298 
fertilization of, 26 
production of, 52 
see Fetus 
womb prepared for impregnated, 

171, 298 
Ozena, see Catarrh 

PAIN, digestion impaired by, 447 
disease evidenced by, TOO, 133, 225 
men will not suffer, 28 
narcotics for, injurious, 133, 

497 

nervous prostration from, 160 
punishment in form of, 141 
rest and sleep destroyed by, 183 
strength crippled by, 28 
uterine disease? cause, 54 
Palsy, men attacked by, 397 
Paralysis, brain disease causes, 402 
children afflicted with, 487 
cures of, 165 
men attacked by, 397 
testimonials on, 545, 564 
tumors cause, 377 
uterine diseases cause, 55, 252 
Viavi treatment for, 165 



6oo 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



Parents, children affected by pre-natal 
influence of, 61 

responsibility of, 66 

see Men, Mothers 
Paresis, brain disease causes, 402 

men attacked by, 397 
Pelvis, bones of, 36, 52-3 

contents of, 39 

effects of inflammation in, 39 

false, 42 

floor of, 40 

lacing affects, 39 

women's larger than men's, 38 
Pendent Abdominal Massage, 514 
Perimetritis, nature of, 217 

Viavi treatment for, 220 
Perineum, description of, 38 

rupture of, 41 

Viavi for rupture of, 354, 515 
Periods, see Menstruation 
Perineal Massage, 515 
Peritoneum, adhesions from inflam- 
mation of, 213-14, 227 

cystitis affects, 290 

description of, 45, 227, 261 

inflammation of, see Peritonitis 

ligaments from, supporting or- 
gans, 43, 45, 261 

pregnancy in, 299 

surgery of, fatal, 262 
Peritonitis, adhesions caused by, 227, 
262 

causes and symptoms of, 261 

compress for, 262, 527 

cystitis caused by, 290 

danger from, 262 

testimonial on, 565 

Viavi treatment for, 262 
Pessary, abscess from use of, 541 

displacements not cured by, 243, 

2 53 

injury caused by, 259, 537 

irrational nature of, 128 

kinds of, 259 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 

metritis caused by, 217 

ovaritis caused by, 266 

Viavi treatment discards, 255 
Pharynx, catarrh affects, 429 
Physicians, disagreement among, 83 

diseases pronounced incurable by, 

.9 
insomnia and, 494 



Physicians, men favored, women 
ruined by, 85 

narcotics prescribed by, 134, 173. 
566 

overconfidence in, 82, 89 

pregnancy advised by, in displace- 
ments, 257 

stimulants prescribed by, 173, 

394 
surgery remunerative to, 372, 567, 

570 

usefulness of, 83 
Viavi and, 92-3 
Piles, causes of, 420, 466 
external, 466 
internal, 468 
laceration of cervix leads to, 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 

men troubled with, 387, 467 

obesity causes, 414 

retroversion causes, 249 

testimonial on, 561 

Viavi treatment for, 467-8 
Placenta, adhesion of, 304-5, 335 

enlargement from retention of, 
224 

expulsion of, 304 

nature and uses of, 303 

subinvolution from retention of, 

218 
Pleasures, Nature's purpose in, 393 

stimulation effected by, 394 
Pneumonia, danger from, 440 

nature and effects of, 213, 439 

Viavi treatment for, 440 
Polypi, nasal, nature and cause of, 431 

testimonials on uterine, 543, 573 

uterine, dysmenorrhea from, 189 

Viavi treatment for nasal, 432 
Pomeroy, Jesse, pre-natal influence 

on, 15 

Position for Anteversion, 528 
Pregnancy, blood should be nourish- 
ing in, 304 

breast treatment during, 323 

child affected during, 302, 309 

conditions for, 345 

disease indicated by distress in, 

301 
only, lends terror to, 341 

displacements cause pain in, 257 

effects of, 301, 334 



INDEX 



601 



Pregnancy, enlargement from disease 

differs from, 224 
false, from tumors, etc., 299 
flexions follow, 251 
flooding with, 186 
husbands' conduct during, 309 
husbands sometimes resent, 338 
hygiene of, 312 
labor at end of, 305 
lactation and, 322 
leucorrhea caused by, 236 
menstruation stopped by, 176 
miscarriage violently interrupts, 

334 

nausea in, Viavi abolishes, 310 

normal and abnormal, 298 

ovaritis cured during, 308 

piles caused by, 466 

placental work in, 303 

reckoning end of, 298 

responsibilities in, 296 

rest period and, 346 

stages of, 296 

testimonial on, 562 

Viavi after, 312 

renders possible, 538 

Viavi 's effects in, 301, 308, 310 

womb rises during, 54 
Pre-natal influences, 61 
Prolapsus of Womb, causes and effects 
of, 252 

cures of, 253 

enlargement causes, 225 

miscarriage from, 333 

pessary for, see Pessary 

position for, 529 

subin volution with, 218 

surgery does not cure, 253 

symptoms in treatment of, 255-6 
of, 252 

tampon for, 255, 528 

testimonials on, 537-8, 542, 555, 

563-4 

Viavi treatment for, 254 
Prostate Gland, inflammation of, 384 
Pruritus, causes of, 41, 287 

change of life causes, 357 

cures of, 288 

nature of, 286 

vaginitis causes, 283 

Viavi treatment for, 287 
Puberty, arrival of, 57 

chlorosis appears at, 208 



Puberty, disease from neglect at, 201 
dysmenorrhea at, 184, 557 
figure imperfect from, 113 
ignorance causes evils in, 81 
menstruation depends on devel- 
opment at, 168 
See Girls, Non-development 
strain imposed by, 201 
weakness developed at, 204 

RECLINING Abdominal Massage, 
513 

Reclining Vaginal Douche, 515-16 
Rectum, blood supply of, 465 

cancer in, from retroversion, 249 
childbirth may rupture, 41 
children's diseases of, 488 
constipation causes diseases of, 

453 

description of, 40, 42, 46, 465 
diseases of, 466 to 473 
displacements affect, 47 
douches for, 516 
laceration affects, 349, 351 
piles in, see Piles 
retroversion affects, 248 
surgery injurious to, 475 
testimonial on fistula of, 556 
on tumors of, 573 
on ulcers of, 554 
tumors of womb affect, *77 
ulceration of, from ictroversion, 

249 
veins of, 420 

Reflex symptoms, explanation of, 55 

Reform, misdirected, 118 

Religion, divorce checked by, 119 
emotional or intelligent, 12 
fundamental principles of, 11 
reverence of Nature essential to, 

12 
women uphold, 30 

Rest, disease necessitates much, 128 
habit affects, 142 
hints for taking, 130 
leucorrhea necessitates, 239 
metritis from lack of, 216 
Nature demands, 136 
pain destroys, 183 
purpose and value of, 127 
women weak in commanding, 127 

Rest Period, arrival and duration of, 
347 



602 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Rest Period, conception impossible 
during, 345 

health affects, 345 

Viavi assures, 347 
Retroflexion, description of, 251 

Viavi treatment for, 252 
Retroversion, causes of, 250 

cures of, 251 

effects of, 248-9 

miscarriage from, 333 

testimonials on, 555, 560 

Viavi treatment for, 252 
Rheumatism, causes, kinds and effects 
of, 476-7-8 

change of life develops, 357 

dysmenorrhea caused by, 184 

headache caused by, 406 

men troubled with, 387 

testimonial on, 546 

uterine diseases induce, 150 

Viavi treatment for, 478 
Rupture, cause of, 317 

cures of, 320 

Viavi treatment for, 320 

SACRUM, description of, 38, 161 
support of bowels by, 42, 53 
Saint Vitus' Dance, testimonial on 

517 
Saliva, purpose of, 445 

secretion of 103 

Salpingitis (inflammation of Fallopian 
tubes), cures of, 281 

cystitis caused by, 290 

dysmenorrhea caused by, 193 

kinds and symptoms of, 280 

metritis causes, 219 

peritonitis caused by, 261 

sterility caused by, 341 

testimonial on, 565 

Viavi treatment for, 220, 281 
Salted Towel, manner of using, 521 
Salt Rub, manner of taking, 521 
Sciatica, uterine diseases induce, 150 
Scrofula, leucorrhea caused by, 237 
Secretion, purposes of, 103-4 
Sex, change of life does not destroy, 
116, 126 

children showing unnatural signs 
of, 54 

desire and capacity of, 87-88, 122 

development of, 57 

life originates in, 26 



Sex, marriage impaired by destruction 

of, 123 

by weakness of, 121 
men's, guarded by physicians, 85 
obesity impairs, 4:3 
ovaries essential to, see Castration 
plants possess, 62 
value of, 85-6-7, 89 
womanliness depends upon, 122 
women regard with shame, 63 
women's and men's, mutually 

adapted, 123 
women's, degraded, 86 
women's ignorance concerning, 

24,51 

women's organs of, 40 to 49 

women undervalue, 87-8, 121 
Sexual Excesses, cancer from, 350 

colds induced by, 428 

enlargement of womb from, 224 

flooding caused by, 186 

leucorrhea requires avoidance of, 

241 
caused by, 236 

manhood decays from, 388 

metritis caused by, 217 

miscarriage caused by, 333 

ovaritis caused by, 266 
Shock, nature and cause of, 149 
Sigmoid Flexure, illustration of, 510 
Sitting, improper, 54 
Sitz Baths, kinds and effects of, 522 
Skin, baths affect, 518-19 

complexion of, explained, 98 

cystitis affects, 291 

exercise increases action of, 146 

functions of, 518 

leucorrhea makes sallow, 235 

obesity causes eruptions on, 414 

ovariotomy produces affections 
of, 276 

Viavi absorbed by, 103 

vicarious menstruation from, 199 
Skull, see Brain, Head 
Sleep, absence of, see Insomnia 

artificial, is injurious, 402 

children's, 59 

desire for, explained, 136 

disease from insufficient, 400 

essential, 127, 129, 141 

habit affects, 141-2 

hints for securing, 130-31 

leucorrhea calls for sufficient, 239 



INDEX 



603 



Sleep, metritis caused by lack of, 216 

pain inhibits, 183 

purpose of, 129, 134, 399, 401 

separate rooms for, 131 

Viavi promotes, 135-6 

work creates demand for, no 
Sociability, health promoted by, 130 
Society, useful members of, n 
Solar Plexus, uterine diseases affect, 

158 

Somerset, Lady Henry, 77 
Spinal Cord, backache from irritation 
of, 55. 159 

blood supply of, 162 

description of, 161 

irrational treatment of, 164 

leucorrhea affects, 237 

nerves of, 155 

stomach troubles affect, 163 

uterine diseases irritate, 55 

Viavi controls irritation of, 162 
Spinal Douche, manner of taking, 

525 
Spine, compresses on, 524-5 

description and purpose of, 161 

injuries to, 484 

metritis affects, 219 

non-development makes crooked, 
114 

retroversion affects, 250 

sun bath for, 165 

Viavi cerate on, 164, 512 13 

treatment of, 164 
Spleen, blood supply of, 158 

illustration of, 510 

peritonitis from inflammation of, 
261 

pregnancy enlarges, 301 
Sprain, testimonial on, 549 

Viavi treatment for, 482-3 
Sterility, ante flexion causes, 248 

causes of, 340-41-2 

cures of, 342 

definition of, 337, 340 

home affected by, 338 

imperfection denoted by, 337 

membranous dysmenorrhea 
causes, 193 

metritis causes, 219 

Nature opposed to, 337 

Viavi treatment for, 342 

women more than men afflicted 
with, 337 



Stimulants, infants acquire fondness 
for, 329 

insomnia caused by, 403 

kinds of, 394-5, 403 

men deteriorate from using, 388, 
395 

menstrual troubles make victims 
of, 173 

Nature violated by, 394 

Viavi instead of, 506 
Stomach, blood supply of, 99, 158 

castration affects, 276 

colds affect, 426, 429 

constipation deranges, 453 

description of, 445 

disease of, affects spinal cord and 
brain, 163 

diseases of, see Dyspepsia, Gas- 
tritis 



food prepared by, 95 
habits of eating affe 



eating affect, 142 
headache arising from, 406 
illustration of, 510 
retroversion affects, 250 
testimonial on catarrh of, 537 
on disease of, 551, 555 
on tumor of, 543 
on ulceration of, 537 
uterine diseases affect, 159, 163 

tumors affect, 377 
vicarious menstruation from, 199 
Subinvolution, causes of, 218 
see Enlargement, Mastitis 
symptoms of, 219 
Viavi treatment for, 220 
Suicide, bladder troubles lead to, 291 
children commit, 19, 88 
dysmenorrhea induces, 182 
girls commit, 205 
insomnia leads to, 402 
Sun Bath, manner of taking, 521 
Sunshine, complexion affected by, 146 
elements and kinds of, 144-5 
life requires, 127, 144-5 
nerves affected by, 147 
Surgery, abdominal walls weakened 

by, 3 T 6-i7 
adhesions treated by, 229 

caused by, 273-4 
advised and refused, 270, 538, 540, 

542-3, 548, 565 
bladder and bowels punctured in, 



VIA VI HYGIENE 



Surgery, cancer not cured by, 369 
caruncles not cured by, 295 
cervix injured by, in laceration, 

352 

cure by, impossible, 87, 269 
diagnosis and errors in, 31, 55, 

276 

diagnosis by, 277 
disfiguring effects of, 115-16 
displacements not cured by, 243, 

253 

dj'smenorrhea not cured by, 194 
effects of, 273-4-5 
enlargement not cured by, 225 
expensiveness of, 81 372, 567 
fatal, 275, 378 
harmony destroyed by, 51 
laceration caused by, 352 
legitimate, 481 
marriage impaired by, 123 
men favored, women ruined by, 

85 

metritis caused by, 217 
Nature set aside for, 31 
nervous derangement from, 217 
ovaries removed by, 268 ; see Cas- 
tration 

physicians rely upon, 570 
peritonitis caused by, 261 
pregnancy rendered painful by, 

243 

rectum inj ured by, 475 
repetitions of, necessary, 274 
repugnant, 268, 270 
rupture caused by, 318 
sufferings resulting from, 268-9 
tumors not cured by, 374 
Viavi compared with, 268 

renders unnecessary, 92, 195, 

481 

women frightened into, 277 
mutilated by, 92, 194 
protected from, 271 
urged into, by husbands, 271 
Sweat, purposes of, 104 
Symptoms, reflex, disappear under 

Viavi, 159, 219 
erroneously treated, 159 
uterine diseases cause, 168 
remote, explained, 158 
Viavi produces, see Viavi 
Syphilis, dysnienorrhea caused by, 
184 



7T\AMPON, description and use of, 

255, 528 
Testicles, position in childhood, 57 

Viavi for diseases of, 385 
Testimonials, character of, 532 

consulting writers of, 533 

on Viavi cures, 535 to 575 

voluntary, 534 
Thread Worms, Viavi treatment for, 

470 
Tissues, Viavi renders elastic, see 

Viavi 
Trachea, description of, 437 

v/ork of, in breathing, 97 
Tumors, absorption of, 105 

causes of, 376 

change of life develops, 168, 357 

conditions leading to, 375 

congestive dysmenorrhea from, 
189 

cures of, 374 

definition of, 372 

discovery concerning, 372 

disfigurement from, 115 

displacement causes, 245 

effects of, 377 

enlargement from, 224 

flooding caused by, 186 

increasing, 120, 372 

kinds of, 373, 376 

leucorrhea causes, 237 
caused by, 236-7 

location of, see Ovaries, Womb,etc. 

menstruation affected by, 176 

metritis causes, 217 

migration of, 375 

origin of, 105, 214, 372 

piles caused by, 466 

pregnancy complicated with, 298 

retro version causes rectal, 249 

sterility caused by, 341 

surgery does not cure, 374 
fatal in, 378 
hurtful in, 31 

symptoms of, 377 

system affected by, 377 

testimonial on, of neck, 537 

of ovaries, 540, 543, 554, 558, 

564, 573 
of rectum, 573 
of stomach, 543 
of tissues between womb and 

rectum, 562 



INDEX 



605 



Tumors, testimonial on, of womb, 

539. 545, 546, 548 
uterine diseases cause, 150 
varicose veins caused by, 421 
Viavi treatment for, 378-9-80 
Turns, see Menstruation 

U ITERATION, catarrh leads to, 429 
definition of, 211 

inflammation precedes, 213 

leucorrhea caused by, 236 

miscarriage caused by, 333 

pessaries cause, 259, 537 

see Ulcers 

testimonials on uterine, 538, 558, 
562 

Viavi treatment for, 213, 472 
Ulcers, hygiene for, 528 

testimonial on rectal, 554 

varicose veins cause, 421 

Viavi treatment for, 422 
Uncleanliness, leucorrhea caused by, 

236 

Unsexmg, see Castration 
Urachus, retroversion affects, 249 
Ureters, anteversion affects, 246 

cystitis affects, 290 

description of, 46 

illustration of, 510 

inflammation of, see Uretritis 

tumors affect, 377 
Urethra, caruncles of, 295 

cauterization injurious to, 295 

description of, 41, 294 

inflammation of, see Urethritis 

retroversion affects, 249 

tumors of, 295 

Urethritis (inflammation of urethra), 
anteversion produces, 246 

causes and kinds of, 294 

cystitis caused by, 290 

symptoms of, 295 

Viavi treatment for, 295 
Uretritis (inflammation of ureters), 

cystitis caused by, 290 
Urine, absorption of, injurious, 104 

nature of, 462 

retention of, from retroversion, 
249 

waste represented by, 96 
Uterine Diseases, adhesions caused 
by, 227-8 

animals free from, 119 



Uterine Diseases, brain affected by, 159 
breasts affected by, 369 
constipation causes, 453 
curetting causes, 232 
disastrous nature of, 71, 128 
divorce invited by, 119 
dysmenorrhea caused by, 184 
effects of, 149 
evils of, 119-20 
expensiveness of, 8l 
insanity caused by, 148 
insomnia caused by, 136 
kinds of, see under their various 

heads 
leucorrhea indicates, 234 

leads to, 237 

miscarriage caused by, 333 
nerves injured by, 149 
nervous prostration from, 160 
recuperation prevented by, 127, 

130 
reflex afflictions from, 42 ; see 

Symptoms 

sterility caused by, 341 
system affected by, 128 
varicose veins from, 421 
Viavi's effects upon, 490; see 

Viavi, Viavi Treatment 
voice affected by, 117 
Uterine Organs, adhesions prevent 

activity of, 228, 274 
arrangement of, ingenious, 48 
blood supply of, 48, 100, 158 
brain connected with, 55, 156 
catarrh affects, 426 
coition and adaptation of, 124 
change of life alters, 172 
congestion easily attacks, 100 
description of, 40 to 49 
diseases of, see under the various 

heads 

displacement causes pain in, 245 
evils of neglecting, 48 
fixation of, irrational, 243 
girls', development of, 57 
importance of, 48, 168, 219 
leucorrhea from disease of, 236 
ligaments of, 45 

menstruation benefits healthy, 172 
quickens sensibilities of, 171 
metritis from sensitiveness of, 216 
motion of, 45, 48, 413 
nerves of, 47-8, 155 



5o6 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



Uterine organs, obesity affects, 413 
ovaries principal of, 52, 266 
parts of one system, 51 
pessaries injure, 259 
prolapsus displaces, 252 
protection of, 48, 50, 52 
reflex pains from, 55 
removal of, destroys symmetry, 

51, 1 15; see Castration, 

Sirgery 

sensitiveness of, 149 
Uterus, see Womb 

VAGINA, change of life alters, 356 
coition imperfect in relaxed, 124 
description of, 40, 42, 52, 260 
diseases of, see Cystocele, Vagin- 
ismus,Vaginitis, Pruritus, 
Rectocele 

displacement from weakness of, 
douches for, 515-16 [243 

dysmenorrhea from stricture of, 

190 

inflammation easily attacks, 237 
leucorrhea causes tumors of, 237 
metritis affects, 219 
pessaries injure, 259-60 
prolapsus of, 285-6 
Vaginal Douches, manner of taking, 

5i5-i6 

Vaginismus, Viavi treatment for, 284 
Vaginitis, causes and kinds of, 283 
coition painful in, 283 
cystitis caused by, 290 
Viavi treatment for, 284 
Varicocele, men afflicted with, 385 
Varicose Veins, cause of, 222, 420-21 
cures of, 423 
piles are, see Piles 
position for, 131 
Viavi treatment for, 421 
Vapor Baths, kinds of, 523-4 
Veins, brain controls, 96 
circulation in, 94, 420 
dropsy from weak, 421 
function of, 47 
valves of, 421 

varicose, see Varicose Veins 
Venereal Diseases, enlargement of 

womb from, 224 
metritis from, 217 
Viavi, absorption of, 92, 103, 490 
action of, 99, 490, 492 



Viavi advocates, aims of, 33, 153 

brush bath, manner of taking, 520 
capsules, single and double 

strength of, 496, 499 
uses of, 490-91 
cerate, application of, 495, 510, 

512 to 515 
necessary in all treatments 

with, 495 
properties of, 492 
uses of, 493-4, 499 
circulation regulated by, 92, 98-9, 

160 

curative value of, 103 
diseases cured by, see Viavi Treat- 
ment 

forms of, 490 
household uses of, 485 
laxative, nature, action and uses 

of,. 503-4 
liquid, action and uses of, 500, 

501 
movement, aims of, 33, 73 

educational, 24, 68, 73, 89, 90 
ethical view of, 85 
intelligence appealed to by, 

152 

women protected by, 265 
nature of, 91-2 
nourishes nerves and tissues, 92, 

101, 135 
offices, lectures at, 34 

principal cities have, 91 
trained specialists in, 91 
predigested, 103 
reaction from, 497-8 
rectal suppositories, uses and ac- 
tion of, 502 
refluent vaginal irrigator, uses of, 

515 
Royal, nature, uses and action of, 

505 to 508 

stimulants abolished by, 506 
tablettes, nature, uses and action 

of, 503 
tonic, nature, uses and action of, 

r 504-5 
uses of, 508 
Viavi Treatment, absorption utilized 

by, 102 

circulation affected by, 92, 99 
claims made for, 90 
complexion improved by, 112 



INDEX 



607 



Viavi treatment, cures by, natural, 

9 2 I 35 137. l8 3 2 75 
permanent, 90, 92, 258 
cures effected only by, 81, 85 

of "incurable cases" by, 90, 

150, 244 

diseases cured by, 101, 383, 508 
effects of, on women, 34, 269 
examinations unnecessary under, 

82 

extensive use of, 33 
faith in, unnecessary, 150 
for abscess of anus and rectum, 

47i 

adhesions, 229 
amenorrhea, 178 
anteflexion, 248 
ante version, 247 
asthma, 438 
biliousness, 460 
bladder troubles, 291 
bronchitis, 438 
burns, 485, 488 
cancer, 366 

of breast, 370 

of rectum, 473 
catarrh, 426 

of bowels, 457 
cervicitis, 220 

childrens* diseases, 485-6-7-8-9 
colds, 426, 486 
constipation, 453 
consumption, 443 
croup, 487 
cystitis, 291 
deafness, 433 
diarrhea, 455 
displacements, 244 
dysmenorrhea, 195 
dyspepsia, 448-9 
endocervicitis, 220 
endometritis, 220 
enlargement, 220 
erosion, 220 
fissure of anus, 471 
fistula, 471 
gall stones, 459-60 
girls' diseases, 209 
gastritis, 451, 457 
granulation, 220 
hay fever, 435 
headache, 407-8-9 
indigestion, 448-9 



Viavi treatment for inflammation, 214 
for injuries, 484-5 

insomnia, 164, 403 
kidney diseases, 463 
menstrual anomalies, 173, 195 
metritis, 220 
laceration, 220, 354 
laryngitis, 438 
leucorrhea, 240 
lumbago, 478 
nasal catarrh, 430 



polypi, 432 

FOU 
507 



ilfty, 



nervous debility, 390, 397-8, 



non-development, 207-8-9 

obesity, 414-15-16 

offensive breath, 419 

ovaritis, 220, 278 

perimetritis, 220 

peritonitis, 262 

pharyngitis, 438 

piles, 467-8 

pneumonia, 440 

prolapsus, 254 

pruritus, 287 

rectal diseases, 469 to 474 

retroflexion, 252 

retro version, 252 

rheumatism, 478 

salpingitis, 220 

scalds, 485 

spinal curvature, 164 
injuries, 484 
irritation, 164 

sprains, 482-3 

subinvolution, 220 

suppressed menstruation, 178 

thread worms, 470 

tonsilitis, 438 

vaginismus, 284 

vaginitis, 220, 284 

varicose veins, 421 

vicarious menstruation, 200 

wounds, 480-81, 484 
forms of, 383-4 

girls' breasts developed by, 113 
hygienic aids to, 512 to 531 
imperfections of figure remedied 

by, 115 
importance of discovery of, 90, 

244 

inexpensiveness of, 81 
irregular uses of, 533, 541, 550, 552 



6o8 



VIAVI HYGIENE 



Viavi Treatment, laceration prevented 

by, 308 
maternity made possible by, 34, 

113 
medicine and surgery avoided 

with, 33, 92, 244 
nature and purposes of, 31-2, 150- 

5 1-2,. 269, 389-90, 508 
nature assisted by, 92, 137, 244, 

258, 275, 3.90 

nervous system built by, 160 
weakness overcome by, 397 
pain explained by, 135 
pessaries discarded under, 128 
philosophy of cure under, 91, 135 
pregnancy made easy by, 301 
privacy in use of, 93 
recuperation assured by, 128 
rest and sleep promoted by, 130, 

135-6 

rest period assured by, 347 
simplicity of, 153 
sterility overcome by, 342 
stimulants abolished by, see stim- 
ulants 

success of, 91 

surgery compared with, 268 
testimonials on, 532 et seq. 
uses of, 383, 485-6-7-8 
unsexing avoided by, 116 
voice rendered pleasant by, 117 
women educated by, 84, 91, 151, 

532 

left whole by, 92, 271 
only, furnish, 84, 93 
restrictions on sale of, to, 91 
Vicarious Menstruation, causes and 

symptoms of, 199 
testimonial on, 544 
Vital Force, dysmenorrhea impairs, 

181 

meaning and value of, 17 
men suffer loss of, 388 
reserve supply of, 391 
Voice, castration affects, 276 
catarrh affects, 428 
pleasing, value of, 117 
Vulva, change of life alters, 356 
description of, 40 
inflammation of, spreads, 213 
itching of, see Pruritus 
leucorrhea causes inflammation 
of, 238 



WASTE, accumulation of, in health, 
140 

in disease, 94, 149, 223 
elimination of, 102 
tumors from accumulation of, 374 
Weakness, displacements caused by, 

243 

Wifehood, castration destroys, 273 
disease impairs, 126 
essentials for perfect, 122, 167 
low estimate of sex impairs, 89 
maternity and, 338 
Willard, Frances E., sketch of, 75 
Windpipe, see Trachea 
Women, abdominal walls of, flabby, 

115 

abortion induced in, 88 
beauty of old, 108-9 

possible to all, m 
beds for, separate, 131 
bowels neglected by, 140 
cancer in married, 350, 364 
castration forced upon, 270 

of, 85, 116; see Castration 
childbirth dreaded by delicate, 346 
cleanliness necessary to, in 
clothing of, unwise, 129 
complexion of, from Viavi, 98 
conscience of, appealed, 152 
cured, though "incurable," 89, 

90, 342 

delivery easy with natural, 305 
diseased more than men, 24 
diseases betrayed by, 55 

bring unhappiness to, 150 
destroy youth of, no 
of, 28, 32, 101, 204 

cripple society, 120, 167 
displacements common among, 

243 
dysmeuorrhea and sterility of, 

194 

erroneously taught, 112 
evil influence of castrated, 88 
examinations harm, 82 
false modesty hurtful to, 25 
gratitude of, 532 
habits neglected by, 140 
health of cured, preserved, 91-2 
healthy, rare, loo 
home depends upon, 129 
husbands burdened by diseases of, 

81 



INDEX 



609 



Women, Ignorance of, 24, 31, 73, 112, 

153. 359 

importance of, to Nature, 338 
injurious advice to, 59 
insane, restored by Viavi, 182 
insanity of, from disease, 120, 148 
insomnia suffered by, 136 
knowledge desired by, 68 
leuconhea afflicts most, 234 

wrecks, 237 

marriage of, see Conjugal Rela- 
tions, Marriage 
maternity and perfection of, 69, 

72, 113, 310,346 
better than sterility, 338-9 
inherited avoidance of, by, 

122 

made possible to, 310 

not taught to, 67 
men's obligations to, 79 
menstrual imperfections wreck, 
167-8 

peculiarities of, 170 
menstruation determines woman- 
liness of, 172 

metritis seriously affects, 219 
milk suppressed by, 325 
mutilation proclaimed by, 88 
narcotic habit in, 132 
national strength depends upon, 

167 

Nature outraged by, 338 
nervousness of, 18 
nervous prostration in, 160 
obesity of, 410 
old age, premature, in, 108 
old, attractive, 129 
ovaries center of life of, 52 
physicians discriminate against, 

85-6-7-8 

physicians' relations with, 84-5 
power of, 30, 35 
pregnancy and condition of, 345 

causes changes in, 300, 334 

creates responsibilities in, 

296 

pride of, in imperfection, 29 
progress of, 67 
rest neglected by, 129 

period utilized by, 345 
reverence needed by, 25 
see Mothers 
sex of, degraded, 86, 121 



Women, sterility commoner with, 

than with men, 337 
from diseases of, 340 
strength needed by, 23 
submission of, to husbands, 124 
suffering erroneously accepted bj, 

25 

suicide of, 148 
sunshine needed by, 145 
surgery cripples, 51 

disfigures, 115-16 
surgery repugnant to, 268 
tumors prevalent among, 372 

destroy shapeliness of, 115 

marriage impaired by, 121 
Viavi advocated by, 244 

disseminated by, 33 

educates, 31, 69, 85 

protects, 265 

representatives and, 85 
Viavi's effects upon, 34, 85, 342 
voice of, a power, 117 
wifehood of, 89 
women best understand, 84 
work and worry of, 129, 140, 143 
Womb, adhesions from flexion of, 251 

of, cured, 229 
blood vessels of, 47, 222 
conception causes changes in, 171 
congestion easily attacks, 47 
curetting, effects of, 231-2-3 
description of, 42-3 
diseases of, see under their various 

heads 
displacement of, 242 to 258 

affects other organs, 46 
elasticity of, 52 
enlargement of, 222, 238 
flexions of, cause dysmenorrhea, 

190, 194 

flooding from congestion of, 186 
illustration of, 510 
inflammation readily attacks, 237 

of, see Metritis 
laceration prevents involution of, 

351 

lacing injures, 54 
leucorrhea and, 235, 237-8 
ligaments of, 54 
lining of, in menstruation, 169, 

172 

in pregnancy, 299 
see Endometrium 



6io 



VIA VI HYGIENB 



Womb, miscarriage from unsound, 333 
mouth of, 348 
movements of, 242 
pessaries injure, 259, 541 
place ntal adhesion injures, 305 
pregnancy and changes in, 299, 

304 

causes rising of, 225, 333 
retroversion affects, 250 
sterility from disease of, 341 
surgery for displacement of, 243 



Womb, testimonial on abscess of, 236 
on cancer of, 561 
on disease of, 554 
on hemorrhage of, 541 
on inflammation of, 543 
on polypi of, 543 
on prolapsus of, 537-8, 542 
on tumor of, 543, 546, 548, 

553 

on ulceration of, 538, 558, 562 
Wounds, Viavi treatment for, 480-1-2 



ADDITIONS TO INDEX 

Cystocele, 285-252 
Flushing of Bowels, 454-516 
Incontinuence of Urine, 487 
Rectocele, 285 
Wetting the bed, 487 
Worms, thread, 470, 288 




c! 



I 

1 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



